It has been argued for years whether this movie deserves its fame or not. Some say that it is overrated and others say that it is the best movie ever made. What I can say is that it is true that this movie is a bit overrated but it still deserves to be called a masterpiece.There is something about The Shawshank Redemption that creates a specific atmosphere and makes you not only watch but experience it. I have read the book and I have to admit that I enjoyed the movie more. The combination of outstanding acting, great directing and well written script makes this movie the masterpiece it is.I really don't have anything bad to say about this movie except for its high place in the IMDB top 250's list. It is an amazing movie but it still doesn't deserve to be called the best as there are many others that are equally good or even better. But still, this movie should be on everyone's list of must watch movies.
It's times like these that almost tempt me to grab Jigsaw off the shelf. It's been almost a month since I saw a film that was flatout bad; the worst review I've given in weeks was a 6/10 to Flightplan. This film obviously didn't break my streak.I went into it knowing next to nothing, only that IMDb has it ranked as the second best movie of all time, that it was based on a story by Stephen King, and that it took place in a prison. Needless to say, it blew me away. I wont say a thing about the plot, just so that others who've yet to see this film have a chance at the same experience as me. I will say this though: It has some of the most subtle and unexpected twists you will ever see. One in particular stands out above the rest.Not much can be said about the actors that hasn't been said. Morgan Freeman gives one of the best performances of his career, and even though I've only seen 2 or 3 other Tim Robbins movies, I'm sure the same can be said for him.Though I don't agree with the multitudes of people that call this the best movie ever made, it was still a very good, very well made, very entertaining and almost heartbreaking film.9/10


                
I have been a fan of this movie for a long time.It seems that ever time my life hits a downward spiral, I can always seem to pop this movie in, and come up with a solution to my pending problem. It somehow gives Me sense of peace and inner strength.So, It wasn't all that strange for me to pop it in when I was going through a rough patch in my marriage. I found myself identifying with many of the characters in this movie.Many of them are trapped in a world of regret and mourning, due to a mistake that had been made early on in their lives. This film gave me the strength to escape from my world of misery. And now I am able to say I, Like Andy broke out of my own personal Shawshank.My Ex isn't too happy about the divorce. But life is much better now. And I feel saved from a life of unhappiness, Due to a mistake of a marriage to early in life.Thank You Frank Durabont.Your film saved my life.
None of the usual otherworld creatures that populate the works of Stephen King are to be found in The Shawshank Redemption. But the real world of that Maine prison has some bizarre rules of its own and there's a whole new reality within those walls.In the tradition of Cool Hand Luke and Birdman Of Alcatraz comes Tim Robbins who was a banker on the outside, but when he caught his wife cheating on him with a golf pro from their country club, he's convicted of putting eight bullets in them, four apiece and tried and sentenced to two consecutive life terms in Shawshank prison. Like Luke and Bob Stroud he works out his own rehabilitation and rebels against the prison system.He may be a con, but Robbins still has all his knowledge of finances and pretty soon he's made himself quite invaluable to the warden and the rest of the staff at the prison. At the same time he and the cell block scrounger Morgan Freeman develop a close personal relationship. In the end they beat the system in a most unique way.There have been some classic prison films made ever since The Big House at the dawn of the talkies. Two I've already mentioned. My favorite prison film is Robert Redford's Brubaker, but The Shawshank Redemption comes pretty close. As does The Green Mile which was also directed by Frank Darabont.Darabont got an Oscar nomination as did the film itself and as did Morgan Freeman for Best Actor. The Shawshank Redemption was in for a flock more Oscar nominations in 1994. A couple other good performances are that of James Whitmore the institutionalized con who is there for 50 years and paroled and just can't make it on the outside. He will break your heart as will Gil Bellows who plays a fresh, but rather likable young con who runs afoul of the warden.Speaking of which Bob Gunton as the warden will positively chill you with his corruption. You would have to go back all the way to the James Cagney classic, The Mayor Of Hell where Dudley Digges was the warden of boys reformatory to find a warden that is as sanctimonious and as corrupt as Gunton. This is a man who gives Bibles out to each inmate hoping that the reading of the Good Book will improve the moral fiber of the convicts. At the same time he's raking in money every which way he can and a rather special punishment is meted out to him by Robbins.The Shawshank Redemption may not have monsters and other worldly creatures that normally characterize a Stephen King story. But the world of Shawshank prison is bizarre enough for any normal person if you see this wonderfully crafted and acted film.


                
this an incredible film this movie was make feel the happiness this unbelievable 20years dug in the jail without no body know and abbreviation this is a great movie and this is form a few great movies you will see it in your life and is to be enough the writer was the greatest writer in the world Stephen king Tim Robinson give all he have in this film and Morgan free man he give unforgettable part in his Lief and how was believe the bad and strong officer at the end crying and they take him to punshid him above he did and Tim Robinson pushed the administrator of the jail to suicide after he take all his money this movie i will can't forget it for along time he will be in my memory for ever


                
If you simply see this as a straightforward storytelling prison film, then it is excellent (10/10) because it truly gets you involved in its main character. It is an extremely enjoyable and compelling experience with a heartfelt and well-acted buddy-story at its core. It delicately--and sometimes brutally--juxtaposes Andy Dufresne's (Tim Robbins) good-natured character with the harshness of prison life, projecting so much heart in doing so.However delightful as it is, The Shawshank Redemption has no allegories and no statements to make and it brought nothing new to cinema in either style or substance. It had no revolutionary ideas or approaches - it's only a very safe buddy-story. A damn good one, but still just that. So it can impossibly be a film that will be remembered or studied, because what will it be remembered for? Friendship? Huh, neat. I therefore don't think it's entirely deserving of being considered the #2 greatest film of all time on IMDb.com.But moving on and looking past that, it is possibly one of my all-time favourite films for the feelings it leaves. Sure, it often jerks you for tears just a bit too purposely, but this is forgivable because emotion is crucial to a prison story. On top of that, it never falls prey to predictable sappiness - probably because of its content which is devoid of sentimental romance and instead fills you up with a tragic friendship. It is so well-sewn together by a feel-good narrative by Morgon Freeman that it is impossible not to enjoy this film.9/10


                
The story is described by "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), who has been inside the dividers of Shawshank Prison for quite a while and is its driving business visionary. He can get you whatever you require: cigarettes, confection, even a little shake pick like a beginner geologist may utilize. One day he and his kindred detainees watch the most recent busload of detainees empty, and they make wagers on who will cry amid their first night in jail, and who won't. Red wagers on a tall, slender person named Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), who resembles an innocent bystander. In any case, Andy does not cry, and Red loses the cigarettes he bet. Andy ends up being an amazement to everybody in Shawshank, in light of the fact that inside him is such an intense supply of assurance and quality that nothing appears to break him. Andy was a financier all things considered, and he's in for murder. He's clearly blameless, and there are a wide range of points of interest including his case, yet before long they go up against a sort of illusion; every one of that numbers inside jail is its own general public - who is solid, who is not - and the deliberate section of time. Red is likewise a lifer. Now and again, measuring the decades, he goes up before the parole board, and they measure the length of his term (20 years, 30 years) and inquire as to whether he supposes he has been restored. Goodness, most without a doubt, yes, he answers; however the fire leaves his confirmations as the years walk past, and there is the feeling that he has been standardized - that, similar to another old lifer who murders himself in the wake of being paroled, he can no longer truly imagine life all things considered.


                
Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) bides his time during twenty years' imprisonment for the murder of his wife in this adaptation of a Stephen King story. And being Stephen King, the setting is once again Maine, though you'll find 'Shawshank State Prison' in Ohio. It's the forbiddingly Gothic Mansfield Reformatory, 100 Reformatory Road, Mansfield, on US Route 30, about 80 miles southwest of Cleveland.Built between 1886 and 1910, the reformatory remained in operation until 1990 and was scheduled for demolition when the film was made. In fact, much of the prison yard has now gone to make room for the adjacent Richland Correctional Institution, but the striking Administration Building lives on as a tourist attraction. Find it just north of downtown Mansfield, off South Olivesburg Road.


                
This suspense filled, dramatic movie rides high on the plain of self discovery, self worth and self preservation; if an innocent man is locked up for two decades with criminals, nothing else will he learn than to be a criminal himself. There is no better movie that I can recommend you to see than this classic Jail Break that stared one of the best supporting actors you will love to have on your side if you are in the lead role of a movie, Morgan Freeman.Shawshank Redemption was adapted from a Stephen King novella named Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption. Frank Darabont secured the right to make the film from King in 1987, and he worked intensively on the screenplay for a proper adaptation of the movie, Darabont's screenplay writing earned him an Academy Award nomination, in fact the movie had seven Academy Award nominations and won none.The film tells the story of Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) who is a banker who got convicted for murdering his wife and her lover; he got two consecutive life sentences at Shawshank State Penitentiary. At Shawshank Andy befriends a fellow inmate, Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman) Red was a contraband smuggler.Andy also developed a nice rapport with the warden and the other guards helping them with their taxes and also helping the warden in his money laundering operation.The movie boast of amazing scenery not to add an impressive cinematography, the movie growth and inclusion and exit of characters will make you feel like you are reading a book, the movie has numerous cast, and it is broken into segments each introducing new casts and each building a parallel wall that guides us to the climatic end.It didn't do well in the box office at all barely making back its production cost, but due to critic's high rating and Academy Award nomination, Golden Globe award nomination and other notable nominations, the movie did well in rental and DVD sales, it is shown regularly on Cable TV, and it has a high following.Frank Darabont who is the director and screenplay writer also made more of King's books; He directed the 1999 Tom Hanks movie The Green Mile which was a box office success compared to this. The Green Mile is another of King's books that is about a prison, and Darabont also directed the 2007 movie The Mist which is also based on a Stephen King book.Here is a DVD every home should have.www.lagsreviews.com


                
'The Shawshank Redemption' is perhaps one of, if not the, perfect film. Every other "great film", or any film for that matter has it's pros and cons. Most motion pictures that are as well received as this have plenty going for it, very few against it. While I feel there are films out there with better pros; the pro to con ratio of 'The Shawshank Redemption' out-stands any other film film ever produced. I can't begin to describe every amazing element of this film. Obviously the performances are exquisite, the directing is exceptional and the score is extraordinary. The cinematography, in particular, struck me. Roger Deakins is a master with light and framing. I will watch this film again and again and remember it as one of the greatest films ever made. This film truly lies within the sweet spot of cinema.


                
A very, very, very brilliant film. The acting is superb from Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, as always. The script was amazing, along with the directing. The film is one of the best films ever made due to how original it is. And the reason it is original is because it is a prison film with heart. It makes you care about criminals. The score is also very good.It's an enthralling piece of cinema and just... Amazing. I'd recommend this film to anyone due to everyone relating to it. People like films were you are sympathetic towards a criminal, just look at A Clockwork Orange.


                
If there was such a thing as a perfect movie, this is it. Of course, for practical reasons, one cannot award a film ten stars out of ten, because of the endless stream of new work demanding scrutiny. I'd like also to start by quoting another well known film, which sums up my opinion nicely. 'In many ways, the work of a critic is easy- we risk very little, and thrive on negative criticism, which is amusing to write and to read. But the harsh truth of the matter is that the average piece of junk is probably more valuable than our criticism designating it so'. This could not be closer to the truth. When it comes down to the wire, critics risk everything in dishing out praise, for fear of being ridiculed themselves.There can be no such danger with The Shawshank Redemption. It is an eternal masterpiece, timeless and inspiring. I avoid being clichéd, when it is at all possible to do so, but The Shawshank Redemption is beautiful, masterfully acted, with just that right amount of tenderness. This is a tale of moral courage, and the everlasting fight for justice. As with other films of the genre, one can tell what will happen, of course, but when you watch this film, you will time and again be genuinely surprised, and maybe even shed a tear for the persistence and unquenchable thirst of the human spirit. One leaps for joy after watching this incredible film, at the knowledge that evil, in all senses of the word, can, and will never triumph.Turning an eye to the technical side of things, just for a moment, I can discern not one single badly executed shot. The Shawshank Redemption is well written, and, as I have said before, brilliantly acted. Characters that could be flat are all allowed to develop and flourish, and the film is even better for it. The film grabs our attention, right from the word go, with agitated shots of Andy looking like he IS going to kill his wife. And the soundtrack. Well, there isn't much to say; except that most of the music in this film is some of the most beautiful I have ever heard.This is a deeply satisfying, wonderful, brilliant, fantastic, soulful cinematic work. Watch it, if you haven't seen it, and if you have, you must agree that this excellent film will be an eternal classic. There are, of course, films that people will prefer, I myself am strongly attracted to Subway, a 1985 film by Luc Besson, but for pure facial and objective value, cinema does not get much better than this.


                
People look for all sorts of things in movies, and you can see it in the occasional negative review that pops up for this movie.  Some viewers are looking for gritty realism in everything on the screen.  Others are action junkies.  Still others perhaps take film too seriously and reduce moviemaking to nothing more than a game of who can come up with the edgiest shot, or the niftiest angle.  For all of these, there is the very real chance that they simply will not "get" this film, and that's too bad -- they are missing out on a classic.At its best, film can transcend merely being a series of pictures, no matter how pretty, and can reach down and touch people.  That is where Shawshank succeeds so brilliantly.  It is not the fastest moving movie, not the edgiest, not the grittiest, it is filmed in shades of gray.  But this movie absolutely sings with human spirit, and captures an universal human theme as well as any movie has ever done.  And THAT is filmmaking at its finest.  Not a game, not eye candy -- this movie stays with you long after the credits have rolled.


                
I don't write film reviews normally, but this is no normal film. i never tire of watching the Shawshank redemption not because of its sheer brilliance but because of all the intertwining emotions portrayed by the characters.The film begins slowly but Andy Dufresene (Tim Robbins) has a strange, intriguing style unfamiliar with that of a normal inmate jailed for 2 life sentences. As the film progresses it's almost like you know the characters and you're part of the gang with Andy and Red. you feel andy's tenacity as he battles for whats right. As you begin to relate to Andy's feelings you are reminded why he is there: found guilty of murdering his wife and her lover. So when the 'new boy' clears his name there is a huge relief, almost like a maternal feeling of 'i knew it' As the film builds towards the end you cannot know what is about to happen and when it does.... wow; brilliant ending. brilliant film
I feel sorry for all of you , guys/girls who rated this as 1 star (awful). I really do not think you could consider this as the worst or one of the worst movies you have ever seen. Maybe it is overrated, maybe not , but STOP trying to lower its position in the Top 250. This is supposed to be a USER RATING , so if you loved it , give it a 10 , if for you it is an average movie , give it a 5. I read some comments about this one , and heard someone saying : " ... it is a good movie, deserves 6 or 7 stars , but i gave it 1 star because I think it is very overrated ... " That's so pathetic ...Once again , STOP doing this and rate the movie as you liked it !


                
The Shawshank Redemption has you hooked from the very first scene. Although Andy's innocence was obvious from the beginning, you just think how he's going to get out of it.For me, the power and depth in this movie was it's ability to make prison life and friendships look better than that on the outside. Also when they were finally released they were so hesitant to live on the outside and wanted to go back in. I'm not sure why this affected me so much but i think it's just the fact that one mistake forced these people to live in a certain way where they don't want so much freedom and they're used to being workers with no rewards. They just couldn't adapt to the outside world. As if it were a different planet or something.Although the men are supposed to be 'cold hearted killers', they seem so nice and are so easy to sympathise with. I know it sounds lame to feel sorry for a killer or thief but i think that the amazing story and acting, had me hoping that all of the prisoners were innocent... except for some obviously. Not to mention the guards were so mean and rude i just wished they would all get punished and tortured at the end of the movie.If someone can feel that passionate and involved in a movie the first time they've seen it...i think it's a sign that if the person reading this still hasn't...they should. The Shawshank Redemption most definitely deserves its spot on the IMDb top #250.
Out of the fertile mind of American author Steven King, comes the incredible prison story called "The Shawshank Redemption." It is the story of a young banker named Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) who has been falsely convicted of murdering his wife and her lover. Sent to the notorious Shawshank, Dufresne, is subjected to the standard abuses every prisoner faces. During the ensuing years however, he is further subjected to additional punishment by the "Sisters" who enjoy torturing what they call 'fresh fish.' Still Andy tries to survive each day of his sentence as best he can. Being extremely agile at his banking craft, he overhears Captain Byron T. Hadley (Clancy Brown) complain of his personal financial problems. This single incident allows Andy to take advantage of his dire situation and become useful once again. Over the years, he becomes friends with fellow convict Ellis "Red" Redding who is adroitly played by veteran actor, Morgan Freeman. When warden Samuel Norton (Bob Gunton) learns of Dufresnes' financial ability, he immediately takes advantage of it. This arrangement presents many financial opportunities for the brutal warden and the meticulous and patience prisoner. Both can benefit from the outcome. The warden intends to retire richer and Hope is the only benefit Andy ascribes to. Be he has he has more talent than the warden suspects. With additional characters actors like William Sadler as Heywood, Gil Bellows as Tommy, Mark Rolston as Bogs and legendary James Whitmore who lends a superior performance as Brooks Hatlen, this film is destined as a classic for the enjoyment of every audience. ****


                
The Shawshank Redemption is in a league with Casablanca as a movie you can watch over and over, catching different nuances each time and bringing your own life experiences each time you watch it. Tim Robbins gives the performance of his career and this is the movie for which Morgan Freeman should have won an Oscar (a shame he had to wait for Million Dollar Baby.) There are many twists and turns and I defy anyone to watch the ending without tears running down their face. In fact, the entire last third of movie is filled with marvelous scenes. If there is any drawback to this movie, it is that it is a shade too long, meaning it's often butchered when it is shown with commercials on TV. Rent this, or better yet, buy it to get the full thrust of it. Definitely on my personal top 10.


                
This was a very good movie.  Robbins and Freeman are Terrific.  It was a very moving movie.  I would strongly recommend this movie.


                
Ok, as I give this movie a 9, it is going to be hard to be critical, but I feel as though that is the responsibility of anyone who doesn't rate a movie a 10.First of all, the acting was sensational - as good as I have seen in a long time. The direction was great and the script was great. And, it turned into (unexpectedly) a true buddy story.I could only criticize a couple things - one of which was NOT the length - 2:20. I found it a little troubling that most of the criminals were extremely nice guys - except for the obligatory bad guys in the shower. I also have to confess a real distaste for the homosexual overtones - especially early on. But, then what prison movie attempting to depict real life could leave that out???Also, prison movies in the 1940's, 1950's and 1960's are not my favorite genre, however one of the advantages of prison movies are that you really don't care very much what period it takes place in. Anyway, that is just personal preference.All in all, it deserves the praise it gets. I'm very glad I finally took the time to watch it.


                
First of all you need to be prepared for this 3 hour long movie(though the movie worths it).Morgan freeman's background voice will keep you with the story.Dialogues were well executed.The strongest part was it's narration which makes it the best.I wouldn't have watched this if it wasn't on the top of IMDb list.At some point of time i felt the movie is just dragging on the story.Still at the end you won't mind it. The movie also carries the message of friendship,hope,will and brilliance of our protagonist.Sometimes i felt pity on him and sometimes i couldn't stop myself praising his brilliance.I think this movie will keep impressing generations ahead,no matter how much advance human becomes.


                
The Shawshank Redemption is an excellent film from director Frank Darabont whose admirable in making this story based on a book by Stephen King. Tim Robbins gives a great performance as Andy Dufresne and Morgan Freeman is equally impressive as Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding two imprisoned men looking for redemption who bond after many years while dealing with not only the abusive corrupt prison guards but the violent fellow prisoners amongst them as well. Robbins and Freeman had good chemistry together which made their growing friendship that much more believable on the screen. The rest of the cast including Bob Gunton, Clancy Brown, William Sadler, Gil Bellows, and James Whitmore are effective as the supporting characters in their limited screen time. The pacing was a little slow at times and the running time of 142 minutes made the film feel a bit long but the rest made up for it's few flaws. Overall despite it's flaws The Shawshank Redemption is definitely a must see a movie that can't be missed. It has a compelling story, character development, drama, some humor, and exceptional performances by the cast (especially Robbins and Freeman) who make this one of the best books by Stephen King that was made into a movie. Well done. Much better than expected.


                
The story of this film takes place over a twenty-year period between 1947 and 1967. Andy Dufresne, a young banker from Portland, Maine, is wrongly convicted of murdering his wife and her lover, and sentenced to life imprisonment. ("Shawshank" is the name of the prison where he serves his sentence). The prison is a brutal place, and Andy is frequently beaten and sexually assaulted by a gang of homosexual inmates called "The Sisters". Two things, however, help him to survive. One is his friendship with another convict, Red, who has a reputation for being able to acquire almost any item and, for a price, to smuggle it into the prison. The other is his financial expertise, which he puts to good use, becoming a tax and financial adviser to the prison guards and even the Warden himself. As a reward for these services, Andy is given a privileged job in the prison library and protection from molestation. To avenge their attacks on Andy, the leader of the "Sisters" is so badly beaten by the guards that he is crippled for life; Andy is not molested again.The Warden devises a scheme under which inmates are put to work on local construction projects. The purpose of this is ostensibly to prepare them for life after they are released, but in reality he is exploiting their free labour for his own personal profit, and using Andy's financial skills to launder the proceeds. This arrangement seems to work to Andy's advantage, because of the extra privileges he is granted, but things change when a new young prisoner named Tommy Williams is sent to Shawshank. Tommy has evidence that could secure Andy's release; a former cellmate in another prison has confessed to him that he committed the murders for which Andy was convicted. Tommy confides this secret to the Warden who, fearing that his illegal schemes will be revealed should Andy ever be released, arranges to have Tommy murdered by a corrupt guard.There is a long history of American prison films, including the likes of "I am a Fugitive from a Chain Gang", "Cool Hand Luke", "Brubaker" and the more recent "The Last Castle". (Frank Darabont was later to direct another prison film, "The Green Mile", based, like "The Shawshank Redemption" on a Stephen King story). Most of these were made with a liberal social agenda in mind, aiming to expose the harsh prison conditions and thereby inspire their reform. "The Shawshank Redemption" falls, to some extent, within this tradition; it is made from a basically liberal viewpoint and vividly depicts the brutality of prison life, although the fact that it is a period piece, set several decades in the past, might suggest that social issues were not the filmmakers' sole concern. Perhaps more important are the analysis of the nature of freedom and of the relationship between Andy and Red.The word "prison", from the French "pris" ("taken"), merely indicates a place where captives are held, and the authorities, especially in America, prefer to describe many prisons by some more positive term such as "penitentiary" or "reformatory" which implies their purpose of rehabilitating criminals. Shawshank, a prison where the Warden and guards are at least as crooked as the inmates, has precisely the opposite effect. Andy goes in innocent of any crime and comes out guilty of being an accessory to corruption and fraud. Yet, despite his involvement in the Warden's dishonesty, Andy retains a certain integrity; he refuses to give up hope and refuses to allow himself to be beaten by the system. Although he is in prison he has found a sort of freedom. A key moment comes when he defies the guards to play a Mozart aria over the prison loudspeakers for all the inmates to hear- a reminder of spiritual values even in the harshest of environments.Red faces a different problem. He fears that he has become so institutionalised that he will be unable to survive freedom, as happened to another long-term prisoner who committed suicide shortly after his release. In prison, his role as the "fixer" who can obtain anything, be it a packet of cigarettes, a rock hammer or a poster of Rita Hayworth, makes him the king of the inmates. (These latter two items will play an important role in the plot). On the outside he will be just another ex-con trying to make ends meet in a dead-end job. Paradoxically, he is more free in jail than he will be on the outside. I won't give away the ending, but it involves Andy repaying Red's previous kindnesses by showing him how he can be free in all senses of the word.The film was not a great box office success when first released but has since acquired a status as one of the classics of the modern American cinema; it has now supplanted "The Godfather" as number one on IMDb's Top 250 list. The film would perhaps not be number one on my personal list, but it is a fine one and would certainly be in my top 250, perhaps the top 100. Its two stars, Tim Robbins as Andy and Morgan Freeman as Red, are both excellent. Its initial lack of success may have had something to do with its rather clumsy title. "Shawshank" is not a word that will mean anything to the average person (according to one story Darabont was once asked how his "rickshaw" film was going) and "redemption", except in technical legal contexts, normally has a religious connotation. This is not an explicitly religious film; indeed, in its portrayal of Warden Norton as a sanctimonious, Bible-bashing hypocrite, it can be seen as critical of religion. Nevertheless, the word "redemption" is perhaps appropriate in this context, after undergoing the hell of Shawshank Andy and Red manage to find a sort of secular redemption. It may be this message of hope that accounts for the film's continuing popularity. 9/10


                
I rarely post comments on movies unless I, {A) Really love it, (B) Really hate it. This falls in the 'really love' category. The first time I watched this picture, I thought it was great, but much to dark and emotional, and contained unnecessary violence/sexuality. After viewing it 2 or 3 times, I finally understand why this movie is so highly ranked by IMDb regulars, and I also have come to understand why the scenes of violence and brutality toward Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) were included in this film. I also understand why James Whitmore's character Brooks Hatlen behaved the way he did. It was all the nastiness that happened to people we really like that makes the victory complete at the end. 5 years ago I would have called The Shawshank Redemption an overrated, self-indulging unnecessarily dark picture deserving a rating of 5 or perhaps 6 at best. Now that the move is nearly 12 years old, and now that I've watched it enough to finally "get it", I must agree with the masses and score this with a 9+. One of the best movies ever made and certainly the best of the Stephen King adaptations. How could I have been so obtuse?
This movie has to be one of the very best films i've seen in my lifetime. I am usually not that fond of drama films but the portrayal of the characters and the amazing script made it a perfect translation from the Stephen King book. Morgan Freeman gives one of his best performances in this movie and actually makes you believe him as a jail smuggler, better than Chris Rock in the Longest Yard ever did. The cinematography is brilliant showing the sheer scale of this old decaying prison. The movie may not have received any Academy Awards (the show was stolen by Forrest Gump that year) but it still remains to be one of the best films around. If your looking for a deeper movie more than you're typical action flick, this will provide what you were looking for. Go out and rent it, heck go and buy it because you'll want to watch it time and time again.


                
