First off, let me state emphatically that I'm referring to the REAL version of the film, not the pathetic crippled creature distributed as "Warriors of the Wind" on video. Although I must admit that I first fell in love with the movie in that form, I have now seen the full subtitled version, and I place a hideous curse on those who hacked over 20 minutes from its running time.Although the incredible "Princess Mononoke" later upstaged this early work in terms of art and detail, in many ways I still prefer "Nausicaa". Its imaginitive and well-conceived world puts me in mind of Dune with its feuding factions, its giant creatures, and its strong ecological message. Even with a rather long running time, the story moves very briskly (boiled down as it was from a very lengthy manga series). The music deserves special mention, as well, as it is a large step up from the electronic pop stylings of most anime.If you can get your hands on a copy of the original version, you'll find it more than worth the effort.


                
This was the film which introduced me (and many others in the 1980s) to Miyazake, and even in the form of a poor quality VHS on an ordinary TV, it was amazing.  By 1984 Miyazake was already well known in Japan for his anime work in film, TV, and for the comic strip that this film was based upon.In this early full length film he really got to spread his wings.  There are fantastic aerial sequences like the jet-glider evading the flying snakes, which (this predates computed 3D, and aerial sequences are present in most of his work) are just a tour-de-force of imagination and geometry.  And yet this is a world that feels very organic, not geometric, with a cast of characters drawn in a unique cross between hobo, samurai, and pirate - totally blending in to an imaginary post apocalyptic world where humans scratch out a precarious life in villages hidden in the few green valleys left in a world of desert, where the only remaining resources are wind, sunlight, and humans.But it is also a world of enormous dangers, including airborne bandits and the strange, mutated creatures that have evolved to control the barren and scarred earth.  When our heroine's valley home is attacked by raiders, she embarks on an adventure against them that will lead her, and some unlikely allies found along the way, to an eventual confrontation combining warring armies of bandits, ancient machines of infernal destruction, and the implacable, mysterious, threatening beasts which roam the badlands.  The pace is swashbuckling - if this were a book, it would be one you could not stop reading.It has the feel of the original comic books, but plays out wonderfully on the screen - you don't need to know the comics.  The style is very unique. Even though it is very stylized (no photorealism here), you immediately get the feeling of the world and the characters.  The story works for children of all ages (mine both first saw this before they were 6, and have memorized it long since), and combined with the wonderful visuals it is a treat for adults too.  As a genre I would classify it as soft (no attempt at scientific correctness) sci-fi rather than fantasy, though some might think it more a work of fantasy.  It is fascinating partly because its roots in style and action are unexpected for a western viewer.  Japanese manga and stories had evolved in their own way, and although this is early Miyazake, it is already a product of that mature and distinct art form.As always with Miyazake - if you haven't seen his work, well you haven't seen anything like it, and it is time you did.


                
The film of all times. My personal favorite of all films, anime and non-anime. It has it all, a great, involving story that holds many important lessons of life. Interesting characters. Action, adventure, and above all feeling, the mood just sucks me in and holds on till the very end and beyond. The music is epic, and the animation is top class. The setting is a futuristic kind of midevil inspired fantasy... if that says anything... but anyway it feels very real although fantastic and apeals to me. This movie is from the very heart of Hayao Miyazaki, the master of anime... Its so sad that the dubbed version was so butchered, it was the first version I saw(actualy the swedish dubbing of the american dubbing(sigh)) and I thaught it was great, but now that I have seen the original, a new door has opened and revealed a true masterpiece. I recomend this film to all and everyone. Average 10(10)


                
"Nausicaa of the valley of the wind" is about an epic story of mankind in the wastelands of polluted earth. Thousand years after the end of industrialized civilization mankind is once again in the wrath of nature as it is taking it's vengeance for the brutality it has received from the human. Although being an action packed adventure, the main story of the movie is one of the most humane stories ever told. Nausicaa, one of the most powerful characters of modern motion picture, tries to find a way to make the connection between earth and human to save mankind from extinction. I will stop here for rest of the story you have to find out yourself. I can assure you that you will not regret it. And for movie lovers it is a movie that you just cannot miss.There are actually only three 100% real Hayao Miyazaki movies. They are 1.Nausicaa of the valley of the wind, 2.Laputa: Castle in the sky and 3.Princess Mononoke. All these films are considered as masterpieces of the history of animation. Of all the movies that Hayao Miyazaki has created "Nausicaa's" is the best. Many people will argue with me on that point because they have not seen the original uncut Disney version. If you are a people outside South America and speak in a different language than English and Disney's animations are available in your native language only then you can understand the quality of a dubbing of Disney. So please see the movie with the English dub by Disney, I am pretty much optimistic that you will surely say that "Nausicaa of the valley of the wind" is the greatest movie ever built.NB1: Please try to watch only the Disney dubbed movies of studio Ghibli if that is not found it is better to watch it English subbed.NB2: Try to watch the real Miyazaki movies (the three I mentioned here and whisper of the heart) in theaters or at night in a quiet place. Believe me I have tried this and I was able to understand the movies better. NB3: one of the main problems in Miyazaki's movies is the expectation. Here are some tips the three movies I mentioned here are real movies (I don't like to degrade them by saying they are animes) not cartoons. Howls moving castle and Lupin the third are animation movies and the rest are cartoons just like cars or toy story. NB4: Many people argue about the fact of watching foreign movies dubbed. I won't argue with them. I will just go with Miyazaki in the point, he told 20% of the movie will be lost if you read the subtitles instead of watching the movie. Special request: because of the kidified version of "Nausicaa of the valley of the wind" many people have rated it quite badly. So please watch the movie rate it according to your enjoyment and rate my review too. Many thank for viewing.


                
Before I start my review, let me state that I did manage to see this film subtitled at an art museum in New York. For me, it was a very interesting experience to discover Miyazaki in his youngest days. While some may find the quality of this film to be a bit dated upon initial glance, it is important to remember that NAUSICAA OF THE VALLEY OF THE WIND was made back in 1984, so the animation, likewise, does not have as much polish as Miyazaki's later work displays. But this is not to say that NAUSICAA is unwatchable because of that. This is a deeply complex, imaginative tale set in a post-apocalyptic world which will remind many of PRINCESS MONONOKE, only the protagonist is a girl. Nausicaa is a compassionate princess who prefers to solve problems with peace, not vengeance. Her struggle to resolve a bitter conflict between two warring kingdoms and prevent them from reaching her home valley is not a good vs. evil tale. The characters are all flawed, believable people with their own agendas and redeeming qualities.In a testament to Miyazaki's admiration of nature, the film offers a sub-plot involving a supposedly poisonous jungle. The product of a terrible global war, this thick, lush forest not only showcases Miyazaki's imagination (those insects sure are creepy-looking!) but also emphasizes the dangers of world pollution.While NAUSICAA is an older movie from Miyazaki, it manages to hold surprisingly well--most classics have such staying power.Its long journey to America is a story in and of itself. In 1985 (a year after the film broke records in Japan), NAUSICAA was brought to the America--retitled WARRIORS OF THE WIND, drastically altered, and cut by a quarter of its two-hour running time, much to the outrage of Miyazaki and his colleagues. Since that time, Miyazaki declared that any adaptations of his films for American release must be done under the supervision of his company, Studio Ghibli.As much as some folks love to hate Disney these days, one can credit them for taking the time to strike a deal with Miyazaki to distribute his films globally. While the Mouse House has made their share of marketing mistakes with his films, the dubs they've produced thus far--KIKI'S DELIVERY SERVICE, PRINCESS MONONOKE, SPIRITED AWAY, and CASTLE IN THE SKY--all have maintained a quality of excellence and strong performances from a solid cast of well-known actors and actresses. This brand new English version of NAUSICAA is no exception.As the title character, Alison Lohman provides commendable sincerity, compassion, and vulnerability, and is amply supported by a grand cast of side characters, which include Uma Thurman (the embittered empress Kushana); Chris Sarandon (the sneaky, smarmy Kurotowa); Edward James Olmos (feisty, loyal Mito); and unexpected appearances by veteran character stalwarts Tress MacNeille, Jeff Bennett, Tony Jay (who does a brief opening voice-over), and the Little Mermaid herself, Jodi Benson. Shia LaBeouf's Asbel sounds a bit rocky at first, but he grew on me. Mark Hamill, fresh from his outstanding turn as the evil Muska on the brilliant yet under-appreciated (on some places anyway) CASTLE IN THE SKY dub, plays a small role as the Mayor of Pejite. He only appears in two scenes, and consequently, his performance here isn't as remarkable as his work in CASTLE IN THE SKY, but it's nonetheless great to hear his golden voice in another Miyazaki dub. Arguably the highlight of this dub is Patrick Stewart as Nausicaa's mentor, Lord Yupa. He speaks with strong Shakespearian diction and carries the dub as a whole through his subtle, charismatic rendition of this skilled swordsman.Miyazaki declared that any new adaptation of his masterpiece should be nothing but a straight translation and no cuts. English dub scriptwriters Donald H. Hewitt and Cindy Davis Hewitt (who worked on SPIRITED AWAY) honor his wishes through their adaptation, remaining faithful to the story while tweaking a bit of terminology for comprehension purposes.As with Miyazaki's other works, Joe Hisaishi provides the music score. Compared to the more lush soundtracks he composed for Miyazaki's later films, his score for NAUSICAA, while undeniably beautiful, occasionally comes off as a tad primitive, notably when it breaks into sometimes jarring techno-synth jingles. For better or worse, his score remains intact in the new cut of NAUSICAA which will no doubt please purists. I was a bit disappointed, however--especially when his ambitious reworking of the CASTLE IN THE SKY score (composed exclusively for that dub) turned out so well IMO. A film like this deserves a 5.1 remix! Nonetheless, it's my one quibble of this otherwise top-notch English track of Miyazaki's most revered masterpiece.The DVD sports a near flawless visual transfer and a humble serving of extras--which include the typical English voice talent featurette we saw on Disney's previous wave of Miyazaki's films, trailers and TV spots, and a second disc devoted entirely to storyboards. The most noteworthy feature on this disk is a 30-minute long documentary, "The Birth of Studio Ghibli", which is undistractingly dubbed into English. For fans that are curious about the upbringing of this animation studio and wondering which of their films have yet to be released, this is a must-see.As someone who has been very pleased with Disney's releases of Miyazaki's works so far, I am delighted to say that they have done yet another bang-up job on polishing this legendary classic for new generations to cherish. Don't be fooled by its primitive looks; NAUSICAA OF THE VALLEY OF THE WIND's status as a masterpiece resonates from the first minute to the last.
The name of Nausicaä belongs to Greek mythology; she was the Princess who saved Ulysses from drowning. And the "Valley of the Winds" was loosely inspired from the tragedy of Minimata Bay and the way it maintained its ecosystem viable despite the pollution. "Nausicaä of the Valley of the Winds" finds the perfect balance between the theme of nature always finding its way and the dramatic struggle of a heroine saving humanity from "drowning" in belligerent wickedness.I'm mentioning Minimata but the tragedy of Fukushima could have inspired a similar intuition that technological advances could only lead to the downfall of humanity inasmuch as men continue to display the same carelessness and arrogance. In his "Nausicaä", Hayao Miyazaki doesn't warn us but rather confronts us to a plausible future, a future with a few survivors driven to the last corners of Earth where wind and water prevented a toxic jungle name Fukaï from spreading.The film, all in visual splendor, displays the usual Sci-fi and Fantasy archetypes but they don't distract from the environmentalist and pacifist message. We accept them in the sense that the story is set one thousand years after the apocalypse and we expect technology to have produced jet-propelled gliders and flying vessels. But the film also has a Renaissance look à la "Princess Mononoke", it's not an artistic license, the privileged people of the Valley represent a wiser side of humanity that got back to the roots, acknowledging the eminence of nature, a renaissance indeed.They live in an oasis-like area where the air is breathable, outside; they must wear a gas mask, accentuating the dystopian look even within a natural setting. The hostility of nature is symbolized by giant mutant insects and the Ohm, armored trilobite-like insects whose eyes turn to an ominous red whenever they feel threatened. But Miyazaki never lets us get the wrong idea about these Ohm, understand they're not the most life-threatening creatures out there.There's a key scene right in the beginning where a little fox-like creature bites Nausicaä, she patiently keeps her finger until its frenzy fades out and then the animal licks her wound. This moment is pivotal because it highlights the real tragedy that caused men's downfall, not violent actions but immediate assumptions of violence causing bad reactions. Only Nausicaä is capable of showing mercy and empathy toward any living creature, she challenges all the common conceptions and even tries to understand the place she lives in, which is the epitome of wisdom.From the spores taken during regular expedition, she discovers in her laboratory that plants are capable of producing air, later in the film that some jungle plants purify the polluted topsoil and produce clean water. In other words, life always finds a way but humans can't see it. Nausicaä becomes the messianic character that will open the eyes of humanity, and as truth can be stranger than fiction, she's also a pivotal moment in Miyazaki's career, as the first film to have emerged from the fertile soil of his own imagination.Nausicaä foreshadows all the elements that will define his work: the independent free-spirited heroine, the aerial settings and the environmental and anti-war messages, and more than that, the revolutionary notion that you don't need villains to make a story. Everyone is imperfect and fallible, even the most violent attacks are meant as defensive moves or precautions. The film contains a lot of action, lethal explosions and battles, people die by the sword, including Nausicaä's but Miyazaki couldn't have been more pacifists, every detail says in subtext that violence isn't the answer.Indeed, how can the cause of the trouble ever be the solution? Miyazaki, a master storyteller, delivers crucial information even in the most unnoticeable moments, even the opening credits show through Roman mosaic and medieval tapestry the fate of the modern world. Seven giants launching immense fire blasts (metaphor for nuclear power?) into modern buildings, it's just as if Hiroshima was depicted like the Pompeii eruption. But what is the tragedy exactly, that history taught men a lesson or that men didn't learn it? Nausicaä is set at a time that looks like a second chance but people are still fighting for good or bad reasons, from a sword master and father-figure named Lord Yupa, a young Pejite interceptor who respects Nausicaä's actions and the Tolmekian queen who (like Lady Eboshi from "Mononoke") is perhaps the tumultuous counterpart to Nausicaä, mutilated by the creatures, she believes in violence as the language of the force, illustrating its dangerously communicative effect, the never-ending spiral that killed the world<U+0085> or that might lead to a third worldwide conflict.And in the midst of nihilistic violence and desolation, Nausicca emerges as a beautifully inspirational heroine. There's a hypnotic flashback (with a so-catchy playful tone) where Nausicaä's father kills a baby Ohm, on the basis that human and insects can't live together. The whole conviction of Nausicaä is that every creature has its place on Earth; it's not just about empathy but the unshakable faith on Nature's equilibrium. It is very significant that the most beautiful images from the film, all in golden yellow, are provided by the Ohm's tentacles, weren't they supposed to be the ugly monsters? Yet, at the time of its release, the film was badly edited for foreign audiences and lost into translation to become some Manga adventure in the air, and the Ohm were indeed hostile creatures. It's just as if Miyazaki was ahead of his time and it would take one decade and half before people would come back to their senses and realize that this isn't "Flash Gordon". Nausicaä is about conviction and goodness, pacifism and environmentalism deprived from any political innuendo.Miyazaki drew the original Manga so the film could be made, showcasing as much confidence as his heroine. In a way, Miyazaki was the Nausicaä of animation, a man with a vision, spirit and guts.


                
Years ago I was having a discussion about anime with one of my colleagues, and she told me that "Nausicaa - Valley Of The Wind" was her favourite anime. "That's a stupid name", I thought, "I bet its rubbish really". Well, I was wrong and she was right - Miyazaki's first movie under the studio Ghibli banner is a fantasy of the absolute highest order.
Set thousands of years hence, the human race is eeking out an existence around wastelands populated by all manner of alien plants and animals, all emitting deadly toxins. As if this wasn't a hard enough life, the different groups of humans are at war with each other. Nausicaa is a princess in the Valley Of The Wind, a tribe of pacifists who are closer to nature than most others. The movie is a tale of struggle, adventure and discovery - all with a strong environmental message. Those who have played the Final Fantasy games will recognise much here in terms of narrative and art style. In fact, there are quite a lot of similarities with the Final Fantasy movie, though the story here is definitely better constructed. Miyazaki has always been an imaginative writer/director, and especially here. The world of Nausicaa is fabulously detailed and unique - like the best sci-fi and fantasy, Miyazaki has envisaged a whole history, ecology, sociology and technology... all of which is very well realised in the animation and art. He's also got a good eye for characters, and the various people you will meet in the world are all very well developed. Nausicaa herself is the centre of the story, and a fine embodiment of purity and virtue. It isn't often you see a movie that is so well developed. Anime is a medium with some unique strengths when it comes to fantasy, and Nausicaa exploits them to the full. Even without the artistic license that animation provides, the story is one that is so strong it could have been placed in any environment and still made a wonderful movie. Recommended!  As others have observed though, the only way to see it really is widescreen/subtitled/uncut (115 minutes).


                
of all the movies i've ever seen (including nearly all of Miyazakis films) i can't seem to remember a single one that fascinated me as much as Nausicaa... Kaze no Tani no Naushika opened on March 11, 1984 in japan. It's big success lead to the founding of Studio Ghibli, the film studio where all Miyazaki films after Nausicaa where made.There is also a Manga of the same name, which was drawn by Miyazaki as sort of promotion, after the film was rejected by his financiers. After the success of the Manga (which counted already 16 chapters back then) the planned film finally got into production. The Manga should continue after that for a total of 13 years (with breaks) until it came to an unsuspected ending in chapter 59, that is quite different from what you might guess after seeing the film.>>Around the mid 1980s, a severely-edited version of this film was released in video under the title Warriors of the Wind. The editing was done without the knowledge of Miyazaki or Studio Ghibli. They were unhappy when they learned about it and want those who have seen it "to dismiss it from /their/ minds.<< (Nausicaa.net)This is the reason why all negotiations about translations of Studio Ghibli films were so hard: After that disappointment Miyazaki won't allow any cutting or changing of his films. Warriors of the Wind was a Movie that had nothing to do with the original film and better never had existed at all...so, what is the real film about?1000 years after the breakdown of all industrialized civilization in a war only remembered as "the seven days of fire", mankind is on the brink of extinction. a deadly forest of fungi - spreading poisonous spores and gases - spreads over the world and threatens the very survival of the human race. this is the world that Nausicaa lives in, and amongst all the people fearing and hating the forest and the monstrous insects protecting it, she seems to be the only one full of love for all life, even the forest and the insects.i have seen this film countless times again and again. so many times, that i can watch the Japanese version without subtitles and still understand every word that's spoken (without knowing a single word of Japanese)... i don't like to watch the translated movie (neither the English nor the German one) since Nausicaa doesn't seem to be the same girl like in the original. there's much too much anger in her voice, which absolutely doesn't fit her at all. she seems so naive at times, or even dumb... i'd really advise anyone rather to watch the original version with subtitles than any dubbed version. so what is it, that makes this film so special, so extraordinary? IMHO it is Nausicaa herself! the film is great in all aspects: the story, the (absolutely not flat or typical) characters, atmosphere, etc... and still she outshines all of that. although she seems so fragile and helpless at times, she is incredibly strong and powerful. a typical Miyazaki heroine. but the one thing that i find adorable the most: she has (nearly) totally freed herself of all hate. she doesn't judge others because of their opinions or goals, even if they collide with her own... and i really admire that. that is what makes her a real hero in my eyes. she has something that doesn't seem to exist in the real world out there: unbroken, untainted love...


                
I have been watching Anime since I can remember. Of every single one of the Miazaki films, and all the other Anime films that I have seen, without a doubt, this has to be my favorite one of all time. This movie is just so incredibly beautiful in every way. The characters are so easy to fall in love and sympathize with. The scenery and music are both simply spectacular. Hayao Miazaki is obviously a man who cares deeply for the environment, and I truly think this film shows his undeniable love and compassion for all living things better than all of his movies. This Anime contains some of the most powerful and touching scenes I have ever seen in any movie, anime or no. I cry without fail every time I watch it. In my opinion, this is truly the most precious masterpiece in all Anime films. I recommend this to anyone, whether you enjoy Anime films or not, there is just no denying how wonderful this film is.


                
Before Princess Mononoke, which is still for me Hayao Miyazaki's greatest work, he made this film, Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind, which like that other later film addressed issues that are paramount for the filmmaker: the environment, and the Earth, and how human beings can have highs and lows in attention to it. On the one hand Miyazaki gives us who is perhaps one of the purest heroes in any animated film, Japanese or otherwise, with Nausicaa as a woman who doesn't want killing on any side, and knows that there can be some peace with the environment of the world. Her greatest strengths end up coming out in various ways, like when she goes to stop the Ohm, the big beetle-insects that are the largest "threat" (threat in quotes because it depends on the reaction of the two sides- the Tolmekian and the Pejite- and how either one inflames the reaction of the Ohm)- and in her general attitude to killing and violence. It's a fragile world, and she's perhaps one of only a few, and the only one willing to 'go the distance', to understand how what remains underground, what can't be seen, can make a difference. She's like a big action hero for preservationists and pacifists, but it's such a strongly defined character that the basic qualities come out wonderfully, like when she has to contend with her obvious emotional reaction to her father being slain (almost a Star Wars 'force' moment if you ask me).So as she represents the good, there is the other side, which is represented by not necessarily the outright evil, even if the Tolmekian find the only way to combat anything is through warrior actions, but by ignorance and greed. It's not always as simple as that, and one could see a little dimension to the princess Kushuna, but even there the essentials get burned down to not just Miyazaki's points, but what works for the structure of classic fantasy. It might be tricky for Miyazaki to balance out his message of peace and understanding with what should be a sensational entertainment of a world 1000 years from now following an apocalypse; it treads the line, as Mononoke did, of becoming incoherent with the message and the manipulation of the audience. But Miyazaki happens to be intelligent enough to trust the audience on the front of the message, and so he puts up his film in his usual thrust of indelible, one-of-a-kind images and exciting action. I especially liked seeing the Ohm themselves, one by one looking like even more detailed, nuanced versions of the Garthem in the Dark Crystal. Or in the sky-flying scenes, where the clouds are like unique formations that can't really be of the world we're in, but are in this world nonetheless that Miyazaki forges from classic mythology, reinterpretations of forests and insects, and post-apocalyptic technology out of a high-powered junk-yard.And on top of this, as a word of note, this grandiose (in a good way) kind of epic work is supplanted with a better than expected voice cast- for the English language dub on the new DVD. They help back up the pieces of Miyazaki's world where there is some science fiction, but not in a fully compiled sense (if anything it's sort of like a 'used' science fiction world like Blade Runner, in part I mean). There's also some moments in the classical style, of a hero coming into her own that might seem too reminiscent of other movies. But Nausicaa is backed up by several cool supporting characters, like the equally heroic Lord Yuru, and the conflicted Pejite Asbel who has to choose the greater good (and common sense, in the Miyazaki form) over his tribe's priorities. By the end, it actually left me like Totoro did with a huge, well-earned smile on my face, due to it being one of those happy endings that is so unlikely, yet is done as if there could be no other way in Miyazaki's universe. It's fresh and sublime anime, and the master of Studio Ghibli at one of his best.


                
This is a brilliant film (referring to the Japanese original).I watched this movie shortly after watching Studio Ghibli's OCEAN WAVES by the same director. Ocean Waves charmed me but it was Nausicaa which put tears in my eyes.The original Japanese version (with English subtitles) is now available on Region 2 DVD from Japan and also includes a commentary track - albeit in Japanese only. One final point: Nausicaa is wearing trousers which are roughly skin coloured - someone here got the idea that she was naked from the waist down.


                
I don't know how he does this things (Mononoke, Nausicaa, Spirited Away, Howl's Moving Castle and goes on) but i know something that he is one of the most worthiest people living under this blue sky. Of course as he says people doesn't care about earth, they even can't feel it and i agree with him. He tries to make at least a few people feel it. Miyazakisan please go on what you are doing... In another part of this world, people that you don't even know they are living, sometimes laughs and sometimes cries with you. And i'm sure that when you finished making that movies. You cried out too.. Farewell This movie is for people who can feels the wind


                
Nausicaa was my second Miyazaki, and I was blown away! Few Disney films touch this; and frankly, I can only think of "Watership Down" being a competitor for my undying affection. It's a shame that Disney seems to hide Miyazaki's works behind the Mousehouse money machine.Dubs and subs war aside, the dialogue is good, the animation fresh, the premise disturbing, and the characters enthralling. Said dubs are not so bad, no one character jars my senses. For sci-fi junkies, the plot is pure nirvana, challenging minds to think and explore. So before moving on to the next soulless Disney sequel, give Nausicaa and Miyazaki the respect they deserve.


                
1984. I was born that year, and that was the year Nausicaa was released in Japan. That was a dang long time ago by my reckoning. Yet here, 21 years later, the US is fortunate enough to get a decent version of it on these shores. I saw a TV ad for this movie; I had never heard of it before. But I had seen Spirited Away, and I knew that Studio Ghibli was capable of creating cinematic masterpieces that blew any other animation out of the freakin' water. I had to see this, and I saw it the first day it was released, and I wasn't disappointed. Never mind it's age, this film is timeless in its power and imagination. It was definitely one of the best films -- anime or not -- that I've ever seen (just to make my tastes in film more specific, I also consider the godfather, Strangers on a Train, Citizen Kane, 2001 A Space Odyssey, A Clockwork Orange, the Untouchables, The Fifth Element, Brazil, Spirited Away, and Leon other great films...I know, its a wide spectrum).Nausicaa has so much going for it. The story pulls you into this fantastic world; the legends engross; the landscapes are surreally breathtaking (saying something for an image on a 2d screen); especially with Joe Hishashi's score, which can only be described as virtuoso. With an ingenious mix of traditional orchestral and 80's electronic, seamlessly merged. The English dubbing is superb, too. Alison Lohman has a great voice. Patrick Stewart, whom I'd known for more than a decade as Picard, was a very welcome surprise.These are all my opinions, I'm not selling anything; everyone's tastes are different, especially in film. But I really liked this film, and as such felt compelled to comment on it. I would recommend seeing it. I thought anime was stupid until very recently. A lot of it is. But not this. This is peerless cinema.


                
This is an epitome of animation and storytelling at it's absolute best.  I am so glad that Miyazaki was able to tell the story of young Nausicaa, both in story form (the comics-- available on-line) and the silver screen.  The movie brings the four-dimensional characters to life (they also change in time) in one of the most thrilling movies of all time.  I can recommend this majestic sci-fi tale for action lovers of any age, and most wonderful for young girls, as Sandra/Nausicaa is one of the few human women in animation/TV/movies that is strong, independent, and caring for the people she rules.


                
Nausicaa of the valley of the wind was the first anime I ever saw - I think the first time I watched it was when I was 9 year old. I watched the awful cut / edited version called Warriors of the wind (stay away from this version!) that makes no sense but I still loved it. You must watch the original uncut version ONLY.I forgot the title of the film but could still remember images that were burned into my memory. I have been searching for this film ever since I first saw it when I was 9 and finally found it in 2003 under its proper name "Kaze no tani no Naushika".This film should be apart of the school curriculum for children it is beautiful, touching and thought provoking. Nausicaa is an amazing heroine - I usually don't like female heroines but Nausicaa can save me any day.I used to have dreams of flying when I was a child and I am sure they were inspired after watching this film with Nausicaa on her glider diving through the clouds.The music in the film is brilliant in its self - its worth buying the soundtrack. It is impressive when a soundtrack can add so much emotion and ambiance to a scene.Give this a chance if you have watched "Princess Mononoke" it is similar except it is much better - the only thing that is not perfect by todays standards is the animation I guess - its a little dated but still beautiful.Trust me this is the GREATEST anime film ever - far surpassing any of Miyazaki's other works TRUST ME please watch this and do yourself a favour.


                
I have read cliched comments about some other supposedly special anime- how fantastic the artwork was drawn. Until I saw this film, I never really agreed when I watched those anime that were raved about the art. Even though I haven't ever heard anything about this anime film, I can imagine the same kind of acclaim about the art. Well, in this case, I really do have to rave about the artwork. In Nausicaa of the Valley of the Winds, the paintings, story, and music soundtrack combine to form a whole much greater than the sum of the parts. But of all the parts, the artwork and animation was by far the most creative and magnificent art paintings of any feature length animation I've ever watched. This is how science fiction fantasy should be done with anime: soft, flowing plantlife and alien landscapes, not the sharp, hard edges of artificial metal worlds. Humans trying to survive at the most basic levels- as they have for thousands of years, not some cool, hip, fake society. The story was very precious and entertaining. 117 minutes seemed like less than an hour to me. No, this anime wasn't perfect, but it was the closest thing to perfect I have ever seen in a feature animation. This is probably one of the greatest feature animations ever made, and I do not think it can ever be surpassed in our lifetime, because the current trend is more toward the slick and superficial, just as in other mainstream films.


                
I can't stand it when I see ignorant people with their minds in the gutter comment on this subject. Nausicaa is wearing PANTS, people! She's not in a mini-skirt, that's the bottom of her COAT. Keep in mind that everyone else in the Valley of Wind dresses like her, and they don't appear to be in kilts. Now with that out of the way, I'd just like to say that it's an amzing movie that I've enjoyed watching since I was 5 years old (although back then I only had the butchered Warriors of the Wind). I currently own the DVD Figure Set and can't wait for the US release. Looks like Disney's chosen a pretty good cast and I (for once) have confidence that it will turn out great.


                
English translation: Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind - To say an animation is up to Hayao Miyazaki standards is to give the highest possible praise. But to say that an actual Miyazaki film exceeds its own standards is the highest praise. That is what NAUSICAA is: Miyazaki at his best.Set in a fantasy reality that blends ancient and futuristic into a world that is at once impossible yet believable, NAUSICAA details the fight between two warring factions with Princess Nausicaa's beautiful but weak kingdom caught in the middle. Crystal clear Miyazaki, the protagonist Nausicaa is the sounding bell of peace and reason. A young girl - as are many of Miyazaki's protagonists - Nausicaa is both naive in the way of war but determined in the way of living with the world and not against it.The supporting characters add zest and humor and depth to the story, one that twists along lazily to its awesome conclusion, always providing excitement or wonder while keeping the audience guessing as to the outcome. And Miyazaki's final solution to Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind is indeed a surprising and deeply satisfying one.


                
This film made me feel very emotional after watching it. At one time we as a human race were one with nature, but no more. This film makes u realise that if we keep on destroying the world around us that we will also destroy ourselves. If everybody watched this film and understood it then the world would be a better place. The director is a genious and i shall be following his work from now on, u should do the same. Brilliant and original, this film is not to be missed.


                
Dear Readers if you have an intension to see this movie, DO NOT, I REPEAT DO NOT be satisfied with the US cut(killed) version.Hayao Miyazaki does not even reckognize that version as his.The uncut version of that movie is on the other hand, nothing short of breathtaking. The main charator, is such a compassionate being that I dont think a human actor could have done the part an gotten away with it.-truly a master piece. (^_^)"Seen from the eye of compassion there is none to be disliked"ps. sorry about the spelling.


                
A young princess with amazing flying talent and a merciful heart tries to save her small valley haven from cruel allies and a forest of deadly fungus and insects.  Even in it's filtered down form, it sounds so much better than a Disney flick, doesn't it?  Darn right it is. I was fortunate enough to see the subtitled version of Nausicaa, and I must say that it has only strengthened my belief that Hayao Miyazaki is one of the greatest storytellers in the history of this planet.  What most people will not realize is that "Kaze no tani no Naushika" is actually the life's work of Mister Miyazaki.  Based on the manga (comic) of the same title, this movie is a mere snapshot into the world he has created for over a decade in comic form.  Where similar movies like "Akira" failed to keep most of the impact of it's impossibly large story, Nausicaa actually keeps the same feel and look of the original story.  Without overwhelming the viewer, an amazing, well-crafted world is thrown into the mind's eye.  One that is so breathtaking and alien to us, yet also one that is very possible.  It even refrains from too much "This is the history of the world in one paragraph", and uses events in the story to explain the past, and why the world is the way it is. 
Characters are very well crafted and wonderful to watch, especially Princess Nausicca and her protector, Master Yupa.  The creatures in this movie are simply amazing as well, and Miyazaki is known for his wonderful creature imagination.  The mighty Ohmu are some of the coolest "monsters" I have ever seen, and I'm looking forward to reading the manga version to see them more in depth.  Another monster...this time very much so...that was amazing was the "God Warrior" who made a brief, but horrifying appearance against the Ohmu.  Truly, this movie is the stuff of dreams...and nightmares.This is also a very touching film.  One that any age group can watch and come away with a happy heart.  Though life is far from a perfect fairytale in Nausicaa, this movie focuses on the human spirit, and the harmony with the planet we should strive towards.  It does sound a little sappy, but trust me, it's not.  It's a struggle.  If it is a triumph...well, that's up to the future to decide.  Anyone who likes the new Princess Mononoke movie will want to see this film, that started Miyazaki's amazing career with a momentous event.  10/10 rating.


                
Thanks you Miyazaki, for making two of the best movies of all time: Nausicaa and Mononoke Hime. I have not yet seen Laputa, but I am going to. :-)I fell in love with "warriors of the wind" when I was a little girl. And it remained my favorite movie throughout the years, right there on my top-ten list along movies like "star wars" and "braveheart". But I always felt that there was a portion of the story lacking. As if someone had cut scenes out... after watching the movie about 50 times, these gaps really started to annoy me.And finally, yesterday, after loving this movie for 15 years, I got to watch the real movie, "kaze no tani no nausicaa". While "warriors" left me touched, "nausicaa" left me crying. Both for the beauty of the story that now became obvious to me: I had found the missing pieces at last, but I also cried because of what they had done to this great movie.Almost no scene was left uncut. There was something lacking from almost every scene, as if someone had chopped this movie up with the deliberate and evil intent to destroy every single scene. Furthermore, whole sequences was cut out, like *all* of the scenes that explain what it's all about. Add to that a lousy translation from japaneese. (And after that, someone translated from english to swedish, added annoying swedish dialects and stupid jokes. (I saw the swedish version earlier)). It was two totally different movies. "warriors" feel like a commercial for the real thing: the have all the action sequences, but the story itself is lacking.The "new" scenes always leaves me crying: little nausicaa trying to save the baby ohmu.../Auryn


                
This film is technically a "pre-Ghibli" work: Ghibli as such didn't exist when it was made. You can, however, clearly see where Miyazaki's style and preoccupations came from. I am a part-time science-fiction fan, and it has always saddened me to see that while reams of intelligent SF are published (consider "Grass", "The Sirens of Titan", "A Fire Upon The Deep", "A Requiem for Homo Sapiens", "The Cyberiad", Cordwainer Smith and many more) Hollywood generally takes the line that SF on the screen either means Star Wars (lots of whizzy spaceships, weird aliens and battles) or Alien (horrible monsters picking people off one by one.) Both of those are good films, but they have been far too much imitated because of their success, and the other things that written SF has to offer never seem to have made it to the cinema. "Nausicaä", however, is an exception. It is a film which, like a good SF story, always has something to reveal, introduces you to a well-designed and fascinating world, and plays out through the actions of properly-developed characters. If you want to see space battles and mindless action, or people being horribly murdered by alien creatures, this is not the film for you, but if you'd like to see some SF written for the heart and the mind instead of just the senses, I can't recommend it too highly<U+0097>except to say that "Laputa: Castle in the Sky" may be even better.


                
Please vote high for Nausicaä, and get it into the list of top IMDb animated films. This film has a great average rating, but it needs more votes!Parental Advisory: This film is not for young children. The MPAA wasn't kidding: "Rated PG for violence." Please rent or buy Nausicaä, and give your teenagers something to think about.Nausicaä was my first Miyazaki or Studio Ghibli film, and it broadened my horizons. Miyazaki-san and the best of Japanese animation are on par with Disney's Fantasia as the most creative, most beautiful animation ever produced. Thanks to Miyazaki, I am more a fan of animation today than I was at age 10.Studio Ghibli stories are fascinating for me as an American with no direct window into Japanese culture. They draw archetypes from a rich mythos completely separate from European culture to challenge your assumptions and your view of life.Nausicaä has a completely compelling heroine, the requisite cute animal sidekick, brilliant steam-age technology mixed with magic, and a message. Some of my friends find the environmental and anti-war themes of Nausicaä to be heavy-handed, but I think allegory is more effective than persuasion.Think about it this way --- which is a more memorable criticism of war --- the nightly casualty figures from Vietnam or Iraq, or a grieving family at Arlington, a photo of a naked Viet girl running from a napalm attack, and The Wall. Would you rather hear about the perils of environmental crime from Erin Brockovich or Al Gore?In the late 80's, four films affected me to the degree that I was taken aback for hours after watching them --- Gandhi, Matewan, Testament, and Nausicaä. I felt the impact of each of these stories on individual characters and on nations; I saw the truth in them.Many thanks to Miyazaki-san for Nausicaä. She ranks high among his greatest gifts to us.


                
