I will tell you why, with absolute certainty, Nausicaa is crap.Long, long ago, the same people who made this film also made a much better animation, called Future Boy Conan. Back then, it was revolutionary, and everyone loved it. Fast forward twenty years, and the same exact animations, the same set pieces, backstory, characters, the same identical anime is being resold as Nausicaa, only this time there is less action, less humour, a worse story, the same crappy 80s animation and a lot more of diabetes-inducing sweetness to appease all those girls who in the 80s instead of Conan were watching Candy Candy.Now, you would be forgiven for thinking this *the bestest piece of anime in the world* as you're probably too young to know that this was once cutting edge, and assume that nothing like this existed before (blessed ignorance), but to see no change in 20+ years and a watering down of the story's darker points to appease the carebear crowd, it's cinematography murder.Nausicaa in the Valley of the Wind is the story of a girl who is really special, there's some nasty post-atomic crap going on with mutants but she talks to them. Some guys shake their guns a lot. There is an ending.Well, the storyboard for this film must have not been very challenging to write. If you are completely oblivious to anime having a history, and wish to gimp yourself, go ahead and enjoy Nausicaa in all its glory; if, on the other hand, you want to *know* what you are watching, leave this piece of crap alone and invest sometime in digging into the Golden Age of Anime, there is a mound of treasures to be found. Also, Patrick Stewart, could you kindly stop being everywhere? You're in Family Guy, in Star Trek, on stage, and in about a dozen other TV spoken roles. You'r getting to be f* annoying. Your voice is more inflationed than the Zimbabwean dollar. Please stop it.My vote: 3/10 - this kind of rubbish could only please young children.


                
Having seen three other Miyazaki animes and thoroughly enjoying them, I expected as much from this film but was ultimately let down. Like all the other Miyazaki works I have seen, this film was set in a beautiful, mysterious and exotic world along with cool creatures (like the fox-squirrel and the Ohms). The flying machines were also creative and a lot of the images reminded me of the incredible comic artist Moebius. But the animation of these fantastic elements was tacky, cheap looking, and not of the highest quality. The storyline was simply not up to par either. The script was poorly written and almost every line seemed cheesy, unintelligent, and dumb. Maybe part of the blame should rest upon the actors and their delivery, but either way it was not good. The music in most films typically goes unnoticed, but it was hard to miss here and not in a good way. Techno music from the 80's definitely did not fit the mood. It seemed to lack the emotional connection that I thought Miyazaki's other films excelled at. The ending seemed abrupt and unsatisfying but I had lost interest so long before that point that I simply ceased to care.


                
