The first thing to establish is that this is a science fiction epic. It has more in common with 'Dune' or any number of SF novels - Brian Aldiss's 'Hothouse' springs to mind for one- than it does with a typical western animated children's film. Therefore one's expectations should be a little different, and ultimately it was the SF aspect which gave the movie such a high grade in my books. Whereas it didn't have quite the emotional clout that I look for in an animated feature, it was a stupendously told SF story.Technically not a Ghibli film (Miyazaki actually used the studio which did most of 'The Last Unicorn', and which more or less became Ghibli when 'Laputa' was made a couple of years later), 'Nausicaa' is a far-future SF story with a princess/warrior/nature-lover heroine and strong environmental themes. There's also an opposing princess/leader trying to use technology to overcome the apparently hostile environment. If you're starting to think 'Princess Mononoke', you'd be on the right track. In some ways 'Nausicaa' seems like an early stab in the direction of 'Mononoke', though the latter would delve far more into spirituality and mythology, eschewing the SF aspects.There aren't really any major weak points in Nausicaa - unless you count the frustrating 12 drawings per second animation which I constantly complain about in Japanese animation. The backgrounds aren't as amazing and the animation not as good as the last few Ghibli films, but for 1984 it was plenty good enough. I have a fairly trivial complaint in that the character of Kuratowa is drawn in a slightly more 'anime' style, ala Lupin III, whereas all of the other characters are done in a realistic style. He just seems a little out of place, though he's quite delightfully drawn.The really strong points of the movie are its pacing (at least until the very end. Miyazaki was unhappy with the end too), its story telling, which manages to be sophisticated without being impossibly complex, its engrossing background drawings and settings, - and most of all in the amazing attention to detail in the fully realized post-apocalypse SF-fantasy world in which the story is set. Every little thing is worked out and placed such that you find yourself admiring inventions, ideas, structures, creatures, etc which don't draw attention to themselves, but simply exist as part of the backdrop of the movie. Of course 'Nausicaa' had existed for several years as a serialised Manga, so Miyazaki no doubt knew its universe inside-out.There's a very clever plot, which I won't give away, but which involves humanity's relationship with the Earth and nature.It's the sort of movie which you can get thoroughly caught up in, and which will stand repeated viewings. It really is a film which is perfectly pitched at both a young and an adult audience. As Miyazaki's second feature film it is also, rightly or wrongly, usually considered the start of Studio Ghibli, and is arguably worth watching for historical reasons, too.Not the very best from Miyazaki or Ghibli, but an auspicious beginning.PS, in case you didn't know, there was a heavily butchered US version floating around called 'Warriors of the Wind', which is universally reviled as a disgrace. Just to make it confusing, some of the Japanese copies are also called 'Warriors of the Wind'. The thing to look for is the 116 minute running length. If you get that, you've got the right one. At the moment the only way you can get the film is in Japanese dialog with English subtitles. Personally I'd go ahead and do that, rather than wait while Disney squats on the US distribution rights (Amazon gives it a release date of 2010 for God's sake). You can always replace it later.Good stuff.


                
Brilliant, captivating, and sometimes just plain awesome are some of things that come to mind while watching yet another one of Miyazaki's epic tales: Nausicaä of the Valley of the Winds. Deliberately slow-moving at points, yet undeniably exciting in and out of it's action sequences, it's one of those animes (a Japanese animated movie or show) that deserve a second viewing, and a fantastic introduction to anime itself.Without revealing too much of the plot, it takes us through the life of Nausicaa, a princess of a small village, and her struggles to stop warring nations from destroying an important source that can save the planet. The planet has already gone through a major destruction that nearly wiped out humanity, and their are large insects called ohmu, that guard the source that is spreading through the world.Miyazaki introduces an empowerment of female characters in his animes, such as Princess Mononoke, Kiki's Delivery Service, and his most recent, Howl's Moving Castle (Hauru no ugoku shiro). The characters are done with style and care, and, in Nausicaa, there is no exception.It amazes me that this film created some controversy when released, being banned in Poland because of it's depiction of an ecological disaster. Though the movie is obviously fantasy, it turns out that some may consider it a touchy subject. I didn't find any offense whatsoever with anything the movie showed, just a futuristic disaster no doubt caused by man.Combining fantasy and science-fiction, Nausicaa is nice to look at. It certainly shows it's age when compared to some newer animes, not having the help from high-end computers. Considering it was done in the 80's, Miyazaki's production team did a great job. Little details, backgrounds, gadgets, & animals are drawn slightly better then some Japanese animes from that time.Keep in mind that my review is based on the Disney release (Feb 2005). It's cleaned up, unedited, with new voices from well known actors that sound great (but I still prefer subtitles). Keep far away from the old version 'Warriors of the Wind', which chops off more then half-hour from the movie.9 out of 10


                
Usually I try to compare one anime with another but I find it impossible to do for Nausicaa. I doubt if any other anime tried to repeat (or at least not successfully) the combination of science fiction, drama and medievalism that's in this film. However the most captivating (yet stereotypical perhaps) aspect of Nausicaa is her sympathy to all living things and her uncanny intuition about the things around her. Her abilities are the only drawback to this film because such characters can be found in most anime involving a heroine, whereas the storyline makes it a most unique experience.I was somewhat dissappointed with the ending. I won't give it away but the character of the Princess was just made to conform to the "standards of a heroine". Animation was acceptable but not superb although the designs of some landscapes and characters were spectacular. Overall an 8.


                
This movie has been around for like 20 years and I just saw it for the first time ever a few weeks ago. I knew I was expecting a great movie cause it's made by none other than THE Hayao Miyazaki.I was blown away when I watched it, the entire movie was excellent. The characters, animation, and story are all great. Plus the voice acting for the English Debut is great. Alison Lohman is a good choice as Nausicaa. Patrick Stewart was suitable for his role as Yuppa. Uma Thurman(not a fan of her) but she was great as Kushana. Chris Sarandon as Kurotawa a perfect choice. Mark Hamill even got to do a role in the movie, not a big part as the Pejite Mayor, but still a good part.Some of the music is a bit 80s like, but this was the first movie Joe Hisashi teamed up with Miyazaki. His composing was still great back then and still great for Miyazkai's recent films.If you like Princess Mononoke, you might see about checking this one out. Has the same type of plot which contains Human Vs. Nature related story. Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind is now one of my personal favorites next to Spirited Away, Castle in the Sky, Porco Rosso, and Totoro.I give it an 8/10. Once you see it you'll know why it's such a great movie. If you want to see more of the series I suggest buying the manga it's based off of. They're made and drawn by Miyazaki himself so keep an eye out for them.


                
It is a film that I recommend to everyone really beautiful fantastic designs and also the very pretty plot even if it is a classic of the Ghibli studio. I have to say that the landscapes and the characters I liked a lot as always is made me excited. the only thing is that I would have made the protagonist die. in my opinion his sacrifice would have been much more significant.
Worth to see. one of the best for watching and thinking.


                
Hayao Miyazaki's second anime feature film, NAUSICAÄ OF THE VALLEY OF THE WIND is an adventurous post-apocalyptic fable that presciently and astutely imparts us what will become humanity's ruination, humans. While Miyazaki's fatalistic outlook runs deeply in his works, he knows how to tell an intriguing story by putting a doughty protagonist in the cynosure, typically, a young girl ne plus ultra, possesses all the merits of human nature, against the worst-case scenario, in this case, the residual mankind is facing the aggression from giant mutant insects (called "ohm", resembling a trilobite decked with numberless eyes) peopling a sprawling toxic jungle as the aftermath of the Seven Days of Fire, a war has obliterated most of human civilization. Nausicaä, the princess of Valley of the Wind, an untainted Shangri-La covered by verdure and powered by pneumatic energy, becomes the linchpin to thwart this seemingly inexorable annihilation, even if this means she must sacrifice herself.But what becomes involute is Miyazaki's off-beat sensibility to seek transcendent beauty beneath (in its very literal sense) the overwhelming darkness and venom, perchance those ohms are not aggressors but protectors of the planet earth, the purifiers to detoxify it from human's undue contamination, this revelation strikes like a gut-punch to our anthropocentric conformity, and instantly gives this anime a rightly cynical yet self-examining heart that seminally elevates it to the stratosphere of this unique art form, apart from the artifact's sweepingly fluid craftsmanship of redoubling narrative integration and bizarrely awe-inspiring cel animation imagery, to say nothing of Miyazaki's vibrant palette that often exceedingly appeals to kids and adults like. As enterprising and edifying as any masterpieces hammered out under the brand of Studio Ghibli (in truth, the studio was founded in 1985, after the film's success), NAUSICAÄ OF THE VALLEY OF THE WIND might lose a modicum of plaudits for its rapid-fire agenda-divulging, viz., the motives behind Tolmekia and Pejite peoples are somewhat discombobulating for subtitle-reading first-timer, also the prophecy-fulfilling finale might crop up a tad slapdash and sappy if one is familiar with Miyazaki's other works. At any rate, quibbles do not obscure all the virtues of Miyazaki's thought-provoking masterwork, garlanded with Joe Hisaishi's synth-generated bravura and a humble reverence to the animistic existence, NAUSICAÄ OF THE VALLEY OF THE WIND is a timeless classic, indeed, not for anime aficionados alone.


                
7.5/10 
One of those story adaptations that does itself justice. Almost every character here has a beard except for the main character that easily stands out not just through her looks but also with her keen observations of the wild life that's supposed to be detrimental to humans, her kind temperament and selfless courage. Right? Well, although kinda cliche... it works quite well here. Her understanding and compassion for those giant worm-bug creatures is touching, when most people would flee in fear and disgust just seeing one. It was a very good fantasy with a redeeming ending, worth of an 8 if not for it's under par graphics, but as it is an original anime movie, old and sweet like the wine, it can be forgiven.


                
Seriously, though: how did Miyazaki do it? So much originality. So much humor. So much commentary. So much action. This movie was made in 1984! While it was not my favorite Ghibli flick, it was fantastic nonetheless. Other than some awkward inner monologues at the outset, this was a post-nuclear wasteland film that really worked at both a character and symbolic level.


                
Shocks the hell out of me, but this is a negative review of a Miyazaki film. I loved it once when, not too long after its release date, it played a single day at Berkeley's UC Theater. It may have been only the second subtitled anime I'd seen, after "Hi no tori 2772."Last year I read Miyazaki's 1,050 manga of Nausicaä. The manga drew tears that rewatching on DVD simply did not. Watch the film, by all means, but watch it after, not before, you've read every page. The manga, much more so than the film, carries the roots of "Mononoke" if those are what you're looking for. Find links there also, mainly in Volume 4 (or 6 and 7 of the Japanese), that don't make it into the film, to the woman/god flux of 'Serial Experiments: Lain' and 'Evangelion.'That said, the film is full of visual wonder, an extraordinary and necessary primer for everything Miyazaki would do thereafter. Reading those 1,050 pages won't absolve you from seeing it. Just, read first. Then see.


                
In a thousand years in the future, the world is struggling against giant insects and a poisonous encroaching jungle. Nausicaä is a young princess of the people of the Valley of the Wind. It's a small kingdom ruled by King Jil. They are constantly defending the Valley from the gigantic Ohm insects and poisonous plant spores. Then they are attacked by the Tolmekians led by Princess Kushana. The Tolmekians are trying to reassemble an ancient Giant Warrior to burn all the jungle. When Nausicaä escapes, she discovers that the jungle may not be the source of the poison.It's a wonderfully imaginative movie. It's an early full length movie directorial effort from brilliant Japanese animation master Hayao Miyazaki. The only thing is that it takes place in a world that is all too real. I wish that it is much more other worldly. Maybe if it takes place in an alien world. There is a small nagging realism question when it's trying to explain nature and the poison. However I'm willing to sidestep all of it and just feel the central message rather than trying to think too much about it.


                
This movies is a masterpiece.This movies is hayao miyazaki's lowest rated movie on rotten tomatoes but it should be his second best.First best is spirited away. This is a movie for all ages anybody can watch it and be stunned by everything in the movie.the animation,the people, even the dialog So check this movie out it is awesome for kids adults even babies.This is hayao's first film i think and also watch the real version not warriors of the wind the Japanese one with subtitles .Also the end of this movie is awesome it is cool but i am not spoiling anything because you need to watch this movie.Next review is day the earth stood still.


                
Miyazaki's early film captures the wondrousness and magical elements that have perfused each of his latest masterpieces under Studio Ghibli. Once again, the familiar elements include child-hero protagonists, struggling against a plundering king or queen, and heavily laden with environmental morals.This film follows young Nausicaä, Princess of the Valley of the Winds, struggling to save her country from invading Ohms out to wreak revenge on humankind after hundreds of years of human's plundering the earth's resources have left it a desert. She acts as the guardian and saviour to a variety of curious and exquisite insects with the desire to keep their natural paradises intact.Having been a huge fan of Japanese animation when I was young, I have had a falling out with this style since being involved in live-action film. I had not seen an animated feature in this style for quite a while on seeing Nausicaä, and at first, one can be surprised at the sparseness of animation and lack of over-textured and moving environs. But once the story grasps your senses, you wake up to a wondrous and enchanting world, and you notice many of the subtleties that define the famous Studio Ghibli. The simplicity of the animation only enforces and characters and places their concerns in the centre frame. The action sequences are thrill ride every time, and a sight to behold. The fluidity and detail in these scenes is striking and so energising; and considering the movement is all hand-drawn, it truly is a marvel to wonder at. As in most Miyazaki films, the action is always a highlight and so fun to watch. The real skill is in the storytelling and Miyazaki pulls you into this world so charismatically and vividly. Soon you forget about the details attach yourself to the world <U+0096> I was wondering why we can't have more simple, pure storytelling like this today?The film is quite strong in Japanese idiosyncrasies including the lifestyle, person-isms, speech, and most strongly, the humour. While I found it quite comical and amusing at times, some of the audience (many Aussies) found it quite disconcerting and even distracting, to the point I heard some doze off. This is unfortunate because if one sees the film with a very open mind you can find yourself being absorbed into all the charm of this dreamlike world. I was completely whisked away and really warmed to these distinctive characters.Nausicaä's battle for the environment on behalf of these intriguing creatures draws lucid parallels to the ecological demands we face in our world today. Especially with the recent interest in our natural world, Nausicaa highlights many concerns in her struggle that make us realise that sometimes we too caught up with economic development and world conflict to realise our most precious resources are in grave danger.Even with this early effort, Miyazaki's film is never primitive and only too relevant to out to the world situation today. He always tells a story so lovably and charming, and in what is primarily a Japanese animation breaks all the language and cultural barriers. It is only too easy to relate to his characters' potent themes of war, childhood intuition, and environment hazards. With Nausicaä, and the Ghibli legacy, Miyazaki proves himself as one of the greatest storytellers of our time.


                
I came to recognize Miyazaki when I saw his two famous animes "Spirited Away" and "Princess Mononoke" on top 250 list.Like it or not there are still many people who don't take the animation genre seriously into account.But we should always bear in mind that anime is not exactly an animation.Its distinctive character and background aesthetics visually set the genre apart from the animation. You probably notice most animes look like hand-drawn cartoons while the animation is openly computer assisted.Not just that you can watch an animation with your kids or little siblings but you may not just expect a kid to like an anime.They are really sophisticated,profound and philosophical. As people start to recognize Miyazaki from his well-known works they can't help wanting to see more animes by him and this leads us to see his earlier great works which are relatively less known than his recent great work of arts. Pretty similar to Mononoke-hime there is an open "environment" theme in Nausicaa.The story takes place 1000 years after the seven days of fire,a catastrophe which destroyed the world's ecosystem.Although humans survived the disaster which they probably caused the land surface of the Earth has become heavily polluted and the people started live in clusters away from each other.Most of the world is covered by dangerous forests which house poisonous insects including the giant "OHMU"s.The sympathetic heroine of the story Nausicaa is noted for her empathy towards animals, humans, and other beings even to those giant insects in the dangerous poisonous forests.When the surviving humanity is still in throes of some interests this girl-the princess of the Valley of the Wind finds out that the forest is actually reviving its pure ecology and the insects are actually there to protect the forest.While the people are still hanging on to personal conflicts(like using God warriors against each other)this girl's duty would not be easy. This great anime was released in 1984 long before Miyazaki's recent classics.It's nearly as good as them.Don't miss this anime feast.


                
I am a big fan of Miyazaki ever since i saw Princess Mononoke when i was twelve. Over the recent months i've been trying to watch up all of his movies and Naussica was one of the few that i knew nothing about. The thing that amazed me the most (besides the story, which was great) is how amazing the cast was. The English cast is not listed here but includes names like Uma Thurman, and Patrick Stewart, and Shia LaBeouf. Its great to watch a dub with outstanding actors voicing it, and Miyazaki's movies just seem to attract those sort of actors. I am a sucker for girl power stories. This one is a perfect example. The Princess is an amazing character that i think gets overlooked when compared to his newer movies, but as far as i'm concerned she's right up there with Chihiro from Spirted Away and Sophie from Howl's Moving Castle (two other masterpieces from director Miyazaki, watch them!!). I also like the message it sends, it makes for a good life lesson for all those little kids out there!


                
The version of the movie I have seen is the DVD release. I watched the dub version. The voice acting on the dub is very good. Uma Therman & Patrick Stewart are in it, so you know it will be good. Included on a second disc are little featurettes. A cute one was where they showed the actors in the studio, wearing their shorts & hanging out, discussing the challenges of inflection in a translated script. Uma Therman was laughing about how she learned Japanese for Kill Bill, but still had trouble with the emphasis, since often it is reversed. The movie itself was remastered. The style is very 80s. It is sort of dated in a retro way. The creatures & settings are very well drawn and highly detailed. The thing I really like about the movie was the fact that it was not just about a young girl struggling to keep her village safe, but also about the footprint humans are leaving on the planet. Miazaki has a way of sneaking a moral into a story so subtly that you hardly notice. In this case, he really shined.


                
Great movie.  I always enjoy Miyazaki's environmentalist ideals. I just have one tiny little problem with the movie.  If she's such a badass princess (scientist, warrior, pilot, etc.) why on earth can she not remember to put on underwear?? I didn't particularly enjoy all the crotch shots of a young girl.This perverse sexualization of young girls is why I'm not as huge a fan of anime as I would like to be!  I'm so tired of random T&A in anime just because it's drawn by (and mainly for) sexually frustrated heterosexual men.


                
"Nausicaä of the Valley" of the Wind is a movie that just seems to get everything right: how to take its audience to a fully-realized fantasy world (steampunk-tinged yet bursting with opulent color); how to tell a story with an emphatic but not smothering environmental message; and anchor it with a strong female character. I was just as enthralled with the animation as I was with the music.There's an amazingly empathic heart beating inside Nausicaä and it feels like a deeply personal effort. Studio Ghibli's reputation for quality and imagination is firmly established, and this is no disappointment in that respect.Absolutely worth seeing.8/10


                
(English dubbed version, DVD) What I liked:By watching this movie in 2013, you might think the animation is not top-notch. However you have to put things in context, I believe that for 1984 it was pretty innovative and detailed (such as details on the insects, or on the Valley of the Wind).The plot, is quite entertaining, a post-apocalyptic Earth, were humans survival does not depend on them, it actually depends on the nature (wind) they have poisoned. The environmentalist theme might seem a bit heavy handed for some people, but I think is developed nicely, basically stating that we need to find an equilibrium (I liked better though, the environmentalist theme in Mononoke).Nausicaa's character development and skills. The glider idea was really cool. Wondered why nobody else used them!I didn't like the part of the score that soundedd a bit 80s, I felt like I was playing "Top Gear" and distracted me from the movie. However the instrumental part of the score, composed by Hisaishi was spectacular!They do not explain properly the origin of giant warriors, and the legend, which is fulfilled at the end. Score (8)


                
Nausicaa is an amazing film, I have to admit I had my expectations on it, as I usually do with this director. The movie is about a princess that has to save the dying planet she lives in, and all the creatures in it, from her people, who are trying to destroy them. The animation is amazing and the plot too, apart from the fact that it can be perfectly adjusted to the world we live in today. It is an amazing movie to watch , and it really moved me as well, it can really make you aware of how fragile our own world is.Nausicaa is very similar to Princess Mononoke, as it has the same type of environmental message in it. If you love Miyazaki's films, it's definitely a must watch.


                
Who says animation cant be serious? One of the older entries, Nausicaa develops a wonderful insect and human world in a mix of medieval and early industrial societies along with the strange and wonderful jungles and creatures that inhabit it. Yes, don't let the fact that it was originally made in '84 deter you, this is a fantastic story of wonder and splendor. Especially interesting were the observations and descriptions of the jungle and how the pollution has perverted the plants and yet still manages to cleanse. Indeed, I found all the jungle particularly captivating and vibrant. Characters were fine if not standard. Some of the overlapping themes for subsequent movies was laid down here particularly cautions of pollution and war. Flying scenes were also spectacular, and who can forget the Ohmu - sort of the fantastic representation for nature. Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind deserves it's place amongst all other Miyazaki films as a superior fable. I've always liked Tottoro best , but this one strikes a bit more serious note and is well worth seeing - recommended.
"Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind" (Kaze no tani no Naushika, 1984) is often credited as Studio Ghibli's first major film, though technically Ghibli didn't exist at the time film was made, but was founded with the money the film made. However, since the people behind "Nausicaä" became the leading forces of Ghibli (Hayao Miyazaki, Isao Takahata and Toshio Suzuki plus the films music is composed by Joe Hisaishi) it is often marked as Ghibli's first film.The story is set thousand years into the future, where majority of the world has been destroyed in wars and the planet is covered by constantly spreading jungle, that is poisonous to humans but not to gigantic insects living in them. The jungle and insects may seem like the primary concern for the last living human cities, but truthfully the danger is brought by humans themselves, who still haven't learn from past mistakes. A small Valley of the Wind is caught between a war of two bigger nations that are set to destroy the jungle and insects. The Princess of the Valley, Nausicaä, however knows that destroying the jungle would only bring more suffering and determines to stop the war before it is too late.After 24 years of its release, Hayao Miyazaki's second film (first is "Lupin III: Castle of Cagliostro" from 1979) has survived to this day remarkably well. The traditional animation is far more pleasant to eyes than the nowadays computer-animated-CGI-3D-whatever films that Disney and Pixar give us. "Nausicaä" combines all the great elements Miyazaki would use in his later film: interesting characters, multi-layered plot, Joe Hisaishi's beautiful music and of course the great animation. One of the important animators in the film was Hideaki Anno, who later directed anime series "Nadia: the Secret of Blue Water" and "Neon Genesis Evangelion". The plot of the film deals with wars, protecting the nature and flying, all things that usually repeat themselves in Miyazaki's works.In voice acting department, Sumi Shimamoto (who had voiced Lady Clarisse in Miyazaki's "Castle of Cagliostro") could not be more perfect to voice Nausicaä. Her voice truly becomes part of the animated character we see, and Alison Lohman really doesn't stand a chance against her in English dup. Neither can Uma Thurman beat the original Yoshiko Sakakibara (who usually voices tough women like Shinobu Nagumo in "Patlabor" and Integra Hellsing in "Hellsing") in the role of Kushana, who commands one of the nations in the film. Patrick Stewart on the other hand does come close to the level of original Goro Naya in the role of Yupa. Still I'd recommend the original Japanese audio more.All in all, "Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind" is a film that will keep both adults and children interested and is definitely worth of watching. The film may be just a little bit longer than it should, but with a great story, music and animation it doesn't bother so much. Disney and Pixar should remind themselves that this is how great animation is made.


                
This movie at first I thought to be really stupid and mono. Since it's very old, and i'm not really into old anime. But my friend strapped me unto to a chair ( a joke ) and made me watch it, and sure enough, I was hooked and Loved it and wanted to watch it more and more.Unlike the other movies, by them, this one was by far the best of all. way better than Spirited Away, which was completely stupid and random, BEYOND random.My favorite part in the movie was when all the bugs at the ending come and kill everything, DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM!!! Ummm sorry about that people, I get a little carried away with these tings.....


                
An early Miyazaki film, this is actually one rather different to most of his later works, which tend to feature simple characters and rather simplistic story lines. However the simplicity is part of the charm of his later works, though that is not to say that complexity is bad per se. In this case, it could however be. I cannot speak for the Japanese version, but the English dub of the film makes it seem verbose in nature with an overly complicated plot. Some of the dialogue is just terrible, especially the narration by the protagonist that simply feels unnatural. Then again, this may only be in the Disney version. The animation is great, and the memory sequences are particularly well done. There is a distinct atmosphere of the post-apocalyptic, and this causes it to be intriguing. The editing is however awkward at times, the violence is somewhat overplayed, and the main characters are not built up as well as in some of Miyazaki's future films. This is a certainly a film worth giving a go, with some wonderful music as usual and a few fascinating ideas. It is not the best place to start with films by its director though. For that, I would recommend 'Laputa' or 'Spirited Away'.


                
This is an excellent piece of Japanese animation, and we own several other movies of the same genre. However, the battle scenes were a bit graphic for our 8-year old daughter. She enjoyed the first half, where she's learning about the warrior princess who will defend her valley no matter what. The last third of the movie contains the violence. Maybe I'm just protective but I think there is enough violence in most teen and adult movies, and I would rather not expose my child to it while she's young. In the last part of this film, the princess is attacked and shot with a machine gun. She is bleeding from wounds in her shoulder and foot and moaning in pain on the ground. Shortly after this, she is accidentally pushed into an acid lake, where she screams in agony as her foot is burned by chemicals. I thought that entire scene was well done, realistic, and graphic, but it is NOT for the eyes of a young child.


                
