Like MIDNIGHT EXPRESS , IN THE NAME OF THE FATHER is a an extremely well made film , but like MIDNIGHT EXPRESS much of it is total invention . Reviewers on this page have already pointed out the numerous errors such as Guiseppe and Gerry Conlon never being imprisoned in the same jail or the " Guilford four " and " Mcguire seven " trials taking place in completely seperate court cases but no one seems to have pointed out the erroneous backgrounds this film paints of Gerry Conlon and Paul Hill. In their book THE PROVISIONAL IRA authors Patrick Bishop and Eamon Mallie state the facts quite clearly that Paul Hill was a member of the Belfast brigade of the provisonal IRA ( And Hill later did confess to being a member ) while Conlon had been a member of Na Fianna Eireann which is the youth section of the provisionals though Conlon was quickly kicked out ( Literally ) due to his heavy drinking and drug taking . They didn`t meet on the ferry as shown in the film but Conlon bumped into Hill in Southampton where Hill was staying . What was Hill doing in Southampton ? He was on the run from the IRA who wanted to question him about guns going missing and about the possibility of Hill being an informer , something that is always punishable in IRA ranks with death and prior torture . When Conlon returned to Belfast in December 1974 he did drunkenly mention to IRA acquaintances in pubs that he`d met Hill in England and in order to punish Hill for his suspected crimes against the organisation and to take the heat off their own cells active in Britain at the time it was the IRA themselves who deliberately leaked the false information to the intelligence services about Conlon and Hill being involved in the Guilford bombings , not as the film shows a jealous boyfriend . Hill was also later found guilty of the murder of a former soldier though is never shown in the film and it`s this playing hard and loose with the facts that almost threatens to destroy the film . It could have been worse though , there might have been the suggestion that the bombing could have been a mass suicide Well that`s the bad points out of the way . What`s IN THE NAME OF THE FATHER`s good points ? Well Jim Sheridan directs with a real kinetic force especially the early scene where Conlon is pursued by the Brits against a voodoo chile soundscape . Sheridan also gets the very best out of his cast . Emma Thompson is good as the crusading lawyer , Pete Postlethwaite is very good as Guiseppe Conlon , but the outstanding performance is by Daniel Day Lewis as Gerry Conlon . Has anyone noticed the bitter Irony of a film about injustice features one of the greatest injustices commited by the Oscar board voters where they gave that year`s best actor Oscar to a very average performance by Tom Hanks ? No wonder more and more people view the Oscars as a popularity contest . And despite my above criticisms about the facts - or lack of them - IN THE NAME OF THE FATHER can in no way be described as a pro IRA film in the way that THE DEVIL`S OWN  or SOME MOTHER`S SON are


                
Although considerable liberties have been taken with historical facts, this film is based upon true events. In 1974 an IRA bomb in a pub in Guildford, England, killed several people. Four young Irish people ("the Guildford Four") were convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment. Several others ("the Maguire Seven") were convicted of assisting them and sentenced to lengthy prison terms. All were innocent of this crime, and were later exonerated and released from prison when fresh evidence was discovered, particularly evidence that their confessions had been obtained under duress.Although all the main characters are Catholics, some devout, some only nominally so, the title does not have any real religious significance. Rather, it alludes to the film's central relationship, that between Gerry Conlon, one of the "Four" and his father Giuseppe, one of the "Seven". The two are very different. Gerry is a wild and rebellious young man, unemployed, a petty criminal and a drug-user. He wears his hair long, something fashionable in the early seventies but often regarded by the older generation as the sign of a hooligan. Giuseppe, by contrast, is a conservative figure; deeply religious, hard-working, law-abiding and honest.A key moment comes when Gerry recalls a football match in which he played as a boy. His team won, but instead of congratulating him on his victory, Giuseppe reproached his son for a foul committed during the match. This encapsulates the difference in their characters. For Gerry, winning and success are all that matters. Because he has achieved little success, he has no faith in himself and has always drifted through life. For Giuseppe, adherence to moral values is more important than achieving outward success, and it is these values which enable him to retain his self-respect. Because of these differences in character and outlook, the two men's relationship is a difficult one. Beneath their differences, however, they also have a deep love for one another; Gerry is persuaded to confess to the bombing, after the police have failed to obtain a confession through bullying and violence, by the threat that his father will be killed if he does not. Later, Gerry's love for his father is strengthened by the realisation that although the older man is physically frail, his religious faith and self-belief enable him to cope with the injustice of his plight.Daniel Day-Lewis has been much praised for his performance as Gerry, and he was certainly good, if at times too showy. For me, however, the real star was Pete Postlethwaite as the long-suffering but dignified Giuseppe. The strongest scenes were those between Gerry and Giuseppe; the weakest were those when Gerry, in prison, befriends Joe McAndrew, an IRA man who claims actually to have planted the Guildford bomb. McAndrew is an invented character, and psychologically this did not seem likely; Gerry was, after all, as much a victim of the bomb as those killed and injured by it. Had there been no bomb, there could have been no conviction, wrongful or otherwise, for planting it. Moreover, by associating himself with the IRA's cause, even temporarily, Gerry, although legally innocent, makes himself seem morally guilty.There were other things that did not ring true. I was unsure why Giuseppe's lawyer thought that Inspector Dixon, the policeman who originally investigated the crime, would be responsible for deciding whether her ailing client should receive compassionate parole, or why so much attention was paid to Gerry's alibi that he was in London on the night of the bombing. As the bomb would have had a delayed-action timer, he could easily have returned before it exploded; the "Horse and Groom" pub (I used to live in Guildford) is only a short walk from the station, about half an hour by train from London. (The brutal and corrupt Dixon is another invented character; the name may refer ironically to the popular British TV show, "Dixon of Dock Green", which featured an honest and decent "bobby" named Dixon).It surprises me that some have criticised the film as being "pro-IRA". If one were setting out to make a pro-IRA propaganda film, one would not make it about the Guildford bombing, an event in which the IRA cold-bloodedly murdered several innocent civilians without warning. Nor does the film ignore the IRA's violence towards the Irish Catholic community it supposedly represents. At the time of the Guildford bombing, Gerry is living in London, having been forced to flee Northern Ireland by IRA threats; like most terrorist organisations it has a sternly moralistic attitude to all crimes other than those committed by its own members and punishes with mediaeval severity those who, like Gerry, are guilty of petty larcenies. The fact that the "Four" and the "Seven" were undoubtedly treated unjustly by the British authorities does not retrospectively justify the IRA's crimes of which they were wrongly accused.The film does not attempt to be a comprehensive statement about the Northern Ireland situation- the Unionist community, for example, is not even mentioned. Indeed, given the complexities of that situation, and the even greater complexities of Irish history from which it springs, it would not be possible to make such a statement in a film. Nevertheless, "In the Name of the Father" is a very good film, both as a study of father-son relationships and as a warning of the possibilities for injustice inherent in any criminal justice system. 7/10 A goof. In the early scenes, set in 1974, Gerry, while driving along London's Lower Thames Street passes a set of orange and white barriers designed to stop vehicles from entering "The City" (London's central financial district). These barriers did not exist in 1974; they were erected following a later IRA bombing campaign
In The Name Of The Father is a good movie. Not great, but good. After all, it has a lot going for it: great acting (particularly from its headlining stars: Day-Lewis, Postlethwaite and Thompson), solid and assured direction as well as, obviously, a thought-provoking story about four individuals who were wrongly imprisoned for over 15 years for a crime they did not commit (as well as seven others sent to prison on separate charges). But belying these good aspects, is an over-simplified, poorly-paced and sometimes confusing version of the truth. The story that's being told of the 'Guildford Four' can be perplexing at times, largely because of the pacing and editing of the film. Characters are introduced in some scenes which leave you going "Who? What? When? Where? Why? How?", before it clicks much later on in the film who they are and what those scenes were about - and not in a good way. I'm sure a second or third viewing may clear up some of those aspects for me, but it usually doesn't speak well of a film if you're going back to watch it just you can understand what happened fully - rather than re-watching it to try and catch details you missed and/or analyse the film more closely.In addition, despite the lengthy run-time, the story is dreadfully slow and out of balance at times. For example, Thompson barely seems to appear in the film, and seeing more of what she did to try and get the Guildford Four out of prison would have been compelling. The out-of-kilter pacing also led to some strange moments i.e. we're told about Guiseppe, Gerry's father, leading a campaign to try and get them free; the result of which we only see in the last 15-20 minutes of the film. Much like Thompson's rare appearances, it would have been nice to see more of this, rather than merely being told it, and how it came about rather than seemingly going from 0 to 100 in the blink of an eye.In short, the over two hour run-time should have been cut down and streamlined, and could have almost definitely benefited from adjusting the story beats significantly. There are other issues with the editing such as (at least) two noticeably dubbed over lines, and (on a lesser note) unimpressive and boring opening and closing credits (not really that much of a negative, but I thought I'd point it out regardless). Because of these aforementioned issues, I can't give this film an overwhelmingly positive score despite its merits. I therefore sentence 'In The Name Of The Father' to a 7/10, with a possible re-review in the future to consider any other possibilities that may have been missed.Court is adjourned.


                
In The Name Of The FatherIt's strength is of course a great cast especially Daniel Day Lewis who puts his heart into it and it was worth it since the movie offers some chilling moment and definitely has a gripping plot but it falls into bits and pieces once in a while.


                
Based on the true story of Gerry Conlon who in 1974 was falsely accused of blowing up an IRA bomb in an English pub, being tortured and coerced into signing a confession of a crime he did not commit, resulting in his imprisonment along with his father. Some of his friends and family members were also falsely accused of criminal association and bomb making.After 15 years he was able to prove his innocence with the help of an untiring lawyer, proving also that the law (which is not the same as justice) can be corrupted by greed, indifference and prejudice.All the performances in this film are of great level, the soundtrack makes it even more emotional and it is a film that I recommend seeing even if just once, only to have a better understanding of the historical and social context - within the same topic, see also Bloody Sunday (2002).
I found In the name of the Father very moving and it made you wonder about how many miscarriages of justice there were in the war on the IRA. I remember mentioning how much I liked this movie to an Irish guy and he really had harsh words to say about ITNOTF. I don't know if the Irish guy was Irish Republic Irish or Northern Ireland Irish. But on first glance I wonder how to tell them apart? Also how do you tell apart the Protestants and Catholics? The New York Times reviewer of the theater performance "Quietly", which deals with the troubles, wondered "how did the enemies tell one another apart?"Good question indeed, and I guess they were able to unite and form a unity/coalition government in Northern Ireland after all. Maybe the troubles are less troublesome, so that's a good outcome after watching ITNOTF.Corin Redgrave was impressive in the role of UK police officer Robert Dixon, who I believe is a composite of police officers. Robert really was politically incorrect when it came to his service to the public.
The story gets nicely and quickly direct. It greatly covers many subjects beside the focus on the wrongful imprisonment. There are also the father- son relationship, small instances of youth mischief, the overall Troubles in Belfast and the pressure that makes the four confessed what they didn't do. The visuals are also great thing to see. The early Belfast depiction is something very attention grabbing. I watched '71 some time ago and now know where does the movie get their inspiration to depict the Belfast chaos. The acting overall is also a great job. Daniel Day-Lewis did great in portraying the character's personality and the changes happened through the fifteen years. Emma Thomson did well enough through her relatively short screen time. Pete Postlethwaite also did very well in balancing Daniel Day-Lewis' performance.


                
Don't get me wrong, I really liked this movie. But it's a good movie, not a great one. And I don't even think it has intentions of being it, but rather making a statement on the Northern Ireland conflict, about the UK, and about democratic legal system's as a whole. And above all, it wants to make Gerry Conlon's story reach a wider audience. I seriously cannot believe what happened to him, it's completely outrageous and it really makes you think about the whole idea of Justice, judges, juries, laws, police and so on. Besides the story, which is good (and even better when you keep in the back of your mind that it really happened), the best of this movie is Daniel Day-Lewis' acting. He is probably the best living actor, I'd dare to say. Since it's the earliest movie I've seen of him, I seriously thought that he's actually Irish and that only later he learned to do other accents. Man, he really sounds Irish!


                
When you are faced with enough material to make a mini-series and try to put it in a 2-hour film you have to make choices.Neither the British nor the IRA are depicted with any depth, the target is to establish both Gerry as a bit of a goofy, likable character and his father, an intelligent but downtrodden figure. Rock, humor and great lines complete the package.The better part of this movie depicts the relationship between Gerry and Guiseppe Conlon and true to life, never receives closing. Sheridan seems to realize this and gives the relationship time to grow naturally without forcing anything. A few lapses into sentimentality could be avoided but are successfully countered with humor.Since 1994 when I first saw the movie, the world, including Ireland has moved on. Some points this movie makes stand, others do not. In any case, I loved seeing it again.


                
This film brought much passion and anger in me the first time I saw it. Gerry Conlon is arrested, tried and convicted of an IRA bombing in 1974. By all means, he was and is not perfect. He has robbed a prostitute, he was not always respectful of his family. That does not make him or his friends IRA bombers.He spends 15 years in prison, as does some of his friends. His father, Guisseppie dies while in prison. He had been ill prior to all of the 1974 occurrences. When Gerry is finally freed, he is older, different, more grown up. How could you not expect a major change, given all he experienced? The soundtrack is very good, especially to someone who grew up with Irish freedom music. My father taught how bad policies were and I took a class to learn more about it. He always had a name for the English government aka "the bloody Brits". He always had respect for the people, not blaming them for a bad government.
This film just really goes to show what kind of horrible acts of cruelty and inhumanity can happen even in so-called 'civilized' societies. A perfect example of injustice. But still the film did not intrigue me quite as much as other 'innocent-people' films I've seen. My personal favorite is Murder in The First. Go see that one if you liked in the name of the father.7 out of 10


                
From Oscar nominated director Jim Sheridan (My Left Foot), I only discovered while watching what the theme was, but the leading star was the hook for me. Based on the true story, from the autobiographical book by the leading character called "Proved Innocent", Gerry Conlon (Oscar, BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Daniel Day-Lewis) is a small time crook living in Belfast, Ireland. After a IRA bombing of a pub killing several people in London, where Gerry is, he and four of his friends, and three other men, all named the "Maguire Seven" are made to look like, by the bullying police, to have carried out and confess to the crime. Gerry, his father Giuseppe (Oscar nominated Pete Postlethwaite), known IRA member Joe McAndrew (Don Baker) and the other four are falsely imprisoned for a sentence of fifteen years. Knowing their innocence, they are not all keen on prison life, so they start appealing for a case to prove themselves, with the help of compassionate British attorney Gareth Peirce (Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Emma Thompson). Trying to help Gerry, who has recently lost his father in the prison cells, Gareth has to get through to the leader of the investigation, Robert Dixon (Corin Redgrave), in order to get a case going. It is when covered up evidence appears that Gareth truly knows she has a chance to win the case and clear Gerry, his late father, and the others' names, and she does. Also starring Sliding Doors' John Lynch as Paul Hill, Mark Sheppard as Paddy Armstrong, Beatie Edney as Carole Richardson, Marie Jones as Sarah Conlon, Britta Smith as Annie Maguire, Father Ted's Gerald McSorley as Detective Pavis, Saffron Burrows as Girl in Commune, Johnny English director Peter Howitt as Remand Prison Officer and The Full Monty's Tom Wilkinson as Appeal Prosecutor. I'm afraid to say, that in certain moments, I agree with the critics that Thompson is miscast for her role, she may have some okay moments worthy of an Oscar nomination, but ultimately she just feels wrong. Anyway, Day-Lewis is a really good choice for the lead protagonist, Postlethwaite does very well as well, and I suppose it is a biographical drama that should be seen, at least once in my opinion. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Film Editing, Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium and Best Picture, and it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Adapted Screenplay, and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best Original Song for "(You Made Me The) Thief of Your Heart". Very good!
Director Jim Sheridan and actor Daniel Day-Lewis' follow-up to 'My Left Foot' entitled 'In the Name of the Father' may move a little slow but most of the time in succeeds in being both heart-wrenching and inspiring. It's a very political film based on the true story of an small-time Irish hoodlum Gerry Conlon (Day-Lewis), his hippie friends, his relatives and his father being falsely convicted of London/Ireland IRA bombings. The film follows Gerry in prison and his fight to get him and his family out. Daniel Day-Lewis gives an incredible performance, while Pete Postelwaithe who plays his father is amazing in every scene. Emma Thompson is good for her very limited screen time as Gerry's lawyer and you should look out for a bit part played by Oscar Nominee Tom Wilkinson (In the Bedroom) towards the end. 'In the Name of the Father' was nominated for seven Academy Awards including Best Picture, Best Director - Jim Sheridan, Best Actor in a Leading Role - Daniel Day-Lewis, Best Actor in a Supporting Role - Pete Postlewaithe, Best Actress in a Supporting Role - Emma Thompson and Best Adapted Screenplay. If you don't mind some of sagging parts of the film and want to shed a tear or two, be sure to add 'In the Name of the Father' to your 'to-rent' list. Grade: B
