The message of this film is that there is no symmetry to life. What goes around does not come around. The fall of the coin has no bearing on the way the cookie crumbles. There is no right or wrong to the fates of men. No justice. Opportunities seized may lead on to fortune, but they could just as well lead on to dusty death. Only children expect things to be fair. As things once were they need no longer be. Now that IMDb has decided to list reviews by date there is a slightly increased possibility that this effort will be read by someone. Performance reviews are absolutely not read by me for helpfulness, but for interest and entertainment.


                
If this doesn't end my year in the top two films of the year then we are in for one hell of an awesome year of movies.The new film from two of the best filmmakers working today No Country For Old Men shows the talents of the Coen Brothers on top form. After a couple of disappointments (Intolerable Cruelty had flashes of Coen genius but felt more of a Coen imitation than the real thing; Ladykillers had the odd funny moment but was the blandest film the brothers ever made, and there's just no excusing Marlon Wayans!) they knock this violent western drama out of the park.More in the vein of their superb early mostly-serious efforts Blood Simple and Miller's Crossing (my personal favourite of the Coen back catalogue) No Country For Old Men is a slow-moving, character-driven masterpiece about uncompromising and uncompromised characters. It is very violent and bloody and not always for the squeamish.Shot through with moments of humour these come, as in life, from real situations and observations so don't be fooled into thinking this will be the serious film with goofy-characters Coens of Fargo. No Country For Old Men is a tough, gritty story.The unrelenting pace may take its time but you are gripped every moment. This is a thriller that genuinely thrills.Javier Bardem gives the best performance of his career. And, yes, I have seen The Sea Inside and he in superb in that but here he is simply extraordinary. It is a portrayal of unrelenting evil, of true derangement, of a human being with no shreds of humanity that ranks at the very top of studied film psychopaths. And I say film not movie because this is not a clichéd character. This is not a character whose lunacy you enjoy over popcorn. This is one of the most frightening performances ever committed to celluloid. I felt truly nervous of what was going to happen every time he walked on screen.Josh Brolin essentially carries the bulk of the movie and he is excellent in a role that challenges him. I have never seen him perform to this level and if Bardem didn't steal the film you'd be talking about Brolin all the way home. As it is this gives him a showcase for his talents that should see him get a lot more attention.Tommy Lee Jones is used sparingly but to great effect. Sounding more like Michael Parks than ever before his scenes pepper the movie with a wearied view on a world he doesn't really like or understand to great effect.I did find Stephen Root a little distracting as i have never seen him in a serious role before and he just looks amusing but he is in very little.Roger Deakins' cinematography is breathtaking as usual and the Coens' script is superbly crafted. There are moments, almost asides from the main plot, that would be superfluous in most scripts and excised in most studio films but which work perfectly in the overall context of the movie as only the Coens can achieve. One scene featuring Bardem in a gas station is up there with the best scenes i have ever seen on film.I have not gone into the plot here because I saw this film having not read Cormac McCarthy novel and knowing little other than the basic log-line - a man out hunting comes upon a scene of dead bodies, guns, drugs and money on the Mexican border and comes to the attention of both those behind the scene and a local world-wearied sheriff - and i think that's the way to see this film.Go in knowing as little as you can but knowing at least this: this is a serious, violent, slow-paced character piece from the Coens. This is not a Fargo. If you are squeamish don't see it. If you have a short-attention span don't see it. If you only love the Coens for their fantastic comedies like O Brother and Big Lebowski and the comedy/thriller Fargo don't see it. But if you want to see an intelligent, superbly acted, powerful, beautiful cinematic treat that will remind you of the true power of cinema see it, see it, see it. It's a masterpiece. Bravo Ethan and Joel.
No Country for Old Men is as exceptional a mix of two creative talents- the Coen brothers, Joel and Ethan Coen, and author Cormac McCarthy (recent winner of the Pulitzer for The Road, his own masterpiece) as one could imagine, as they converge on a story that in lessor hands would be just a B movie. The story concerns an average Joe out hunting one day in Texas who comes across a bunch of dead bodies, heroin, and a satchel with 2 million in cash. He takes it, but without knowing that a true embodiment of a psychopath (Javier Bardem) is on his trail, and as he evades him it becomes more and more clear the fatalism that lies in store, as a weathered sheriff (Tommy Lee Jones) is also on the trail with perpetulally sad eyes looking on from his stolid demeanor. More than this, it's also about as good a morality play as one could ask for, because it plays and tools and makes very serious questions about what is moral, or what isn't, or what is so ambiguous that it's all up to the toss of a coin or a chance ride out of town. There are a few interpretations to Bardem's character Anton that could be taken, but one thing is certain- he's less a symbol than a real presence, a "ghost" as Jones's sheriff calls him that can come around at the drop of a pin, usually in the dark, and strike the utmost fear (or confusion if you're a clerk) in the hearts of men and women. You'll never look at a coin toss the same way again. Or an air-gun. Or fixing a bullet wound in a leg. Or a hunt at a motel. Or even the aftermath of a car crash.But at the same time it's the purest time of cinema, recalling Hitchcock and Leone and Welles's Touch of Evil and the best of noir and westerns. There are so many exceptional shots and lighting, so much depth to the perception of the characters through the mis-en-scene, so much tension, that through this it's all up to the actors to make or break the near-perfection that is the McCarthy source. Bardem embodies Anton like no other could- you can't look at his eyes, often steel-cold and horrifically professional (to what professional who can say), which occasional tear- and it's obviously worthy of an Oscar. And Josh Brolin and Tommy Lee Jones are also fantastic; we see Brolin often in the midst of an action scene, a moment of 'save-your-life' going on, and one can finally see an actor of his caliber completely breaking out in a role that doesn't require him to ever totally "emote". Jones, on the other hand, gives a compassionate turn in a film that's about the struggles of desperate men in a land without law and order. He's gone through so much that it comes out completely in his voice and eyes, sorrowful but holding back, and he reaches a level of connection with the character that makes the Fugitive look like simpleton TV. Kelly McDonald, who plays Lleland's wife, is also excellent when called upon, especially in a crucial scene later in the film.It's gut-wrenching, bleak, violent, super-tense (I clenched many a knuckle during some scenes), surprisingly funny in a darkly comic manner not seen by the Coens in many years, and artistically fashioned to a beat that is meditative (watch the opening moments with Jones's voice-over), simple, and doomed. It's beautiful and terribly tragic, for McCarthy fans it finally strikes at what is truest to his material- even if you haven't read the book itself the Road will give an indication of the mood and atmosphere at hand- and at the moment I can't think of any other film that would be the best pick of the year- maybe one of the best films I've ever seen.
I don't remember being so scared in a movie theater since "Don't Look Now" Here the Coen Brothers take everything a step further with exhilarating ease. The terror was genuine and not because we were rooting for Josh Brolin or anybody in particular. The terror was personal, Joel and Ethan Coen made that terror visceral and tangible. It has to do with our own nightmares. Josh Brolin was a perfect piece of casting because in a way he doesn't have many personal colors. He's one of the bunch, one of us and we could put ourselves in his shoes. That is the art of film narrative expressed in a way that we've never experienced before. I heard people old enough to have seen Hitchcock's "Psycho" in the theaters and what glued them to the screen was their own fear. Well, that's what I've experienced here. Javier Bardem is superb, considering that he's the reason for the fear. He carries a human/inhuman kind of strength and we know he'll get us, sooner or later and if we consider the ending of the film, he might still do. Worthy Oscar winners, all of it and all of them.


                
There's very little "good" in No Country for Old Men beyond the mesmerizing acting and viciously dark screenplay. Instead, the unholy trinity of temptation, cynicism and pure, dark, evil take center stage in this modern western directed by brothers Joel and Ethan Coen.Based on the 2003 novel by Cormac McCarthy, the movie unfolds in the dusty Texas borderlands as hunter Llewelyn Moss (Josh Brolin) stumbles upon the remnants of a desert drug deal gone bad, complete with a case containing two million dollars. Succumbing to temptation, Moss makes off with the money setting in motion a chain of events that leaves a trail of blood spattered carnage across the State as he is pursued by the ruthless, coin tossing hit man Anton Chigurh (Javier Bardem) among whose killing weapons of choice is a pneumatic air gun.Bearing little in common with pretty much any previous Coen film with the possible exception of Blood Simple, No Country for Old Men is a dark, bleak, ode to the baser elements of the human soul, and a spit in the eye to the noble ones as well.With a structural trademark hinging upon breaking the conventional norms of predictability, No Country is a movie that will unsettle you at successive turns - in the way deaths are dealt out; by its palpable tension that can almost be cut with a knife, and its periodic deviations from the narrative norm <U+0096> the latter likely the only Coen brothers "quirk" for which their movies are renown.Switching back and forth between the game of cat and mouse being played out by Moss and Chigurh and the investigation of unfolding events by cynical aging Texas Sheriff Ed Bell (Tommy Lee Jones), the Coens weave a web of dangled threads that one can't help but expect will be neatly tied together at story's end, only to tie them up in ways that buck the storytelling norm and manage to be both unsatisfying and true to their nature at the same time.Unforgettable among this tableau is Bardem's Chigurh. The Spanish actor who has also appeared in Love in the Time of Cholera and Goya's Ghosts evokes the most amazing presence of a ruthless killer with his own twisted adherence to a bizarre code of ethics that nothing short of witnessing his performance can do it justice.Sadly, however, justice is one of the few items in abundance in this movie. And yet, as unhappy as I am that the Coen's screenplay defiantly refuses to cater to the audience's inherent desire for satisfaction, I grudgingly have to admire them for opting for the unpredictable.Consider the movie akin to one big coin toss <U+0096> will it be heads or tales? Call it - you've been calling it your entire life.


                
"You don't have to do this," repeated words in this lingering film, which really does not feel like a typical Coen Brothers film to me. Fargo, had its quirky character and its grotesque moments, but this film is all about a subdued natured intermixed with quick action. For what I expected, I got some of it, but also a bit more of a subdued air and timing than I expected. It would do things in spurts, action at the beginning then a lull and more thunder. It worked great for keeping one on edge, which Brolin did, excellently in the lead role lying awake thinking too hard. Jones too was good in a strong supporting role as a close to retirement sheriff who is on the outside shaking his head at the carnage and mayhem unleashed by the simple finding and taking of a satchel full of money.The real gem and glue of the film though is Javier Bardem's menacing character who has his own brand of justice, which is extremely harsh and well insane. Even the one who claims to know him cannot even begin to stop or even slow him down. Bardem whom I have not had the pleasure of seeing in anything before is gold and like no other before looks to have the supporting actor award locked up in this performance. His presence is felt, even when he does not show up. That is something I have not seen in film well since probably The Third Man and Orson Welles' character Harry Lime.I cannot really describe the film that well so I will suffice to say that is best modern western tale I have seen since The Three Burials of Melquiades, which also happened to have Tommy Lee Jones and was directed by him to boot. Another thing I noted was the lack of strong score. The filmmakers just seemed to let the sounds of the creaking boots and the desert landscape speak for the film. It felt natural and a bit menacing.


                
If you like films that literally take your breath away, then this goes to the top of the list.As stated elsewhere, Javier Bardem is so spectacularly evil and menacing that, if I were Mrs Bardem, I'd be worried about him coming home at night. The man exuded controlled evil, and I found myself not breathing when he came onto screen, yet couldn't take my eyes from him - a truly mesmerising presence.Tommy Lee Jones turns in a belter of a performance, and mention should also be made of Kelly MacDonald who nails a faultless Texan accent alongside a multi-layered performance (despite the paucity of her screen time).Beautifully shot, as you would expect, and with some (welcome) moments of humour amongst the gore, this is a very very fine film. Miss it at your peril, because when those little golden men are being handed out next year in LA, I predict a lot of them will be going to this film. A belter.


                
If you're a Coen brothers fan, you're gonna be extremely delighted with NO COUNTRY FOR OLD MEN. This is Ethan and Joel at the pinnacle of their directing careers, something that should not be missed by anyone interested in film or entertainment. Forget FARGO. Push aside THE BIG LEBOWSKI. Move over O' BROTHER WHERE ART THOU. No Country is leaps and bounds beyond those. In fact, it reigns supreme as 2007's best film.I don't always agree with movie critics but this time they got it right. It is the first time that Associated Press reviewers David Germain and Christy Lemire have both selected the same film as their #1 pick. With more award nominations than you could shake a stick at (including four Golden Globes, three Screen Actors Guilds, probably a gaggle of Oscars and many, many, many others), No Country will undeniably have directors, actors and screenwriters jumping up on stage come awards ceremony time.Equal parts thriller, western, crime-drama, and action, No Country weaves a tapestry of excellence throughout its length.The first note of excellence must be directed at Spanish actor Javier Bardem. Probably not very well known to most American audiences, Javier has cemented himself as the leader in portraying a psychopathic killer and (dare I say it!) has surpassed that of Anthony Hopkins in his SILENCE OF THE LAMBS Hannibal Lecter role (something that I thought would never happen). Ruthless, unforgiving, sociopathic, and in desperate need of a new hair style, Anton Chigurh (Bardem) is flawless. Every time he showed up on-screen I felt a chill run through my bones ("Call it"). Absolutely perfect.The next note of excellence must go to Josh Brolin and Tommy Lee Jones. Llewelyn Moss (Brolin, PLANET TERROR) is the lucky/unlucky soft-spoken Texas cowpoke/hunter who stumbles across a veritable fortune in drug money only to be relentlessly pursued by killer Anton. Mr. Moss' gradual decline in health (mainly due to wounds inflicted on him by Anton) is painful to watch up until the very end. Sheriff Bell (Tommy Lee Jones) is the opposite of Anton Chigurh. He doesn't understand all of the death and destruction laid at his feet. He longs for a time when murders were easy to track and solve, not these new-fangled deaths where bullets aren't used (air-guns do just fine) and there seems to be no rhyme or reason to their patterns.The fourth (perhaps this should've been first) note of excellence goes to the Coen brothers for their perfect adaptation of Cormac McCarthy's novel by the same name. Many lines of dialogue were lifted verbatim from the novel itself, including the ending monologue by Tommy Lee. It's noteworthy to mention here that the Coen brothers not only directed but wrote the screenplay, too.The final note has to go Cinematographer Roger Deakins (he's worked with the Coen brothers on many occasions and also did the exemplary JARHEAD work). Every scene was so well thought-out and so convincingly filmed that viewers are carried freakishly easy through this incredible story.It's difficult to do justice to this film with one short review, simply because there are so many great elements to it. The casting was spectacular <U+0097> with Woody Harrelson (NORTH COUNTRY) and Kelly Macdonald (THE GIRL IN THE CAFÉ) pulling in exceptional supporting roles <U+0097> as was Carter Burwell's haunting original musical score and Mary Zophres impeccable costume designs.If you missed this film at your local cineplex, you may have gypped yourself from experiencing this amazing cinematic event. Now you've gotta wait for the DVD to be released and then ...it's your call.


                
I saw this film at a private preview screening in Pittsburg on 5/16/07. I went with five other friends. The entire group was male, 20 yrs old, and mostly college athletes. I explain the demographic of myself and my companions to reason why I was the only one that came away from the film completely satisfied. The story was fresh and different and I don't think my friends had the capacity to fully enjoy what was going on on-screen. I did. And I am still trying to fully understand what an accomplishment it is. Let me try to explain.The Coens begin the movie with a voice-over against a barren Texas landscape, much the way Blood Simple began. In fact, there are several similarities between the two films, like the auspicious lack of music. A reviewer whose name escapes me once said that all Coen Bro. films look great and sound better. I'll get to sound later but to talk about the look... Other than some CGI animals, which really shocked me in such an otherwise perfect film, each frame is filled with such interesting material that the tone is set perfectly so that as you view a scene, you know whether to wait on a laugh or brace for...A large part of what fills those frames is great performances. Perfectly cast is Tommy Lee Jones. He nails it, the crowd goes wild etc... That's expected though. Josh Brolin, on a very recent hot streak, has given us two tremendous performances this year and both would have been a Cannes if the superbly talented Tarantino was loyal to his material and friend and kept the masterpiece that was Grindhouse untouched. Brolin's performance in that film was spot on with the perfect amount of ham and cheese to set the tone for the whole movie. In this one, he shows he can do just as well playing strait and absorbing into character as he does at crowd-pleasing cheesballing it. Kelly Macdonald will have to do something else to prove to me she really isn't the Clara Jean character she portrayed even though I know she is a Scot. Woody Harrelson, who I think gets too much praise sometimes, is at his best here and actually manages not to get blown off the screen (well sorta) by Javier Bordem. Mr. Bordem's performance is a force, much like the character he portrays. His Chigurh is a representation of the lunacy of violence that exists in society. There is no negotiations with it, it has always been here and it will always be here. It/he leaves us in shock and terror and all we can do is... ??? The first thing that needs to be said about the sound is that if another film wins an award all year for sound or sound editing, investigations should be held and the judges' bank accounts monitored. The sound in this movie is so shockingly good. There is no music (save some comically placed source music)and the movie is all the better for it. People talk about the way the music in Jaws enhanced the tension of what was happening on screen. People should, from here on say that the lack of music and the placement of source sound in No Country for Old Men thrilled more.I am certainly rooting for No Country for Old Men to come away with the hardware from Cannes.


                
NO COUNTRY FOR OLD MEN is an ALLEGORY.The title is from the first line of Sailing to Byzantium by William Butler Yeats, a poet classically trained and considered by many to be the greatest 20th Century poet.Death is Anton Chigurh. His hair style (hood-ish, shroud-ish) and black clothing suggest Death. Death kills the innocent as well as the guilty and has his own set of rules. When the witness to the high-rise killing asks, "Are you going to kill me?" Death answers, "It depends. Do you see me?" When the kids on the bicycles help him after the car accident he tells them, "You didn't see me." If you see Death, you die; if not, you may live. Chigurh seems to come and go at will and seems to know where Moss is without trying very hard. His rules are his rules and they seem arbitrary and random. He is referred to by the sheriff as a "ghost" and he seems to be able to go wherever he pleases.Death kills with a cattle stun gun, almost like a member of the clergy administering a cross to the forehead of a parishoner. Death is often portrayed as a hooded figure with a scythe; in this case he's a "hooded" figure with a cattle stun gun.Man is Llewellen Moss, part sinner, part saint. He is offered a deal with Death when Death offers to ignore his wife but take him. Instead, Llewellen challenges Death and chooses declines the offer. This is straight Faustian bargaining. By declining Death's "This is the best deal you're gonna get" Moss signs not only his own death warrant but his wife's, too.Llewellen challenges Death to a showdown and when his wife tells the sheriff, "He won't quit, neither. Never has." the audience expects a later showdown because we've been trained to see the protagonist take on the antagonist at the climax of a story <U+0097> but before that can happen life's randomness gets in the way and the Mexicans kill him. This is the major turn in the movie and the one that takes the sail out of the audience, which has been cheering for Man in his struggle against Death without realizing it.Free Will is Carla Jean. She chooses at the end of the film not to allow Death to be random. She has a 50% chance of saving herself but chooses not to avail herself of the opportunity. She is the bravest of the lot, choosing to die by her own decision and not the randomness of Death.The sheriff is the philosopher trying to understand the universe. He cannot and is defeated by Death in his attempt. At the movie's end the Sheriff bemoans the fact that God never entered his life. One of God's creatures, Death, was in the Sheriff's life but he didn't realize it (see "Scene with Sheriff" below). The story is the Sheriff's, his quest to understand Life, and the dream he tells at the end of the movie explains that his own father, long dead, has gone before him into the darkness of death and awaits him.Interesting parallel <U+0097> Moss pays money for a coat as he crosses into Mexico; Chigurh pays the kids money for a shirt after his accident. What is meant by that? Cannot be a coincidence.Chigurh walking away from the accident at the end shows that Death cannot be stopped. It will always walk the streets. It is a part of our existence forever.Scene with the Sheriff and Death at the same hotel room at the same time but the Sheriff does not see Death. This scene is vital <U+0097> it solidifies the allegory. The Sheriff enters the room but does not see Death and so he does not die. Death sees the sheriff but chooses not to kill him because he's not seen in return. This scene is the "supernatural" scene which signals that we've watching an allegory, that what we've been watching is more than it appears.Why 1980 for the book/film when it was written in 2005? Could it be it was begun then and the author simply chose not to update it? What is the reason? Must be one. Might be nothing more than the author started this 25 years ago and didn't feel like updating it to present times.This is a wonderful movie!
"You can't help but wonder how the old timers would operate in these times," narrates Sheriff Ed in thick and alluring southwestern drawl. We soon find out exactly what he means by "these times." Llewelyn is hunting in a remote and arid grassland, stumbles across a drug deal gone wrong and manages to get away with a bundle of cash. While Llewelyn covers his tracks, keeps his mouth shut and is smart, tough and resourceful, he may not be prepared for what is coming for him in the form of tracker Anton Chigurh. A person without empathy is more dangerous than a coward, and Chigurh is cold, cruel, relentless and methodical. He figures out not just where people are, but where they will be. As Chigurh pursues Llewelyn, others are close behind including Sheriff Ed, a drug cartel, other trackers and Llewelyn's girlfriend, only a few of whom are cut out for this game of cat and mouse.Ten years after the release of the film and it is well understood how it made or sealed the careers of Javier Bardem (Chigurh), Josh Brolin (Llewelyn), Tommy Lee Jones (Ed) and not least of all the Coens who are some of the best directors in the business. Here the Coens are firing on all cylinders. The film is complex, thrilling and multi-layered. It is full of great lines. Its occasional extreme brutality is offset with wit, charm and humor. Adding to the compelling characters are amazing performances by Jones, Bardem and Brolin. They are perfectly cast. The voice of Jones alone is authentic and enthralling. Bardem is truly chilling. He speaks, moves and acts like a ghost. There are beautiful shots of the southwestern landscape in the morning light and intriguing close-ups of the characters. There is delight even in little details; a coin flip, a drink of milk, a cat and the banter of minor characters. Such attention to detail is a mark of the brilliance of the Coens. The film is set in the 1970s and is based on a story by Cormac McCarthy. This is one of my favorite films (top 20) of all time.


                
The desolate landscape and moral layout evoke old Westerns, but the film also reconsiders that genre's conventions, suggesting comparisons between now and "the old times." So while Ed Tom follows clues and questions witnesses -- including Lleweleyn's wise, forgiving young wife Carla Jean (Kelly Macdonald) -- he's always a slight step behind his prey, recognizing Anton's extreme iniquity even before Llewelyn does. Though the war vet and the killer do match wits for some time in some deliciously tense, beautifully shot cat-and-mouse scenes, the sheriff knows that in a showdown, decency can't keep up with depravity.Smart and compelling throughout, the film includes some stunning set- pieces, including a scene in which Llewelyn runs up a shallow river away from a ferocious hunting dog (the two shapes bobbing as they try to muster speed against the current is a sight you won't soon forget), and another in which he sits in a dark hotel room, shotgun on his lap, waiting for Anton's arrival. As a smooth-talking bounty hunter named Carson Wells, Woody Harrelson provides a few moments of welcome off-rhythm distance from Anton and Llewelyn's contest, but their intense focus on each other is overwhelming, even leading to a confrontation between Anton and Carla Jean, who refuses to participate in the coin-flip he offers. "The coin don't have no say," she says, eyeing him darkly. "It's just you."Andin the end, it is just Anton, his bizarre, amoral meanness emblematic of the changes that Ed Tom perceives. Whether these changes are a function of his own aging, altered perspective, or a kind of national psychic shift, the film leaves for you to figure.
I expect a film like 'No Country for Old Men' to be polarizing for some, especially if they're expecting a big finale with the good guy and the bad guy drawing their guns in the end to settle the score. 'No Country for Old Men' is a film that dabbles more in existentialism, despite all the crime that occurs. Basically, what I'm saying is that the film adapted from the novel is very unconventional not only for its genre, but also in its approach to storytelling. What the Coen brothers do best is combining altogether different elements and creating something with its own unique character. While there are subtle throwbacks to the old wild west, the story takes place in modern society where technology has advanced, society has advanced and unfortunately crime has too.What are Anton Chigurh's true motives? Does he have a philosophical doctrine that we the audience are unaware of or are just unable to comprehend? What Anton does is create a lot of questions that arise from his actions and his interactions with the other characters. To watch a character as odd as him is fascinating and I cannot give enough credit to Javier Bardem in portraying such a character that is so enigmatic and just his presence alone is able to evoke so much mystery. Even though Anton is very incomprehensive, it is all made up for by being able to be somehow captivated by him.How every character deals with Anton is interesting, to say the least and as the film progresses, the feeling of despondency increases gradually. The lack of heroes is what gives this film its sense of hopelessness and that feeling of hopelessness is basically set in stone from the first few shots coupled with Tommy Lee Jone's epic voice-over narration in introducing the story. It is the perfect introduction to what we will witness in the story and what it all means for a sheriff like him in comprehending these events. As the events occur, we the audience reflect on these situations just as much as Sheriff Ed Tom Bell. Tommy Lee Jones' performance in this role is impressive and is injected with a great sense of humanity. I commend his portrayal as Bell, in that he is the character who carries the weight of the story.The acting is a huge fragment in bringing this film to life, but what also does that is how the visuals are executed and it is definitely utilized to a great effect. From its majestic shots to its beautiful lighting and color tones, the Coen brothers set a mood that permeates the whole film. Its barren settings really add a feeling of desolation that is at the same time hypnotic and surreal. While the film can be suspenseful and its suspense is definitely executed perfectly, the film still somehow manages to maintain an air of mystique. The non-existence of a soundtrack really gives the film a feeling of loneliness, all the while adding an even greater sense of sterility to its already barren wasteland.I can go on and on about the great acting, its memorable shots and its great script, but what makes 'No Country' a great film is that it manages to be truly idiosyncratic in its execution just like how the Coen Brothers' other great films are. Even if a film like this leaves me more questions than answers, if it still manages to captivate me to a point that I'm willing to return to it, then that shows that it doesn't matter if I don't have any answers to my questions. There are only a few films that are able to pull this off naturally and 'No Country for Old Men' is definitely one of those special films that can do just that.
I imagine it must have been quite a shock when No Country For Old Men was first released, not just for the incredibly graphically violent content, but also for the fact that the Coen brothers had here crafted a masterwork even greater than Fargo.The plot is similar on the surface to that "homespun murder mystery", but No Country is, on the whole, a very different film. Rather than holding an identifiable, lovable protagonist as the moral and cinematic center of the tale, it focuses with detached awe on its villain - a creature of purest evil, Anton Chigurh. The film sets up the ultimate in sadistic villainy, refuses ardently to glamorize or glorify him in any way (as other great films like The Silence of the Lambs and The Dark Knight were wont to do with their charismatic antagonists) and then simply allows him to get away with it. Why? To what purpose? Is it condoning his gut-wrenchingly horrifying actions? Is it suggesting that Chigurh is worth admiration for his fierce commitment to his so-called principles?No. The film does not glorify, condone or celebrate evil, but it shows us a society which does, even if it does so unwittingly or begrudgingly. Chigurh commits unspeakable acts of evil. He may well have been a serial killer if he'd lived twenty years before the film took place. Instead, he's become a valuable tool of an industry which thrives on violence. A criminal empire which is slowly degrading and destroying modern society as we know it (or knew it back in the 80s). And, ultimately, old fashioned morality and principles of justice and fair play are powerless to stop it.Consider this scene (which left me very confused upon first viewing). Ed Tom Bell, the wizened Texas Sheriff played brilliantly by Tommy Lee Jones returns to the scene of Llewellyn Moss' murder, searching for Chigurh. For the first time, he has his gun out and up. He waits, the nerves clear on his face. We see Chigurh, masked by shadow, but unmistakable, hidden within the room. Waiting. Ed Tom bursts open the door. Gun lowered, his shadow spreads out across the room. There is no- one there. Upon my third viewing, I decided that the nature of Chigurh's ghostly and inexplicable disappearance between shots is of less importance than the anticipation it creates. Whether he was ever really there or (as I'm inclined to think) it was the Sheriff's imagination preparing him for what was about to unfold, the point is that the viewer expects a battle. A gunfight between good and evil - recompense for the murder of Llewellyn and for dozens of other innocents. Satisfaction for Carla Jean. They do not get it. The good vs evil archetypes have been played out, and we can no longer be certain of evil's defeat. Perhaps that is our fault for nurturing it as long as we have, as a counterpoint to the morality we hold dear - as a distinguishing feature, to reassure our notions of rightness. Whatever the reason, evil has evolved, almost to the point where we can no longer comprehend it.No Country is a fundamentally pessimistic work. It laments a world where evil is not punished and is allowed to escape even the interference of fate itself (see the decidedly non-fatal car crash at the end, from which Chigurh escapes with no more than a broken arm.). The violence and the villain are despicable, because they are part of a world which is seen as such by the Coens and by Cormac McCarthy. But this pessimism does not reduce my enjoyment of it one jot - much like similarly pessimistic and violent works such as Taxi Driver or Psycho, which are philosophically despondent but visually electrifying.This is one of the greatest films ever made. It is a sickening portrait of a sickening world, told with such deft skill and visual genius by the Coen brothers that it is impossible to look away. I count it among the likes of Citizen Kane, Vertigo, 2001: A Space Odyssey, Apocalypse Now and Raging Bull as one of cinema's greatest artworks. I have seen it four times now. I can guarantee at least another four viewings lie in the near future.
The Coen brothers have given us many great movies, but 'No Country for Old Men' has to be my favourite of theirs. This film is 10 years old now but you'd be hard-pressed to find a better piece of entertainment released since. It's an enthralling watch from start to finish and one of the most memorable and unique movies of its time. Maybe it's a bold claim, but I think this is one of the best films of the 2000s.'No Country for Old Men' scores top marks in all areas, but the best part of the film for me is the characters and dialogue exchanges between them. Anton Chigurh in particular is a fascinating character and is brilliantly portrayed by Javier Bardem. The ending has proved divisive among fans, but I'm in the 'liked it' camp. Finishing with the 'old man' of the movie retiring is fitting with the title and was also suitably low-key. A brilliant film all round.


                
I really enjoyed this film on the first viewing and every one since.It reminded me of the Coen Brothers' first film, "Blood Simple" (1984). with its understated but quirky and violent characters, odd dialog and sudden brutality. It's an odd crime film, but that what's the Coen Brothers usually deliver us: odd and entertaining movies. Whether it's the "Best Picture Of The Year," I question, but I did find it fascinating. Many times the villain is the most interesting character in a movie, and I'd have to say that's the case here, too. Javier Bardem, a Spanish actor, plays "Anton Chigurh" and this guy is one strange dude, with an even-stranger weapon. Josh Brolin and Tommy Lee Jones are almost as intriguing. Brolin is "Llewelyn Moss," a guy out hunting one day and finds dirty money at a bloody crime scene, takes it, and is on the run from the crooks who own it. Jones is the local sheriff, "Ed Tom Bell," who actually tries to help Moss by grabbing him before the killers do. Ed Tom admits times sure have changed and deranged killers like "Anton" are totally unexplainable. To me, Jones is always a great actor to watch.The supporting actors in here are all good, too, and also quirky....just like the Coens like them (see "Fargo" for a good example).Another star of this film is cinematographer Roger Deakins, one of the best - if not the best - in the business. Deakins was up for two Academy Awards this year: this movie and "The Assassination of Jesee James By The Coward Robert Ford." That's how good a photographer Deakins is, nominated for two films.To me, though, the highlight of this film was the dialog. Man, there were some strange sentences uttered in here with some odd grammar and expressions thrown in. Early on, I put on the English subtitles so I wouldn't miss any of it, or misinterpret what everyone said. In other words, this was not only a fun movie to watch, but to hear. It was very suspenseful most of the way as this turns out to be a long cat-and-mouse chase story. That's usually entertaining to watch, and this is no exception.Are there flaws in here? Sure, a couple beauties, too, but nothing unusual for Hollywood. Shootouts in the street and a major car crash - all in city and residential areas - and nobody comes out to see what happened? Also, what happened to "Moss" is a big issue. Maybe I missed that. Finally, the abrupt anti-climactic ending is a biggest issue, one I know displeased a lot of viewers.....but I don't find any movie or story as perfect. I'm willing to forgive the Coens for these transgressions, because, overall, this is so entertaining.Nonetheless, it's nice to finally see a "Best Picture" movie that wasn't totally disappointing.
there will be plenty of other reviews here on the story, acting etc etc but maybe less on the sound in the movie so i'll focus on that here..the Coen brothers are well known for paying close attention to detail in their soundtracks. i've always found in the past though that they have a tendency to go over the top with this, and the sound can become a little pretentious not so here. they don't try to do anything outlandish with the soundtrack but tremendous detail is placed on the effects and atmos in particular. just about everything sounds wonderful from the dropping of a bag, the uncurling of a wrapper to more 'interesting' sounds like the ricochet of a bullet from a metal bridge and of course the fantastic signature sound of our bad guy.. the nail/air gun. some wonderful atmos in the air duct for example, and even on the polished metal of a blown out door lock. subtle and excellent use of the surrounds is made, and i especially liked how they used this with some of the dialogue overall i was really impressed. and as you'll likely hear elsewhere, the rest of the film was great too!


                
Cormac McCarthy's characteristically dry, laconic, and sometimes hilarious dialogue brightens the scenes of this superb and chilling thriller the Coen brothers have ably transferred to the screen with excellent help from Javier Bardem, Tommy Lee Tones, Josh Brolin, Woody Harrelson, Kelly Macdonald, and others, including a salty second layer of minor characters who look like they sprang straight out of the sandy soil of West Texas.McCarthy, unmistakably one of America's greatest living writers of fiction, lives vividly in this, the Coens' first literary adaptation. Some of his best novels, notably Blood Meridian (called by Yale critic Harold Bloom one of the 20th century's greatest novels), are so apocalyptic, so embedded in their glorious poetic prose, as to be virtually unfilmable. All the Pretty Horses, from his Border Trilogy, has been filmed with some success (Matt Damon works in his role; Penelope Cruz doesn't). No Country for Old Men is late McCarthy. Post-apocalyptic, maybe. Jones's disenchanted, aging sheriff says, "When you don't hear sir and ma'am any more pretty much everything else goes." Llewelyn Moss (Brolin), a fairly innocent but opportunistic man, is deer hunting (he's not a good shot; he can't catch one out of a whole herd of them) when he finds a sprawl of wrecked vehicles and corpses, including Mexicans and a dog. There's a truckload of heroin in plastic packages and a briefcase containing two million plus in $100 bills. Moss takes the money and hightails it in his truck.Naturally there are people who want the money back. Not nice people.The man they hire to go after it is called Anton Chigurh. Expertly played by Javier Bardem, he's a villain--but with a clear-cut morality all his own--who's invincible and probably unforgettable. Chigurh is like the Grim Reaper: he can decide your fate with the flip of a coin; he reflects the biblical side of Cormac McCarthy, but in a terrible modern corruption. The crooks also hire another hit man, Carson Wells (Woody Harrelson)--a mistake, because Chigurh resents the duplication. He is the last word, the anti-Christ. No man may come after him.Out in these open spaces of West Texas--El Paso, the Mexican border--where Cormac McCarthy's innocent, pure-hearted cowboys used to roam in earlier decades, things have changed beyond recognition. This is 1977. It's a decade and a half since Vietnam. Lots of drugs and lots of money floating around; you don't hear sir and ma'am any more.The story turns into a chase, Chgurh after Llewelyn Moss, the sheriff coming after them. And then Carson Wells, bright-eyed, bushy-tailed, and doomed, pops in to follow.People have been talking about Bardem's pageboy haircut. Yes, it's creepy. Bardem makes Chigurh both threatening and inscrutable. It seems he'd as soon kill you as look at you. He has a long rifle with a silencer and a high-pressure cattle-killer device with a tank that looks like something a person with emphysema would carry around. It kills instantly with a pop in the head. He also uses it to shoot out door locks.The film is more tense and suspenseful in the first half or so than in the grimly determined finale (all true to the book, if with a few details cut). By that time a lot of people have been killed and some wounded. This has some elements of the Coen's 'Fargo' and 'Blood Simple' (the latter introduced in an earlier NYFF) and thus with their most powerful work. But 'No Country' is an economical and faithful literary adaptation. Some Coen movies have been thin and frivolous lately. This is emphatically not, sure and riveting from the first few shots. Richard Deakins' photography, making much appropriate use of wide-angle lenses, is superb. Their distinguished source seems to have kept the Coens honest and serious (except for the dry humor built into McCarthy's talk). Unquestionably this will wind up being one of the best American films of the year. It's tight and vivid and suspenseful. It's great stuff. The images sing and stun. There's no distracting music, only the beauty and terror of real sounds.Present for the NYFF press screening Q&A (moderator Lisa Schwartzbaum): Brolin, Jones, Macdonald, Bardem, and the brothers Coen, Ethan and Joel.
I was privileged to see this gem at the New York Film Festival and I am still reeling from the experience. The first word that comes to mind when thinking about this film is haunting. This film is absolutely haunting and you will think about it a lot after seeing it. There are long arias of silence in this movie that are thrilling to experience. You do not notice the lack of dialog in this picture because the images the Coen Brothers create are so entrancing. This is a film of quiet and meditative power. The Coen Brothers confidence in their visual finesse is completely in evidence from the first frame to the last. The last time I saw a crime picture this good I was watching the Coen Brothers masterpiece Blood Simple. This time they have created a sort of tone poem of the American southwest. This film is drenched in blood and chaos but it is filmed so artfully that the work eventually trumps the crime genre itself. This movie is all the more amazing in that the Coen Brothers manage to combine the archetypal and the firm establishment of an everyday reality so successfully. The characters have a specificity to them, but are also able to be embody larger themes.This will not be a film for everyone. This will be a film for people who appreciate the work of Terrence Malick. If you have seen the terrific true crime drama The Onion Field you will have some idea of the power of this film. This is a film that Truman Capote would have appreciated. The plainness and starkness of the sudden violence in this movie reminded me of the bracing wind-blown prose of Capote's masterpiece In Cold Blood. This is not just hyperbole, this film is that good. I have never seen such a melancholy movie that was so alive with the wonder of cinema. There are cat and mouse sequences in this film that would have made Hitchcock or even DePalma, for that matter, weep. The cinematography is breath-taking without being showy. Every shot is perfectly framed and the editing evokes a slow creeping dread. There is almost no music in the piece which is a great choice and really forces you to pay attention to the dark proceedings at hand.Javier Bardem gives an amazing performance. His performance is all the more impressive when you know that he has admitted to struggling with his command of the English language. His character has several monologues that are well-timed and full of implicit menace. He gives a terrifying portrayal of a complete psychopath who seems to live in a shadow world of duplicity and violence. This character kills most everyone he comes into contact with sometimes prolonging the moment of sadism by flipping a coin and asking his potential victims to call it. His odd prince valiant hair-cut is a great touch and makes him seem even weirder. Bardem has a fantastic scene in which he taunts Woody Harrelson with the grisly fate he has in store for him. He is so intense in the scene he seems to almost up Woody's game a bit. Tommy Lee Jones gives his usual solid performance. His character is a sort of bewildered older cop who cannot really comprehend the violence he has to contend with anymore. It is strange to see Jones play a character who is wise, but whose wisdom was so hard won that it has worn him down to the nub. He has some good lines, but the overall comportment of the character is one of sad confusion. His morality is so offended by his reality that he retreats into the honorable refuge of retirement. Although, in the last scene we get the feeling that he will be haunted the rest of his days by the horrors his eyes have witnessed again and again. Jones seems to be giving his usual clever/sly performance which subverts your expectations when he becomes sad and meek toward the second half of the film. Josh Brolin is becoming a more interesting actor with age. It is hard to believe that he is the same kid from The Goonies. His character Moss is not a coward or a complete fool. He has a soldier's tactical cunning and is able to think his way out of dangerous situations. However, he makes many bad decisions as well. This will be a frustrating character for the general audience because they will want him to become a hero when instead he proves himself to be all too fallible and human. I have not been very pleased with the commercial direction that the Coen Brothers had been going in of late. I am overjoyed that they have again found some great material with which they could craft this true work of art. To be fair they had a great book by Cormac McCarthy to work with, but they still found a way to make it their own. This movie makes Fargo look very light-hearted by comparison. It will not be a film that everyone can immediately embrace. I do think it will be a film that people will appreciate the more they think about it. The surface of the film is deceptively simple. This is much more than a clever genre film, like the Usual Suspects. There is no Tarantinoesque snarky irony to leaven the brutish and horrible realities of the violence for profit perpetrated in this fictional criminal underground. The maelstrom of violence depicted in the film is larger than the work itself. The film activates the issue, but does not seek to contain it. The enigmatic and open-ended narrative provides no reassurances that everything will be all right.
No Country for Old Men is the movie that has everyone talking; this morning, I was reading how this is going to be the Oscar winning movie, I just had to find out where it was playing. I just saw this with my friend this afternoon and I was blown away. It's a little odd because this did not seem like a typical movie that I would love, but the performances were absolutely flawless and the writing was brilliant. My friend just kept saying how horrible it was, but I don't think some people are going to understand how great this movie really is or need to see it again to understand it. I was never really a fan of the Coen Brothers and their work, but the reason why I loved this movie is due to the fact that it points out the violence in the world and how far people will go to get money or drugs. No Country for Old Men is blunt and shows the ultimate evil of the world, but also the good as well.Llewelyn Moss is a cowboy who has just encountered quite a find, he stumbles across the desert to find several dead bodies and a truck load of heroin. When he walks a little farther, he finds another dead body, but there's something in a suit case that's a little bit more of what he could use, 2 million dollars! He's got everything in the clear, but he remembers one of the bodies that survived and needed water, so he goes back to help him out, big mistake. Now the serial killer who owned that money and drug load is after him. This serial killer, Anton Chigurh, is possibly the most cold blooded murderer and will not stop until he has his money and Llewelyn is dead. But also Sheriff Ed Tom Bell is trying to find Anton and find Llewelyn before it gets more deadly.No Country for Old Men is the most brilliantly written movie of the year. Javier Bardem, who plays Anton, will hopefully get an Oscar nomination for his performance. Javier pulled such a chilling performance, he was terrific and so frightening, I never really took a look at his talent until No Country for Old Men. Josh Brolin, it's truly amazing how far this man has come, from The Goonies to a gut-wrenching performance, he's great. Tommy Lee Jones also held his own very well and made the sheriff the most likable character and was the light in this dark movie. No Country for Old Men is a great movie, believe me, it's worth the watch, just take some time after the movie to think about it and what you have just seen, because for the first time, I can say that the Coen Brothers are really amazing.10/10


                
This was exactly the movie I've been looking my entire life. Crime & Drama & Good Acting and Reality


                
Played by Spanish actor Javier Bardem, Chigurh is the most original bogeyman to bloody up the screen in a while, a badass with a goofball Prince Valiant haircut and minimal sense of humor. He has a sense that we do not have free will and we can not change our destiny
I will list all types of antagonists that this character is in a subjective ways:
The Personification of Evil; Mother Nature; The Machine; The Henchman; The Criminal; The Beast
A drug deal gone wrong, a pile of bodies, and two million dollars of missing cash; such are the things that many a gangster film, gritty cop movie, and shoot-em-up have been made from. And in the hands of Joel and Ethan Coen, it provides the perfect material for one hell of a modern day western.By the time hunter Llewellyn Moss (Josh Brolin) finds the money, he's already seen the bodies and the drugs. He knows the stakes, and he knows that certain people will not rest until they recover that money. But how could he know that he'd be pursued by a man like Anton Chigurh. Chigurh (Javier Barden) is one of the deadliest, most merciless, and downright craziest men you could ever. If you present even the slightest inconvenience to him, he will look you in the eye, talk to you as calmly as if you were talking about the weather, and gun you down without a second thought. Sometimes he doesn't even need an excuse. He's the kind of person that bodies just seem to materialize wherever he goes, and if he's looking for you, you might as well already be in the ground.Of course with all these people dying, it won't be long before the law get's involved. Enter Sheriff Ed Tom (Tommy Lee Jones). He's seen just about everything in his long years as county sheriff, and it doesn't take him long to figure out that Llewellyn is in way over his head. Now he's in a race to see if he can catch up with Llewellyn and the money before Chigurh can.As you would expect from the Coen Brothers, No Country for old men is an intricate, compelling, and somewhat strange tale. Under their direction, what might be merely a simple chase movie takes on a higher level of complexity, as the characters try to outwit and stay one step ahead of each other. This movie also knows how to play its cards close to its chest. It withholds enough information to keep you guessing, but never so much that you become frustrated. It should be noted that the Coens really have a way with dialog. I haven't seen a script with this much restraint since The Magnificent Seven. There's not a single unnecessary word in the entire film. When the characters do speak, their words are full of wit and personality. For instance, when Ed Tom here's about the three men gunned down in a cheap motel room, he refers to it as 'natural causes.' "Natural for their line of work." Or take Chigurh's exchange with the convenience store clerk. On the surface, it doesn't seem to have any connection to the rest of the movie, or even to make sense, but looking deeper you realize there's a sinister subtext to every word, one that gives strong indication of just how screwed up it is inside Chigurh's head. And the final scene, which I will not reveal, is pure Coen. It's deep, inscrutable, and completely unexpected. It reminded me very much of Copula's The Conversation.No Country for Old Men is a dark and violent film, with no interest in imparting morals or providing happy endings. It's not the kind of movie you want to pull off the shelf when you need an escape. But it is also a powerful and engaging film that you will not soon forget. Here the Coens have given audiences one of the most chilling pictures of evil in many years, along with their best movie since Fargo.


                
If you want a movie about a likable but menacing hero (or perhaps antihero), then this is a movie for you. An effective agent of fate, Javier Bardem's character does not care what you think about his haircut or his ways. What he cares about are rules. But not your rules, he has a set of his own, just like in his world, he has the coolest haircut there is. And he wears it with confidence. The same confidence he executes his tagets, who have it coming. One way or the other, on the flip of a coin. And his ways are memorable, you have to give him that. This angel of death plays some sort of cat and mouse game, but this is not a man, this is a sublime being, and he is magnificent, inspiring awe. Cant say awesome since this word is ruined in the English language, but in 1940s, it would have been the most appropriate way to describe what the actor Bardem delivers. This is a must see movie...


                
I could watch No Country for Old Men over and over and over again. It is that good. It is thrilling to watch every time, and so rich with meaning and precision that you learn something new each time. Javier Bardem is outstanding, and the story is so well crafted that you need to watch it a second time to really get it.The interesting thing about No Country is that there is almost no musical scoring. It makes you so razor focused that it's impossible to look away. The first time I watched this movie, I started it on Netflix late at night, thinking I would start it and then go to bed and finish it another time. I was wrong. My eyes were glued to the TV, so immersed in the film that I watched the whole thing in that one sitting.The Coen brothers are so awesome.


                
