I'm maybe not the best person to review No Country for Old Men. I long ago became tired of movies about assassins, drugs, shootings, and suitcases full of money. I feel as though Hollywood has been recycling the same seedy crime material for years - and so have the Coen brothers. Movies like this one, Fargo, Blood Simple, Sin City, Pulp Fiction, and Smokin' Aces all seem to come from the same mold, and that mold is getting mighty overused, in my opinion.On the plus side, I think the Coen brothers are uniquely gifted at presenting this kind of material. Indeed, No Country for Old Men is, in many ways, one of the most beautiful and suspenseful films that I've seen in a long time. It's full of striking images of the desert, interesting point-of-view shots, and incredibly intimate close-ups of actors with fascinating faces. Even the sound effects are great; they're loud, vivid and realistic, and they genuinely enhance the action.But beyond all that surface glitz, what is the movie about? I never really understood or cared for any of the characters. The protagonist is unsympathetic from the beginning, for instance. Tommy Lee Jones, meanwhile, gives a good performance but seems to be virtually trapped in a subplot. Furthermore, his "deep" dialog did very little for me - "mock profundity" is perhaps an apt description. The villain is great, I suppose, but once you've seen him kill twelve people, there's not much point in seeing him kill a thirteenth, is there? I don't want to bury this movie, because it's very well done. But I'm annoyed that, at usual, film critics and students are heaping an avalanche of praise on a movie that's really violent, really strange, and really alienating. Yeah, sure, it plays with narrative conventions in interesting ways. But it doesn't take true genius to frustrate an audience's expectations, and storytelling gimmicks alone can't save a story that's so barren. I suppose you could hunt for deeper meaning - as people tend to do on message boards - but I don't think there's much to find. The movie is a beautiful toy, and not too much more.


                
People who watch these critical darlings really amuse me. They use words like "hauntingly flawed" or "beautiful and haunting" or "stayed with me for days." No Country For Old Men, at least the first hour and a half is main stream, well done, captivating, gory drama, thriller, action western and then the last half hour takes the film into this queer, nonsensical, blathering of artistic garbage that only someone who pretends to understand would care about. I do understand where they are trying to go with the film...the moral is...times have changed. Was that so hard to say? Instead they create an entire character, use a first class actor to portray him who does little to nothing in the entire film because artistically he's "washed up and tired of the world." It doesn't come across like that at all. The infamous Coen Brothers drop this interesting thriller/drama on you with this in depth creation of a serial killer who is just completely hell bent and disturbing and then they toss the entire story away on a disgustingly stupid and boring ending never giving closure to anything that they set up prior. I almost wonder if they did it on purpose as some sort of a cruel joke. I mean it feels like they got to a certain point in the film where they should have ended it but decided, 'no let's tack another 45 minutes on it but just ram whatever we come up with on to it.' As one IMDb reviewer pointed out...it feels tacked on and like a completely different movie. Josh Brolin is really terrific as country man Llewelyn Moss. As we quickly discover Moss is not as country and as stupid as he might come across. In fact he's quick witted, honest, and a fast study. He turns out to be a formidable opponent to a killer who has never had a formidable opponent. Brolin is terrific in the role. A worthy hero whose character is demeaned by its ending. Javier Bardem...well if anyone actually deserves Oscar nomination for this film it might be him. Bardem plays steely cold, brutal and ruthless killer for hire and for fun Anton Chigurh. He is a strange and interesting character who we learn and know little to nothing about. He seems to like games, and he seems to be brilliant and subversive. His straight expressions and monotoned voice make him downright disturbing. The wasted actor on the pointless character I mentioned is the amazing Tommy Lee Jones who doesn't get to be very amazing as the tired, worn out old Sheriff Ed Tom Bell. Jones is a phenomenal actor but he's almost useless in this role. He stumbles around a crime scene or two intelligently pointing out facts and then spewing wisdom about how things have changed and then doing nothing else. Very unfortunate.When it comes down to the very clever cat and mouse game between Brolin and Bardem, the film is brilliant. Bloody, and riveting and the story is starting to unfold but everything goes by the wayside. The key here is that so much of the story is unknown to us. An entire bloody battle over drugs has transpired and we know little to nothing about it. We only know this insane serial killer enters the picture and wants the money found and kept by Brolin's character.*******SPOILERALERT**********This is one time I can't help but spoil the film because I need to rant about it. The film goes down hill when, outside of the viewers sight, they cheaply kill off the main character of Llewelyn Moss, by Mexicans who also want the money. We don't see the kill...there is never any show down of any kind between Brolin's Moss and Bardem's Chigurh, and after that death the film literally just goes to pieces. However, outside of the horribly misplaced and mis-made ending, No Country For Old Men will likely impress you. It is shot in such a style that it feels like an old Western...the long, single shots and the gritty sand swept desert. Still fatal flaws make this one a poor choice by the Academy. 7/10
In the first few minutes we see a death. This quick start to the film gets the audience engaged right from the off and makes them want to carry on watching it. Despite this, the next 45 mins - 1 hour it slows down a lot and not much happens.The best aspect of this film was the amount of silences used during the movie. The silence build up suspense and tension and it usually ends in an anticlimax keeping the audience always on their seat and it forces them to always be prepared as they don't know what is going to happen next. Anticlimax or climax? Anton Chigurh (Javier Bardem) is a antagonist who is calm but extremely intimidating due to his relaxed tone of voice and actions on everything. Early on in the film he goes to a shop and he puts the shop owners fate in a coin toss. Heads or tails? His unusual nature is one in which the audience cannot predict. We learn to know that he is a savage. At the conclusion of the film Llewelyn Moss (Josh Brolin) (the man getting hunted down by Anton) is killed by Chigurh and what was very effective about the scene was we didn't see the death occur. All we hear is gunshots and it makes the audience confused as they don't know who is shooting and who is being shot. Overall, I didn't think the film was outstanding but the lack of non diagetic sound made the film better due to its natural feel.
No country for old men is a thriller in which a hunter Llewelyn moss, played by Josh brolin, stumbles upon more than 2 million dollars in cash. He finds this money near a deserted place where some drug deal went wrong. He is then followed by some people speaking Spanish, who are drug dealers as well as by a psychopath Anton Chigurh, played by Javier Bardem. The Spanish people want the money from Llewelyn. Anton chigurh was hired by some other drug dealers to get the cash.What ensues is a chase between Llewelyn and Chigurh. Chigurh is a psychopath with principles which he abides by strictly. He has really terrified me. I read some other reviews in IMDb in which the users compared him with Hanibal lecter from The silence of the lambs. Well, chigurh has terrified me more than Lecter. At least, Lecter was in a cage. Chigurh is loose. He does not move an inch from his principles and if he had decided upon killing someone, he would definitely do it no matter what happens after that.Some of the scenes in this movie are really very suspenseful. I was really sitting very still during those scenes. These scenes are not at all loud. There are no car chases or high octane action scenes in which there is kicking and punching. But I am sure these scenes would surely make you hold your breath. Besides, I also found that this movie has very little of background music which makes it all the more beautiful. It really gives a great deal of intensity to the scenes. Some of the scenes just made me jump in my seat.The story takes place in Texas. There are many scenes which showcase the barren desert. Well, for some strange reason I like those movies in which there are scenes of barren deserts. Also I tend to like films with less background music. I liked this movie for its presentation style.I think the story is good. What I didn't like is its ending. I hoped that Chigurh would get killed or caught. But, he didn't. Also, I didn't understand why Tommy lee jones quit his job. I think that the story is very good until Llewelyn dies. After that I think it fizzles out. Too much attention was given to Tommy lee jones after Llewelyn dies.I liked it because of its unique style of film making. If you want to see a great thriller with a realistic story/ending, then do see this one.
So it's a well constructed film featuring a central villain who's uncharacteristically laconic and sadistic at the same time which is something original, but the narrative is shallow and the plot sometimes seems aimless. Jones is a retiring lawman who must investigate a spate of murders committed by Bardem, sporting a creepy hairstyle and an unusual choice of weapon in a pneumatic cattle gun. Junior Brolin is the opportunistic rancher who happens on a drug deal gone sour, seeking to profit from the mini massacre, but Bardem has other ideas and tracks his prey across the south-west.Jones is a tired looking bystander to the carnage created by the man of the moment, Javier Bardem whose star rose to prominence following his Oscar nod for this jolting, unhinged performance. Woody Harrelson has a good scene or two as a professional mercenary and pale imitation of Bardem's commitment to his chosen profession, while Tess Harper has a minor role as Jones' wife, and Barry Corbin and Stephen Root feature in supporting roles.Characterised by the typical Coen brothers style, it's epic in length and paced like a snail on valium, but thankfully, punctuated by some shocking encounters that make it a memorable experience. Not a bad film at all, but whether it's worthy of being declared the best film of its year either inflates its worth or reflects poorly on the competition.


                
Lots of deep thoughts here. I put the most stock in the theories of those who've read the book.Personally, I don't like this trend lately of abrupt endings with lots of loose ends and multiple interpretations. The first major one was The Sopranos finale ending. Now this.I don't mind being challenged and forced to think a little bit. I don't have to be spoon fed every little detail, but come on...at least finish the story! I'm worried every time someone wants to be considered a genius from now on, they're going to start using this tactic. After that much investment in a story, the audience deserves some type of resolution.For those who say that's how real life works, with no tidy endings, well these are books, movies and TV series. We pay to be entertained: surprised, scared...but not confused and frustrated.But now this precedent is being set that if someone can't figure out how to wrap it all up, they can just stop and leave everyone hanging and be hailed for doing so. I don't think that's clever. That's just a cop out.
I've seen this film twice now and although I enjoyed and appreciated it the first time around, I was less forgiving about it after a second viewing. I personally think the Coen Brothers are brilliant filmmakers but No Country just doesn't work for me. First thing that bugs me is the folly of the films supposed primary theme; chance. Seriously, all the coin flipping is so blatant and un-subtle that surely it can't be what the film is about, can it? I've always found the Coen's work to be very refined, so to be bashed over the head with something so clichéd as a-man-flipping-a-coin-to-represent-chance just doesn't seem quite right for me.Obviously, No Country isn't a bad film. Technically it's brilliant, in terms of cinematography; shot selection, lighting and framing everything on screen is impeccably done. Also, the acting is superb; Bardem's Chigurh is instantly iconic. Brolin's LIewelyn (surely a name that should be used more in movies) is strong but vulnerable, unapologetically simple, yet layered. Equally, Tommy Lee Jones's Ed Tom is an interesting and enigmatic character. However therein is one of the main problems I have with this film; the Ed Tom story thread just doesn't fit in this film; thematically and tonally it's at odds with the main story and all it does is succeed in giving the film a bloated feel. For me, it's a case of a good performance that has been added to the detriment of the rest of the film.So what is No Country For Old Men about? It can't be about chance as that is too obvious. It can't be about getting old because it has so little to say. Is it about the insignificance of man off-set against the indeterminably powerful presence of nature and the relentless passage of time? Perhaps, but the Coen's have never been complex and pretentious just for the sake of being complex and pretentious.I can appreciate the fact that No Country is a good film, well made with some great composite elements. However I don't feel it has the vibrancy of O Brother, Where Art Thou?, or the humour of Fargo, or the intelligence of Barton Fink. For me, this film is an un-satisfying mix of art house film-making and mainstream marketing, which benefits from great performances and an interesting central story but is damaged by poor choices in terms of muddled themes, sound design and the inclusion of an unnecessary sub-plot in what otherwise would have been a brilliant film.


                
I say it may contain spoilers, but I doubt it.I saw this movie because of the ratings and reviews. I was disappointed to say the least. Great filming and all that, but the story is incoherent and fuzzy - a story about nothing actually. There is no depth, no suspense, no excitement, no story - no nothing except good filming.I know a good movie when I see one, and this isn't it.I give it a 1 in attempt to balance out the extremely high ratings this one is getting. That it is nr. 31 (when this is written) in the top 250 list is outrageous. I would give it 5 stars if things were normal.
I watched this movie without reading any of the reviews. The moment I saw anything relating to the title, I looked away. I clicked through. I didn't want to have any preconceptions about the movie other than 'it's a good movie' The film starts off really well. There's pace, intrigue, excitement and large dollops of uncompromising gore and some moments of genuine tension. All the hallmarks of a great movie. The the cracks soon begin appear and suddenly, the cracks are so wide, elements of the movie and some characters fall right through them. The sinister Anton becomes almost supernatural in his ability to defy the law.It's not the law, well represented by Tommy Lee Jones, that Anton escapes from, it's the laws of physics: For every reaction there's an equal and opposite reaction, except in Antons world, with his crazy, cumbersome 'swiss army knife' of a weapon. Is there anything Anton can't do with that thing ? Speaking of weapons what's up with the the silencer that didn't .. Silence ? Why wouldn't a burst of sub machine gun fire be heard in one motel but be heard half a block away by in another motel ? Why does Llewelyn ... oh, never mind, after that shock the movie is all but over.Avoiding the obvious ending was probably the worst idea ever. We were robbed ! It's as if the Cohen brothers couldn't decide how to finish their magnificent wild salmon of a movie, so they just left it flapping on the riverbank, gasping for air. A missed opportunity to give what could have been a classic movie the ending it surely deserved.
I am easy to please when it comes to movies but my wife and I came away from this one looking for someone in management to ask for our money back. On the pro side it started out and pretty much developed as a good story line and it had some good acting talent. Bad men. Moral issues. Tommy Lee Jones was on his way to a good film and then the script failed him and he just rolled over, so I guess he needed the money. I like Tommy Lee but this was his worst effort. The best acting in this otherwise awful movie was the baddest of the bad guys who is an actor most of us have not seen before. Javier Bardem's character will make you want to sleep with a loaded shotgun in your bed tonight. Overall the movie started out with basically good underpinnings.... and kept you interested for almost 2 hours.... and then it all fell apart in the last 5 minutes. An absolutely horrible ending. I only hope that Javier Bardem is out looking for the Coens so he can blast them like his other targets! The story builds suspense and characters and then it is like the Cohens ran out of production money, ideas, talent and interest... all at the same time. Save your money now and even later when it comes out as a DVD.


                
I have watched quite a few movies in my lifetime so far, but after viewing "No Country For Old Men" I can honestly say that I haven't really seen too many like this before.For a basic plot summary, this film begins by introducing ruthless killer Anton Chigurh (Javier Bardem), a man the likes of which Sheriff Bell (Tommy Lee Jones) cannot even comprehend. When Llewelyn Moss (Josh Brolin) finds a briefcase full of money meant for Chigurh, it kicks off a tense chase between all three parties.The reason "No Country For Old Men" is such a solid film is because it is so deep on a number of different yellows. All three main characters are interesting and make you truly care (one way or another) about their actions, especially the viciousness of Anton (that is probably the one aspect of the movie I will always remember).Despite the fact that this is a very deep, thought-provoking movie, it is also quite sparse and terse (perhaps more sparse than any movie I've ever seen). There is no dramatic music (no contrived drama whatsoever, to be honest), no montage sequences, no character flashbacks, or any bells-and-whistles. It is completely "straight down the line", so to speak. If you are a fan of that type of stark filmmaking, this will be one of your all-time favorite.All told, I enjoyed watching this movie for the amount of themes it threw at me and particularly the way it portrayed the "new type of killer" in the modern world (even in the more traditional Texas). I prefer a movie with a little more obvious drama, so no five stars from me, but other than that I would recommend this to any fan of interesting cinema that does not conform to any other standard but its own.


                
No Country for Old Men is a grandiose, dark, violent Neo-Western thriller from the Coen Brothers.Adapted from a novel by Cormac McCarthy, it stars Tommy Lee Jones, Javier Bardem and Josh Brolin. Brolin plays an ordinary Joe who whilst out hunting finds a fortune in the aftermath of a drug deal that went bad.This leads to a cat and mouse game involving three men. Brolin who has to evade the relentless hit-man with a bad haircut played by Bardem.He also has to steer clear of Lee Jones, the violence weary veteran sheriff on the hunt for both men knowing that Brolin has bitten off more than he can chew and is in danger.The film is set in Texas of 1980 with a bleak, desert landscape. It is important to note the year, it means Brolin's character is a Vietnam war veteran and the film deals with the purported rise of modern urban violence from the 1970s onwards.McCarty's novel and its adaptation deals with themes of fatalism, conscience and circumstance. The Coen Brothers have dealt with various types of crime genres before in their film careers ranging from Blood Simple, Crimewave, Fargo and Miller's Crossing.In those films there have also been some form of humour even the the dark kind. Here they can pull the themes together in a grander scale as they have the source material that richly delivers. There is much less humour. A journey to bleakness lies for a lot of the participants.It is a combination of a modern western and an urban thriller. Even its 1980s setting with its fashion and style can easily merge with the present day with the presence of four wheel drive vehicles, high rise buildings and automatic weapons.The violence displayed is an important part of the film but some viewers may find this with the grim tone too much for them.


                
Not sure if I can add much to the avalanche of reviews here, but I will offer my impression anyway.The Coen brothers are consistently good film-makers and I am definitely a fan. This one wasn't among my favourites, as I was hoping for a little more of their humour and a little less nihilistic bloodshed. No heroes, no respite from evil. But for what it is, it's very good.Makes me wonder if I want to read Cormac McCarthy... he's been very recommended to me, and I'm sure I will some day, but I don't need this unrelentingly dark a view of humans right now. I'd rather find something to lift my spirits.Hey Coen Bros, do a funny one next time!
I'm a Coen Brother's fan and I went in with very high hopes. What with the people that matter calling this their best offering in years, some going so far as to call it their best ever. That's reason enough for me to shell out the $11.50. Something I do less and less these days. Do I think I got my money's worth? Yes and no. For the first hour and change I was treated to a first rate thriller with grand, Sam Shepard's America type themes, a lot like Blood Simple actually. And I, the eager film goer, became immersed, developed a fondness and then considerable concern for the guy I took to be the protagonist. Then with less that a half hour to go, they did the darndest thing. They dipped out of my hero's story, at the climax of all places..in an edit that looked and felt like a bad projectionist had just changed reels. It was, as I've read here and elsewhere, a move in keeping with the style of the novel. The choice to tell the story in this way was apparently one of those form equals theme moves like Beckett's Waiting For Godot. I spent the better part of an hour chewing it over with my girlfriend. We're not the sharpest knives in the drawer for sure, so maybe a second viewing will give me something more to hold on to.


                
I paused it and I went to eat dinner.After seeing the first half of this film, I began to praise it. With tremendous efforts from Josh Brolin and Tommy Lee Jones, I thought I was settling into a memorable picture. Even the Oscar winning mommas boy, Javier Bardem, was giving everything he had. (Who is this guy again and why do I care?) The cinematography was beautiful. The drama was wonderful, building excitement with every minute. All was falling into place.Then I turned it back on.Big mistake. I should have thrown my Blu-ray player out the window. It should have froze up on me again. Then I might never know how terrible this film would become. How artsy and weak it truly was. But I'm not going to sit here and try to convince you that the film is horrible, it's not. Just unfinished and I want it to finish. I'm not inclined to review films I don't like. I do not feel the need to knock someone's vision because I was disappointed with it. But with all the praise and Oscar nods this film received, I felt the need to say well hey this was lousy. At first I thought it was just a flash-forward sequence and was comfortable with it. Then time started to run out and I was beginning to get nervous. I kept waiting for it to happen, but it just never did.This is not a great movie; this is a bad movie with great acting, which is almost becoming a clique in Hollywood these days. Terrible direction and no storyline. This movie could have been above average, but instead the directors got caught being too cute. Trying to make some sort of statement, which had no meaning to the picture itself? Instead of just ending the film, I was left with nothing. Don't get me wrong, questions for the sake of being mysterious is good. Questions that leave me saying what the #@*^ was that, is not good. It's really, really, really bad. In any event, I give it a 5 out of 10. For what they gave me, half a movie. And why do I want to see the so-called "bad guy" win? The answer is I don't! Why don't we just not end the picture and say we did? I'm still waiting. Why don't I just not end this review and say I did?


                
OK...i do not know why people say this is a masterpiece.......OK it is well acted but i don't see it as a masterpiece....in fact it is boring,Javier Bardem acting was extraordinary but that is not enough for me.....i'm not saying that this is not a must see movie....i'm just saying that.....when i saw the comments that where like "wow this is the best film ever made."......i thought i am going to see a movie that would outrank The Shawshank Redemption or something like that.....anyway this was from my point of view.....so don't jump on my comment just because you found it amazing....overall i would give it a 7/10


                
I was hopeful of this movie, as I love many (not all) Coen brothers films. However, the implausibility of several scenes (Chigurh being able to bring his cuffed hands around to the front of his body - try it yourself - Chigurh just picking up the transponder signal initially by chance, Chigurh hauling around a big air tank, and so many others already pointed out by other reviewers), in addition to how the movie just fell apart at the end, earns a thumbs down here. And really, how does Woody find Moss in 3 hours? I can buy a character being evil and pointlessly doing evil things. I can even buy a character doing stupid things (going back to give the practically-dead drug dealer a drink of water before he dies, running back into the hotel where the madman is to see if the hotel clerk is OK, and on and on and on). But there are too many improbabilities that the viewer is asked to ignore.
Marred only by the fashionably nihilistic stated theme, the movie is fun to watch when it has momentum and also tense when it wants to be. But a grandmother character sticks out like a broken bone among an otherwise great cast as indirect as the screenplay tries to be with exposition it sounds ham-fisted in its attempts to prove the crazy hit-man baddie's world view correct. It will be called a "smart man's thriller" but it still has moments where the audience may be brighter than the protagonist and a tracking device premise that we have already seen easily defeated in The Da Vinci Code. So much for playing superior, Coens. The movie is at its best in silent stretches, though tolerable when reflective. Based on a novel or not, for me it is the movie where Two-Face/Harvey Dent Tommy Lee Jones from Batman Forever is trying to track down a baddie who has the same quirk of coin-flipping to determine one's fate. It occurs to me that we give a bad guy more slack; he can be a superhuman Rambo figure sewing himself up and evading the worst you can dish out as long as he makes matters worse. It's not pandering to wish fulfillment fantasies, unless your wish is to steer clear of happy endings. Is there any such thing as a spoiler if the ending is a downer? I say no, but I've left out the details just in case.


                
Throughout the experience I kept telling myself "yes, this IS an 8.9 grade movie". Beautifully filmed and directed, generally, I think it is one of the best Coen Bros. films produced to date. The scenes, scenery and settings are stark, grimy, impoverished and just great as a palette to the interaction of superb dialog and interesting characters. Check the camera play throughout the film. The Coens have a style and execution all their own, in a league with De Palma, Scorsese and the like, yes, maybe even Hitchcock. Plot development is subdued but edgy and there are some surprising and gratifying twists and turns.Character development is great and I am impressed with ALL the performances but especially with Tommy Lee Jones, Javier Bardem, Josh Brolin, Woody Harrelson, in that order. Jones shines with his portrayal of the grizzled cowboy/sheriff, in a character reprisal similar to his role in "Three Funerals", I would love to see him paired up in a southwest movie along side Robert Duvall. Bardem is sinister and unflinching and reminds me of a flesh and blood "Terminator"; Josh Brolin(looking like his dad's twin) terrific as the prey; a surprise appearance by Harrelson, sharp and witty, I'd like to see more of him in future projects. The big problem I have with this film is in it's culmination. I will say nothing more on this subject so that I do not create a spoiler. Suffice to say, despite ALL of its cumulative wonderfullness(?) I downgrade it from a 9 to a 7.5 because of the "ending". Reminds me of how I felt at the end of "Blair Witch". Too bad.....I hate unfulfilled expectation, especially after spending $8.50 for it..........Wait for the DVD rental........I'd like to say that I'm becoming more and more disenchanted with the ratings levels that appear in the IMDb. Clearly, because of the ending, this is NOT an 8.9 grade movie.


                
First of all I have to admit that I'm a hopeless adherer of Coen movies. So to all the folks who basically don't like 'em: better skip my comment simply because it might not be objective in every sense. I watched the movie yesterday at the Vienna International Film Festival and I must say it is awesome in many ways. The actors (and not only Javier Bardem whom I totally admire since his portrayal of Ramón Sampedro in Mar Adentro)are superb. Tommy Lee Jones as aging Sheriff and Josh Brolin as the one who kicks off the whole mess. Their performances are outstanding and even Scottish Kelly Macdonald, whom I still remember as delightful Diana in Trainspotting, was pretty convincing as Texan trailer-girl. Back to the mess: And there is plenty of mess in that movie for sure. Counting dead bodies is almost a Sisyphean task. So don't even try. By the way, apart of a dead dog, that actually looks more like a stuffed potato, the bodies are really well prepared. Also a scene where the psychic killer (Bardem) is operating on his own leg looks pretty real and gives you the creeps. But it's not only blood and violence as some critics have found fault. There is much more of course. It's the irony and sharpness that lies in every spoken line and joke. As in earlier masterpieces by the Coen brothers this combination of brutality, irony and every day life brings flavor to the movie. It's set in the amazingly beautiful countryside of the US-American south. And images of slowly hovering clouds are a welcome variation of otherwise rather cruel pictures.What the movie maybe lacks a bit is deepness of the plot. I mean don't get me wrong the plot is fun and all but it's not quite the story of Fargo or The Big Lebovsky. Though one might argue that the plot isn't the most important part of a Coen movie, which is probably even true, I find it worth to mention that they have already written better screenplays. To sum up, though the film is not as consistent in all possible aspects, as some of their earlier work has been, the created ambiance is definitely worth spending some bucks for two hours of splendid 'coenic' cinema feeling.Watch it and convince yourselves. It's good enough to be great!
The first half of 'No Country for Old Men' comes off something like 'The Terminator goes to West Texas'. All the elements are there: an unstoppable, determined, and soulless killing machine set against a hopelessly outmatched protagonist who is simply trying to stay alive another day. Derivativeness aside, this part of the movie is still quite gripping, though, which is more than I can say for the second half of the film. As things dragged on, I couldn't help feeling a little bored as Tommy Lee Jones' pseudo-philosophical and somewhat redundant sheriff increasingly wandered in and out of the story. Near the end of the movie, the story seems completely lost. The abrupt ending especially feels like the filmmakers ran out of gas and tried to pass it off as authenticness and artistry. It's too bad, because this movie could have easily been a 9 or a 10 based on the first hour or so.


                
This movie always has been compared a lot to "Fargo", not just because its from the same directors but also the story and just the movie as a whole show lots of similarities. To be honest, I wouldn't exactly say that this movie is like "Fargo" at all. I wish it would had been though, since that probably would had meant that I would had liked and enjoyed the movie much better.My main problem I had with this movie was that the story and foremost its storytelling got unnecessarily complicated at times. The movie has all the right ingredients in it to make a good and typical Coen brother's movie with but some of the ingredients are not present good enough and not mixed in well enough with all of the other ingredients. It doesn't make "No Country for Old Men" as tasty as I would had hoped and also expected. After all, this movie was the big winner of the 2008 80th Annual Academy Awards, where it won Oscar's for best movie and directing. It mainly lacks some witty and subtle comedy. Yes, "No Country for Old Men" does obviously still feature this all but the movie just gives you the feeling if it all had been a tad bit more comical and not as serious, the movie would had been a way better one.It's still a superior shot and made movie though from the obvious talented Coen Brothers. It foremost also really shows how acting can really make a movie. Coen brother movie characters are of course always something unusual and unforgettable and "No Country for Old Men" also truly features some unforgettable and unusual characters in it.Of course most memorable is Javier Bardem as a serial killer with some odd weapons as choice. He deserved his Oscar. He plays his character chilling, as well as with a sense of comedy, despite the fact that his character doesn't ever show some emotion. A real great achievement from Spanish born actor Javier Bardem. But the entire movie is basically well cast with some big names such as Tommy Lee Jones and Woody Harrelson in it, as well as some unexpected choices, such as Josh Brolin and Kelly Macdonald in some roles I had never ever seen them in before but they fit and play their roles surprisingly well.The movie is slowly build up with some long shots. It makes "No Country for Old Men" also a real beautiful movie to watch, also not in the least of course thanks to Roger Deakins Oscar nominated camera-work.I would say; beware not to expect another "Fargo" and you'll probably end up liking this movie but if it had been a bit more entertaining all it really truly would had been one of the movies of the year.7/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
AT LAST!! Someone else who thinks along the same line as I do about this movie ....... First up, let me tell you all I am VERY easily pleased when it comes to movies, I saw the trailer, read all the hype and thought hey Tommy Lee Jones to boot - a dead cert, no doubt. This film, just like 'I am Legend', COULD have been an absolute belter but I honestly feel it falls just short. In my mind the movie was great for a long time - great suspense, an amazing nutter hunting the money down etc etc but I felt seriously short changed at the end of the film. Why? Too many unanswered questions and the film actually does not end with any kind of conclusion. Is there going to be 'No Country For Even Older Men' coming soon to a cinema near you?


                
Well, it started perfectly that's what i saw, the movie made you keep watching till the end, but the problem was that probably the screenwriter wanted to do something different, he didn't want the typical plot where the bad boy gets caught and everyone is happy at the end, also he did not want to get the 3 characters to meet and you know that would result in a very complex scene with a bunch of action, but still, it felt like something it was missing, as a viewer you want to know why the bad guy is bad, but is never explained, several factors were not explained, so the movie had a very noticeable hole, however i'm not putting a very low rating because it had brilliant acting and cinematography. Also i understand that as a screenwriter you sometimes want to break the rules, i feel like this movie is a example of breaking the general structure of a script.


                
For No Country For Old Men is one of the films that have been talking about. It seems to be an action movie, but at the end the audience would get what is the message that the creators wanted to convey through the movie. Every elements of the film are pure perfection and sticking in my memory. Especially the chased scene, the director can control my emotion obviously. On the other hand, the director of photography can captures the violence scene to be a hurt but beautiful one. The way that narrative is 'not told' left to the imagination and giving not a happy ending are such a perfection for me. The story talks about Llewelyn Moss (Josh Brolin), he finds two million dollars in the pocket at the midst of the desert, he takes it back into the house and his life is then changed. The skilled man named Anton Chigurh (Javier Bardem), he gives the show that is not only for wanting the Oscar reward, but also plays it as the important role that earned him a reputation for a long time in the character of crazy murderer. He opens himself to make people recognize in a scene of killing a police officer, shot through the forehead. That is what I like about the presentation of the exotic or has not been made. Then he plays a coin toss with his principle declaration that he holds, which is linked to the character. His duty is to hunt Moss and take the money back. Even the main story of Moss and Chigurh are the most important roles that serve to movie but there's still having another character, Late sixties Sheriff Ed Tom Bell (Tommy Lee. Jones). He does not want to be involved for this issue. He must stand between struggling to maintain the honor of the family Sheriff that hold for three generations or accept that his own era ended while the era that runs and he can not catch it up.
