While on a hunting trip, a sportsman (Josh Brolin) finds dead men and a stash of cash in the remote back country of West Texas, the result of a drug deal gone wrong. The greedy hunter takes the cash, but soon discovers that the resourceful criminal responsible for the drug deal, an outlaw named Anton Chigurh (Javier Bardem), has a way of tracking the loot. The hunter thus finds that he is the hunted. Meanwhile, an aging Texas sheriff named Ed Tom Bell (Tommy Lee Jones) is after both the sportsman and Chigurh. The story is set in the early 1980s.To some extent, this film is a character study of Sheriff Bell, an honest lawman who is wise, observant, grounded in reality, and has a long memory. "No Country For Old Men" is really his story. He doesn't know quite what to make of the drug war that has crossed over from Mexico into Texas; it's something new (for the 1980s); and it makes a land that has always been hostile to settlers even more hostile and dangerous.The film's premise is quite simple, and the story is straightforward with minimal twists. A lot of time and care are taken with procedural actions: loading a gun, dressing a bloody wound, constructing a pole to retrieve a package from an air vent, for example. Dialogue is minimal; there's lots of silence.Overall casting and acting are impressive. I especially liked the performance of Tommy Lee Jones who seemed a natural choice for the role of Sheriff. Javier Bardem and Josh Brolin are also well cast. Several minor roles are extremely well performed, like the store owner who is asked to call a coin toss, and the rotund lady who, with a dour face, defies Chigurh's requests in a characteristic Texas twang.The film's color cinematography is quite good; there are lots of sweeping, wide-angle outdoor shots. I really enjoyed the geographic setting, with that whistling West Texas wind, the silence, and the stunning vistas. It's a landscape that is starkly beautiful. Yet, despite its beauty and wilderness traits, it can quickly turn hostile and unforgiving for anyone unprepared for its hidden risks."No Country For Old Men" is a fine film. I'd describe it as a chase story -- character study combo, with elements of noir, especially in the visuals. Violence may be a tad much for some viewers. But given the subject matter, it is entirely appropriate.


                
It was not very long before I watched 'No Country for Old Men' that I watched the other remarkable film of 2007, 'There Will Be Blood.' Back then I thought that Paul Thomas Anderson has delivered the Best Picture of the year with his oil epic, but after watching the Coen brothers chilling and violent adaptation of Cormac McCarthy's 2005 novel, I knew right away that here was a film destined to be even a greater film than any I've seen this past year.It's not easy to watch 'No Country for Old Men.' The first time I saw it, I found myself dazed enough to not be able to stand-up immediately even after the whole end credits have finished. And yet, mixed with the feeling of shock is the profound sense of wonder and awe with what I have just witnessed on the screen. It took me another viewing to fully appreciate the meaning and intention of the film, and while the experience from watching the film is not one everybody will enjoy and understand, it certainly is one of the most moving and thought-provoking movies I have ever watched. This is the kind of movie that will make you think, the kind that stays with you even after a long time has passed since you've last watched it. On the literal level, it is a simple cat-and-mouse chase thriller movie, but from within its roots lie a very profound philosophical and penetrating analysis not only of the characters and the situations involved in the story, but also of the kind of world we are living in today and the more monstrous sides of it we often choose to ignore.The story revolves around the chase between a guy named Llewelyn Moss (Josh Brolin,) who stumbles upon a stash of money in a drug deal gone wrong in the middle of the desert and a psychopathic but surprisingly "principled" assassin named Anton Chigurh (Javier Bardem). The third party and the moral center of the story is the guy trying to find both the hunter and the hunted, Ed Tom Bell, the old sheriff of a peaceful, but increasingly becoming violent locality in West Texas. The movie features the perfect mix thrill and excitement that would be expected out of a movie in this genre. The Coen brothers' direction of the particularly intense chase scenes between Chigurh and Moss are masterful, evoking emotions of suspense to the highest level and pushing the audience to the very edge of their seats. This is achieved by very careful editing and sound direction that perfectly recreates the tense atmosphere whenever a particular scene is being played out. Also remarkable is the photography (done by Roger Deakins) of vast scenes in the desert where even what the ordinary moviegoer would consider as "empty scenes", where no action is played out, tells a story in a visual manner, where even when there is no dialogue or action on screen, the sweeping images speak out for themselves.'No Country for Old Men' is rich in such bravura kind of film-making. The particular camera move, position and choice of background and other trivial details such as time of day, cloud cover or positioning of the props and point-of-view perspective offer the best experience for the audience, and the most effective means of story-telling for the Coen brothers. Just watch the scenes of Tommy Lee Jones as the tormented old sheriff being burdened by the challenge of something that is greater a force than himself, something that he "does not understand," and you will realize what I mean. The environment and tone created by the filmmakers perfectly accentuates the performance of Jones and more importantly, the core messages of the film. This style is present throughout the film and one of the particular points that makes it more than just a chase movie.I must say that I can't help but agree to most people when they say the Javier Bardem's Anton Chigurh is the most disturbing character (and yet mesmerizing) to grace the screen since Anthony Hopkins introduced us to Hannibal Lecter in 'Silence of the Lambs.' Chigurh effectively radiates evil and embodies violence in a very intelligent and forceful manner that touches the fear in all of us. Like Lecter, he personifies evil not in the conventional and simple sense, but in way that somehow presents to us the whole magnitude and complexity of its nature. In the dialogue he speaks, a kind of thinking revealed is one that is calculating and deeply philosophical but essentially ruthless and sinister.The film's monumental achievement is in its ability to remarkably transport us into a world where the places, emotions, fears, anxieties, choices, morals and realities of life are strikingly brought to life and presented to us in a manner where we, after the whole experience, can reflect upon and look back with careful consideration. In the end, the moviegoer is left to marvel at the beauty (and madness) of it all. Here the theme of innocence lost as it is corrupted by evil and violence is explored in the most cinematic fashion, delivered perfectly with richness of emotion and the greatest impact possible. The violence and bleakness of it all is not there to simply evoke reaction or engage the audience, it is there to tell a story and impart an experience of great magnitude and intention, to which the Coen brothers have brilliantly succeeded. All at the same time the movie is a character study on the effects of evil and innocence lost, an exploration on the themes of fate and chance, an analysis of the freedom to choose and its consequences, a reflection on evil and good as forces of society and the investigation of basic human emotions such as hope, fear, love, violence and aspiration in the face of a variety of situations.


                
Rural Texas can be hard on anyone, even a rugged and tough Sheriff with a lifetime of exposure to it. No Country for Old Men exemplifies the grit of deep Texas and there's nothing better than a good chase. Tommy Lee Jones as Sheriff Ed Tom Bell balances his dangerous chase for a monster assassin with the equally dangerous chase for a good ole' cowboy that comes down hard on the bad side of some very bad people.Josh Brolin as Llewelyn Moss finds himself in a dangerous dilemma when he brushes up against a bloodbath of a drug deal gone terribly bad and a satchel with 2 million dollars inside. The man looking for that money is a dispassionate and inexpressive villain, Anton Chigurh played by Javier Bardem. The rest ensues as a thrilling triple narrative, from a determined man with 2 million dollars on the run, only hoping to escape the mess that he stumbled upon, an old man sheriff facing an evil like none he's ever seen, and a psychopathic killer, an unstoppable evil with no remorse and a extraordinary determination to find what is his.With its blood-soaked scenes, grimy West Texas setting and haunting terror filled moments between characters, No Country for Old Men is both riveting and beautiful. The dialogue is flawlessly delivered and the performances are award worthy. With almost no music in the entire film you're left immersed and focused on how the Coens utilize sounds and silence to score the film. From wind gusts and boot steps on wood floors and concrete, to deafening silence within the dialogue, it's a score that's frightening and precise.-Eric Statzer


                
Llewelyn Moss: Can't help but compare yourself to the ol' timers. Can't help but wonder how'd they do in these times.The Coen brothers have been making movies for over 20 years now. NO COUNTRY FOR OLD MEN is their twelfth feature together. While they were once considered princely collaborators held at the highest esteem by film enthusiasts the world over, they have recently been the victims of their own identity crisis. Caught between their signature exploration of all things quirky and abnormal found in the parts of America thought to be forgotten and the demanding pressures of delivering bankable Hollywood fare, the Coen's finished by delivering sub-par work that tarnished their lustrous reputation. The film enthusiasts thought they might have lost great talents to Hollywood while Hollywood wasn't even sure they wanted them. What were these "aging" filmmakers to do? They could have polished off another Tom Hanks picture and crossed their fingers. They could have appealed to their fans and told another tale of the idiosyncrasies of those living in the middle of nowhere. They could have tried appeasing both parties by attempting THE BIG LEBOWSKI 2. Instead, they did none of these things. No, instead, the Coen brothers crafted a film that is unlike any film they have ever made and is also perhaps the best film they've ever made.Translating Cormac McCarthy's novel about the relationship between the hunter and the hunted to the screen may be smoothest decision these boys have made for years. Not only does it allow for the brothers to explore the grim sides of characters consumed by money and an unnerving peace derived from killing, but NO COUNTRY FOR OLD MEN also leaves the door open for an interpretive commentary on the Coen's career itself. Allow me to explain by painting a picture from the film. Llewellyn Moss (Josh Brolin) aims his rifle at an unsuspecting animal grazing alongside the herd. He is right now in charge, in control, the hunter. He fires and misses, thus beginning his steady descent into ruin. He moves toward the spot where his prey once stood only to find the site of a drug deal massacre. Here, he innocently stumbles upon an enormous amount of money. He picks it up and goes without realizing the hell that is about to be brought upon him. He inadvertently becomes the hunted. He spends the remainder of the film calculating and executing different attempts to regain the superior position he once held. The comparisons are subtle and come about naturally rather than existing as the initial basis for the film to grow out of, reinforcing their genuine nature. I could explain my logic behind this analogy but that would be very un-Coen like.Another consistency throughout the Coen Brothers' careers is the elevated caliber of talent they attract to their diverse projects. With their writing at top of its game, performances by Brolin, Javier Bardem and Tommy Lee Jones are pushed to the heights of their potential. Moss is a quiet man, focused and constantly thinking about what his next play will be. He has no time for ego, only function, and though most of his motivation is to avoid drawing attention to himself, Brolin's interpretation cannot help but capture our notice. For the second time this year (in conjunction with his slimy crooked cop turn in American GANGSTER), Brolin reinvigorates his skills by inhabiting Moss fully as an instinctual and reactionary being. While Jones is also impressive as a police officer resigned to following the action without any possibility of curbing the outcome, it is Bardem's performance as Anton Chigurh that will leave audiences with a haunting chill after experiencing it. His portrayal of a psychopathic hunter is both disturbing and riveting. This is a man who enjoys torturing his victims mentally by asking them questions meant to expose the inconsistencies in the way they live their lives before ushering them out of this world. He abides by some form of ethical code that only makes sense in his own mind and fully justifies his killings. His adherence to this code is what sends him to an internal state of ecstasy as he chokes a man and stares intently at the ceiling. The hunter is always frightening but Bardem is worse; he's unsettling.NO COUNTRY FOR OLD MEN is entirely disconcerting but is somehow still a tranquil experience. There is a normality amidst the unrest that thrives in the plain, natural manner in which the story unfolds. The chase is constantly surprising without ever seeming forced. Each move made makes perfect sense but is not seen coming. On this level, even their formal execution of this film speaks to the trajectory of their career. Who knew that leaving quirk behind for harrowing humour and a story that serves itself instead of as a platform for character would invigorate the Coen's method and assert their place as two of the greatest American filmmakers operating in a country thought not to have any place for the them? I like to think they did. In doing so, they have also made a movie for a sharp adult audience in a country bent on catering to all things youthful and disposable.GRADE: A
I enjoyed "Fargo" which I feel is their best work, but "No Country" was boring. The acting was fine, but the story just didn't inspire me. Usually a really good movie makes me want to go out a write ( I am a screenwriter myself). It gives me hope that there are some good stories out there being made into film. But this one...I dunno, it was like someone put a lump of cookie dough onto a baking sheet, and the cookie didn't bake. So you're left with a lump of..cookie dough. I got up in the middle of the movie to buy popcorn and a soda, used the restroom just to entertain myself. I NEVER do that at a good movie. I stay planted and aware. But I had to get away from it for a few minutes. Thank God we didn't pay a lot to see it.I'm not going to go all out intellectual on this puppy, because frankly, I don't have th energy to nitpick every detail, so I'll skim over a few things that bugged me. I've read some of the other postings by fans of the movie. It seems that the few folks who dislike the film are accused of not "understanding" the greatness of the Coen brothers themes on violence in America..blah,blah,blah. I love movies, seen a lot (foreign and American made) so the reality is, this movie didn't work FOR ME. It bored me, left me uninspired and I regret that I didn't wait until DVD. Potential "spoiler area" ahead. You were warned.1. They did try something interesting, which is kill off a lead character by the third act. But Tommy Lee Jones's character was not that interesting to sustain the last section of the film. As a writer, I applaud the bait and switch technique of taking out a character that we've followed from the beginning. However, having Tommy's monologue at the beginning, and showing him later in the film does not help sustain his presence once his character takes over in the third act. Plus, his being an old gunslinger weary from the battle is old. I kept wondering if the dynamic would've shifted dramatically had this been a younger sheriff. Every time Tommy Lee came on screen, I just got tired because who looked so drained. I understand this was probably an attempt to be the "message" of the film, (How do old folks deal with changes they can't fathom?), but I've seen that too many times.2."Quirky" dialogue by the killer and potential victims was not enough to pull this clunker together. As stand alone vignettes at a short film festival, it would've been entertaining. But to string them throughout two hours kills me, and smacks of pretentious dribble. Perhaps if they had opened up the film with that scene in the gas station, prior to us knowing who Bardem's character is, it would've set a tone of unease, given us the rules of the killer's world.Prepared us with the sense of dread whenever he appears then cut to his short capture, and then onto the idiot Moss and his discovery. For this project, I didn't buy it. It smells like a writing technique/device to razzle dazzle us so we don't notice that nothing is really happening.3. Stupid people do stupid things and kill any chance of me rooting for them. Moss was plain stupid. Although this is set in 1980, don't make the person who we follow in the story stupid. You find money. You take it. You do NOT go back in the middle of the night to bring a man water, A man who you left in the hot desert sun all day. If your conscience bothers you that much, make a call to the police, and you leave town with your wife outside of Texas. What a bonehead. Once you've made the decision to steal the goods, you check the goods and make sure you can't be traced. (the fact that Moss said " I know what a transmittor is" but doesn't check for one, or even dye pellets inside the money, dude you are a screw up and deserve your fate).4. It just sucked for me. I can't even put my finger on why this flick sucked for me. The cinematography was okay but not that impressive to make up for the story. The acting was okay, but no one in it made me jump up and proclaim "Dagnabit! That boy deserves an Oscar!". The best I could say is that this honestly could've been a made-for-TV movie. The violence was minimal. The cattle prod-gun was cool the first time you see it, but then I started thinking "You're lugging that thing around, and no one notices? You pull a man over in a cop car, but you have no uniform and you have a cattle prod air tank with you, and the yahoos in town just look at you?" More than anything, this movie made Texans look like dumb hicks. (maybe this explains Bush's background) So those are my main reasons for disliking the film. I've heard loving reviews of the theme of the hunter and the hunted, a killer with no conscience and the sheriff with morality leaking out of his a$$. It's all lies I tell you! It is hyped "blah", just like "The Departed" was last year. Any talk of Oscar Buzz is undeserved in my opinion. In it's place I would recommend "Eastern Promises".
Film Review: "No Country For Old Men" (2007)The best picture / best director winner at the 80th Academy Awards Ceremony on February 24th 2008 has nothing lost of its razor-sharply observed motion picture thriller infusions, where directing duo Joel & Ethan Coen let silent scenes with crystal-clear sound design and pin-pointed dialogue exchanges reign adapted from a novel under the same film-given title by Cormac McCarthy to further Hitchcockian suspense elements in abandoned Texan small town hotel location, where "No Country For Old Men" finds its climatic action highlight under bullet-piercing precision between the character of Llewelyn Moss, performed by utterly stubbornness actor Josh Brolin, confronting an invisible menace of everywhere delivering actor Javier Bardem as contracting serial killer Anton Chigurh.The overall 1980 setting, skillfully provided by production designer Jess Gonchor and costume designer Mary Zophres gives the film its flavoring taste, presenting itself undeniable as one of the directors most comfortably produced motion pictures, exceeding their thriller origins from 1984's presentation of "Blood Simple." under 25 Million Dollar budget. Joel & Ehtan Coen own the picture in every scene providing story twists by the minutes to keep the suspension level high throughout under further initially thanks to cinematographer Roger Deakins, who provides painterly-like static shots and then again moves the camera vertically on the exterior highways and horizontally in the interior hotel corridors to bring the audience a hypnotically cold rushes of blood to their heads that every encounter of action hits like daggers to the senses.Actor Tommy Lee Jones gives the picture stability with two monologue surrounding "No Country For Old Men", letting the spectators indulge on times in the state of change, where thoughts gets liberated and with them the fundamental existence of anarchy and its inhabited physical as psychological violence in every human being striving its way through cinema with a new kind of seriousness in treating essential problems of the human condition that life must end toward death, forced by another or giving-up in old age, seem to be freedom of choice in some one's own liking; questions, which will not get answered but thought-provokingly asked by the Coen Brothers in such a stylized cinematic manner that the picture keeps on staying instantly fresh in its perception after ten years of release; arguably deserved its upper-hand over the character-wise more accomplished picture "There Will Be Blood" with the Best Picture Oscar for the year 2007.© 2017 Felix Alexander Dausend (Cinemajesty Entertainments LLC)


                
No Country for Old Men is not necessarily the Coen Brothers' best movie, I consider Barton Fink, Fargo, Miller's Crossing and The Big Lebowski better. However it is a great movie, I'd go as far to say it is my definition of a flawed masterpiece(the only other movie I've given that definition to is The Magnificent Ambersons). So why do I call it a flawed masterpiece rather than a masterpiece full stop? Well actually right up to the last twenty minutes, the film was the latter rather than the former. If the last twenty minutes had not felt like a completely different movie, it would've stayed like that. As is the case with all the Coen Brothers' movies, No Country for Old Men is very well made with impressive cinematography, editing and settings. The story is compelling, the direction superb and the script most of the time taut, funny, thrilling and exciting. Josh Brolin and Tommy Lee Jones are excellent in this film, but if I have to give an award to best performance of the film, it would be Javier Bardem in a villainous role that is menacing and chillingly effective. Overall, a great movie but due to the final twenty minutes it just loses out to that extra something. 9/10 Bethany Cox


                
Saw it twice in one week and am happy I did as I not only appreciated it more the second time around, but also was able to clear up two confusing points.First the film, it's great! Starts with a bang and never let's up, very linear story that continues to drive straight ahead against the backdrop of the older law enforcement officers who are left behind by a world and it's morality, changing too fast for them.The narration, conversations between the older characters and Sheriff Bell's near monologue at the end, go a long way to explaining the backdrop against which this story is laid out.All the leads are at their best, especially TLJ. Javier B. and Josh B. are also outstanding, as are most of the supporting cast.For fans of the Coens, you will get the appropriate camera work ***minor spoiler alert***(when Anton sneaks up on the deputy hanging up the phone, ***end spoiler***as well as those moments when you laugh, but uneasily.I do want to comment on some confusion touched on in a few other comments made in this forum*********major spoiler alert********major spoiler alert********* Anton is NOT in the motel room when Bell returns to the scene of the crime (this after the conversation with the old local Sheriff and his comment on how bold Anton was to return to the Hotel, a crime scene, to make the second kill)it is Sheriff Bell in his own mind picturing the worst case scenario of Anton waiting for him, watch it again and you will get it (I only got it the second time)and yes Anton did get the money, this is clearly shown to us by the air duct grill lying on the floor along with the screws and the DIME which is what Anton was shown to use as a screwdriver through the whole movie.******end spoiler alert*********** The ending is quite fitting as after all there is "No country for old men", Bell's description of his second dream the night before go a long way to explaining that and setting up the ending.Hope you enjoy it as much as I did, for those expecting a Bruce Willis or other Hollywood type action/murder movie DO NOT go to see this film, you will find it long, boring, unsatisfying and with a stupid ending.Can't wait for "Burn after reading"
How can I be disappointed by a good movie?I suppose I should say at the outset that this IS a good movie. You should see it. Its all about the writing, though.McCarthy's writing style comes after the Clancy/Ludlum model where things are diced into parallel episodes but unified in a grand arc driven by the cosmic principle that good triumphs and the bad guys get punished. This has become the cinematic norm, so whenever we pass through a scene-story, we know how it fits in a universe powered by a machine of justice.McCarthy has the intelligence to open the world, introducing into his novels the notion of apparently unraveled justice. We do have episodes. We do cling to some of the traditional formula: drugs, mob boss, the hunted, the west, the champion of justice. Each of these is used conventionally. Its no accident that Tommy Lee was selected to play the part, because we assume he will be the hunter from Fugitive, the agent who adjusts things to their proper order. Its no accident that all the ordinary pieces of this are made from the same stuff we'd find in airport books and their coincident movies.But its also no accident that McCarthy's books draw on the cinematic revolution. His images assume that you can see, not imagine. That way he can do two novel things. One is that he can show by not showing, for instance Moss's actual death. This separation between the imagined and the shown also allows him to elevate the imagined into substance. This film, for instance, starts and ends with annotative stories. They aren't directly linked to the action we see, but they have agency, power and they come close enough to being parallel episodes that we accept them as relevant.The other cinematic notion that McCarthy uses is noir, and I am certain that it is what attracted the Coens. They've spent their entire careers surrounding this notion, probing it from all directions. In absolute terms, what defines noir is the notion that the machinery of the universe is arbitrary and linked to the act of viewing. That "viewing" piece has stickiness, because it involves us in what happens to the characters in the world we witness. McCarthy makes us explicitly complicit in the unraveling of ordinary, even expected justice. Its all wonderful. Its all perfectly comprehended and presented by the Coens. Its clean. It works. Its poetic and deserves to be near the top of anyone's list. If nothing else, the Coens know how to end a movie, probably the most elusive element of narrative skillcraft.So why am I unhappy?Because the Coens play a special role in my film life. They are the folks who play games, who explore, who tease and question. They are the Bob Dylans of film. When they create something it has all sorts of extra annotative froth in it, usually cinematic in nature. Its baroque introspection where they pile twisted ironies on top of dishonest self-reference. They are the master of woven layers, of meandering narrative stance. They break where breaks are needed and not expected. They write their own vision, and clearly have that vision first.Here, they start with someone else's vision already written. Here they stick to the clean, the bones not the coral. Here they deliver directness. Their ambiguity is direct, not tangled. Yes, I can celebrate what they've done here. And sure I can say that they did well. But isn't that what we have Ang Lee for? PT Andersen? Sean Penn? When the Coens simply rely on their competence, they steal from us the things that they uniquely can do: confabulate and confuse reality. Now that Woody is all but retired, we need them more than ever, Dude.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.


                
For the love of god, do not let the reviews from those who gave this a 1/10 discourage you from seeing this memorable film. They're just angry because they didn't understand the movie and think it's overrated. If anything it's underrated. I wasn't a fan of Joel and Ethan Coen before this film and even after I'm still not a huge fan. I am, however, a huge fan of the writer of the novel No Country For Old Men and this movie is very faithful to the novel and the Coen's captured the essence of the novel almost perfectly. This is a great action film with some of the most realistic shootouts I've seen in film. It's suspense and even humorous at times. Again, don't let those bad reviews decide for you that you already dislike this movie. The story this movie and book tells is worth it.


                
I decided to read Cormac McCarthys book before watching this movie adaptation, having been a big fan of his more recent novel The Road. I loved the book and ended up uncertain if I wanted to watch the movie as I it was hard to imagine the Coen brothers being able to do it justice. Overall though, I was impressed with their treatment of the story, both in following the text closely and in terms of playing out the author's intentions rather than undermining or erasing them.Having said that, there are some real differences between the two which to me meant the film didn't quite deliver on the story in the way the book did. Most of these differences probably came from a need to keep the running time down, but personally I would have been happy for the movie to be an hour longer and to follow more of the subplots of the book. The most important of those differences for me:â¢ In the book Carla Jean calls the coin toss incorrectly and Chigurh shoots her. They have pretty much the same conversation in both versions, but in the Coens version she refuses to call the toss forcing Chigurh to see it is he, not the coin, deciding her fate.â¢ The book explains why we meet Chigurh in jail, saying he permitted himself to be captured "to see if I could extricate myself by an act of will". Later Chigurh describes this as a vain, foolish act. These facts are not in the movie.â¢ The first hotel confrontation between Moss and Chigurh is altered in the movie; rather than punching out the lock and wounding Moss, Chigurh takes a key from the murdered receptionist and enters Moss' room, where a hiding Moss takes him captive at gunpoint, so they have a chance to see and know each other. Then Moss runs and the shootout begins.â¢ In the book Chigurh delivers the recovered cash to a man he's never met before, and a conversation ensues. In the film it is fairly unclear who Chigurh works for, which makes his character hard to understand.â¢ Where the film last sees Moss alive heading off to have a beer with a lady who calls to him from poolside at her hotel, the book has a whole subplot between him and a young female hitchhiker, to whom he gives money and advice. He actually dies because he puts down his gun when the Mexicans following him take her hostage. This was a big part of the development of the Moss character in the book, with it being clear that Moss was loyal to his wife and would not take advantage of the teenager even when propositioned, and afterwards the hanging question of what his wife would think when he was found dead in a motel with a teenage runaway.Anyway, book versus film aside, this movie features some truly brilliant performances, and is an astounding achievement in storytelling and filmmaking. Wonderful!


                
No Country for Old Men is a uniquely clever, hauntingly intriguing work of art crafted by the Coen Brothers. The ending leaves you gasping for more; some critics interpret this as a terrible end to a terrible movie, but I believe it only makes the movie better. The entire movie, scene after scene, builds up chilling suspense, so much so as to have the viewers wanting that perfect resolute ending so badly that when it doesn't come, they feel betrayed, empty, and therefore hate the movie. But for those who understand that every story does not have a resolute ending, it truly is a masterful work of art. Watch it for it is, a suspenseful thriller that shows us why this country is not for old men. There is no resolute ending, therefore, it is open to the viewer to interpret it however they desire to. As stated earlier, I chose to interpret it as a uniquely clever, hauntingly intriguing work of art crafted by the Coen Brothers.
It is easy to dip into clichés when describing "No Country for Old Men," to talk about the plot that feels as big as West Texas itself, and as someone who has driven through way too many times, it is a gigantic place.Those crutches are understandable, because the movie does feel as big as Texas. The big skies that are in the movie from the very first scene and continue to its close add a sort of inhumanity to the film's atmosphere. The intense yet well-done violence and the terror it produces feels as insignificant to the vistas of West Texas as the scattering of deer that Llewellyn tries to hunt near the beginning of the movie."No Country" manages to combine sublime beauty and rip-roaring fun.(I have seen this several times after Fall 2016, last on May 3, 2017.)


                
When I saw the movie poster I was thrilled and watched the trailer right off. Next day I went to movie theatre and got what I expected exceedingly. Javier Bardem performs ineffable; his acting ability gets at peak. So he honoured with an 'Academy Award' in 2008. I should say that he acts a little bit variegated; actually he shows all his limits in that role. ''No Country for Old Men'' has an immersive story. I always like such a 'Crime-Thriller' movies. Javier Bardem and Josh Brolin struggles for dirty money thus deadly chase starts. I highly recommend to watch this movie If you like thriller.


                
No Country for Old Men won four Academy Awards in 2007, including Best Picture and Best Director(s). Despite the critical acclaim, the Coen Brother's adaptation of Cormac McCarthy's novel was probably a bit of a head-scratcher to many people.The film's narrative begins in familiar fashion, introducing you to the main characters and setting up the plot using recognized, established filmic devices. Llewelyn Moss stumbles upon a suitcase filled with cash and wants to keep it for himself. Anton Chigurh is the sociopath who will stop at nothing to get the cash back. Ed Bell is the Sheriff tasked with bringing Chigurh to justice and, it is presumed, keeping Moss and his wife, Carla Jean, from danger. In addition, there's a corporate backer, a hired gun, and a Mexican gang who are also after the cash (i.e., the McGuffin). So much for the usual narrative elements.When the film continues far beyond the point that the expected narrative structure breaks down, viewers are left to grasp at what the film is actually about. What, if anything, is this film trying to say?I propose that the film is, among other things, a meditation on the impotence of human and divine systems of justice in light of unflinching, unrelenting, random, radical evil. There are a number of elements in the film that indicate such a meditation, but one need not look much further than the meditations of Sheriff Bell, whose words begin and end the film. Consider:"There was this boy I sent to the 'lectric chair at Huntsville Hill here a while back. My arrest and my testimony. He killt a fourteen-year-old girl. Papers said it was a crime of passion but he told me there wasn't any passion to it. Told me that he'd been planning to kill somebody for about as long as he could remember. Said that if they turned him out he'd do it again. Said he knew he was going to hell. 'Be there in about fifteen minutes'. I don't know what to make of that. I sure don't. The crime you see now, it's hard to even take its measure." With these words, the film's "story line" unfolds, with Sheriff Bell trying, and failing, to be effective.At the end of the film, the retired Sheriff Bell describes a dream to his wife:"It was like {my father and I} was both back in older times and I was on horseback going' through the mountains of a night. Going' through this pass in the mountains. It was cold and there was snow on the ground and he rode past me and kept on going'. Never said nothing' going' by. He just rode on past... and he had his blanket wrapped around him and his head down and when he rode past I seen he was carryin' fire in a horn the way people used to do and I could see the horn from the light inside of it. 'Bout the color of the moon. And in the dream I knew that he was going' on ahead and he was fixin' to make a fire somewhere out there in all that dark and all that cold, and I knew that whenever I got there he would be there. And then I woke up." The film is nihilistic in both structure and content. If you would like to force a less despairing ending, Bell's dream could be interpreted as a ray of hope: a light shines in the darkness! On the other hand, it is a dream that he wakes up from.I don't know what to make of that. I sure don't. But that doesn't mean I can't try.


                
The film is set in rural West Texas, with the main character a welder and hunter named Llewelyn Moss (Josh Brolin) discovers the remains of several drug runners who have managed to kill each other in an exchange gone violently wrong. Rather than report the discovery to the sheriff Sheriff Ed Tom Bell (Tommy Lee Jones), He decides to simply to pocket the 2 million dollars for himself. The result of that decision puts a psychopathic killer, Anton Chigurh (Javier Bardem), on his trail by the drug cartel. This killer is a dispassionate murderer of nearly every rival, bystander and even his employer in his pursuit of Moss. As Moss desperately attempts to keep one step ahead, the blood from this hunt begins to flow behind him with relentlessly growing intensity as Chigurh closes in. Meanwhile, the laconic Sheriff Ed Tom Bell blithely oversees the investigation even as he struggles to face the sheer enormity of the crimes he is attempting to thwart. This is a Coen brothers' team of direction and production that is beautifully terse and very intense. The film provides "edge of your seat" and these quickly paced action scenes are tightly constructed and presented like a Hitchcock film with its almost morbid silence in the showing of the act of murder. Any lesser movie would seemingly dissolve into cat and mouse territory, by the middle of the film, but here there are more shoot outs and standoffs galore and the viewer begs to anticipate what is happening next, but cannot. Nothing is ever quite what it seems in this bleak but mesmerizing country, as Tommy Lee Jones shows up as a soon to be retired sheriff, and commands the screen by pumping the drama with morality and reality versus the mayhem preceding him. It is a very unique film that begs watching again and again.
Now I've seen some harsh reviews, but I'll always stand by the notion that everyone is entitled to their own opinion. Plus that's not to say that this film hasn't been received well critically. However, when people make assertions like 'this films overrated' without being able to substatantiate that opinion it frustrates me because it gives this film a bad rep without good cause.Now the reason I love this film is because it puts into practise that all too rare technique of showing, not telling. These days so much exposition and plot is just spoon fed to us in really haphazard and unnatural dialogue. In the first 10 minutes of this film you learn all you need to know about the two main characters with maybe two sentences? Not even dialogue. And more than that this film doesn't treat you like an ignoramus.The film uses a lot of metaphors and analogies - so a lot of people will call it artsy or pretentious but they brings me back to my disclaimer. It's just one of those subjective things.Another thing I like about this film is that it's very brooding or moody which for a thriller is great, you're constantly on edge. Javier Bardem as the antagonist is iconic. He's not your standard relentless murdering psychopath, he is a character with a code and morales. It is a complicated film, it tells a linear story but follows multiple story archs and the film is very quiet which many people don't like surprisingly. Some people might find the ending alienating. But ultimately the film ends on an important social comment about humanity, modern society, age and so much more. It's a very interpretive film hence why it has such a dichotomous reception. Anyway, I'm rambling now, it's late and I'm tired.Good day.
Fargo, had its quirky character and its grotesque moments, but this film is all about a subdued natures intermixed with quick action. For what I expected, I got some of it, but also a bit more of a subdued air and timing than I expected. It would do things in spurts, action at the beginning then a lull and more thunder. It worked great for keeping one on edge, which Brolin did, excellently in the lead role lying awake thinking too hard. Jones too was good in a strong supporting role as a close to retirement sheriff who is on the outside shaking his head at the carnage and mayhem unleashed by the simple finding and taking of a satchel full of money.The real gem and glue of the film though is Javier Bardem's menacing character who has his own brand of justice, which is extremely harsh and well insane. Even the one who claims to know him cannot even begin to stop or even slow him down. Bardem whom I have not had the pleasure of seeing in anything before is gold and like no other before looks to have the supporting actor award locked up in this performance. His presence is felt, even when he does not show up. That is something I have not seen in film well since probably The Third Man and Orson Welles' character Harry Lime.I cannot really describe the film that well so I will suffice to say that is best modern western tale I have seen since The Three Burials of Melquiades, which also happened to have Tommy Lee Jones and was directed by him to boot. Another thing I noted was the lack of strong score. The filmmakers just seemed to let the sounds of the creaking boots and the desert landscape speak for the film. It felt natural and a bit menacing.


                
This film had a great impact on me.The desert, the people who inhabit and the start with the metaphoric wild animals and the hunter sets the pace for the ensuing drama graphically told. Every moment is breathtaking and makes you participate in the proceedings. The screenplay unfolds a wide canvas for a wild journey for the good, bad and ugly men.sometimes one feels why human beings behave in such despicable fashion without reason or remorse for their fellow beings. Riveting performances of each actor brings the true element of 'make believe' aided by excellent cinematography,editing and direction. In recent times no other film affected me so much as this one. Every lover of 'good Cinema' should watch this film.


                
"No Country for Old Men" is an excellent film. Written and directed by Ethan and Joel Coen, and based on a novel by Cormac McCarthy (which I haven't read), it is a stylish, bleak and brooding movie with undertones of a Western and of film noir and with an almost matchless evocation of time, mood, place and character. It is also surprisingly amusing in places.Set in Texas in 1980 (the date can be pinpointed by one scene in the film in which a coin minted in 1958 is described as being 22 years old), it tells the story of Llewelyn Moss (played by Josh Brolin). Moss, a young veteran of the Vietnam War, is a welder by trade. He and his wife Carla Jean (Kelly Macdonald) have little money and live in a modest house trailer. While out hunting one day, Moss encounters the detritus of a drugs scam that has evidently misfired. There are several dead bodies and a number of abandoned vehicles strewn around the scene, as well as a dead dog. One of the vehicles contains a huge consignment of drugs. The money deriving from the deal - $2 million - is also there, in a briefcase next to a dead man. Moss thinks quickly and decides to purloin the cash. Unfortunately for him, that money is being sought by Anton Chigurh (Javier Bardem). Chigurh is a ruthless, vicious, evil man, with psychopathic tendencies. He will happily and perfunctorily decide whether to kill or to spare someone literally on the toss of a coin. Chigurh carries a canister of compressed air around with him. He uses it, amongst other things, to help to break into premises. He also has a stun gun, with which he kills anyone who attempts to thwart him. It emits a cylinder into his victim's head and thrusts it back afterwards. Sheriff Bell (Tommy Lee Jones) and his assistant are the law enforcement representatives who attempt to prevent Chigurh's murderous stalking of Moss. "No Country for Old Men" is essentially about the complex nature of evil, as personified by Chigurh. He is cold, ruthless and unfeeling but also displays some (admittedly weird) principles in his behaviour. In one scene late in the film, he needlessly goes after Carla Jean precisely because he thinks such action is a matter of principle. Moss had earlier refused to compromise with him and to hand over the money even though Chigurh had said that Moss's failure to do so would result in his having to assassinate Carla Jean. Chigurh therefore feels duty bound to carry out his threat. The cinematography, the screenplay and the direction are first rate, as is the acting. It would perhaps be invidious to single out any one particular member of the cast, given that everyone is so good. But, for me, Bardem is the star. His performance as Chigurh is astonishingly good. There is one distinctly memorable scene in which he confronts the owner of a gas (petrol) station in the middle of nowhere and chillingly plays mind games with him about whether he will kill him or not. That scene is brilliantly acted by Bardem (and by Gene Jones who plays the gas station owner). "No Country for Old Men" is a classy, intelligent and entertaining film. It is a must-see. 9/10.


                
"No Country For Old Men" is a brilliant film, proved by its four well-deserved Academy Awards. Though the used camera techniques are not as spectacular or revolutionary as in other films such as "The Matrix", it is nonetheless an effective and vital part of the final product. From the discovering of the shoot-out and the money to the never-ending hunt across the deserts and streets of Texas, there are some great nuggets of camera-work, hidden for those who look for them. In this review we will categorize the scenes in three sections, and then analyze the camera techniques applied in that. These techniques are: Desert scenes, focusing on the setting and camera-work, then the use of special camera effects and realistic ones, and lastly; the camera-work in the urban scenes.As said; first up are the rural desert shots of Texas and New Mexico. The desert scenes are excellently done often filmed from knee or standard body height it gives the feeling you're right there in the idle of it. The perfect example of this is the stumbling of Moss on the Mexican drug deal shoot-out. Filmed from knee height, like many other scenes, it both gives the viewer the feeling he is there walking alongside Moss. In addition this perspective makes it more difficult for the viewer to have an overview of the current situation. By this the directors are creating more tension all along, as none know what happens next and what dangers Moss will face. By contrast the overview 'flying' shots let you see the vastness of the desert, how small and insignificant human settlement is there. This is mostly done when the characters are on their own, alone in the sand covered landscape. This view gives them a sense of loneliness and isolation. Other themes are also conveyed here, albeit less clearly. One example is that in these lone shots the characters seem both hunters and hunted, hunting alone and being watched from above.In this film there has not been made an extensive use of lenses and or filters. We have not spotted any special color effects. We have only noted one function for each of the techniques: wide-angle lenses for the overview scenes and filters to make certain scenes a little bit darker to add to the tension in that particular scene. But maybe this means that it's very well done. As often the case with backstage work: when you don't notice it is a job well done. Rather unique in "No Country for Old Men" is the absence of music throughout the film. For example when characters are walking through the desert the only sounds you hear are those by the boots in the sand. This also adds to the tension, especially in scenes at the place of the drug-battle, and it increases the viewers' focus. This feeling of really living in it is also partially created by the shots in which you look from the viewpoint of the character. For example when the camera is looking down at the hood of the car, r through the windshield, this makes you feel like you are behind the wheel.There a few chase scenes in urban environments in "No Country For Old Men". These environments include motel rooms and small houses. Because of the fact that these places are small the viewer is very close to the protagonist, mostly Moss, so there are lots of close-ups in these scenes. In these chases the viewer follows only one character, so they don't see what the other (Anton Chigurh) is doing. This has the same effect as the knee shots in the deserts; the lack of overview gets the viewer on the edge of their seat. The camera positions are extremely well executed and give an excellent atmosphere to the scenes. Another specific scene is during the night in a Southern Town. There are no people on the street and it almost feels like a horror movie. In the scenes in which the characters speak together in a house or some other type of building, you identify with the characters. These spots are also small spaced, so you feel like you are in the middle of the conversation, looking -like the camera- at the speakers from different angles. The shots in which all the characters are displayed are and the lighting are great throughout the film.We think "No Country for Old Men" with great camera-work and sound effects. The perspective adds very well to how the viewer observes the film. The award-winning directors Joel and Ethan Coen have once again shown where their status has come from. The film has justly received some high-praised awards including the Oscar for the best film and also many positive reviews from well-known newspapers and websites. We can not wait to see the next Coen brothers' film!


                
No Country for Old Men is a movie that will most likely flop in theaters. It is not the kind of flick you will hear people raving about (unless you have a lot of movie-addicts as friends) and flocking to the production in large numbers. It is not the kind of movie that most people will want to see over and over again. But this is also perhaps the precise reason why it is such a thrilling, fantastic film that will garner ridiculous adoration from a subset of viewers who don't like their action movies spoon fed to them by Hollywood with Will Smith delivering witty one-liners throughout. No Country for Old Men stands on its own as one of the finest action movies ever produced, though to call it simply an "action" movie drastically understates the ambitious reach of author Cormac McCarthy and producers Joel and Ethan Coen.Set in the Southwestern United States, No Country is a story about Llewelyn Moss (Josh Brolin), a hunter who finds $2 million in cash in a drug deal in the middle of the desert, with no one around to guard it except several decaying bodies. Being a poor man clutching to existence in a remote part of the country, he decides to keep the money and hope for the best. When Anton Chigurh, played unsettlingly by Javier Bardem, comes looking for the money, the entire plot becomes "a mess," as Ed Tom Bell (Tommy Lee Jones) succinctly puts it. This movie is the opposite of a B-rate slaughterhouse of gore and torture. It chooses to seethe, to ooze tension and leave our imaginations to do the worst. Rather than club you over the head with grisly pictures, the machinations of the Coen brothers are carefully sculpted to extract the maximum amount of impact from each confrontation while keeping the gore to an essential minimum.Part of what makes No Country so brilliant is how focused each scene appears to us, how they delight in the subtle nuances of character, portraying them as common individuals who are mostly clueless to deal with the changing forces around them. The austere humor of each individual echoes this, as they deliver their own guileless assessments of life and love, delivered in a Southwestern slang that many will mistake for a lack of wisdom. Yet each role here is superbly designed to beg for reflection, to ponder the choices they made, and to examine their own flaws and virtues. In short, every character means something to the plot, and the ramifications of what happens to them are always noticed and felt by the viewer. When one dies, it releases a torrent of emotion that will leave us feeling bereft of something substantial.And that is perhaps the most significant departure from the typical movie of No Country for Old Men. The action scenes here are visceral, they are gripping, and they are well-designed, the same as many other films appearing this year in theaters. What is different here is intuition of the directors, who realize that silence in a gunfight can provide much more tension than a constant rain of bullets. The most unbearable moments in No Country are the seconds before the trigger is pulled, where life and death are temporarily suspended. After each confrontation, an audible gasp is almost necessary. This film is equally as unnerving because the next battle is always around the corner <U+0096> if not with guns, then with words, and if not with words, with the idea of how to deal with death, life, and our past.It is in these somber ruminations that No Country is saved from being a nihilistic retelling of fate. Without the distantly observant comments made by Tommy Lee Jones' character (Bell), the earnest method by which Moss (Brolin) moves through the scenes with an uneasy balance between fear and arrogance, or the chilling ideology of Chigurh (Bardem), this movie would have been another two hours of mindless bloodletting, as desolate as the landscape. Instead, No Country is full of choices, consequences, and the motives that drive us, a film that stands tall in a sea of much poorer clones. Even the ending, which may leave some scratching their head, and others angered, is as devastatingly stark and unapologetic as the rest of the production, offering no "feel better" pill, only the vague ideas of a desperate situation, and a person who has simply had enough. It is potentially the most unnerving quality in the entire film: The ending is simply too realistic for its own good, departing from underneath our conscience with only a few words to see us home. What is not spoken aloud is what makes No Country for Old Men a classic. Hard to watch, and easy to enjoy.


                
This film really gripped me, but not in any spectacular way, more for the un/ethical values that often creep through the film at quite inopportune times. Despite the violence -although credibly a restrained use of foul-language- the film cannot really be said to be brutal, and instead examines the sinful natures of two men, who both mete out the seven equally, and never really balance the moral with the ethical value of life over the pursuit of death; instead they pursue their own agendas without regard to society or the law. By the close of the film it could equally be argued the law is culpable in sharing the pie of sin.Another intriguing element is that none of the main protagonists actually meet face-to-face, despite the cat and mouse battle between Bardem and Brolin. This may reflect the changing state of crime in the US, at least on film. In classic cowboy film the two protagonists would ultimately end face to face, or be overwhelmed by the forces of good and admonished from our conscience. But in NCFOM the law in the shape of Tommy Lee Jones is reduced to an ineffective theologian mulling over the changing nature of society in the face of law, and as such most of the revealing discourse comes through Jones.There are subtle elements to the film that carry the tale beyond the end, and often cause you to view the film to reason the logic for such simple elements such as when both characters desperately seek to purchase a shirt to evade a critical moment. All of which proves Joel and Ethan Cohen are becoming incredible talents in Hollywood, and their determination to do something new with script often translates into intriguing and dramatic film.


                
"No Country for Old Men" isn't a hard movie to enjoy. Not the the acclaimed Oscar-Winning filmmakers Joel and Ethan Coen (Fargo, O Brother Where Art Thou ?, Raising Arizona) certainly rise to the occasion with this intriguing film that won Four Academy Awards... including Best Picture, Best Director(s), and Best Supporting Actor (Javier Bardem).An Ordinary Man by the name of Llewelyn Moss (Josh Brolin) finds his way into a bloody crime scene. He sees a couple of dead bodies, a dead dog and a pickup full of heroin. But Llewelyn also discover two million dollars that he couldn't resist. But a cold blooded killer named Anton Chirugh (Bardem) follows the trail of West Texas to find the money. Now it's a game of Cat and Mouse, which Llewelyn tries to outsmart Chriugh to no success. A decided sheriff named Ed Tom Bell (Oscar-Winner Tommy Lee Jones) finds himself caught in the middle.Directed Joel and Ethan Coen, who also wrote the Oscar-Winning adaptation from the Pulitzer Prize Author Cormac McCarthy (All the Pretty Horses, The Road). The Coen Brothers made an highly watchable film, it has atmospheric Texas landscapes, realistic settings, incredible suspense, clever touches of black comedy, tightly edited (Which the Coen Brothers won another Oscar but they used a pseudonym for editing the movie) and Bardem's scene-stealing performance as a psychopath murderer makes this movie... a must see.The Production Values are used strongly here, especially Roger Deakins' widescreen cinematography (He received an Oscar nomination for his work) and the rate use of no music score in the movie (expect only in the credits) makes this picture extremely tense by using only sound effects by giving the feature more credit. Anyone who enjoys thrillers will be not disappointed.The actors are top notch here... Jones' gives an quiet good performance as a West Texas Sheriff, who doesn't like the way civilization is crumbling (Which the film's title would make sense to his character). Brolin is very good as the man will do anything to keep his irresistible two million dollars. Bardem is outstanding here, he gives one of the most coldest killers in film history (Not to mention his character name Anton Chigurh is certainly memorable). Kelly MacDonald is fine as Moss' worried wife, Carla Jean. Woody Harrelson has a few scenes as a hired hit-men to kill Chigurh and find the money. Stephen Root (Best known for doing the voice of Bill in the animated series "King of the Hill") plays a mysterious rich drug runner, who tries to rip-off Chigurh. Garret Dillahunt (Just recently played Krug in the remake of "The Last House on the Left") gives the movie some comic relief as a inexperienced sheriff.Although i never read the novel. This is a solid motion picture with hair-raising suspense, it has a sense of humor and a strong cast. I wasn't surprise, when this movie won the top categories at the Academy Awards. This was one of the most critically acclaimed features of 2007. It is a movie, i would watch every year. But i think, it was close being a masterpiece (Which are truly rare in today's cinema). I felt the only fault in the movie is in the end, when Bell recently retired from being the sheriff. He sits quietly in the kitchen table with his wife (Tess Harper). He tells two stories about him as a boy, he found lost money that was given by his late father. The other story that his father rode past him on a snowy mountain pass, going ahead to make a fire in the surrounding cold darkness. Whenever Bell got there, he knew his father would be waiting... then he woke up. I felt the conclusion ended abruptly. I remember seeing that movie with an audience, they were certainly confused. But i wasn't and i thought that wasn't really the right way to end a terrific movie like this, that's the only flaw in it.The DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.35:1) transfer and an strong Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. The DVD also includes three featurettes. Overall "No Country for Old Men" is a excellent movie. I haven't seen this much suspense handed so genuinely like this before. It is certainly the most straightforward film coming from the Coen Brothers. Which they are known for their bizarre original comedies. It's a certainly an modern near classic that should not be missed. Super 35. (**** 1/2 out of *****).
Movies that stimulate plenty of discussion about whether they are good or bad or awful are probably movies that should be seen more than once. I had that feeling after seeing films like '2001: A Space Odyssey' and 'The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly.' Not much really happens in those movies and they have a lengthy runtime. Kubrick's film has 88 minutes of no dialog. That's like making a feature length film and not having any spoken dialog, and by today's standards (even 1968 standards) that is odd. The Coen Brothers' latest film has that quality to it. Not a whole lot happens for large parts of the film.The fact of the matter is that not a whole SEEMS to happen. Take one of the opening scenes as Llewelyn sees the man sitting underneath the tree. He looks at him, nothing. He looks again, nothing. He moves in closer, rifle trained, nothing. He sees the man has bled. The bag next to the dead body has money, a lot of money. So he takes it. Aesthtically, not much happens as Llewelyn just warily approaches the tree. Mentally, however, is where the action is. Llewelyn is part afraid, part curious, but being cautious enough to keep his wits and try not to get killed. Obviously from the previous scene we see that the money in question is a hot item and a good deal of people died for it.In today's special effects drenched age people seem to have completely forgotten what real tension and suspense is. It is not a huge wall of fire (a la 'Independence Day') coming at you, but what is going through your head when you see that wall of fire coming. With this film, the Coens have put the tension in an intentionally bare landscape in order to show as little aesthetic flair as possible. This amplifies the psychological impact and suspense as there seems to be nowhere for Llewelyn to hide from a killer who also seems to appear from nowhere. Call it a MacGuffin technique or whatever floats your boat.The film is also highly more symbolic than the typical movie of today. Many things are implied, not actually shown. Much of the dialog and situations are allegorical (or applicable) to things much more general than a search for dirty money. Thus, this isn't a film solely for entertainment, which is what people want today (many people, not all). This is a film that first and foremost attempts to stimulate thought like '2001' and 'The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly.' The abundant discussion here about whether it was good or bad or boring or pointless pretty much seems to confirm just that. People are talking about it. Whether it is out of frustration of praise is almost incidental, since it only confirms that the Coens achieved their goal. Maybe soon we'll see a director(s) make an actual film in response to this one. That is what living art is all about - it acts and reacts, just like its characters. --- 9/10Rated R for violence. Ages 13+


                
