The truth is that it's a well-known fact that Kristen Lombardi of the Boston Phoenix broke this story long before the cowardly editors at the Boston Globe finally ran their version. She, Lombardi, and the Phoenix did the dirty work and the Globe took the credit and is still taking the credit. The rumor, at the time, was that the Globe was bullied by the church into denying that any of the stories published by the Phoenix were true. The Globe became complicit in helping the church keep the story as quiet as possible. This movie is based on a gross misrepresentation of the facts and is being sold on television shows like 'Charlie Rose' as a monument to the Globe's courage and capability in investigative journalism.


                
So I watched this on the plane, had plenty of time to kill, because it won an Oscar, yet it was as exciting as watching paint dry...We get it that the subject matter is controversial and it's an "important event" in reality. THAT DOESN'T MEAN IT MAKES IT A PLEASURABLE ENTERTAINING FILM (and no, I don't need Michael Bay or ridiculous 'Taken' action sequences; I'm looking for a story that has great build-up, brings in different emotions, blows my mind or puts me on the edge, etc). You say 'WHAT?! You don't find people in the church raping young children finally being exposed by a local newspaper move you in anyway?!" The real-life story/subject matter, yes... but NOT this film. If your "enjoyment" is just observing a depiction of what we already knew and was established, then this is for you.There really are no satisfying or shocking moments/ending. What you see is what you already know... you don't really get anything out of it. The journey does not flow well. How can anyone find this movie "shocking" when we already knew about the premise and it really adds nothing new to it? I mean, for a movie like TITANIC, we KNOW the ship is going to sink, but the EXPERIENCE of the film made it worthwhile. Spotlight fails on the EXPERIENCE. It is as boring as observing a meeting at an office. For this to win an Oscar just meant they like to give awards to the 'underdog' or just simply because of the controversy subject matter.This film is on the same level as when 'The Artist' won Oscar - another overrated boring film (probably forgotten by most people by now; as much as I can enjoy black and white films) - which just simply won more for the IDEA than the quality of the film. Skip it.


                
The only thing strong about the movie was its subject, and that perhaps got people to the theater, other than that a drag, with absolutely no story line. The acting was OK, but actors had little margin to show any acting skill.Its hard to understand what did the investigation team did ? They went through some old documents and talked to a couple of lawyers. Thats not enough for a story line. There is nothing extra ordinary that the so called spotlight team did - things just came to them - and they didn't do earlier anything for 20 years and finally published a report. In case its an advertisement for the Boston Globe, its a bad one. The worst part is that its an important subject and needed a better effort than this.


                
I went into this film with an open mind. just having come fresh off "The Revenant", I was expecting a good drama. with people you care about and people you could connect with. but when viewing this movie, I got a two hour long snore fest that makes "The Host" from 2013 look like an Oscar contender. "Spotlight" is one of the most over hyped movies of the 2015 award season."Spotlight" follows the Boston Globe's Spotlight team's investigation of child abuse in the Boston area by the local priests. It stars Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, John Slattery, Stanley Tucci, Brian d'Arcy James, Liev Schreiber, and Billy Crudup.Everyone describes this movie as "The best drama of 2015" to which I say What movie did you people watch? The movie is incredibly BORING. There's no drama, you don't connect with any of the characters portrayed in the film, and there's no intensity. Now, when I watch a movie, I expect good acting, a good story, good characters, good direction, and most importantly, a good bond between me and the people on screen.As far as acting goes, both Mark Ruffalo and Rachel McAdams give some fantastic performances. Easily worthy of Oscar nominations. Michael Keaton on the other hand, is once again a horrible actor. This movie did not make me like him any more than what I previously did. Granted I didn't review last year's Birdman, but I watched it and thought it was a garbage movie that made no sense. I hated him in "Birdman" and I hated him now in "Spotlight." Don't quit your day job Mr. Keaton, that's all I can really say about you. As for the other actors, the film was so boring to me I don't remember how the other actors preformed.At two hours and eight minutes, "spotlight" dragged on as if it was 2 months and 8 days. it just wouldn't end. Now, "The Revenant" is Two hours and Thirty-Six minutes Long. I had just come off of watching that movie, and it felt like One hour and 10 Minutes.Overall "Spotlight" is an over hyped, waste of time that should not be watched. This movie should be a 0.1% because of how boring it is. 8.9% is FAR to Generous. DO NOT watch this movie. save your money and go watch "Room". "Room" has a much better Narrative, better characters that you root for, a much better plot, and better acting.Unfortunately, IMDb doesn't allow you to give movies 0 stars or 0 out of 10s, so I have to live with giving "Spotlight" a 1 out of 10. An awful disgrace of a movie which should never be viewed by everyone. If you're an Academy Member and you're reading this, DO NOT vote for this movie. there are FAR better award movies out such as "The Martian", "Mad Max Fury Road", "Room", "The Revenant", and even "Carol".Final Rating: 1/10. (0 out of 10 if I were allowed to.)


                
Don't do it, you have been warned. I watched Spotlight and Revenant in 2 weeks. Wasted 5 hours and $30, I should have just stuck needles into my eyes for those 5hours it would have been less painful...just. I don't know what I was thinking, glutton for punishment. Worst move of 2015 Revenant to second worst movie of 2015 Spotlight. Note to self:do not listen to professional critics, trust your gut instinct. You always have to wander out of the comfort zone...stick to your local films and foreign language films. I shake my head in wonder at how this movie managed to get an Oscar. There is very little truth to the story, another paper had broken the story earlier and also it was already well known by the time the Globe jumped on board. It was like watching a news segment that lasts 2 hours. I'll watch Fox News for two hours if I want my news fiddled with and most likely end up with the same feeling of regret. At least it would be free. The actors did not gel in my opinion, there were some fine actors in the ensemble but something just didn't click.


                
I can't remember a movie that's SO by-the-numbers as this movie was. I don't get the Oscar win. Everyone has that movie that everybody loves but you just HATE. This is mine I guess. Think investigative reporter- movie and chances are you'll think of something more exciting than this. I thought The Revenant was boring too but that's a trimming issue. It had some very memorable cinematic scenes I can still remember. Spotlight feels like a Law and Order episode. Ugh..I'm out.


                
I've never been so disappointed since they picked that silent movie starring a dog for best picture. Even clown posse fans could pick a better movie. Take away the subject matter. Make it a story about the housing collapse and this movie would have tanked at the box office and shoved away like the detritus it is. It's incredibly banal and uninteresting. Great cast who in every scene seem to be raising their hand like "i've got something", "i've got something". On top of that it's an incredible rewrite of the facts. Google it yourself. It was well known long before this that some priests, everywhere, were abusing kids and the church knew about it. The only thing that came out of this investigation was the fact that this one particular diocese had an official policy of covering up the issue. There's no watergate story here. Besides the misrepresentation, there's no movie here. The acting is bland, bland, bland, details hard to follow and no suspense, or conclusion. Like a long out joke with a confusing punchline.
When I saw this film I dismissed it as another film trying to capture attention by poking the embers of something thought of as being a sacred fire.It really sheds little light on how to deal with the subject and just seems to cash in on the furor over child molestation. It certain does not present the 'other side' or much useful information, other than this is not at all acceptable.Priest bashing had been going on for a dozen years and all this film does is stir the embers. I thought the subject was over with the Jerry Sandusky episode, but I guess not.I saw no new territory covered and would suggest everyone skip it. Now that it just won the academy award, it might be viewed to see if it was worthy of the award. Worth of being made into a film yes, but worthy of the best film of the year status no.


                
Very boring movie
I didn't enjoy while watching this movie, unfortunately i disappointed of this movie
This is a good movie telling the truth...but actually the time and chronology of multiple real events make it, ANTI-ANTI-ANTI-INSIDE JOB OF 9/11 fact. :D Shifting the blame hideously and in a whispering way towards the church. It can fool people. It has fooled generations. It has fooled whole of history readers. The script and videography is similar to many middle east movie seen or made. But it is appreciable that such intelligence exists. But beyond that, only few people can catch it. the seed they are tring to plant... anti-anti-anti-insidejob fact.It is a good movie. It won an Oscar.It earned an Oscar. It was given an Oscar for reasons beyond history or our generation.


                
