This movie undid something inside of me. It's that part of you that holds on to hope that people can be good, that there is hope for humanity. I knew the basics of it when I went to watch it: that it is about investigative reporters looking into a story of abuse in the catholic church. And it uncovered so much more than just that. Honestly, this movie should be seen by anyone who seeks the true face of the world. We don't live in a pink bubble of happiness. F*cked up things happen to people all the time; worst thing is when it happens to the innocent. The little ones who can't protect themselves. When they are robbed of their faith and their hope and their future. Sitting in the film theatre on the last row, I was brought to tears as in front of me a long list of places where victims spoke out was scrolling. I was both shocked and mad. I felt sorry that people can fail so miserably. "Mike Rezendes: They knew and they let it happen! It could've been you, it could've been me, it could've been any of us." Indeed. When we witness darkness and we shut up and we don't do anything about it, that's when we fail. A poet once wrote, "You can join the millions talking in the dark. Or you can stand up and scream light, out into the night." So choose to stand up. In your profession choose to eradicate the oblivion of evil. This movie is a masterpiece. From the dedication of the actors to their roles, to the script, the director and the cinematography. The score? Fantastic. Howard Shore did it again!


                
I've rated almost a hundred movies and I've only ever given out six 10s on this website. I don't rave about many movies and I am tough to please when it comes to film, but this film is absolute brilliance. It is flawless. This one earns its 10 and it is one of the best films I have ever seen. Everything about this film is brilliant. The camera work is great and the score is underrated. However, what makes this film is an absolutely genius screenplay that is acted to perfection. This script will rock your world. I am not Catholic. I didn't grow up in a deeply Catholic area, but this film still affected me greatly. Everyone should see this movie for that reason. That is something that you have to see for yourself. However, I'd like to focus a little more on the technical aspects. Beyond the fact that the subject matter is heavy and extremely important to American and world culture, this movie does everything else right. The acting is absolutely phenomenal. This is particularly true for Ruffalo and McAdams. I adore the subtlety with which they both act. It is brilliant. There isn't much more to say. This film is pure brilliance from its opening frame to its closing moment. For both cinematic and cultural reasons, this is a film that every person should see.


                
Going into the theater to see Spotlight, I had read the rave reviews and knew I was in for something special. This movie did not disappoint! Being from Boston, this movie really made me think about my life growing up, as a lot of "what ifs" came to mind. "What if" I went to church every Sunday..."what if" I was gullible enough to have a priest lure me into his lair. Spotlight goes straight to the heart of this amazingly sad (and apparently never-ending) saga of the Catholic church and the amount of abuse priests have inflicted on hundreds of victims. The acting is all-around fantastic, from Mr. Keaton to some actors that I am not familiar with, which is an aspect of this fine movie that makes it so profound. Tense throughout, I was saddened to hear that this abuse is an epidemic and probably will never be stopped. The exclamation point was when a member of the audience stood up and told the rest of us "...I am a survivor..." WOW...


                
Spotlight is a 2015 American biographical drama film directed by Tom McCarthy and written by McCarthy and Josh Singer. The film follows The Boston Globe's "Spotlight" team, the oldest continuously operating newspaper investigative unit in the United States, and its investigation into cases of widespread and systemic child sex abuse in the Boston area by numerous Roman Catholic priests. It is based on a series of stories by the real Spotlight Team that earned The Globe the 2003 Pulitzer Prize for Public Service. The film stars Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, John Slattery, Stanley Tucci, Brian d'Arcy James, Liev Schreiber, and Billy Crudup.Spotlight was shown in the Out of Competition section of the 72nd Venice International Film Festival. It was also shown at the Telluride Film Festival and the Special Presentations section of the 2015 Toronto International Film Festival. The film was released on November 6, 2015, by Open Road Films. It won numerous guilds and critics' association awards, and was named one of the finest films of 2015 by various publications. It is nominated for six Academy Awards including Best Film Editing, Best Supporting Actor: Mark Ruffalo, Best Supporting Actress: Rachel McAdams, Best Original Screenplay, Best Director, and Best Picture.In 2001, The Boston Globe hires a new editor, Marty Baron. Baron meets Walter "Robby" Robinson, the editor of the Spotlight team, a small group of journalists writing investigative articles that take months to research and publish. After Baron reads a Globe column about a lawyer, Mitchell Garabedian, who says that Cardinal Law (the Archbishop of Boston) knew that the priest John Geoghan was sexually abusing children and did nothing to stop him, he urges the Spotlight team to investigate. Journalist Michael Rezendes contacts Garabedian, who initially declines interview. Though he is told not to, Rezendes reveals that he is on the Spotlight team, persuading Garabedian to talk.Initially believing that they are following the story of one priest who was moved around several times, the Spotlight team begin to uncover a pattern of sexual abuse of children by Catholic priests in Massachusetts, and an ongoing cover-up by the Boston Archdiocese. Through a man who heads a victim's rights organization, they widen their search to thirteen priests. They learn through an ex-priest who worked trying to rehabilitate pedophile priests that there should be approximately ninety abusive priests in Boston. Through their research, they develop a list of eighty-seven names, and begin to find their victims to back up their suspicions. When the September 11 attacks occur, the team is forced to deprioritize the story. They regain momentum when Rezendes learns from Garabedian that there are publicly available documents that confirm Cardinal Law was aware of the problem and ignored it. After The Boston Globe wins a case to have even more legal documents unsealed, the Spotlight Team finally begins to write the story, and plan to publish their findings in early 2002.As they are about to go to print, Robinson confesses to the team that he was sent a list of twenty pedophile priests in 1993 in a story he never followed up on. Baron, nevertheless, tells Robinson and the team that the work they are doing is important. The story goes to print with a link leading to the documents that expose Cardinal Law, and a phone number requesting victims of pedophile priests to come forward. The following morning, the Spotlight team is inundated with phone calls from victims coming forward to tell their stories. The film closes with a list of places in the United States and around the world where the Catholic Church has been involved in concealing abuse by priests.
It won best film, deservedly so. This is a film that resonated with me long after I watched it. The complicated tale of the investigation of paedophile priests in Boston and the publication of it is told in riveting fashion by Tom Macarthy who does not waste a frame or a scene to anything less than the plot or character development. I never felt the running time or in any way disbelieved any of the actors in their portrayals.Keaton seems to be on a total roll at the moment and he is excellent as the head of Spotlight but the whole ensemble seemed to put in a real shift. This felt like a documentary at times and I could feel the audience around me leaning forward as each new revelation is uttered. Just brilliant.


                
Throughout the year I watched many movies and by the middle of the year I was finding it hard to watch a movie. I really had to force my self. I thought my love for movies is dying and I'm more of a TV person now. I was wrong. This movie (and the big short) proved to me that it wasn't me, it was actually the movies I've seen this year.This movie has it's flaws for sure. But the acting, script, direction, design and pace of the movie adds a lot to an already strong and heart breaking story. I was on the edge of my seat and even after the movie ended I couldn't move for a while. A well made film that I recommend to any drama fan. It certainly helped me find my love for movies again.Even with it's flaws I give it a 9.5


                
... because by the time the credits roll and you start to breathe normally again, you will suddenly realize that this was not a horror film as such, this was a re-enactment of events that actually happened, with real victims and real perpetrators and real well-meaning third parties covering up the whole thing as fast as the body count kept piling up.And then you will once again have difficulty catching your breath.As a film it is superb. McCarthy who did double duty as writer and director deserves acknowledgement. The cast is universally excellent. Ruffalo gives the performance of his career, Keaton is solid as a rock, and McAdams reaps overdue dividends from her decision to broaden her career into non-glamorous roles at a time when the only scripts they were sending her were for Diva parts. Smart lady.A reviewer is not supposed to interject personal feelings in a review but I will say without apology that I miss films like these -- films that speak for the injustice in society and offer solutions -- and wish there were more of them. It seems that when I was younger there was a lot more interest in doing the right thing merely because it was the right thing. This no longer seems to be the societal meme, and that troubles me.A must-see.


                
In "All the President's Men", young reporters Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein uncovered a national political scandal when they, through their investigative journalism, revealed the White House under then President Richard Nixon was using campaign funding to finance dirty tricks of political enemies, nicknamed Watergate. In "Spotlight", a similar team of investigative reporters reveal a scandal of epic proportions which makes much of the Watergate scandal seem tame by comparison. They uncovered widespread sexual abuse of minors committed by priests of the Roman Catholic Church who, in turn, hid the crimes. Michael Rezendes (Mark Ruffalo), Walter V. Robinson (Michael Keaton), Sacha Pfeiffer (Rachel McAdams), Martin "Marty" Baron (Leiv Schreiber), Ben Bradlee Jr. (John Slattery), and Matt Carroll (Brian d'Arcy James) work for a group of investigative reporters within the Boston Globe called "Spotlight" who succeed in finding the skeletons in the Boston Diocese proverbial closet. For many years prior to the sexual abuse scandal, Spotlight had investigated and reported on many other ground-breaking stories.The story begins with a quick flash-back to 1976 when a priest is jailed for sexual abusing a minor. The film then cuts to 2001. Marty Baron (Schreiber), a Jewish Floridian, becomes the main editor for the Boston Globe. He meets the different editors and journalists, and learns of work by Spotlight. A Globe column reveals a lawyer, Mitchell Garabedian, claims Cardinal Law, then Archbishop of Boston, knew Father John Geoghan, a priest within Law's diocese, was sexually abusing children, and the bishop did not bring him to the attention of authorities. Baron urges the Spotlight team to investigate further to see whether the claim is true and an isolated incident, or if there is more to the story. The "seed" is similar to the break-in of the democratic headquarters at the Watergate Complex which eventually revealed the Nixon White House had been engaging in multiple plots against perceived political enemies.The Spotlight team is headed by Walter "Robby" Robinson (Keaton), a no-nonsense fair but tough reporter/editor. They agree to Baron's wishes and begin researching deeper to see if there is a larger story. Their first lead is the attorney mentioned in the article, Mitchell Garabedian (Stanley Tucci). Rezendes (Ruffalo) peruses Garabedian who acted as negotiator between the Boston Archdiocese and victims of Father Geoghan. The reporter wishes the attorney to reveal names of the victims, but at first Garabedian declines. Eventually, Garabedian agrees to contact victims, who are now much older, and ask them if they are willing to speak with Rezendes without revealing their names. Eventually, interviews are set up at the attorney's offices. The question then becomes whether there were other priests who engaged in similar criminal behavior against minors.On another front, other members of the team, including Sacha Pfeiffer (McAdams), begin discovering the unspeakable reality of other victims possibly at the hands of more priests, aside from Geoghan. Then a tip from a former rehabilitation counselor for priests informs the team that, based on statistics, there may be as many as 90 priests involved with sexual abuse of children in the Boston Area alone. The team then appropriates volumes of an American guide book of Roman Catholic priests, published once a year, which lists the whereabouts of every clergyman in the church in terms of dioceses and parishes. The investigators make a startling discovery. Certain names in the book over several years are listed as "on leave due to illness", "on administrative leave", or other designations of inactivity after only one to three years at a particular parish, leading the team to consider these may be priests who engaged in sexual misconduct with minors. If true, it would place blame not only on Cardinal Law as possibly covering up the church's indiscretions but the entire Roman Catholic Church, all the way to the Vatican.This is a stunning film about the power of a small group of urban reporters to uncover wrongdoing by one of the oldest and far-reaching institutions in the world: The Roman Catholic Church. In particular high marks for Mark Ruffalo as Michael Rezendes, Rachel McAdams as Sacha Pfeiffer, and Michael Keaton as Robbie Robinson. So much of the story parallels the Watergate Scandal of several decades earlier. As horrible as the actual victimization of minors by the priests, often boys because they were less likely to "squeal" because of the shame, the cover-up by Law was nearly as criminal. Instead of taking the priests to justice, as he should have done, he tried to cover it up by offering settlements to the families, often when the victims were minors. Law and probably other church officials moved the priests to other parishes where they engaged in similar behavior, thus allowing widespread sexual abuse to continue. It was eventually revealed that not only did these sexual predators victimize children in other parts of the country, it was happening internationally.


                
Seconds after the credits for Tom McCarthy's "Spotlight" roll, an overwhelming feeling of changing your career takes over. Is film criticism really where I belong? What important, life-changing story am I not writing about? Truth is, quite a bit of classic films give off that same feeling. "Rocky" made a bunch of our fathers and older brothers go for a morning run and drink raw eggs. "Rudy" made us want to go out and play Notre Dame football. "Spotlight" makes you want to go down to your local courthouse and search the public records for clues. Then, get on the phone, with a pen and a pad, and start asking some really tough questions. Honestly speaking, "Spotlight" is the best investigative news drama this century. Matter of fact, behind "All the President's Men" and maybe "The Insider," it's among the best ever made."Spotlight" tells the true story of how the Boston Globe uncovered the massive scandal of child molestation and cover-up within the local Catholic Archdiocese, shaking the entire Catholic Church to its core.Where you must begin, with any praise for the film, is the audacious and fortifying script by Tom McCarthy and Josh Singer. The two create cinematic magic in their articulation of words, characters, and narrative storytelling. Each person feels authentic. Each scene feels rich and equally important as the last. And most of all, its the tightest, most satisfying film from beginning to end, seen this year. From minute one, you're hooked, up until the last second, where they decide the last words spoken should be, "Spotlight" is astonishingly crafted.I'm still in shock and awe that Tom McCarthy is the one who made this. This is a writer/director who I've appreciated but didn't have the "love" factor surrounding any of his films. Paired with an outstanding cast, co-writer Josh Singer, editor Tom McArdle, cinematographer Masanobu Takayanagi and composer Howard Shore, Tom McCarthy gets a chance to create his masterpiece<U+0085>and succeeds. He makes brilliant artistic choices, such as letting a Mark Ruffalo letter reading play over a 2-minute taxi car ride back to the newspaper. McCarthy's direction is one of the best directorial efforts from any filmmaker this year thus far.All the players performing are top-notch but walking away, best-in- show, is the performance of Academy Award nominee Mark Ruffalo. Ruffalo exhibits his best screen performance to date, and makes a stake in his claim for the Oscar this year. Weirdly reminiscent of Joaquin Phoenix's work in "The Master," Ruffalo builds his 'Mike' from the feet up, giving him his own characteristics that I'm not sure McCarthy and Singer set out to do. His expressions in words, mannerisms, all encapsulate the magnitude of his work, bookended by an explosive scene that brought tears to my eyes. Think back to Emma Stone's acclaimed work in "Birdman," and the scene that made everyone notice. I wanted to simply applaud.Michael Keaton and Rachel McAdams, who play "Robbie" and "Sacha" respectively, are attune with their characters and destinations. Each bring strong sensibilities and sensitivity to their roles that desperately call for them. Hotly worked into the story is Liev Schreiber as a newly appointed Editor, that in the little screen time he's given, makes a long-lasting impression. Stanley Tucci is also afforded the same opportunity, and gives one of the film's best monologues.If there's a film this year that feels like an Oscar-winner, "Spotlight" sure does make a compelling case. Dramatic, heart- pounding, and necessarily made. It's one of the most important films this year and probably THE BEST PICTURE OF THE YEAR. The Telluride tradition may continue.


                
Everything about this movie is outstanding -- the performances, the way the true events are handled, the cinematography. In this day of digital news, this movie makes us stand back and realize what we may lose in the way of investigative journalism as we slowly kill off print media.The lengths the directors go to to achieve a sense of authenticity is remarkable. We are there in Boston in 2001-2002. We get to know enough about each character to make him or her real, but not enough to create side dramas. The focus remains the child abuse scandal in the archdiocese in Boston. That reflects the conflict the characters face and deal with when events make them rethink the focus of their article.The movie is riveting, though we know the outcome.


                
I finally saw this film a few hours before tonight's Academy Awards broadcast. I had a feeling that it had the chops to win the big one. Many of my friends have been touting it. It takes a truly skilled director and screenwriter to entice an audience to watch something where they already know the result. We are made aware of the foothold of the Catholic Church in the city of Boston. When a new news director comes on board, he feeds the need for an investigation into priest misconduct to the Spotlight team, a group of hard core reporters who are unyielding in their persistent investigation of whatever story is there. The beauty of this film is that at no time is there a sense of sensationalism. Yes, the church tries to cut them off at the pass and uses sealed documents as a weapon, but time is the issue as much as anything visible. Strong performances abound, but the characters have weaknesses and at times become a bit emotional over their task. This plays out with subtlety and an almost you-are-there sense. Loved this.


                
Brilliantly acted, directed, and written, I just found this riveting and important film to be truly exceptional. Much of it is done in a low-key style, as layer after layer of the abuse by Catholic priests and subsequent cover-up by the Boston Archdiocese as well as other powerful interests, is uncovered by the Spotlight investigative team of the Boston Globe, in the early 2000's.I haven't yet seen all the movies nominated for the Best Picture Academy Award in 2016, but I can certainly see how this one won it, as well as winning Best Original Screenplay by Tom McCarthy (who also directed) and Josh Singer.Overall, just an outstanding motion picture that I would recommend highly.
Despite its imposing title, Spotlight is an understated movie with a methodical approach that slowly gains momentum. It clearly, confidently shows us how our most precious resource, our children, have been damaged by abuse from catholic priests. This abuse has been prevalent mostly in the United States, but it has occurred wherever there is catholicism, and the church has systematically turned a blind eye to the proceedings. Some children have been driven to suicide by this abuse.In 2001 The Boston Globe decided to investigate one priest said to be abusing a large number of children, and the ensuing investigation reveals a huge cover up, with the catholic church using its power to frighten away the globe, and lawyers refusing to reveal important knowledge, and most importantly, an ex priest who rehabilitates abused children refusing to speak to the press.The Globe realises that they are handling one of the most important stories in the history of the newspaper, and their pursuit becomes relentless, leading to a shattering conclusion.This film scooped best picture at the Oscars and it bears all the hallmarks of the ultimate winner: absolute honesty and integrity in its subject matter, a complicated story simply told and beautifully acted by its committed team of actors. Most of the Spotlight team were catholics by birth and clearly this aided the process, the same applied to the actors, with Ruffalo particularly impressive as a reporter of Portuguese stock. I also liked Stanley Tucci as a lawyer who had dealt with many of the abused children, who was at first reluctant to deal with the Globe, but is won over by their commitment to the story.Abuse of one kind or another is a daily story in the newspapers these days, when it happened on this scale in a church it is even more shocking. This film lays out the facts in the most humane way possible, and everyone involved deserves credit for this. This really is a film that surely must give some comfort to the families that suffered because of this wicked abuse.Mary Gumsley


                
First off, this is an important film. The fact there's such a rampant systemic issue with an organization as large as the Catholic Church is appalling. The issue was known, but Spotlight highlights the story of the brave men and women who had to invest copious amounts of effort just to tell the world about it. This movie is brilliant all across the board: the performances, the cinematography, the story, the dialogue, the direction, and just about everything in-between. If you're Catholic, please understand this movie is NOT an attack on Catholocism, but mainly a film exploiting a systemic issue in the Catholic Church. If anything, Catholics should be more outraged than the rest of us, but I digress. Spotlight is a beautifully realized film with a very obvious amount of blood, sweat and tears put into it. From the geographic accuracy of Boston and other areas around it, to the details of the story, to the portrayals of the characters, Spotlight is a nigh-flawless product that not only excels on a technical level, but is going to have relevance for many generations to come.


                
'Spotlight' has just won the 2016 Oscar for Best Picture, and deservedly so. However, 'Concussion' and 'Trumbo' did not even get nominated, though Bryan Cranston was nominated for his role in 'Trumbo' playing the eponymous communist screen-writer blacklisted by Hollywood. Will Smith playing the doctor who exposed the concussion scandal in American Football, like his film, is sorely neglected, but that is another story. What all three films have in common, is a story of powerful groups exerting their power at the expense of individuals. This seems a common theme and all three films are worthy products telling true stories.'Sleepers' (1996) told a tale of child sexual abuse. The authenticity of that film is much disputed. 'Spotlight', by contrast, is a factually true story, but one that reminded this reviewer of the earlier film because they both deal with the same subject matter. It is interesting to note that Billy Crudup appears in both films.A brief opening sequence, informs the viewer that the subject matter of the film is child sexual abuse committed by Boston priests, as is also quite clear from the trailers. The film then has a pleasant party scene at the Boston Globe newspaper marking the retirement of the newspaper editor. The film moves quickly into gear as the new editor, an outsider from Florida, played by Liev Schrieber, arrives. He meets Michael Keaton who plays the head of the Spotlight team. The editor is informed that Spotlight do long-term investigations, though at the moment they are trolling for work. The editor then tasks them with exploring and expanding on a smaller story of a priest guilty of child sexual abuse.The film that follows is almost totally concentrated on the ensuing investigation. We viewers see the team investigate the matter and realize, through the paper-trail, that this is not just about one priest, and that it is also about a cover-up too. Of the Spotlight team, Michael Keaton plays the cool-headed and practical manager, Mark Ruffalo plays a passionate and obsessed character, and Brian d'Arcy James's role is somewhat similar. Both are concerned with how close the issue is to them. We see this also in Rachel McAdams role too, though she is used more to show the drudgery of the investigation; firstly, as she knock doors, later, as she conducts interviews. All thespians convince in their authentic playing of newspaper investigators, appalled at the story that unfurled, committed to exposing the truth. John Slattery and Liev Schrieber, in smaller parts, play well their roles as overseers.Neal Huff and Michael Cyril Creighton are very impressive in their scenes as they explain grooming and child sexual abuse. It should be said that it is these references, and this subject matter, that gives this film a rating of 15 in the UK. It should also be said that these issues are discussed, but not shown.Mark Ruffalo and Liev Schrieber seem to have gone to some trouble to adopt distinctive accents that surprised this reviewer when first hearing them. Thankfully, the distinctive voice of Stanley Tucci was easily spotted, as he himself was not. He plays a campaigning lawyer who looks a little worn-down and unkempt, perhaps even in need of a haircut, which is why he is a little difficult to spot. Billy Crudup and Jamey Sheridan also play lawyers and Paul Guilfoyle also has a small role.Since the birth of Jesus Christ two thousand years ago, for the first one and a half thousand years there was only one Christian religion. In the last five hundred years the Catholic, or Roman Catholic, Church has still been the premier Christian religion. The church proclaims itself a church of sinners, but it's adherents were shocked to discover that so many, had sinned so much. For many, discovering the extent of sin within, to be precise; the extent of child sexual abuse by priests, and the cover-up by the hierarchy, has sickened them to their stomachs, and produced a crisis of faith. This is shown well in this film.Although a solid film about a newspaper investigation, this is also a sombre film, but one with a spot or two of moments of black humour, surprisingly. It tells the tale of the exposure of the cover-up of child sexual abuse in Boston by priests, a story that the powerful church tried to keep the lid on, but that lid was lifted, and the story went around the world.The story of powerful institutions using their powers at the expense of individuals, and then that power being broken by brave individuals, is one that often makes good material for a movie. This is certainly the case with regard to 'Spotlight'. The same themes are also at play in the excellent 'Concussion' and 'Trumbo', both of which deal with a single individual against a powerful institution, and both of which are worth seeing too. Those who like a good gangster film should know that the recent 'Black Mass' tells the story of the gangster Whitey Bulger, who was exposed as a protected FBI informer by the Spotlight investigation team of the Boston Globe.'Spotlight', which also won an Oscar for Best Original Screenplay, tells an important and true story, that is one that is well worth seeing. 10/10.


                
"Spotlight" is the "All the President's Men" of a new movie generation.Establishing a journalistic tone that matches the film's setting, it tells the story of a Boston newspaper team's efforts to expose the sexual abuse running rampant throughout the Catholic Church. It's a film with hardly a misstep or false note. Eschewing the histrionics and emotional manipulation that other films would have brought to the same material, "Spotlight" understands that the screenplay and actors hired to interpret it are strong enough without any emotional embellishment, and the film is far more powerful because of the understated approach. The entire cast is at top form, with Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton, and John Slattery as the standouts (Ruffalo in particular delivers an impassioned soliloquy so emotionally powerful that it nearly brought me to tears), but this is an ensemble film with actors working together like a well-oiled machine, and it seems unfair to single out any one when they're all so good.Director Tom McCarthy is most known for his work to date on the Pixar movies, and you couldn't find a movie further away from the colorful palettes and winsome stories of the Pixar world. But he proves himself a versatile filmmaker, one who knows how to handle extremely varied material. It would be easy to discount the direction of this film, but one should not underestimate how difficult directing a film that consists almost entirely of conversations would be. And when one also considers that part of good directing is getting good performances from actors, McCarthy's goes down as some of the best directing of the year.So far, this and "Mad Max: Fury Road" are my two favorite movies of the year. How's that for opposite sides of the movie spectrum?Grade: A+


                
With a movie like Spotlight, the one thing you can say against it is that it's not particularly showy. We won't remember the movie this year let alone years from now for its cinematography (though perhaps its lack of being 'showy' or really darkly lit or stark in contrasts is its own visual statement). This isn't to say that Tom McCarthy doesn't so his job as a director in an elemental sense; he does get some good shots (there's one where the camera simply backs up as a crucial statistic is laid out by the ex-priest turned therapist who gives the Spotlight reporters what they need to move forward into the bigger picture of their story, and it works beautifully). But what he does is put together the best cast possible - Keaton, Ruffalo, John Slattery (as Ben Bradley Jr, which I'll touch on in a moment), Rachel McAdams, Liev Schreiber, Stanley Tucci, Billy Crudup, and even Richard Jenkins as the voice on the phone - and makes sure that they're all on a level where no one ever upstages another. The story is all here.It's a subject that carries with it some exposition - you got to know the facts of this case, and there are times you get a lot of information, not unlike say Law & Order SVU - but it's all in service of a narrative that makes it welcome and exciting. This is about what it means to craft a story and to get it right, but what 'right' even means in the grand scheme of things, which here being the sort of Court of Public Opinion. If you don't get the facts right, or have enough 'deep cover' to back things up, things can be poked through, especially in the context of this story being in Boston and the Catholic church. While pederasty wasn't unheard of in 2001 with the priests and organization in general, it was seen as more-so isolated incidents. The key to Spotlight being so compelling is to draw the viewer in the same way the reporters do: the stakes here are so high.It's easy to compare this to All the President's Men for a number of reasons; one thing I saw as an interesting coincidence was two generations of Ben Bradleys here, with Robards as the Senior in 'Presidents' at the Washington Post and the Junior played by a no-BS Slattery, similar level of sarcasm in the midst of professional talk by the way. What it comes down to is how much do performances and the search for information against a super-powerful institution (one the branches of government and conspiracy of the Executive level, the other an institution that "thinks in centuries" as notes in the film) elevate the material? I think just as with the Pakula film, this does it exceptionally well. While it may not have the same sort of effect of that 76 film (no Gordon Willis, as I said it's not a particularly stand-out film as far as the look), Spotlight really has some deep things to address about faith and trust, and it doesn't shy away from making these reporters real people in the midst of their search. Ruffalo and Keaton may stand out the most for people, chiefly as they get (I think, I could be wrong) more impactful screen time as they are each looking for precious information (the former with his connection to Tucci's lawyer, who handles cases involving pedophilia and the church and in the screwed up legal system, the latter with the 'source' he has and his own background growing up in Boston and the Church). But I was very impressed by the screen time being evenly laid out; Ruffalo and Keaton may get the Oscar attention, but Schreiber has a number of remarkable scenes, such as an awkward/polite conversation with Cardinal Law, and McAdams as she knocks on doors and has the most startling scene involving a conversation with a priest who reveals, remarkably, candidly, that he didn't really see what he did as rape (he should know, he says, as he was raped).If you like seeing a cast keeping things grounded and realistic, and yet have moments of powerful drama and conflict that cuts at a lot of corners of society (especially, also, involving class as this is also a class issue involving low-income families having kids who were molested/raped), this is a film to see. It doesn't exactly leave you feeling all that 'good', but it does celebrate what journalism can do in an unfussy, unsentimental way that is refreshing too.


                
I was deeply affected after watching Tom McCarthy's based-on-a-true-story movie 'Spotlight'. After I left the cinema hall in my town I felt some kind of unease inside me. This feeling was provoked not only by the fact that the movie is based on a terrifying true story but also by how the actors accomplished to bring this story to life with ravishing performances from Mark Ruffalo (Mike Rezendes), Michael Keaton (Walter 'Robby' Robinson), Rachel McAdams (Sacha Pfeiffer) and Brian d'Arcy James (Matt Carroll).'Spotlight' follows the story of an investigation, conducted by the team 'Spotlight', working for the daily newspaper - Boston Globe. The team of 4 investigating journalists brings to light a 30-year-old secret that has its roots deeply in the Chatolic Church hierarchy. A story, about child molestation, which nobody can be indifferent to. Most of the molested back then kids - 30 years later with kids of their own, had been through many obstacles due to the ghastly immoral act. Some of them had taken the path of the syringe and drugs. Others had gone crazy and schizophrenic and the other part had killed themselves due to maybe the embarrassment they had to live with for the rest of their lives afterward.Most of the kids, who were molested would not talk about the act, because they were in some way petted by the priests and were too scared and too abashed to talk with somebody about this. Tom McCarthy's 'Spotlight' shows us the importance of the investigating journalist's work and also that they have the power to unfold great mysteries to the public no matter how dark and horrifying the mysteries are.


                
Wow, just took me to January 1st, 2016 to see my only 10 star film of 2015.This movie is amazing and captivating from the first frame. I was literally that hooked from the second the movie opened. I wanted to know more, see more, learn more. The cast was incredible, believable, real and had wonderful chemistry. In fact, not one moment passed when I didn't feel like I was a part of this real story and sitting alongside all of them. I could go on and on, and will. The story was fascinating, motivating, deep and intriguing. These warriors, these journalists, weren't just doing their job, they 100% believed in it and wanted to correct their own mistakes as well as the countless other demons within the catholic church.This story needed to be told back in the early 2000s, as it does need revisiting now. I know the catholic church truly wanted to sweep this under the rug once (or make that for DECADES,) but they also wanted their poor decisions, to put it mildly, to be forgotten in the years following. It shouldn't. Their horrendous crimes and cover-ups should never be removed from our memory. Forever, the church should be remembered for their terrible sins.Guess it helps I'm not catholic. And I might be getting a little emotional. The movie, about the Boston Globe's small Spotlight investigation team unraveling decades of deceit within the catholic church in which they were hiding/relocating pedophiles, was so great and wonderfully simple on so many levels. From acting to direction to pacing<U+0085>that alone usually irks me, but not once in the over two hour runtime was I not on the edge of my seat. That says a lot about a movie that has no action or high Hollywood dramatic scenes. (Well, there was one speech by the fantastic Mark Ruffalo and I envisioned that scene being shown at the Oscars for his inevitable nomination, but it didn't feel fake or forced.)From a cinema lover's viewpoint, this should be seen on how much they got right. From the normal audience's POV, it should be seen to remind us: if the big entity (the church) did it once, watch for it again, if not currently. And from the victim's corner, they should cherish these heroes as the surviving Holocaust members and family viewed Schindler's List. * * *Final thoughts: On a personal level, it helps I love actual newspaper/investigating movies. Another one of my favorites also starred the brilliant Michael Keaton: The Paper. I already miss these days when real journalism happened not just 98% of the internet crap. So, that all said, this movie might be slow to most people (hell, they showed the extent of the "inter-net" back in 2001 with a full billboard in the Boston Globe's own parking lot for AOL) but to me, to see real people doing real journalism was and always will be fascinating to me.
For me this film was beautifully tragic; by this I mean it was a fantastically acted film and gripping; but I'm disgusted and mortified that it actually happened.It was good that the film focused on how the conspiracy into the abuse was covered up; for me it was a preference than focusing on the victims and bringing any more agony to them. It brought a tear to my eye to know the depths that this went on (and probably still does) and the number of victims that were involved. As someone who has a criminology degree with a focus on child abuse this film was particularly poignant. I was appalled at the end to see that the cardinal for Boston was moved to a high ranked job in the Vatican; when it was clear from scenes and evidence brought up in the film that he was aware. The end provides a list of places where it has been uncovered; this is heartbreaking. Mark Ruffalo was fantastic in this film, however, for me the stand it performance was from Michael Keaton as the 'Spotlight' team editor. For me it was first 10/10 of the year (2016)
You spotlight up my life, you give me hope, to carry on... Sorry to get all Debbie Booneish on you in my intro on my review of the spectacular movie "Spotlight". Director Tom McCarthy's movie about the true story of how the Boston Globe uncovered the massive scandal of child molestation and cover-up within the local Catholic Archdiocese is shaking up to the be the frontrunner of the Best Picture Oscar, and why not? McCarthy's meticulous direction of the film and his layering of its expose was a sermonial, I mean a ceremonial piece of mastery. The Boston Globe's investigative "Spotlight" department shined on unveiling this disturbing truth. What was not disturbing was the exemplary acting performances from the actors playing the "spotlight" write players; including Mark Ruffalo as the emotional Mike Rezendes, Rachel McAdams as the conflicted Sacha Pfeiffer, Brian D'arcy James as the cerebral Matt Carroll, and the "Birdman" himself Michael Keaton as the group's leader Robby Robinson. Keaton and Ruffalo were the standouts here, but all should be given the proper spotlight for their commendable acting. Other fine thespian turns came from Stanley Tucci as the counsel Mitchell Garadebian, Liev Schrieber as the paper's new editor Marty Baron, and John Slattery as the associate editor Ben Bradlee. It will be very sad if this acting group does not get the SAG Best Acting Ensemble Award. McCarthy's script with fellow screenplayer Josh Singer had all of the write stuff of a multi- dimensional narrative covering an uncomfortable subject matter. Sure, the film does depict journalists as literary superheroes, but their procedural process workings was their greatest weapon to get rid of the darkness of the subject they were investigating; and it isn't that what superheroes do? or something like that? Anyways, I pray that "Spotlight' receives many Oscar nominations, as it should. So, it's now time for you to see and then share the "Spotlight". ***** Excellent


                
Everyone needs to see Spotlight. The writing, direction and acting are all flawless. The story is totally engrossing.I never quite 'got' why the courts and the media are now going after the Catholic Church hierarchy, rather than going after the pedophile priests. This movie answers that question.What it doesn't answer is why the Church hierarchy didn't just de- frock the pedophile priests, rather than move them from parish to parish. Kicking them out would have STOPPED the abuse rather than just MANAGING the abuse. It would have sent a message to other pedophile priests and actually done something to fix the problem rather than perpetuate it. The other question I have is this: the vast majority of people in all churches and all religions are good people, doing good work with good intentions. How could Catholic Church hierarchy have allowed the pedophile priests to remain in the Church when they knew that children were being abused. How could they have allowed the children. How?


                
When the story broke about the systemic abuse in the Catholic Church between the members of the Clergy and children in their care and the cover up that followed it was world breaking stuff. It rightly shock the church to its core. Social Media made this possible and the cover up impossible to continue, one of the places where this started was the Boston Globe, who started investigating the story with its 'Spotlight' team, a group within the paper that investigate special interest stories. Led by Walter Robinson (Michael Keaton, first rate here as always) his small team take on the task full time only to have it temporarily delayed by the events of 9 / 11. But Robinson and his team are persistent and the more bureaucracy they come up against that seems determined to sweep things under the rug the more persistent they get until the bough breaks and final the cradle falls, leading to law suits world wide through out the church.Cinema was made for films like these, not only is this film damn good, its probably one of the most important films to be made of the last decade and if its overlooked at the Oscars this will be nothing short of criminal. All the cast are first rate here and entirely convincing, from Rachel McAdams as the caring reporter with a heart, to Stanley Tucci's diligent yet suspicious lawyer whose all too aware of how fickle the loyalty of a reporter can be. Jamey Sheridan and Billy Crudup are just the right side of bent but it is Mark Ruffalo in his portrayal of reporter Mike Rezendes who take the acting honors here. His impassioned outburst must have resonated with many victims who were brave enough to watch the film when he cries out 'Why not now, what are we waiting for? We have to nail these bastards.' - Never before has a greater crime been committed against such a large number of innocent minors and all in the same of God. Watching the film makes me feel that the Church world wide should pay back every cent to the hell they put those people through. This film is not only demanding and rightly draining, it is vital viewing. Director Tom McCarthy should be proud of himself, because I know I am proud of him and writer Josh Singer, for bringing a project which was blacklisted, with a first rate script and cast to the screen.


                
There was a lot of buzz surrounding Spotlight when it first premiered at the film festivals. Many were comparing it to All the President's Men, saying it was just about on par with that one. I had only recently seen All the President's Men and had high expectation for this movie if it was true that it was just as good. I'm ecstatic to report that this movie not only lived up to the hype, but exceeded it to emerge as one of the year's best films.Spotlight was built to stand the test of time with its true to life, edge-of-you-seat style drama. The story follows the journalists in the Spotlight department of the Boston Globe who broke the story about the molestation charges against Priests that had gone on unnoticed for some time. The story itself is engaging to start with but the screenplay, direction, and acting all come together flawlessly to create an incredibly powerful and emotional film. By the time the end credits roll, the film has landed such a powerful and lingering punch that the events portrayed almost seem surreal. This is most definitely a film that will not be forgotten soon.The acting is top-notch with everyone from Michael Keaton to Mark Ruffalo to Rachel McAdams giving possibly the performances of their careers, respectively. This is one of the best ensembles of the year. Even those who didn't have as much screen-time like Liev Schriber, Stanler Tucci, and John Slattery shine when their time is given.Overall, Spotlight is an exceptional film that will most likely receive some major nominations come awards season. The leading and supporting cast all bring their A games as well as director Tom McCarthy. This is a movie you most definitely do not want to miss."It takes a village to raise them. It takes a village to abuse them. That's the truth of it."


                
This movie is one of the finest movie I have come across in recent past. The movie is based on true event and it is very important to acknowledge the research work made while making the movie. It will not leave to a second on which you say its going over the top. The inside of newspaper industry covered so well. Some of the punchline and scenes are best on its own. As the movie move forward you go along with it and if you don't have any background about the movie before you start you will also realize with the cast that "how big this story is?" Time and again it remind you the importance of newspaper and the hard work put in a lead to make it a story. Last but important part I would like to highlight that this movie does not left any stone upturned. The same newspaper did not look into the evidence send by same people in past which make you think its not you who is upgrading your knowledge but its a newspaper who decided what truth you want to hear. My best wished to the movie and hope it will do great.


                
