As a screenwriter this movie really upset me - a bunch of journalists expose a case, where hundreds of children have been molested by priests, and covered up by the church. How do the journalists expose it? they call up a bunch of guys who said it before, but nobody listened to them. No doubt it's an important story, however I didn't detect any brilliant journalism - this is not All the President's Men, nor is it The Verdict where Paul Newman battled against the church. Spotlight reporters never stray in the dark or risk anything - the story is basically handed to them on a silver platter, and they only verify it. Drama? hell with it. worst of all - No brilliant cinema, no actions, just dialogue about this and that, we hardly get to know the characters outside of work, so we don't care about them. Bottom line is that this horrible case leaves hardly any impact. By the end of the movie you just realize that there have been pedophile priests. Didn't we already know this? No climax, no anticlimax, no heroes to root for. Hell I don't understand the raving reviews.
Yet another film with big name actors playing journalists. Same clichés in far superior films such as All The President's Men (ATPM); everything that worked in that film did not work for this one (IMHO). The only two characters that didn't annoy me were played by Tucci and Schriever (sp). I see this material and subject better suited as a documentary piece on Dateline and 20/20. If it had to be a film then I think casting lesser/unknown actors would deliver more of an impact and remove the preconceived notions and biases of the bigger names involved here. Ron Slattery is an old hat at playing the upper management type and is no different here..Michael Keaton plays another manager who gets to sit in an office (did they really need him to do this?). Rachel McAdams gets another shot at being a serious reporter (State of Play) while being stripped of the charm and freshness she brought in Wedding Crashers, Morning Glory. We are treated to Mark Ruffalo running to the office (deep, riveting stuff). Then we get to watch him in the waiting room of a law office until he takes initiative to talk to the lawyer (another reference to ATPM). To me it distracts from a really important subject and has Hollywood stamped all over it. Best Picture? Something tells me it was a foregone conclusion that when this was released it would be nominated, regardless of merit.
Films like this are happy to beat us over the head with the evil that priests did while ignoring human trafficking and organ harvesting in the present day.
Who is responsible for these business deals I wonder?
A lot of talking and frustration and somehow everything is wrapped up in a nice pink bow at the end.
The usual suspects are given their usual pc heroic roles and receive the usual accolades for involvement of such a naughty subject. Ironically the very same practises existing behind the studio doors.
So Hoe wood rewards it virtue signalling self and hopes that this display will literally deflect the spotlight.Interesting
Paedophiles use Christianity as a cover and a prop to manipulate others into thinking they are trustworthy people,they don't appreciate the institution of the Church; they use their position to manipulate people, for impression management purposes.This film failed to impress at the box office $$ and those awards it received were based on the worthiness subject matter.The population is now in a state of mass hysteria about paedophile priests & the Roman Catholic church is terrified of being accused of protecting paedophiles.Many of the finger pointers are not even motivated by concerns of child safety they are just keen to see the destruction of the Church."It took a Jewish newspaper editor to expose the scourge of abuse in the Catholic Church"Bringing this message into the public sphere and subsequently giving it massive acclaim (Two Oscar wins and several Oscar nominations) and prominence could make a mind wonder if this film is deliberately demonstrating a bias and is operating in favour of those who seek the degradation & devaluation of Christian people.The question needs to be asked,is film media being used as a way of doing harm to the Christian church and expressing hatred toward Christian people.David Pierre published a book entitled 'Sins of the Press: The Untold Story of the Boston Globe's reporting on Child Abuse in the Catholic Church' which provides examples of distortions,omissions and inaccuracies in the Globe's reporting.This does tend to suggest that anti-Catholicism could have been a driving motivation behind the Boston Globe's campaign rather than the pure altruism of child protection.The Globe newspaper has also been accused of serious hypocrisy due to the fact it it had previously downplayed and minimised child abuse and had even promoted the careers of known paedophiles who were homosexual rights activists.Child abusing sociopaths are attracted to positions in the community where they are granted an instant authority and there is no evidence that the number of abusers in the Catholic church is higher than clergy from any other religious organisation.The abuse figure is thought to be lower than school teachers and significantly less than offenders in the general population of men.At the risk of getting into a statistical argument about a highly emotive issue .... child abuse is usually perpetrated within the immediate and extended family & if you were to only look at children who were sexually abused by non familial exceptionally trusted professionals, the actual prevalence of such abuse is tiny in relation to the amount of contact they have with vulnerable children.The Christian Church is being cast as the refuge of paedos when in fact, priests abuse children at the same rate as everyone else-about 2%. If you allowed yourself to be influenced by the mainstream media and films like this, you would naturally assume it was 99% of the clergy that were paedophiles. It is common knowledge that Hollywood is controlled by some very warped and unprincipled people,it has a very serious problem with paedophilia and so the posturing of this film is slightly laughable in my opinion.


                
