"Spotlight" is the best film of 2015 and I will be disappointed if it does not receive the Academy Award for Best Picture. As good as it is, it is just one step short of greatness. "Spotlight" depicts Boston Globe reporters investigating priest sex abuse of children. "Spotlight" focuses like a laser on what it is to be a journalist, to consider whether or not to cover a story, to select it, to research it, to uncover piece-by-piece, a full narrative, to publish it and to live with the consequences of publication. You don't learn about the reporter's personal lives except for what you see incidentally as they work at home. There is no romantic subplot; there are no trumped-up action scenes where a reporter punches a priest. There's actually one of those scenes, no doubt a self- conscious salute to classic newspaper films, where you see newspapers being run through one of those giant machines that rapidly prints, folds, and stacks hard copies. I've never seen a film in which I liked these actors more: Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, Live Schreiber, John Slattery, Brian D'Arcy James, Stanley Tucci, Billy Crudup, Len Cariou. Lesser known actors in minor roles are every bit as good. There is no Hollywood in these performances. There's no sexy costumes or makeup, no grandstanding for the Academy. The actors are dressed in the workaday attire of newspapermen and women. Much of the film takes place in a grubby shared office full of sloppy manila file folders or in cafes and working class neighborhoods where informants are interviewed. Each performer plays a cog in a giant wheel working to uncover evil. None of them knows about world-shaking scandal still to come, or Pulitzer Prizes. They are just, with a pair of tweezers, turning over one leaf and seeing what lies beneath and adding that to the information already gathered. Even though viewers already know how this story played out in real life, the audience gasps when a discovery is made; the audience fears that a rock will be thrown through a window; the audience fears that judicial complicity will keep the story hidden. I began crying half an hour into the film. I was crying at the end. I made audible "Huh!" noises at especially and outrageously ironic moments, as did others in the audience. We applauded at the film's conclusion. The film opens with a child in a police station, accompanied by his parents and a priest. A lawyer enters. Everyone speaks in hushed tones. "I promise this will never happen again." The police are cynical. The lawyer is smooth. The child is crushed. The parents are heartbroken. The priest appears slickly demonic. The scene is anonymous. Events like this were repeated at least a thousand times. July, 2001. The Boston Globe acquires its first Jewish editor, Martin Baron. The Spotlight team is considering following up a case of priestly sex abuse. Slowly but surely, they discover that there are far more incidences than suspected. They discover not just one bad apple here and there. Rather, Cardinal Law has reassigned abusive priests to new parishes. Baron meets with Law. Law presents Baron with a copy of the Catechism of the Catholic Church. "Spotlight" mentions "Good Germans" – people who kept their eyes closed to the disappearance of their Jewish neighbors, and the sudden appearance of ash falling from the sky. Just so, there were many "Good Bostonians." It's sickening to confront the many who had awareness of priestly sex abuse and did nothing. Targeted kids were powerless and without allies. One had a schizophrenic mother. Some had absentee fathers. Some were gay. Many were from the wrong side of the tracks. After they were abused, some became alcoholics, drug addicts, or suicides. When SNAP activist Phil Saviano is invited to the Boston Globe's office, and he talks about a conspiracy to protect abusive priests that stretches all the way to the Vatican, he comes across as a twitchy, obnoxious, conspiracy theorist raving about Area 51 – someone easy to write off. The most nauseating reason of all given for ignoring clergy sex abuse: money. The Globe could have covered clergy sex abuse earlier, but it didn't. Over fifty percent of the paper's subscribers are Catholics. Boston is a small town, with a lot of insular Irish Catholics who don't want anyone rocking the boat, or risking various money streams, including the church's significant charity work. Especially poignant are the scenes where abuse survivors are encouraged to detail what happened to them. "It's not enough to say he molested you. You must give me the clinical details of exactly what happened," reporters insist, to sobbing survivors, who must then re- inhabit their worst memories. The plot churns forward with the single line of a freight train running on schedule. I was never bored. The priestly sex abuse crisis is not a tragedy because the Catholic Church is corrupt. The priestly sex abuse crisis is a tragedy because the Catholic Church is great. The film could have become better than it is had it included this theme. Show Catholics feeding the homeless. Show Catholics recovering from grief with the support of their faith. Show Cardinal Law for what he once was – a courageous hero in the Civil Rights movement, when that meant receiving death threats and alienating the powerful. That something so beautiful is so sullied, along with individual victims' pain, is the heart of this tragedy. I am a lifelong, church-going Catholic. I present my reasons for being Catholic, in spite of everything, in my book "Save Send Delete." I salute, not boycott, the Globe's reporting, and films like this. Confession and redemption are gifts we shared with the world.


                
The awards season may just have found its first forerunner. In a 2015 movie year that has been average at best without any standout films initiating awards conversation, Tom McCarthy's Spotlight rising above the heap to assert itself as one of 2015's best.With an all-star cast including Michael Keaton, Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams, Live Schreiber, John Slattery, Stanley Tucci and Billy Crudup, Spotlight shines a light on a 2001 investigation by The Boston Globe's on the sexual abuse within the Catholic Church.Michael Keaton plays Walter Robinson who leads the Globe's investigative unit with Michael Rezendes (Ruffalo), Sacha (McAdams) and Matt Carrol (Brian d'Arcy James). Under a new editor Marty Baron (Schreiber), the team begins to unfold a horrific pattern of child sexual abuse by the church that was muted and covered up by high priced lawyers and payoffs to victim's families. As Walter probes further and further into the events (the setting is after the events the 9/11) the investigation reveals layers and layers of injustice of Catholic Priests that were aided by the highest powers of the church in an effort to keep the story muted.It all starts with a featured column about Catholic priest John Geoghan who was accused of abusing over 100 boys. A civil suit is filed but the details of the abuse were ordered sealed by the courts. Schrieber's Baron puts the team of reporters on the case and within days the evil that lurked with the sacred rooms of local churches begins to reveal is foul and despicable face.The investigation goes on for months as the team hits roadblock upon roadblock taking one step forward for every two steps back. But the story eventually breaks and the emotionally exhausted team is eventually able to bring to light one of the more depressing and important stories of the early new century.Michael Keaton was really good in last year's Birdman and named himself many awards and an Academy Award nomination for his part. In Spotlight, he may be even better. Under the direction of Tom McCarthy (Win Win, The Station Agent), Keaton shines and carries a performance of determination, frustration and redemption that is delivered with precision.Nods to All the President's Men will be inevitable. But that was a different era. A different movie. Spotlight is fresh and invigorating in its painfully frustrating subject matter. Audiences should leave with a renewed belief that investigative reporting is of monumental importance and that stories such as the one originating in 2001 Massachusetts are still out there clouded in red tape secrecy and muffled whispers. It is painful to watch at times. Trusted bonds between people, children, parents and the institution that promotes the opposite to what it sometimes preaches are disgusting revelations that are brought to the screen with sizzling effects.The entire cast from top to bottom is perfectly cast. And McCarthy doesn't populate his frames with unnecessary spectacular visuals. Spotlight is instead very straight forward. Focused and driven.Spotlight will be nominated for Best Picture and Keaton should get a nod for Actor. Ruffalo may also sneak his way onto ballot sheets. But whether Spotlight wins any hardware is unimportant as long as we recognize the importance of films such as these. A few years ago I would guess that 99% of the population knew nothing about the Iran hostage rescue highlighted in Ben Affleck's Argo. Spotlight should have the same effect acting as a docudrama that is both highly entertaining and educational at the same time. It is both a very good film and an important one.http://theintestinalfortitude.com/


                
It feels to me like an hour long crime drama, like Law and Order: Special Victims Unit, except they are not cops, they're an investigative journalism team, very similar to the movie Truth, but instead of being TV journalist, they are members of the Boston Globe, but going up against just as powerful of an opponent<U+0085>The Church.Based on a true story, Spotlight is an investigative news column within the Boston Globe, who back in 2001 were ask to do a follow up story on a Priest caught molesting, a child, which open up a bigger conspiracy. It was gripping watching this team go after the story. One of the elements that was really intriguing is how long it actually takes for this team to compile this particular story. It took them mouths to finish the story, but it does not feel like mouths, cause they make the story they try to compile interesting to watch. Plus we get to know the characters on a personal level without getting too personal. Nothing takes us away from the main focus of the movie.Mark Ruffalo gives an impressive performance as Michael Rezendes. He was very intense and passionate and it comes off great, and was a great role for him. He stood out in a very interesting ensemble cast that included Michael Keaton, as the editor of spotlight supporting his reporters as they chase the story and Liev Schreiber, as the new editor and chief of the Globe, an outsider who saw a story that the others too close to home, did not. They're other great performances from Rachel McAdams and Stanley Tucci as well. Spotlight also makes Boston itself a charter, by using scenery to show what a small town it can be and how much of an influence the Catholic Church has on it. It hits all the right buttons without trying, that's a sign of good story telling. It brings you into a compelling story, well acted by a great cast that did great things together.


                
In 2001, the Jewish editor Marty Baron (Liev Schreiber) is hired by The Boston Globe and he asks the Spotlight team to investigate the priest John Geoghan that was accused of abusing children and the lawyer Mitchell Garabedian (Stanley Tucci) that has told that Cardinal Law (Len Cariou) knew what his priest did. Walter 'Robby' Robinson (Michael Keaton), Mike Rezendes (Mark Ruffalo), Sacha Pfeiffer (Rachel McAdams) and Matt Carroll (Brian d'Arcy James) are fully supported by Baron and their leader Ben Bradlee, Jr. (John Slattery) to set in motion the investigation of the priest and they contact the initially reluctant Garabedian; the lawyer Eric Macleish (Billy Crudup) that has defended many victims; the leader of the victims' rights organization Phil Saviano (Neal Huff); and several victims that accept to meet them. After one year investigation, they confirm the names of twenty pedophile priest in Boston and they publish the story showing that Cardinal Law had prior knowledge of the priests' abuse of children."Spotlight" is based on a true story about the infamous Boston scandal when dark secrets of the Catholic Church were disclosed forcing the church to take responsibility for the shameful acts of some of their priests. The story stops with the publication of the scandal with names and other victims contacting the newspaper team. The screenplay, direction and performances are top-notch. Just as curiosity, the following link (http://www.historyvshollywood.com/reelfaces/spotlight/) shows the real face of several "Spotlight" characters. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil): "Spotlight: Segredos Revelados" ("Spotlight: Secrets Disclosed")


                
After I watched this film, I'm not gonna lie, it let me a bit uneasy, it touches a subject a bit hard to digest. It's based on the true events of a group of reporters that investigates the cases of sexual abuse of priests against children's in the 80's. This movie shows how corrupt even the most "sacred intuition" can be and how blinded people can be for their own benefit, or defending what they believe to be correct, putting aside the harm they are making. McCarthy made an excellent direction that can be seen even in the little meanings that are shown in the transition scenes. The performance of the actors portraying the dedication and the sensitivity of the reporters it's just remarkable. I highly recommend this film, it's really worth watching.


                
After watching this wonderful film, I felt like Mark Ruffalo's Michael Rezendes character: "I really want to find a reason to come back." He says this in regards to being a lapsed Catholic who wants to find a reason to return to Church, but hasn't found it. In many ways, that's where I am in my faith and beliefs. I'm a lapsed/cultural Catholic who goes to Easter and Christmas mass, but other than that, really don't practice the religion, or any religion at all. There are many reasons for this, the child abuse scandal a factor in this, but I've wanted to find a reason to come back. I have to say after watching Spotlight, finding that reason might never happen again in my lifetime.The movie is set in 2001. It follows The Boston Globe's Spotlight Team, a group of four writers who preach quality over quantity. They spend over a year on research and take a long time to write a story on a subject. Things change when the Editor-in-Chief at the paper retires and is replaced by Marty Baron (Liev Schreiber), a Jewish bachelor from Florida who dislikes baseball. For as big and important of a city that Boston is to the country, it's very tight-knit in many ways and provincial, which makes Baron stick out like a sore thumb. He instructs the Spotlight Team to investigate the Catholic Church child abuse accusations, asking the team to take on a giant, in that Boston is a deeply Catholic city and the church has a big influence on everything going on. Walter "Robbie" Robinson (Michael Keaton) leads his team of writers in this new challenge, each of them a lapsed Catholic with deep roots in the city. Joining Robinson and Rezendes is Sacha Pfeffier (Rachel McAdams), a Midwest transplant from Ohio who has extended family in Boston and stops going to weekly mass with her Grandma due to this story and Matt Carroll (Brian d'Arcy James), a writer who left Catholicism to join his wife's church. Ben Bradlee Jr. (John Slattery) is the Managing Editor, trying to balance the team from not wasting too much time on the story while also hoping to impress Baron, who admits to looking at making cuts at the paper.The story is dialogue heavy, no frills. There aren't side stories or love stories or really anything to make it "Hollywoodized". The battles are to get information from the many sources: the victims of the abuse, the Priests themselves, Cardinal Law, and the lawyers who were quick to settle with the church and victims. The characters and there relationships keep the story moving and interesting. Unlike some reviewers, I was never bored with the story. I got excited when they uncovered a new lead and I gasped when new facts were released. All the characters were very well acted, but Ruffalo does an excellent job in his role. Rezendes has so much nervous energy and tension surrounding his interest in the story that you can't help but feel on edge every scene he is in. His rant at Robinson when the story hits a speed bump is strong and his monologue during the taxi ride is the best scene in the movie. I hope he gets serious Oscar consideration for this role, as he truly deserves it.The movie will make you think about faith and beliefs, both in religion, as well as mass media. Both do a lot of things to make us have our doubts, but Spotlight shows us we need to think about the good as well as the bad and once we have all the information, we can make an informed decision.
The true story of how the Boston Globe uncovered the massive scandal of child molestation and cover-up within the local Catholic Archdiocese, shaking the entire Catholic Church to its core. Going into awards season, "Spotlight" was the early front-runner. And after the nominees were announced, it has remained a favorite. More than a handful of award nominations surround it, and we should expect it will get at least one, if not a few.Will it get an award for best screenplay? Certainly it has the chops to do so, as it has made journalism interesting again, the first film to do since since "All the President's Men". And it addresses the Boston clergy scandal in a fair way. This is not a smear campaign, but an honest look. Even the Church itself has accepted and praised the film. Vatican Radio, official radio service of the Holy See, called it "honest" and "compelling" and said it helped the Catholic Church "to accept fully the sin, to admit it publicly, and to pay all the consequences." Luca Pellegrini on the Vatican Radio website wrote that the Globe reporters "made themselves examples of their most pure vocation, that of finding the facts, verifying sources, and making themselves—for the good of the community and of a city—paladins of the need for justice."There are two acting awards to look at. Michael Keaton was projected to be nominated, but was not. In his place, we have two supporting actors: mark Ruffalo and Rachel McAdams. For whatever reason, the actress roles year after year are generally not very strong, and this may allow McAdams to sneak by. She is not outstanding by any means, but better than her usual self. But Jennifer Jason Leigh seems to be the front-runner, and Rooney Mara is also someone to watch. This is not your year, Rachel.Mark Ruffalo has a better shot. He has gone all out, and this may be his finest performance yet. For a guy who appeared in such films as "13 Going on 30", he has really distinguished himself. The intensity here. There is one clear "Oscar scene" where Ruffalo stands up to Keaton's character. His biggest hurtle, though, will probably be Mark Rylance ("Bridge of Spies"). They are two very different performances, but the Academy's tendency to give out "lifetime achievement awards" makes me suspect it will tip in Rylance's favor.Tom McCarthy as best director? Clearly if a film can be best picture the director deserves a chance to be best director. The two are almost always linked. But McCarthy has a strike against him: the Adam Sandler film "The Cobbler". Are people ready to forget about that? Probably. But yet, it seems like Inarritu ("The Revenant") may be taking this one... for the second year in a row, if memory serves me.Now, of course, that leaves best picture. As noted, the hype is there, the push is there, if you were involved in an Oscar pool this would be the wise bet. For me, it is a fight between "Spotlight" and "The Martian". But I probably stands alone on that, and the reason is because "Spotlight" is the more important film."The Martian" is a hopeful story, but "Spotlight" focuses on the importance of journalism and standing up for what is right. The film is even more important today than when the scandal happened because of the Internet. And they hint at that in one scene where a priest tells his congregation that the Internet cannot make faith obsolete. The real message is that the Internet cannot make good journalism obsolete. Papers may be shutting down or merging, but good reporting will always have its place... and thank goodness we have the folks at Spotlight to do that sort of work for us.


                
'Spotlight' provides a riveting look at the Boston Globe investigation of the Roman Catholic pedophile priest scandal. As almost everybody knows, the church hierarchy concealed their knowledge of numerous priests who were molesting and raping under-age parishioners. The cover-up of these serious felonies was orchestrated through pay-offs and arm-twisting by Boston's archbishop, the despicable Cardinal Bernard Law. This corrupt cleric seemed to rule over the city, and his criminal negligence allowed the depraved activity to continue for many years.The victims were countless Bostonians who endured this abuse and had their lives ruined. The heroes were an embattled lawyer, a resolute editor and a small group of persistent journalists who dismantled the obfuscation and red tape of respected authority figures and entrenched institutions. The villains were Law, his venal church and the priests who pretended piety while they preyed upon the young. 'Spotlight' tells this twisted tale with excellent writing, direction and acting. It's worth noting Law fled to Rome after the scandal broke, was given an honorary position and still lives in comfort in a Vatican palace. In 2012 he was the prime lobbyist against giving women more responsibility in the church. Nothing much appears to have changed in the RC Boys' Club.


                
Spotlight is as much about "spotlighting" the realistic drama involved in investigating reporting, as it is a documentary about The Boston Globe.Talented acting throughout the documentary keeps the story's facts moving along with the excellent performances. In my opinion, more movies should highlight the value of investigative reporting. It helps to explain the professional risks journalists take when covering controversial subjects, written with the intention of revealing truths, based on facts. "Spotlight" supports freedom of the press and portrays why this right matters.


                
Calling Spotlight an enjoyable film would be wrong due to its heavy subject matter, but Thomas McCarthy's film is from the get-go an engaging and finely produced piece of filmmaking that aptly shines a light on a pivotal moment in journalistic history that changed the world's views of Catholicism for ever.Based on a true story, Spotlight sees McCarthy somehow wash himself clean of the stench that was The Cobbler and dust off any fears we may've therefore harboured for him as a filmmaker to deliver his most ambitious and loaded film to date, that also sees him for the first time handle such a powerful story and pedigree cast.Famous for intimate character studies such as The Station Agent and The Visitor, McCarthy forgoes his tendency to delve into characters over scenarios to focus his story directly into the Boston Globe newspaper's investigation into abuse cover up in the Catholic Church system. Doing so allows McCarthy to let the story take hold on the viewer and the enormity of the situation wash over us as we realise just what was being uncovered by these reporters, and without ever playing up situations for easy emotional pay offs, McCarthy delivers hits without an air of melodrama or cinematic tricks, no doubt aware that the material speaks for itself.Saying that the story is the star player here would however take away from a finely tuned ensemble that's led by another great Michael Keaton performance and both a reminder of Mark Ruffalo's talents and Rachel McAdam's ability when given the right substances to work with, although her Oscar nomination feels somewhat strange. Each actor brings a subtle nuance to their incarnations and they act as another telling example of McCarthy's (an actor himself) ability to not only direct and write, but draw out excellent performances from his cast's.Spotlight is an astutely crafted investigation procedural that never strays to far from what you'd expect from such a tale but with a winning script and a likable cast of performers it's a high quality production that could've benefited ever so slightly from a larger focus towards the cinematic.In light of this however, Spotlight is a quietly powerful and sometimes devastating look at a topic that continues to be played out daily in far too many cities around the world.4 foreboding church buildings out of 5


                
Many people, judging by media reports, still seem to be a bit shell shocked that Spotlight hopped over The Revenant to win the Best Picture Oscar yesterday. The bookies as we know had Revenant ahead. But so did lots of other commentators. I was glad Spotlight won. Always thought it was a better overall film. At first hearing it may not seem much like a movie that would be of wide interest. A bunch of investigative journalists uncovering a story of widespread child molestation by the clergy in Boston. Yup, sounds interesting conceptually but perhaps too serious a subject matter for an afternoon's entertainment?Actually, try it out. The team of journalists at the Boston Globe, all have fleshed out characters, look vibrant and engaged in what they are doing, and act well as an ensemble. No one big dominating hero here. It's the team in focus. Remember All the Presidents Men? That 1976 Redford, Hoffman movie about the uncovering of the Watergate scandal by The Washington Post? Well, Spotlight is in that genre of films. You will not be bored


                
'Spotlight' is based on a true story about some really terrible things that happened in Boston just over ten years ago. What we see is the process the reporters behind this story took to uncover this awful story. In many movies like this the film can't resist making its main characters heros and the people they are going against the epitome of evil. One movie that comes to mind that did this was 'Concussion'. It set up Doctor Omalu as a hero and the NFL as the most evil corporation on the face of the planet. Fortunately, 'Spotlight' is not one of these films. It's one that understands how far subtly can go. And how far honesty can and should go. This is what makes 'Spotlight' stand apart from virtually every film in this genre. It displays some serious restraint on the part of writer/director Tom McCarthy. He seems to have such intimate knowledge about both this case and how we, as humans, react to things of this nature. This allows this story to unfold in the most natural way possible. It lets the audience feel exactly what these people are feeling. Thats what I loved about this film. It lets this riveting story unfold in such a way that lets you basically relieve the story as if it was happening right now. Each new reveal that we get not only throws its characters and audience further on our heads.Which is exactly what the film wants. It wants to show how horrible people can be without hardly anyone knowing about it. What's scarier about this film is how some people do know about things like this but sweep it under the rug to avoid unwanted attention. In fact this film is exactly what 'Concussion' should have been. Both are about roughly the same issue except this film views it from a third party perspective. Which, again, allows the film to unfold in the very best way possible. Although I felt as though the film was a little too restrained at times. It wanted us to feel the heft of the situation and, for the most part, it does. Except, it holds back certain ideas that keep the film from thoroughly realizing its true potential. We don't learn a whole lot about our characters and that keeps us from really investing in this story. We see them uncovering and reacting to everything but they all react the same way. No one seems to have a unique view on anything. This is really the only thing that holds the film back from being the best film of the year. It doesn't quite let you fully get into things due to too much restraint on the characters part. But that doesn't stop the film from being an intensely scary look at corporations and religion. It's a beautifully realized film that is perfectly crafted and executed by both its cast and director.


                
Spotlight is such an important and powerful film. This is the story of a team of Boston Globe journalists who discovered how the church was hiding many pedophile priests giving them no real punishments. This film won Best Picture about three years ago and it totally deserved it. What makes this movie so great is that it decided to showcase the complete journalism process, the way we start to see our four reporters start to uncover the truth is amazing. It's not about the drama or the personal struggles of a particular character, it's about how a journalist does his or her job, and why it's important. Apart from that, it doesn't shy away from the subject matter of pedophiles. On one particular scene Sacha, the character amazingly played by Rachel McAdams, says: "Language is going to be really important here. The word 'molest' isn't going to be enough". And that's totally it, we get the hard and difficult truth of the actual events that happened with no sugarcoating.
The overall look and tone of the film was beautiful, there are a couple shots that took my breath away. And this top level of filmmaking complements the top level acting from the whole ensemble.
This movie is so real it actually terrifies me about the situation they uncovered. It's the truth, which can be really hard and disturbing, but it's the whole truth.


                
I just watched this movie for the first time concerning a massive cover-up of pedophile priests by the Catholic Church in Boston. I liked the investigative team that went after the story, actors Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton and Rachel McAdams. Ruffalo and McAdams showed the instincts and spunk of true reporters. Once they smelled a rat, they pursued the story relentlessly getting the facts needed to make public aware of the cover-up that kept pedophiles from answering for their crimes. Keaton was the boss who had to ensure the hard evidence was secured to give credibility to the story. Michael Keaton is compelling as the guy who grew up in Boston, attended Boston College and became one of the boys on the golf course hobnobbing with lawyers and journalists. But he knew things were not right in the way his hometown and its dominant religious body was dealing with a grave injustice that was wrecking the lives of many young people. We get the sense of life in Boston with its love of sports and homespun camaraderie, something of a foil to deflect crimes lurking on its own dark side. The new kid on the block, Liev Screiber, is the one who unleashes the hounds as he tries to break through the easygoing veneer of official Boston, particularly its clergy and its lawyers. He shows the uneasiness of a man who doesn't quite fit in but gives his team the support they need to get the story out. A fine movie with great acting from the above as well as Stanley Tucci, John Slattery and Jamie Sheridan. This is a movie that reminds people that institutions have to account for injustice and cover-ups aimed at protecting their sacred turf.


                
If you've seen one movie about journalists, you've seen them all: they're like intellectual versions of the "Rocky" movies, with the reporters as plucky underdogs who fight hard despite being in over their heads, face moments of hopelessness where they nearly go down for the count, and who, with the help of seasoned mentors, triumph in the end over the Big Bad Evil System. With "Spotlight", the story of how the Boston Globe uncovered 30 years of child sexual abuse in the Boston Archdiocese, the elements are all there: the intrepid reporters facing impossible odds, the shadowy good ol' boy networks blocking the investigation, the world-weary editor putting everything on the line, and justice being done in the end. While the film doesn't break any new ground, however, it does do a very good job of telling the story of one of the last feats of real investigative journalism in America.In 2001, Boston Globe reporters Mike Rezendes (Mark Ruffalo) and Sasha Pfeiffer (Rachel McAdams) start investigating John Geoghan, a priest who molested hundreds of boys. They uncover evidence that the Catholic Church has been covering up decades of priest sex abuse and shuffling the offenders from parish to parish, allowing them to molest with impunity. Of course, the Church throws its full weight behind killing the story, but senior editors Walter Robinson (Michael Keaton) and Marty Baron (Liev Schreiber) take on the corruption with help from Mitch Garebedian (Stanley Tucci), a lawyer representing the priests' victims.It's familiar terrain, and it's been done better in movies like "All the President's Men" and "Good Night, and Good Luck". There are no surprises here, even if you don't know anything about the sexual abuse crisis in the Church. But for all its predictability, "Spotlight" has moments of real brilliance, and knows the world it inhabits inside and out. I worked as a reporter for several years, and every detail of the investigative process portrayed in this movie rang true for me, often painfully so. It captures both the thrill of chasing an important story and the frustration of hitting a dead end. It knows well that a reporter's job is usually a thankless one, but that the rare moments of triumph - that one detail that puts everything together, your name on a front page story, the smallest nod of approval from your editor - make it worthwhile. It's rare, and refreshing, to see a movie about people who love their jobs.The only true disappointment is the top-billed stars, Rachel McAdams and Mark Ruffalo. McAdams is blandly competent, given little to work with and doing little with it. Ruffalo overacts, all wide eyes and high-pitched indignation as the young idealist out to save the world. I'm not sure why the Academy nominated them for Oscars last year. Maybe, as with Marisa Tomei's Oscar, the esteemed members of that body were thinking below the belt when they nominated these pretty but inferior talents.This is a supporting actor's movie. As a lawyer for the Archdiocese who tries to block the story, Jamey Sheridan is compelling as the kind of reluctant accomplice who allows these sorts of crimes to go unpunished in the name of "just doing his job"; he seems aged before his time by years of unacknowledged guilt. Keaton and Schrieber are nicely understated as men who have given their lives to a profession that is changing faster than they can adapt, old school guys who hate having to care about the online edition. Tucci is fantastic as a true advocate, a man who has spent years fighting for what's right and has the scars to prove it. "Spotlight" is at heart an old-fashioned story about good triumphing over evil through dogged work and unbending belief. It's a story all the more satisfying for the fact that it is true. It's a little by-the-numbers, but that's okay; it's nice to know that there is a formula for good people doing the right thing.


                
I think we have all heard news about the "slips" of many Catholic priests who abused of their position in order to obtain sexual favors from kids and teenagers. However, the film Spotlight has the purpose of portraying the tragic reality of those "slips", as well as the huge dimension of the problem and the unforgivable complicity of the highest religious figures who tried to hide the truth, or at least minimize it until it seemed something infrequent and excusable. In order to achieve that, co-screenwriters Tom McCarthy (who was also the director) and Josh Singer wrote a solid screenplay, which, I must say, feels diffuse and fragmented on the beginning, with the reporters talking fast about people we don't know and events nobody has explained us. During 15 or 20 minutes, the experience was a bit frustrating, as if I had arrived late at the cinema. However, we end up building the puzzle at the same time as the characters; and when we discover the final "image", we receive the same emotional impact as the characters. It was a risky strategy, but the result is very interesting, while trusting in the audience's capacity to think, instead of receiving everything spoon-fed. Besides, Spotlight feels like a love letter to investigative journalism, a discipline which has almost disappeared in this time of "clickbait", instantaneous gratification and "listicles" as a replacement of genuine information. Even with digital help (the events portrayed in this film happened in the early-2000s, so there already were electronic mail, mobile phones and all kinds of digital databases), the reporters have to invest long hours of real work, interviewing people, checking printed registers from the previous century and, specially, creating hypotheses they have to support with evidence. Hollywood has accustomed us to the typical scene in which someone uses a laptop to search in Google, and ready... in 30 seconds, he/she found the necessary information to capture a terrorist/discover the origin of a ghost/deduct the killer's identity, etc. But having to search everything in the real world changes the perspective of the narrative itself, and inspires renewed respect for this archaic discipline in danger of extinction. On the other hand, that means that Spotlight is a slow movie, with a deliberate rhythm which allows us to savor every detail of the story and the performances. Almost everything happens inside the austere offices of the newspaper; there are no chases, police mobilization, or legal trial with surprising verdicts; and even though the characters are well defined, there aren't any artificial conflicts to accentuate their emotions. Fortunately, those tricks aren't necessary when we have the excellent performances from Michael Keaton, Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams, Liev Schreiber, John Slattery, Stanley Tucci, Billy Crudup and Brian d'Arcy James. In conclusion, I don't think I would consider Spotlight as a great movie; but it's a very interesting film which definitely deserves to be recommended.


                
This excellent film dramatises the Boston Globe newspaper's exposure in 2001 of the years old child abuse practices of hundreds of Roman Catholic priests in and around the city and the attendant cover-up by the powers that be in the church from the Cardinal on down. More than that, it points the finger at the shoulder-shrugging complicity of other areas of the establishment like the law courts, police and the press, including the paper's own earlier self, burying previous isolated reports on the subject deep in the paper without thought of following up the bigger story. Indeed it takes the arrival of a new editor at the paper to revive the story which he does by setting loose its specialist four-strong investigative team known as Spotlight on the case, where they soon find substance to the rumours and fight to bring it to light.The subject matter is of course bound to invite viewer sympathy but the film doesn't simply prey on that. Reminiscent at times of the likes of "All The President's Men" and classic TV series like "Lou Grant", it works by taking us inside the workings of the paper and avoiding gratuitous dramatic showdowns with either individual priests or even the misguided Cardinal, the climax to the sordid affair is simply the story finally hitting the streets on the paper's front page. There's no big self- congratulatory triumphant scene at the end, merely a shockingly long list of other instances the world over of the church covering over the traces of paedophile priests abusing their positions of trust.The acting is high quality, with the revitalised Michael Keaton as the sage leader of the team, keen to bring down not just the Cardinal but the whole cover-up system which protected the offending priests by signing them out of commission with anodyne phrases like "on sick leave" for example. He's driven by his own incidental complicity in not digging deeper into the story when it first aired years before but it's he who eventually drives out the vital corroboration which enables it to finally get out there. Mark Ruffalo and Rachel McAdams are also very good as the Rossi and Billie of the team, teasing the story out of the worn-out and cowed solicitor who first tried to put forward the victims' stories, again well played by Stanley Tucci and generally putting in the hard yards behind the story to get it into print.There's probably another story in there about the Vatican's complicity in the hushing up process, but the film is probably right to localise the action and let the viewer contemplate this and other pertinent questions (like where are the offending priests now, for one) arising from this worthy and well made picture.


                
Watching 'Spotlight' should be mandatory for journalism school students. It's a perfect introductory course into how good journalism is done. It also shows the traps journalists can fall into: not recognizing a good news story, thinking it's already covered when there's still lots to follow up on, or thinking sources are unreliable because they have their own agenda. 'Spotlight' explains all of this, which is why it is an outstanding film.The story starts with the arrival of a new editor in chief at the Boston Globe. He is not from Boston and the newsroom fears job cuts. But the opposite happens: the new boss shows them the best news story is right in front of them: a local lawyer representing the victims of child abusing priests. The only thing they have to do, is investigate it. The journalists are not perfect heroes like Bernstein and Woodward in 'All the President's Men', but normal guys who make mistakes. The biggest mistake is that they didn't recognize the story sooner, even when they had the information. While they are working on it, they are amazed at how big the scandal really is. The uncovering itself is like a detective story: every new piece of information leads to another, until the whole story is puzzled together. At one point, an impatient reporter who wants the news to be printed, needs to be slowed down to make the story more complete. The film shows the investigation as it is: interviews, documents, court filings, and the occasional tip. The screenplay focuses on the uncovering of the scandal, and nothing else. There's nothing of the usual Hollywood sentimentality, neither is there a love story or action scenes. There's only one short shot of the sort you see in every film about newspapers: the running printing presses, the stacking machines and the transport trucks. The best thing about 'Spotlight' is that it is an ode to slow journalism, to investigative reporting, and to old fashioned printed newspapers, in a time when the internet seems to reduce news to short, fast items that are a dime a dozen.
My girlfriend and I were really impressed by this movie. Great directing, a superb cast and a beautiful storyline. This movie shows how important it is to have great journalists / newspapers in your country, who have the time and funds for extensive journalistic research. A really important message these days if you consider that all the newspapers have lots of problems to make enough revenues, as a result of the digital era where users almost expect that everything is for free. Good journalism is essential in a democracy, and that is one of the great lessons this movie shows her audience.I think Spotlight has a great chance to win the Best Picture award at the Oscars. However, the Revenant has a higher chance of winning, as it is a more original movie which was certainly not easy to make. I think the Academy will definitely reward that, but that doesn't mean Spotlight isn't one of the best movies of the 2015/2016 Oscar season.Go see it guys!


                
My big "shock" with this movie was seeing a "C+" experience suddenly turn into a a very strong "B+" experience roughly AFTER the 45 minute mark. I've been watching movies all my life, and I can't think of many examples of this happening. Before that point, the film seemed filled with "newsroom drama clichés" (IE: smirking villains, overly likable protagonists, montage after montage, etc). It just felt "ok...but I've seen this before." Also, I was afraid it would become another "Black Mass"; a well executed, factually correct, but ultimately, for me, a hollow experience.But, there's a moment when this film decides to go its own way, and it does so very well: - The obstacles become increasingly more interesting. - The emotional scenes in this film are handled well. They seem appropriate and never forced. - The film is brave in its portrayal of the Roman Catholic Church, and pulls no punches. With films like these, you'd expect filmmakers to walk on eggshells and try not to offend their viewers. It was a nice surprise to not see this happen in "Spotlight". 7.8/10 or B+ Watch for Mark Ruffalo, who steals the show yet again.


                
I had deliberately not seen much about this film, I knew the subject, I knew the cast, but I didn't go into the nominations, the reviews or anything before watching it, I wanted to be surprised and entertained without setting too much expectations in the way. It was difficult not getting any info on this, It hasn't premiered here in Denmark yet, but is already collecting a ton of reviews from the US, but I managed to see it at a special sneak peek before release, arranged by kino.dk and it was very good.It is a very interesting way of showing these events or the notion and exploration of them, seeing it all from the journalists, how the start digging at something that seems small and then it just escalates, in Denmark there wasn't that big a fuzz about this, we are not that many catholics, so seeing the attention and wide range it had for the city of Boston and how it spread after the story broke is quite overwhelming. That this could even happen and be covered up again and again is appalling, but the film shows the story from a very good side, I expect that had it been some years ago, it would have focused more on the "bad" priests, what they did and why they did and how they covered it up, but seeing it all from the investigative side, from the journalists at The Boston Globe Spotlight division is really interesting. How they keep digging and digging, uncovering more cases, finding more survivors, talking to people and lawyers and trying to make it all make sense.The acting is really good, they are all experienced at their jobs, some a bit out off their usual element, but they do a very fine job. Especially Mark Ruffalo as the workaholic, very persistence reporter, but also Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams & Liev Schreiber have some great roles as the Spotlight reporters, I could extend the list to all the other cast members, they all do a fantastic job. You can see the tenacity, persistence, frustrations and excitement on all of them, they don't know how deep the rabbit hole will be, they don't know who they will drag into this, they just know they are on to something and they have to be meticulous, secretive, stubborn and just keep at it.It was a treat seeing this at a special screening before the release here in Denmark, in has been out in the states for some time, but will not have theatrical release here before end February.Location, seating & time: Dagmar, Nordisk Film, Vesterbro, Denmark - Bio 4, row 4 seat 1, 2, 4 & 6 - 26.01.2016 at 16.30


                
I'm continuing on with my round of watching all the 2016 Best Picture nominees, which has now brought me to "Spotlight", a well made film about the true story of the Boston Globe's exposé of sexual abuse in the Roman Catholic Church in the city of Boston. I've given this film eight stars due to the fact that it's very well crafted, and yet at the same time so difficult to watch that it was hard to really "enjoy" this film.On the positive side, there is very little that is done wrong in this movie. It tells its story well, and its cast is fun to watch throughout. It was great to see Michael Keaton in a serious role a year after "Birdman", and Keaton definitely adds to the film's gravitas. Mark Ruffalo turns out a similarly strong performance. I had to do a double take, as I first thought someone had miraculously turned Tony Danza thirty years younger just for this movie--Ruffalo's haircut and accent were Danza to a T. But "The Hulk" turns out a strong performance, and provides an effective performance in the film's climax. Similarly, Rachel McAdams is my new celebrity crush--she shines in this movie.The down side to this film is the subject matter. Yes, it's an important story to be told, and inasmuch as that's true, this is a very important film that everyone should see at least once. But as with other historical dramas of difficult subject matter, "Schindler's List" and the like, this movie leaves you emotionally drained. Because of that, the movie is not one that many will want to watch more than once.That said, I will note that the film ends in a very satisfying way, providing a very effective closing scene that does add a certain amount of resolution to the movie. All in all I'm going with 8/10 stars. It's extremely well made--just "heavy" in a way that makes it hard to enjoy.


                
It's a story of unglamorous leg-work rather than thundering revelation. The drama here comes from the detail, and the reporters' slow realisation that their investigation could change the world far beyond Boston's city limits. The Church's power is revealed as smoke, mirrors and an unwarranted sense of deference, with journalism at its best proving its worth.Director Thomas McCarthy's great strength is in his refusal to pander to audiences, or to default to easy answers; the correct reaction to the team's work is horror rather than jubilation. And while admirable, the reporters take some blame upon themselves. This crisis, after all, developed under their noses and it took an outsider to force them to examine it. Similarly, the cast (Mark Ruffalo was freakin' good!) modestly play down their characters' achievements and reputations. There is no Oscar-bait grandstanding (well, maybe one moment) and they all look quietly dowdy without indulging in any unnecessary uglification. These journalist greats could happily have rubbed shoulders with Woodward and Bernstein in All The President's Men, and they bring down an even bigger institution.Talky and intelligent, this lacks the glib edge of Aaron Sorkin or the poppy zip of Tarantino. Given the subject matter, too much lightness would be inappropriate. Instead, its tone is led by its characters, moving from scepticism to revelation and the uncomfortable sense that we should all feel guilty for ignoring the secrets too hard to acknowledge.


                
It's important to spread the truth. Always. 
We've been hiding for so many years a lot of topics worth knowing, but this, is a very shocking one. Child abuse is not only a crime but an abomination. It doesn't matter who or when, nor even why. 
For a long time I've heard from family and friends a wide set of justifications: ''well, it's something that happens'', ''don't worry, they take those priests out of church'' but it doesn't happen. 
We shouldn't expect this from any citizen, especially from the religious people who are supposed to spread love and good values. That's why we are so afraid to accuse them, it's a challenge even to ourselves. ''How to say 'no' to God?, right?''The film is excelent representing this topic in a subtle way, especially for those who are quite sensitive. The acting, the photography, the atmosphere. I enjoyed this film. It deserved that Oscar.


                
I would call this review "Another Heartbreaking & Excellent Reason Not to Be Catholic" but someone else used it, fittingly, for the film "Philomena", another brilliant and must see film that exposes the unchristian ways of the Catholic Church. Yes I am a Christian so of course I'm not trying to make church look bad because the wickedness this film is trying to make everyone aware of has absolutely nothing to do with church. "Spotlight" is a well-crafted film that showed how the Boston Globe uncovered a huge scandal of child molestation in the local Archdiocese and how the Catholic Church tried to cover it up. I can see why this film won an Academy Award for best writing and original screen play, also the performances brought on by Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams, and Michael Keaton were fantastic. Being that this film is a true story it was disturbing how the Catholic Church went about covering up the scandal. While watching this film I was in awe. To me it was almost like the local Archdiocese was worse than the Mafia. It was amazing how much power and influence they had on the community. "Spotlight" is definitely a must see, not only because it's a great film but also what the film is about. I highly recommend this film. Please see it.


                
