I couldn't seem to focus on this stupid movie. I kept getting distracted by my foot (which proved to be immensely more entertaining). The music was sappy, the story was boring, and aside from one or two painfully obvious but weak jabs at political innuendo--not enough to form any substance but evidently enough to impress those predictable judges at the Cannes Film Festival--there was no theme at all.First let's talk music. Imagine the syrupy sweet drivel from a Hallmark greeting card commercial. Now repeat it for 2 hours. Now shoot yourself in the head. For 2 hours.Next let's talk about plot. It indeed has a plot, but not one worthy of 2 hours of your life. Unless you have no life. In which case, I repeat: shoot yourself in the head asap.Lastly, let's talk theme. Major strikeout. This film had so much potential; the metaphor of a lonely projectionist was brilliant. But instead of boldly proceeding with that challenging idea, the film spiralled into a morass of lukewarm humor, unconvincing romance and unconnected randomness. Fans of Virginia Woolf (stream-of-consciousness) may love this film. (But didn't Ms. Woolf end up shooting herself in the head? Hm, I sense a trend...)I could've spent 2 hours listening to Kenny G and watching a Nat'l Geographic documentary on corn instead.


                
This movie received such high and glowing praise that I was really looking forward to seeing what was purported to be such a touching and insightful window into the human spirit.  What I got was two hours of maudlin, weepy, melodramatic prattle that almost descended to the level of farce it was so bad.What the heck is the big deal with this movie?Basically there's an impish, disobedient child who befriends a rambling old man who works as a projectionist.  Then there are tons of clips from movies so old and so poor as to be irrelevant.  And that's about it.If you like pointless coming-of-age movies that meander all over the map, by all means whack yourself in the forehead with this one.  Otherwise, save yourself the time.


                
There are spoilers in this review. Consider yourselves warned.OK, so here I am, sitting around on a Sunday noon with nothing to do. So I set my mind on completing the watch of the Top 100 of all time (the bottom of the list fluctuates too much in order for med to think it's worthwhile). Next stop: Nuovo Cinema Paradiso, at number 96 (it was there when I watched it anyway). Three HOURS later (except for Lord of The Rings, I have a very low tolerance for long movies), I just wanted to cry. That time is never coming back, and I spent it watching some depressing Italian movie, about a guy who gets some extra money when he's in his forte's (and by that time, it's too late to enjoy having a lot of money, as all we youngsters know), but never gets the love he wants.The only funny thing about this movie was that the Italian priest who works as a censurer at the Cinema Paradiso looks exactly like the orderly at the school where I work. I'm betting you don't work at a school with an orderly that looks exactly like the priest, and therefore I'm guessing you'll get NOTHING out of watching this film. So... I'm warning you to do so! 1 out of 10.PS. Many people go on about how beautiful and pitoresque the Sicilian setting is, but I just have to disagree with that. Hey, Italy is even more beautifully depicted at the map "cs_italy" in the good IL' online shooter game "Counter-Strike"!
Before seeing this film, I did not think that this film was so emotional. And actually, I have been quite disappointed with the story.  Even if the actors are good, the poor story can't save the film.  However if you like crying and being touched, see this film.  I can't say that this film is bad, but I think that that is poor in truth, and Tornatore just tries to makes us cry.


                
This is possibly the worst film I've ever seen. I'm quite a big fan of foreign language film, but this gives the "genre" a bad name. It's about an annoying little s*** of a boy annoying an old man, stealing things, etc. And it has boys chugging in the cinema, and a couple going at it hammer and tongs.Good films contain things that you might remember positively or which affect you. The only affect this had on me was wanting to never go to Italy and smashing the DVD into little bits with a huge hammer. It doesn't even make sense.I got this free with a newspaper and it's not even worth that. Horrific.


                
I think people should watch Bandit which is the best outside Hollywood movie also this movie is 57th in the top 250 list thanks to the Italian people.Therefore,do not be fooled and start to watch Bandit If you want to learn European movie culture, best way is Bandit which is the famous Turkish movie as well as Sener Sen is best European actor and Sermin Hurmeric who is a famous European actress.On the other hand,Yavuz Turgul has a big role in the European movie sector and this sector develops thanks to Yavuz Turgul. Hereby,people should learn this culture. Also we should mention the performance of Ugur Yucel who is also one of the best actors of Europe.So instead of watching this silly movie about a young boy and a old fat blind man who thinks he knows everything about life; watch Bandit.We are all Mediterranean people and the movie Bandit depicts the Mediterranean culture better than any movie, including this movie called Cinema Paradiso.Bandit is the Godfather of Europe and Cinema Paradiso is the Vertigo of Italy. No one likes Vertigo.
