Since "Cinema Paradiso" is billed as a joyful celebration of movies for all of us who love them, I am sorry to say that its charms were lost on me. Its story of young Salvatore "Toto" who discovers the magic of the movies through his friendship with projectionist Alfredo (Philippe Noiret) has potential, but too often falls prey to false sentimentality, muddled storytelling, and unbelievable characters. It got to the point where I thought that the remote Sicilian village wasn't even a real location, but rather a soundstage set (the piazza seems too big and tidy).I watched the 122-minute version, not the 170-minute director's cut, but I still felt that "Cinema Paradiso" was too long, padded with innumerable "local color" scenes. The townspeople<U+0097>who are all stock comic characters, including a village idiot<U+0097>sit in the movie theater and react quirkily to the film they're watching. Presumably, this is meant to show how important the cinema is for them, bringing glamour and romance into their difficult lives. But since you never get a sense of what these people are individually like outside the movie theater, the contrast between real life and reel life isn't deeply felt.Toto is not a very sympathetic character in any of his three incarnations. At first, he is an annoyingly impish, prank-pulling little boy; then a lovesick and wildly impractical teenager; then a successful middle-aged film director who seems to have no inner life whatsoever. (Evidently, the middle-aged Toto is more developed in the director's cut, but I don't know if I have the patience to sit through that one!) The movie's attempt at heart-tugging romance falls flat because Toto's love interest Elena is so poorly characterized--all actress Agnese Nano has to do is stand there and look pretty. Noiret is good, though, moving beyond the cliché of the "crusty but lovable mentor" to reveal Alfredo's deep bitterness and determination that Toto not make the same mistakes he did. The famous ending montage of all the screen kisses that a conservative priest had censored is a lovely celebration of old Hollywood, but nothing that you can't find in the Academy Awards tribute montages every year. It also requires a major suspension of disbelief<U+0097> weren't all these prints lost when the movie theater burned down? The best scene in "Cinema Paradiso," coming closest to conveying just what's so special about the movies, is when Alfredo turns his movie projector to face the window and screens a film on the outside of a building. The beam of silver light shoots through the empty black air; for an instant, all is magical, illuminated, even incendiary. Unfortunately, instead of creating many more new and wondrous moments like this one, "Cinema Paradiso" mostly falls back on old plot devices and one-dimensional characters.
well i really wanted to like this movie, and i was ready for a treat. but unfortunately, it never came. movie starts promising, base for the story is laid down wide, and it looks like it will grow into a masterpiece. but it doesn't. phillipe noiret deserves recommendations for his role of alfredo and young salvatore cascio is nothing short of a brilliant in his role of salvatore as a child. other than that, everything is mediocre at best. story, while full of potential, is presented in an utterly corny and clichéd manner, acting is (besides those two honorable exceptions) amateurish and overplayed, and plot is (as expected) non-existent. filmed 4 years after "once upon a time in America", this flick at the moments resonates the great masterpiece, and i kinda expected old salvatore to look through projection booth while recalling his childhood :)while i can always swallow eternal-love type of story, this one is too shallow, too unfocused and watered. i haven't missed any of the movies messages, they are just too obvious and pathetic, and could appeal to me only if i was 18 again. for a 1988 movie that pretend to be something more, i find that inexcusable. there a tons of beautiful films, much older than this, dealing with same subjects in much more profound and original manner. this one settles with portraying love for art with endless clips of old movies, and shots of people watching them. for most passionate lovers of cinema and celluloid magic this might be a great movie as they can find their favorites in every clip featured. i personally don't like cinema as a whole nor it's "magic" nor do i respect every "classic". what i do like are good stories told in a good way, whether spoken, written or made into movies. and i don't like the way this one is told so i would probably give it 2 stars if there wasn't for legendary morricone that can singlehandedly elevate experience of every movie with the simplest of his tunes. watch and forget.


                
I appreciate what this this film was trying to do, but I think it's entirely to big, clumsy, and sloppy to be of any real value.  I actually sat through this monster twice and I can say that it doesn't even get any better the second time.The theme of the movie (that is, maturing and allowing yourself to move on with your life, as opposed to the pretty picture movies portray) is admirable and comprehensible.  However, there are some major problems that overwhelm this strength.  First, the film is entirely too long.  It feels like the director just tossed in every single "growing up" cliché he could think of and the result is that the movie takes up waaaay too much of your life.  Second, in spite of the first problem, this film has huge story gaps that took place as a result of massive editing (as I understand it, this film was originally well over three hours).  Third, the film makes no real attempt to establish empathy with the audience.  It instead makes the erroneous assumption that we will just see Alfred and Toto and be instantly smitten with these lovable characters.  Wrong again.  I too often found them annoying and ridiculous (especially Toto) to have any real emotional bonds with anyone.The ending is decent, but it would have had more effect had all of the previous clutter not been strewn about the film.  All in all, this was just way to mushy and bloated for me.


                
The 1988 Oscar winner for Best Foreign Film is, for all its incidental charm, every bit as mushy as the movies it celebrates, elevating a passion for movie-going in a small Sicilian village to a magical experience able to cure any distress, allowing even a blind man to 'see'. The mood of the film is warm and sentimental but its message is, at best, inconsistent: movies, it says, may be wonderful, but are no substitute for experience, and yet after reaching maturity the young protagonist spends thirty years in limbo before reclaiming his childhood innocence in the censored outtakes saved by his now deceased mentor, kindly old theater projectionist Philippe Noiret. Even worse: the films of his youth are presented as escapist daydreams, but his entire life (revealed in flashback from childhood to middle age) is no less an illusion, transformed by nostalgia into a heart tugging, romantic tearjerker. Life, it seems, not only imitates art, but often improves upon it, inadequate dubbing notwithstanding.
So, 2003, and I hadn't seen Cinema Paradiso, then I noticed it was on TV, so I gave it a go.I heard a number of good things about this movie and tend to like more non main stream films more and more as I am getting older, but to be honest I was very disappointed with what I saw.Cliché after cliché.  Stupid unbelievable characters and then a fairly tame soap opera story.  Where was the depth, where was the profound message, basically there wasn't one.In the end this could have easily been produced by Hollywood.  There was a real sense of passion missing.  Toto wanted to be a film maker, but didn't really demonstrate his passion for films other than wanting to be a projectionist.  Tag on a predictable love story and a bit of sentimentality, that seemed out of place.  What was the big deal, yes people liked the cinema house, but I can't say they felt any true love for it.  Then at the end you see this scene of great nostalgia, which seemed out of place.I'm sorry I didn't like it, I genuinely thought I would, but the film really missed any maturity and lacked any real sentiment.


                
All the praise for this film seems inexplicable. The acting is one dimensional, just like the characters, and the pathos and the writing. It's a series of cute and fun vignettes with a few hardships thrown in for sympathy. Life is going too good at the cinema paradiso and the whole cute Alfredo as angry old man and Toto as precocious young boy has become played out, therefore, fire. Next, we see a shallow adolescent who falls in love with someone he doesn't really know. The relationship is not believable as being anything other than a juvenile infatuation and yet this is what later causes him such sorrow when he returns. Nothing is really shown about him being in the army except a comedic montage and the only time the main protagonist seems to get angry is near the end in the car, otherwise, always swooning or happy. The scene in the car is about the only interesting scene in the film yet it is not believable as following from the relationship they had. The film is thus emotionally vacuous, too long, and clichéd. It had some potential but nothing was sufficiently developed for it to be anything except hollow and unnatural.
Tornatore wants us to believe that Sicilian small town movie theatres screen exclusively classics like Visconti, Renoir, Ford or Chaplin. Not likely! This film is no breath of fresh air. It's the worst Mediterranean pseudo-poetic cliche, seen so many times before and after, a rip-off from slightly better films of the same kind. Some awful camera work and sloppy editing. This is no imperfect cinema, this is bad cinema.


                
A boy who was obsessed with cinema all his life even after he grew up and lived far away, it was always part of him. A very stretched idea that could Have been told in 10 minutes.


                
