After seeing this special edition DVD which shows the entire 174-minute film (in addition to the 121-minute one that most of us had seen over the years,) my rating of this film was elevated. This review is of the longer "director's cut."Most of the new footage involved the main's character's romance while he was a young man. The story then is continued years later when that character comes back to his hometown for a funeral and runs into the woman he was in love with but never was able to get for his own. It turns out to be a somewhat tragic love story.The first part of the film, with Salvatore Cascio as "Toto" a young boy is a love story about two people sharing their love of movies: the kid and an adult "Alfredo" (Phillpe Noiret) who runs the local movie theater. Their love of film bonds them for life.The word "love" is used repeatedly in this review because that's the dominant theme: the love people had for others and for the world of film, something all of us on this website share.The second and third parts of the film are the above-mentioned love story of Toto (Marco Leonardi as an adolescent and then Jacques Perrin as an adult) and "Elena" (Agnese Nano/ Brigitte Fossey). The first third of this director;s cut edition is much livelier and interesting, frankly, than the last two-thirds. Although not boring, it does drag in a few spots but the longer version is better in the long run because it makes the whole story much more meaningful.It's very nicely filmed and you get a real feel for the Italian people and their little town. The director of the movie, Giuseppe Tornatore, went on to make other great visual films, two of which I also like: Malena and The Star Maker.....but Cinema Paradiso, I believe, is considered his "masterpiece."


                
This is such a difficult film to describe in words because all of it is heartfelt emotion. However, it must be noted that the three central performances are beyond reproach: the child Salvatore (played with rascally charm by Salvatore Cascio), the brusque projectionist Alfredo (Philippe Noiret) and the adolescent Salvatore (Marco Leonardi). All three are masterful in creating the viewer's emotional attachment to these characters. The relationship between the tough but tender projectionist and the little boy is what carries the first half of the film and it continues when the boy becomes a lovesick adolescent. It is only the last half of the film that seems to drag a little with scenes of the adult Salvatore (Jacques Perrin)contemplating returning to the little village where he grew up in the shadows of the movie theater and those wonderful silver shadows on the screen.All of the scenes involving the movie theater and its rowdy audiences are wonderfully realized with crude humor and insight into the kind of characters who thrived on whatever entertainment films could offer. Ennio Morriconne's music is charming throughout, always totally in keeping with the images on screen and the intentions of the story.By all means, well worth seeing and treasuring as one of the great foreign films to come out of the 1980s. I watched the abbreviated version on TCM which comes to a little more than two hours and is the version shown in the U.S. theatrically.


                
'Cinema Paradiso', in both its versions, is a wonderful movie all about movies, the love of the movies, movie images, and movie influences.  It is also about growing up, friendship, young love, regret, and the pursuit of happiness.We follow Salvatore (Toto) from being a young child, eyes wide with wonder at the world projected on the big screen, through his hesitant adolescence, to adulthood as a successful film-maker in his own right.  Playing Toto at the three stages of his life are two outstanding actors: Salvatore Cascio as the child, and Jacques Perrin as the adult still searching for the missing piece of his life's puzzle.  The teenage Toto is portrayed less well, by Marco Leonardi, perhaps because of his lack of screen time - although there is one sequence in particular concerning his character and that of Elisa which stands out.Also in the cast is the excellent Philippe Noiret as Alfredo, the cinema projectionist who becomes the sage, the wise voice of reason within Toto's life.For me, though, the best sequences are the ones which take place within the Cinema Paradiso - the snatches of famous films which play before us, the reactions of the audience, the whole ambience of a little flea pit.  And the famous final montage with the screen kisses is superb. 
The extended version of 'Cinema Paradiso' puts back around an hour, mainly concerning Toto and Elisa on his return to the village after many years. This is interesting, but the short version packs a considerable punch too.


                
This movie using sound similarities as transitions between scenes. Such as when the flashback scene is about to come, there must be a similar sound that appear on both events (by thunder sound for example).By the way, I recommend this movie to anyone who want to prove this word "that you can cry watching porn scene". Try to watch this movie and you will find me true.


                
Directing: 8
/Acting: 8
/Story: 7
/Production values: 8
/Suspence - Thriller level: 4
/Action: none
/Mystery - unknown: none
/Romance level: 7
/Comedy elements: 6


                
The movie could have been benefited way better from the sweet and nostalgic friendship between young Totò and Alfredo, instead Giuseppe Tornatore focused more than he should have on what is going on inside Cinema Paradiso. That being said, The earliest parts of the movie are the most magical, and you won't appreciate the first act unless you watch the reach the end of the movie.The second and the third act are less magical, and not very original, but they are narratively stronger than the first, and have wonderful messages presented by fantastic performances from Marco Leonardi, as Teenager Totò, and Jacques Perrin, as Adult Totò. Also, Philippe Noiret's performance as Alfredo is one of the most poignant, and iconic performances in film! Ennio Morricone's score will hit you right in the feels, it's his best, IMO.You'll get nostalgic feeling only from the movie. Simply, because Cinema Paradiso isn't like any movie I've ever seen, because it's like life!(8.5/10)


                
Cinema Paradiso is the tale of a small Sicilian village in post-war Italy. It's the tale of a small boy named Toto, who lives in the village and befriends Alfredo, the projectionist of the local movie theater. In the cramped, messy confines of the projector room he falls in love with movies and the escape route they provide for him. The tale takes us on a journey throughout his childhood and early adulthood as we watch him grow up and learn more and more about the world outside of the silver screen. And yet the movies are always there.It's a good story, but the thing you'll fall in love are the movies and the way this movie talks about them. For it turns the camera around and shows us the audience. How they experience the movies, what they mean for them. What we experience, what they mean for us. And in this regard this being an Italian film is an enormous boon. For this audience lives these movies. They laugh, they cheer, they weep in tears as they recite the lines of dialogue they know better than the faces of their mothers. Living in Finland I've not seen anything like that in my life - we're a reserved people - but I've certainly felt all those emotions. I know them, even if I've never witnessed them outside the confines of my own head.Cinema Paradiso is a love letter to movies. To the darkness of the theater, to the white light of the projector, to the eternity contained on the silver screen. Sure, it also talks about how real life doesn't always turn out like it does in the movies, but that's also part of why we love them so much.To you, Toto. To you, Alfredo. Thank you.


                
"Cinema Paradiso" tells of the younger years of a successful middle-aged businessman via flashback; his life in Sicily, especially his relationship with a movie projectionist at the theater "Paradiso". This award winning, critically acclaimed 2 hour classic-to-be if full of poignant moments, musings on life, and explains why "you can never go home again". "CP" is a must see for all film buffs and an enjoyable watch for all.


                
Filmmakers often possess a deeper passion that is noticeably reflected in their work. However, there is one passion that all directors inevitably share, and that is for cinema itself. Films like Woody Allen's 'The Purple Rose of Cairo (1985)' and, more recently, Michel Gondry's 'Be Kind Rewind (2008),' exhibit such affection towards movies and movie-making that no film-lover can help but like them. In 1988, Italian director Giuseppe Tornatore released 'Nuovo cinema Paradiso / Cinema Paradiso,' his personal ode to the magic of movies and the humble small-town cinema. After a poor local performance, the film was sheered down to 123 minutes (from 155 minutes), and subsequently went on to win both the Jury Prize at the Cannes Film Festival and the Best Foreign-Language Film Oscar. In 2002, a 170-minute director's cut {marketed in the United States as 'Cinema Paradiso: The New Version'}, which restored all of the original future, was released into theatres. As the director's cut was the only version to which I had ready access, this was the one that I watched for the first time. The director's cut is notable in that it greatly expands on Alfred's role in Toto's life and career.In the hustle-and-bustle of modern Rome, acclaimed film director Salvatore "Toto" Di Vita (Jacques Perrin) returns home to a sad message from his elderly mother: "Alfredo has died." During the night, the man reflects on his childhood, when, as a bright and fervent young boy (played by Salvatore Cascio), he used to frequent his small town's local cinema, where the friendly projectionist, Alfredo (Philippe Noiret) taught him, however reluctantly, the tricks of the trade. Flash forward several years, and Toto is now a mature and intelligent teenager, falling for the first (and only) time into the throes of young love. Though I have not seen the shortened theatrical version, from what I've been able to gather, the story doesn't delve too deeply into the adventures of the adult Toto. In the director's cut, most of the additional running time is dedicated to his home-town return, as he is drawn almost overwhelmingly into the regretful ghosts of his past. These sequences are, of course, not without interest, but Tornatore is at his strongest in the first act, with Toto as an impressionable young boy immersed in the joy of cinema.Philippe Noiret is wonderful as the warm and occasionally brusque film projectionist, and his interactions with Toto (especially young Salvatore Cascio) develop into a powerful father-son relationship. The director's cut intriguingly suggests that Alfred deliberately mislead Toto about Elena (Agnese Nano, later Brigitte Fossey) in order to preserve his chances of succeeding with his #1 love of all, movies. Alfred suspected that, had Toto married Elena, he would never have been able to become an accomplished film director <U+0096> as a beloved father figure for the boy, he made the difficult decision that Toto could never have made. The ethical complications of Alfred's decision are problematic, but one can at least follow his logic, and his motives, however misguided, were certainly well-intended. At the film's end, as the adult Toto is doubting his love for cinema, his passion is reassured with a wonderful montage of the romantic moments that the town's prudish priest had once sliced from every film to be screened in his theatre. This is the magic of cinema. It's not just the films themselves, but also the flood of personal memories that accompanies each forbidden screen embrace.


                
Cinema Paradiso does deserve many plaudits and I can see the appeal of it . It is sentimental, but it works without being mawkish. It is also nostalgic, but it is not a blinkered nostalgia. It does hint at darker things, and also a particularly traumatic moment which effects the entire tenor of the film after it happens. It is a beautifully judged film and there are scenes which are justifiably famous. In one of them the projectionist of the local cinema, turns the projector around so it can be seen on the walls of the outside town. It is a truly magnificent scene, albeit with a very dark ending.By setting the film in Sicily and basing it around the local cinema, as well as setting it after the second world war, the film explores poverty, censorship, and loss of community. It does all of the above in a poignant, and often wry way. I think the term masterpiece is a little overstated, although I can see why people think it deserves the accolade. The very moving scene at the end is a wonderful peon to friendship. I think the film is coy about some of the more dubious aspects of Sicily, but that really is a small gripe although I still think worth mentioning.It is a lovely film though with enough edge to restrain it from becoming too sentimental. This is a film you can safely be assured is a quality entertainment.
Cinema Paradiso is at the crux of everything that I believe makes European cinema superior to American. Cinema Paradiso is the reminiscence of a middle-aged Italian filmmaker, Salvatore who, upon learning of the death of his mentor, a projectionist named Alfredo, remembers his childhood in postwar Sicily and the movie house, the Paradiso, and the ways in which classic cinema is intrinsically tied to his memories and his life. When Salvatore returns to his village for Alfredo's funeral, he sees the old, abandoned Paradiso and watches it be demolished. He then returns to his life in Rome and watches a reel Alfredo left him of all of the classic movie kisses he had edited out of films over the years at the village priest's bequest. The major element that this great film has that is invariably absent from American dramas is subtlety. If Cinema Paradiso had been an American film, Salvatore wouldn't have reminisced much about his childhood; it would have been glossed over in a seven minute short leaving us with no character development. When he returned to his village for Alfredo's funeral, he most likely would not have been the thoughtful, taciturn man that we see, but some sort of vigilante ready to hatch some last minute, hair-brained, against-all-odds scheme to save the old Paradiso. He would have dealt with some stuffy bureaucrats looking to demolish the Paradiso for unclear personal reasons and he would have had to rally the town to save the theatre of his childhood. Also, in an American version, his childhood sweetheart, Elena, would have somehow returned after thirty years and he would have somehow overcome her distrust to win her back in the end. An American director would have inevitably found a way to destroy any pathos in the plot and turn it into a good-time film. However, Giuseppe Tornatore played his cards right. In the version that is known and loved, Salvatore reminisces with some sadness about his lost youth, returns to his village, attends Alfredo's funeral, says nothing as the Paradiso is demolished, and goes back to Rome. Nothing explodes, he doesn't get the girl, there are no heroes, but Salvatore comes to a subtle personal epiphany about his own life. And that is enough. Perhaps this is the way that European cinema depicts life more closely to the way it is and not in the way it should be as in the American cinema. American cinema never lets its viewers get too emotionally close to its protagonists because they are always in situations in which we never realistically find ourselves and are, therefore, always distanced from their actions. We, as humans, gage our lives by our memories and, in that spirit, Tornatore's tale of a man for who film was the defining factor in his life, brilliantly evoke these tender sentiments for us. A great watch.PS Get the director's cut if possible, the sub-titled, American version has long portions cut out that greatly add to the continuity of the plot and explain things more clearly.


                
I didn't see the first cut of "Cinema Paradiso (Nuovo cinema Paradiso)" because everyone said it was a schmaltzy nostalgia tribute to growing up watching old movies in a small town that happened to be in Italy. This original director's cut changes such a description; it's now a full autobiographical take on an artist and what drove him from and back to Sicily. This cut restores 51 minutes that the distributor chopped off the end of the movie -- that's more than a third of the film. It now has more in common with "Last Picture Show."We now see the full sweep of post-war development in Sicily, as the town piazza slowly goes from a wide expanse with the occasional horse-drawn funeral cortège, to a car park. While what captivated audiences originally is still entertaining -- the precocious child actor who plays the artist as a smart-aleck small boy-- now we also see him as a love-struck teenager, soldier, young man with only existential choices and a gray-haired adult coming to terms with the people in his past.This original cut is essential because it provides clear-eyed re-interpretations of people we saw him with as a child; now we learn the truth about them through adult eyes. The director says he always intended it to be a love story, not just about the movies.Why did it take so long for this cut to appear? How could the director have tolerated such a massacre without screaming to the press? Contractual obligations? I saw the movie with a friend who has been exploring her Sicilian heritage; in 1995 she visited the town where the movie was shot and says it still looked like that then, and felt it was truthful to the people of the area. (originally written 7/6/2002)


                
The story of the life and times of a small Italian community told through the eyes of a cinema-loving boy destined to be a film famous director.There are film reviews where you say all you want to say in three paragraphs and there are film reviews that you could write about a thousand paragraphs and not get everything in. This film belongs in the later category but, ironically, I'll keep it short!This is a great viewing experience because it is - for me - why cinema is a great art form. All the art forms coming together to deliver something that is more than the sum of its parts. You are taken to a time and place that you never were (in most cases anyway!), and given it has now gone, cannot possibly go to. This film takes you there and lets you sample it, taste it and believe it - before the lights go up and your real life returns."Great cinema" is rare and often somewhat disappointing. For example, The Godfather is uneven and immoral (the first one anyway) and while the Shawshank Redemption and Se7en are great, they only warrant one viewing unless you actually bought the thing. Even in the IMDb Top 100 there are films that are little more than video games. Maybe have too many little clichés: Happy couple running through the fields, moments of happiness underlined by tears (and background violins), the scarifies done for the (perceived) greater good, people growing old together, the innocent past being superior to the corrupted present. All be done with panache, but you know they are cribs from other people's work.Maybe the confusing romance (there is a hole that the director's cut claims to fill) was an effort to steer away from the tried-and-trusted. Hard to say anything about it without being a spoiler though. Thankfully it puts something back in to pot with the finale that is as original and brilliant as anything I have ever seen! I won't spoil it - but a real leap of the imagination. While we see the man/boy relationship as being key to the opening scenes of the film, I couldn't get totally inside it. You respect older people because you think that they "know something" when you find that they don't your relationship changes. Equally film directors tend to be from a certain background or have a natural authority about them - the leap from being up able to project a film to being able to make one is large. And not as obvious as portrayed here.What knocks this down from a classic to a minor classic is sentimentally. Olivier said that you have to disguise your technique and he hadn't done it well enough at times. This is also true here. This wants your tears and emotions, but at the same time I can see the wheels going round and know how the trick works.There are harder hearts than mine to break, but a bit more solid and even plot and little bit less emoting (not all of it totally reasoned) would have delivered a better product. Nonetheless a very happy memory and a film worthy of the IMDb Top 100. Lets hope it stays there.Review is for the original cinema version, not the directors cut.
Cinema Paradiso was a satisfying Italian film that has won numerous awards. I watched it with English subtitles. I was immediately pleased that I could pick up some basic phrases in the beginning, as it opened with a telephone conversation. I was quickly drawn into the plot as the scene flashed from a handsome, distinguished gentleman quietly reflected on his relationship that had spanned many years and experiences and shaped his life, with his dear friend, Alfredo. The young Toto, with all his mischievous, bright- eyed wonder, was impossible not to love. And the hard-talking Italian film operator, Alfredo, had a soft side that was evident through his way of protecting the young boy. The impact of the cinema on a community was nostalgic. There was a careful balance that seemed to never be disrupted between the growing Toto and his mentor, with the stakes growing higher each new phase of growth. Beautiful was the love story of tentative, curiously exploration as Toto came of age, easy to relate to, and certainly pulled at the heart strings. We see Toto grow from a boy operator in one city, to far away from where he came from, older, wiser, perhaps a little lonely. By the end of the film, we too are wistfully reminiscent of the old days of Cinema Paradiso and sweet, innocent love. One thing is for certain by the end of this film: There is no certainty except life moves forward and all good things come to an end. – Jamie K.


                
The first time I saw « Nuovo Cinema Paradiso », I was about the same age of its young hero, 'Toto" and I enjoyed the film, for at least half of it. The fire scene marked a departure from the joyful insouciance of the early memories to a succession of situations I found hackneyed even at that time. Indeed, once the pretty girl get in the picture, I started yawning. Quite an ironical paradox that a movie resurrecting childhood magic and the power of imagination couldn't appeal to a child because of the very parts that needed to abandon the optimistic tone of childhood.My brother was just born at that time and now, he's 22. Naturally, the film felt like a totally different experience, and I was even surprised that it lasted two hours as I recalled it being longer, funny how memories tend to distort reality. Still, I wished the theme of childhood had been more central to the plot, as the apprenticeship of young Toto was more powerfully drawn by the fact that he was a fatherless boy (the film opens in post-war Sicily) without as close ties with his mother as he had with the movies. Naturally, the local cinema projectionist Alfredo (Philippe Noiret) was the perfect counterpart to his father, and naturally, spending times watching movies was more exciting a premise as staying home. "Cinema Paradiso", on that level, is the stuff passions are made of.And one can understand from the perspective of a young altar boy how a passion for movies can easily grow. The kid probably didn't spend much time doing kids' stuff, working with the priest and having to endure hours and hours of silence, sermons and slowness, but at what price: the total opposite actually, watching the film like in premieres while the priest is ready to toss his bell anytime a kiss or passion is expressed passion, signaling Alfredo to put a mark on the reel and later cut the offensive parts, leaving sad relics of celluloid in a bucket, that naturally, young Toto want to keep. As a film about and for people worshiping movies, it is funny that the churchman is the blasphemous one. Again, Cinema is God, Alfredo is the 'Holy Father' and it's up to 'Toto' to find the 'Holy Spirit'.Speaking of Alfredo, we can all relate to that mentor relationship, the little glow on our eyes when we listened to the one figure that incarnated our dreams. And Alfredo is all the more appealing because he does his best dissuading Toto to do his job, which consists on repeating the same movements, watching the same films over and over again, suffocating in summer and trembling in winter. He makes the job sound like hell, but for 'Toto', this Cinema is his 'Paradiso'. But it's not as 'black-and-white', so to speak, Alfredo enjoys watching people laughing or crying, he feels as if he's the one generating these emotions. And that's subtle genius, as one of my all-time pleasures has always been to show movies and I could watch the same ones over a week, if I could earn the satisfaction of making a friend or a relative discovering a gem, it was all worth it.This generosity reaches its emotional climax when Alfredo pleases the townspeople by projecting a movie in a big wall, foreshadowing the drive-in movies. This is the most magical moment of the film, and I always regret that it has to foreshadow the tragic fire scene that would partially destroy the theater but permanently cut Alfredo out of his job, as he would (another tragic irony) turn blind because of the chemical fumes. Things could have been worse, as it was little Toto who pulled by the strength of his love, the big Alfredo out of the flaming room. And this shows how ungrateful a job this is, being the man in the shadow, the projectionist would have been totally forgotten, if it wasn't for the only boy who got interested in his job, so (no pun intended) it made natural that the torch would be passed to Toto.This is the part where I lose the track a little, and I don't think the film is perfect all the way, but the truth is that, for all the little unnecessary moments, there are some magnificent exchanges with the older and wiser Alfredo, as we finally get to understand what he meant by dissuading Toto to do this job. It is one thing to show movies, but you'll never get the same credit as if you were making them. In fact, the soul of a projectionist is to make movies, and Toto soon turns out to be Jacques Perrin as Guiseppe Tornatore's alter ego in the film, an established filmmaker, that was the only way to close his characters' arc. And this is why, as a guy who enjoyed making people discover movies, this sentiment has built up to the desire of making movies. And I guess, this is what the final extraordinary kissing montage exhilarates, the immortalizing power of Cinema, encapsulating passion and love and all human feelings like no medium has ever done, "Romeo & Juliet", "Tristan & Isold" are iconic love stories but do they hold a candle to the visual memories provided by, say, "Gone With the Wind" or "From Here to Eternity"? Perrin crying while watching the iconic kissing montage is like he'd just revisited the roots of his passion, Cinema's Golden Age..Or was he also revisiting his own Golden Age, purely and simply, letting his inner child enjoying with the same eyes, and heart, the magic of the lost past. As unlimited as the Cinema is, maybe the "Nuovo Cinema Paradiso" transcends the limits of Cinema and is about something more deeply rooted in our hearts, something called nostalgia, our own personal Golden Age.
Famed film director Salvatore Di Vita has become jaded and unloved. Even his mother has difficulty finding him. He recalls his childhood nicknamed Toto in a post-war small town. The priest would cut out all the kisses in the movies. Projectionist Alfredo at the Cinema Paradiso becomes Toto's mentor. A film catches fire burning down the cinema and blinding Alfredo. Toto runs in to save Alfredo's life. The cinema is rebuild and Toto becomes the new projectionist. As a teen, he would find love and lose love. The adult Salvatore returns to town to attend Alfredo's funeral. The cinema is demolished. In Alfredo's home, he finds an unexpected film reel.I love the childhood Toto. The kid is precocious and charming. His chemistry with Philippe Noiret is wondrous. The teenage years are less kind. The teen Toto isn't as charismatic and the teenage love isn't anything special. Then there is the final film clips. It is some kind of movie magic. I actually cried a little when the film gets going with that beautiful music. It is incredible powerful and poignant.


                
The Italian movie Cinema Paradise (1988) written and directed by Guiseppe Tornatore is about childhood reminiscence and a man's efforts of trying to come to terms with the passing time, passing people, and good, lively days when he fell in love with the movies. It has nice countryside Giancaldo shown with people going on about their daily chores, living a slow, peaceful life; the dark, rainy nights on the roads of a small town reminded me of 'Midnight in Paris', and sometimes even 'Sawariya'. Alfredo, the village theatre's projectionist, beautifully played by Phillipe Noiret and Toto(child version), played by Salvatore Cascio has a mentor-student kinda relationship. After the news of Alfredo's passing away, the movie is in flashback, and you get a feeling that sometimes there is nothing but nostalgia- nostalgia and remembrance of the past, of people in your past, of the place of your birth where you haven't been to since years, of the simpler and purer times, of the presence of a soul (mentor) that would always protect you. It's a beautiful movie, with which you could relate to if you ever felt the urge to go back in time and revisit the lively, easier world of childhood. The movie has a human touch, for sure. It also seamlessly includes the history of World War2 and the many deaths that it took. The background music needs special mention, which made the movie right on spot with generating tension, suspense, or a tug on your heart strings.
The movie has its story open up nicely successfully building up curiosity. The move to the earlier time in the chronology sets the story to settle in nicely, and having the scene go back to the present Toto helps brings back the audience to the present condition and tie up the story until the finale moment come. The nostalgia effect is very nice in this movie. It's done through portraying the high fondness of people to watch the cinema, especially a very good movie. I really like how the movie tells the story of a man since his childhood until his older days. The movie also nicely instates a patron character without instating the usual hard characteristics. The acting is nicely done, although a little bit hyperbolic at times. In overall, the acting was able to make the movie live out as a whole. It's only too bad that the romance isn't really finished in this movie.


                
Greetings from Lithuania.I have just watched "Nuovo Cinema Paradiso" for the first time (ande probably, the last one) so here are my two coins. This is a goof film, as you have already guested seeing it in IMDb 250, good feel movie. It's very solidly acted, directed. Music is wonderful. Currently this film is in IMDb 57th place, and i believe i could find many pictures who are far better and are placed in the lower places, but nevertheless this is a good picture. It's sort of reminded me of "The Artist" - they both share love to movies, and a times long gone - "Nuovo Cinema Paradiso" plays more like a memories. Overall,good picture, not overwhelmingly good in any way or very touching, but very solidly constructed good - feel picture: must see to movie goers and for all who love true cinema.


                
I watched those dark Italian films so called Dark Wave after WWII. There were many dark but good once. As the times improved in Italy during 1960s and 1970s most of that kind of film making disappeared. They were replaced by more optimistic and joyful films like this one.This film does not necessarily follow that dark path, but rather optimistic one. It shows so well Italy of those times, magic of the films and their attractions to the public. It is a real tribute to the film industry and its success in the 20th century.Acting is excellent, plot is interesting, cinematography excellent! All about this film is great, it really puts a smile onto your face.Please make an effort to find this film and watch it!


                
We all have had moments when we seemed to cling to past sensations or childhood memories, we feel a certain comfort re invoking these thoughts into mind. That is exactly what Cinema Paradiso portrays in an almost 3 hour long movie all through which you don't budge. Allow me to explain : The past is an ambiguous word but to clarify, let's consider the past as the numerous events that lead to NOW, the present. Having said that, the movie is a picture perfect depiction of the influence of the past on one's present and future. Childhood, teenage crisis, first love, the search for one's roots etc.. I shall detail these headlines. This movie represents the main character Salvatore Di Vita,a bright little kid who, never met or had any kind of interaction with his father(a soldier in the Italian army). And Alfredo, an old man with no kids who takes care of film reels in the Cinema Paradiso. (The only downside of the Cinema Paradiso was that films were censored and scenes involving physical contact were cut from the reels). Many actions lead their relationship to strengthen throughout the movie even though their bond had an inherent tendency to grow because each of them found in the other what he was lacking. Alfredo soon becomes the father figure Salvatore longed for as a kid and the little boy starts seeking counsel with the elder in matters that he couldn't understand. He becomes the prominent person that represents Salvatore's childhood along with the Cinema Paradiso, the place where Salvatore cultivated a love for Cinematography. And finally Elena, Salvatore's one true love draws the final stroke on this amazing portrait : Giancaldo, Salvatore's home village. Outer Circumstances force Elena and Salvatore to be separated, and their attempts to communicate fall on deaf ears and they lose all kinds of contact. A while after that Alfredo's counsel leads Salvatore(Toto) to leave the cradle of his childhood in order to pursue his dreams. He returns several years after to attend Alfredo's funeral and starts to rediscover Giancaldo from an other point of view and is finally able to make peace with his past with Alfredo's posthumous help. Finally i would like to add that the movie has an air of innocence to it and an immensely frivolous atmosphere giving all the characters' feelings a sincerity that i have never seen in any other movie.
This heart warming and uplifting film takes us on a nostalgic adventure into our youths, through the innocent and untainted eyes of a young boy, who still sees the world for all its beauty and promise, even throughout the birth and death of a picture palace that holds so much lure and magic to him. Cinema paradiso is regarded as not only one of the greatest Italian films ever exported, but one of the greatest foreign films ever! But I would strongly disagree, as far as to say it is an insult to label this majestic testament to the beauty life, as just a foreign film! It's more than that, much more. A story told in flash backs, from the perspective of a highly successful film maker in his 40's (Salvatore Cascio). Upon receiving a call from his mother to inform him that his child hood hero had unfortunately died, it forces him to recount his entire youth. Telling the story of a young Salvatore living in a run down, poverty stricken and grim war-torn, post ww2 Sicilian village with his baby sister and his harassed mother who is as free with a slap as with a hug. But finding refuge from all the pain and misery, in a cinema paradiso, a local picture hall, provides him with an idyllic paradise where his love for cinema and adventures can run free. There he soon strikes up an unshakable life long bond with a aging projectionist, serving as a father figure and confidante, then after a fire robes him of his sight, Alfredo (Philippe Noriet) encourages Salvatore to take over at the new paradiso, but eventually he would push the now young 18 year old Salvatore, tainted by his first heartbreak by his true love Elena(Agnese Nano), out of the confines of this dead beat village, to a world waiting to be explored and conquered , Only returning 30 years later, to witness the burial of Alfredo and the demolition of the cinema paradiso. Giuseppe Tornatore provides us with a poignant and almost, spiritual reminder of how the simple things that we held so delicately in are youths can almost be forgotten and misplace in our older years, as we replace the magic with vain perceptions of success and obsession with money, when we should actually try and reconnect with our youths, and again enjoy the personal cinema experience that promises so much. As soon as the end titles rolled by, I couldn't help but feel sad, as a big cinema paradiso shaped whole was left in my heart. Cinema paradiso is a film that stirs up a lot of home truths, a great watch for brave individuals.
Nuovo Cinema Paradiso is a movie for movie and cinema fans. In this movie you will understand the true meaning of love of the cinema. When I saw this movie I loved it because I think it represents the love for films that every movie fan has. I liked very much the performance of Salvatore Cascio as young "Salvatore 'Totò' Di Vita" and of course the performance of Phillpe Noiret as "Alfredo".I also liked very much the true love between Marco Leonardi/Jacques Perrin as a teenager and adult "Salvatore 'Totò' Di Vita" and Agnese Nano / Brigitte Fossey as a teenager and as adult Elena Mendola. I saw the extended movie of 155 minutes and not the "cut" movie of 121 minutes and I think that it worth it, I did not get bored for even a minute instead of it I really liked it!


                
This is a perfectly pleasant film about the friendship between a mischievous youngster and a weary old film projectionist working at the local cinema. This is also a film about film, a genre which I've always found a bit too self-indulgent.Except I think this film – about the importance and magic of an actual cinema house – is one that is becoming more and more relevant today. People are going to the cinema less and less frequently – they're downloading films online, with poor quality, not paying, and, importantly, watching them on screens that are getting smaller – or at least thinner – in their own homes. What Cinema Paradiso reminds us of is the magic of leaving the house, paying for a ticket, sitting in a cinema with others, laughing together, being frightened together, getting choked up together.Nonetheless I still feel that this film is just a "nice" film – for the most part. It's perfectly pleasant and sweet, quite bittersweet in parts. Heartwarming, sure, but is that enough to make this film great? No. What makes this film immensely popular and well-loved, in my opinion, is the very last scene. It is surely among the most brilliant endings to a film I have ever seen. No spoilers here – but, for me, just because the final moments of a film are 10/10, this does not make the film 10/10.


                
The majority of people (but certainly not ALL) writing "User Reviews" that have seen both the US cut version from 1990 AND the recently restored 'director's cut' 3 hr. version (from 1988)--those people prefer the shorter version much more and recommend watching it before seeing the longer version. I strongly agree (and so does Roger Ebert).They are 2 different movies and to appreciate both, you need to see the shorter version first. I rate the cut version 9 of 10 stars and the longer version 7/10. So I'll average it out to an 8/10. The 2 hr. cut version is amusing, tender and nostalgic, the story of how a life-long fascination with movies developed in a boy's (Toto's) childhood and led to his life work.The original 1998 Italian (now restored) 3 hr. version elaborates, in far greater detail, on many of the losses and sacrifices that accompanied Toto's fascination and, for some/many viewers, in so doing it effectively wipes out much of the tenderness and nostalgia experienced in the shorter version.In the original, longer (restored) version, we find that Alfredo, the projectionist, who served as the functional father figure to Toto (Toto is the film's central figure), was instrumental in keeping Toto from connecting with Elena, the love of his young life. Alfredo believes in and instills in Toto the belief that the world operates on a "one at the expense of another" principle such that IF Toto loves movies and wants to make them, he MUST give up all other loves: Elena, and warm relationships with Toto's family, and even his relation with Alfredo. It's as if people can reach for and achieve only one important thing in their lives: a wife, or family, or supportive friends -- or an achievement. But IF it's for an achievement, then ALL else, all other wants, yearnings, must be sacrificed.Is this a rule in life?There's an interesting thread in the Message Board of this film titled "Is Alfredo the most evil movie villain ever?" In it many people, especially "Obsidian451" and myself discuss this in much more detail.I think that some will find reading those comments helpful.
