Started to watch the first episode and quickly realised it is for 11-14 year olds, presumably the target audience of this programme, i.e. those who have rated this show surprisingly high. It is not for anyone over 17, so beware! Example quote: Do you have any any Nesquik? Feeble sex dialogues and pathetic jerk-off scenes - I am really not sure why I thought this would be worth watching, because of Gillian Anderson?!? Really, don't bother, there are tons of better (and funnier) shows out there...


                
Yes, it's a sixth form. Yes, not all sixth forms wear uniforms. Yes, it's filmed in UK - but what on earth is with the attempt to fuse the imagery of two educational establishments? I kept expecting to see posters for an Enchantment Under The Sea dance. Even the way they are all hanging out of the back of their open topped cars with all of the distinct school iconography is exclusively American. I expect Rizzo and Danny to walk past furtively talking about Sandy.
One assumes that they want to ensure this is watched in America too, so they homogenise the cultural identities. Does that distract from the series or is it just an irritation? For me - it got in the way of the script more than once.
Whilst the characters are extremely predictable, the performances are ok and the script is sharp. Which is a shame, because done well, this would be a genuine contender. It'll be forgotten soon enough. For me it demonstrates that hits like The Crown aside, Netflix has a lot of money but little class.


                
Sex Education starts off by ticking every box of the stereotypical high school hypersex scene, no-imagination-at-all. Yes, it's R-rated for its softcore porn scenes which is a shame because it's really designed for a 13yo's mentality and budding hormones - we adults can and do see far better sex scenes so this is kind of a waste. And Gillian Anderson. From the FBI X-Files to an anorexic looking single-mom (because that hasn't been done to death) sex therapist just an explicit conversation away from license revocation. And the high school characters are played by those well into their 20s/30s, so that's really authentic {eye roll}. And this is a British series, so you get the weird accents, the confusing slang, and the general, beatdown depression of British life. All that in the first episode. Guys I tried, I really tried to get through the second episode but it was just as painful so I called time-of-death. I REALLY am anxious though to start "Future Man" season 2 like now!


                
Obviously I am entirely the wrong demographic for this show because I do not recognise the country that it is set in at all, I do not recognise the time period nor do I recognise any of the characters. There is a distinct lack of realism going on. This is meant to be the UK but it doesn't look like the UK (even though it was apparently filmed here) and the characters..... Don't get me started! Where is this place in the country where all these posh kids hang out and have loads of sex? Now I am going to show my age.... Since when did 16 year olds have to worry about their sexual performance as if they were porn stars. I guarantee no one was worried about some of this stuff before children had access to the internet. Can't help thinking that is a bit sad really, but I digress. This is a show for hormonal kids and that is it.


                
I am not sure who watches this or who writes reviews. I am certain they are fake. The show is booooooring! not funny, not really raunchy, just plain boring. This is not even educational or good for young adults or teenagers. I tried, I really tried. 3 stars and it is generous.


                
This review is mainly based on the very first episode.I was drawn to this title by the fact that Asa Butterfield is in it.
The first minute begins and nearly ignites a spark and then everything just drowns in clichee. Oh, such clichees!As pointed out by other reviews, the general style of the show seems just.. confused. Styled to be set in the 80's, but clearly set in modern times.
A school that looks so very american.
The side-kick best friend of the main character, who is, of course, black and gay.
Why would that be an issue, you may ask. In itself, it isn't. But the obvious and continuous tries to throw "diversity" and "inclusion" in our faces, just gets on my nerves. Make a good story first, good characters, allow them to play to their strenghts and then look at diversity and inclusion. It seems to be done the other way around. Btw, a good example for an interesting look at sexuality is "You, Me, Her". Funny, compelling, gripping from the first to the last episode.While watching, I kept waiting for the moment where I would be drawn in. Where the superficial story would open up, allowing for more than the next lame sex.joke. Instead, I got this: One character is known to have a huge penis, but can't reach orgasm. Naturally, he then goes and takes three Viagra (at school nonetheless) only to be found by Otis (Asa Butterfield) and Maeve (Emma Mackey). After Otis tells him about having to accept who he is and what he was gifted with, said character goes straight into the full dining hall of the school, drops his pants and shwings it into everyone's faces. At this moment, I understood that Netflix probably has no good ideas for shows left and can now only resort to "sex sells".I am not even sure at this point, if 12 year old people at the beginning of puberty would find this somehow funny, yet it seems some do.Granted, the trailer seems to suggest that the story does get better over time, but I just can't be bothered to wait for it. If your pilot does not at all spark interest in me, why would I keep watching?
I rarely write reviews but I really felt the need to here. This is not a good show. I'm surprised that Gillian Anderson would work on this. It felt contrived and not believable at all, furthermore lazy writing.Also the biggest pet peeve of all is that schools in the UK are not like American schools and people do not walk around in such formed cliches wearing letterman jackets. Wrong audience!


                
