This animated series puts most live action drama films & TV series to shame. The animation is excellent; the stories are even better. Every episode is an absolute gem, much like a little techno-thriller feature film.It's a real pity cyberpunk fiction never really made much impact in the film world - but this series makes it all work.Apparently set in a world where Motoko Kusanagi never met the Puppet Master, this series involves complex political intrigue, cyber-crimes, people being hacked as one would hack a computer nowadays, etc.If you even remotely liked the Ghost in The Shell feature film, check this out if you get the chance.


                
There is one major problem with GITSAC and that regards the backgrounds and foregrounds. While the backgrounds, all computer rendered look stunning and detailed, the foregrounds and characters don't really blend into them. Its forgivable since this is a problem with pretty much all animation barring a very few but since it looks as though the producers are putting so much attention to detail, they should'nt have really overlooked that feature.Another problem is unevenness. Not all episodes are equally good and some can be downright boring although the 2nd season/GIG does add more interesting stuff. The fact that each episode is "stand alone" and disjointed means that too much detail that doesn't always make sense, needs to be squeezed into limited time. There is too much attention given to computer generated virtual reality sfx rather than the action in real life.While GITSAC is revolutionary in its own way, it can get quite boring at times. Give me shirow's Dominion tank police instead any day! GITSAC simply has no charm, no soul and seems quite dead at times.


                
Ghost In The Shell: S.A.C. was something of an event anime that attracted some big names from Japan's anime industry. It was directed by Kenji Kamiyama (Jin-Roh: The Wolf Brigade), produced by Production I.G (Patlabor 2: The Movie) and scored by Yoko Kanno (Macross Plus). So, did they manage to accomplish something great? The answer is yes, for the most part. The series was obviously influenced by Cowboy Bebop. You can see it in its structure and animation. The animation is excellent, especially for a TV series. It has a fresh look, and the scenery is often stunning. Public Security Section 9 has more members here than in the film, in addition to Major Motoko Kusanagi, Batou, Togusa, Daisuke Aramaki and Ishikawa there is also Saito, Paz and Borma. The story is often an intriguing combination of cyberpunk and detective fare, with some philosophy added in. The story elements are very much Japanese. One can find faults with the science-fiction here, but overall the filmmakers did a good job at presenting the near-futuristic world. Episodes related to the Laughing Man and Individual Eleven cases are definitely the most interesting in the series. The other episodes are about cases that further flesh out the world of Ghost In The Shell and tell us more about the main characters. Yoko Kanno's music is a definite boost to the series. Some of the tunes here don't sound different from the ones she composed for Cowboy Bebop, but she did indulge in industrial and electronica music this time. One can make comparisons with the 1995 film but there's really no point in doing this. This is a TV series after all, containing 52 episodes. The film remains one of the best anime ever, and its animation is obviously better than anything shown in the series. Overall, Stand Alone Complex is very good for an anime. It's not as great as Cowboy Bebop or Neon Genesis Evangelion, for example. Still, it's a quality show that one can definitely take to heart. I recommend seeing it.


                
