The second improves greatly upon the animation standards. Although the drawing is done to geometric accuracy, too much CGI is used and looks weird at many places. It in fact, does not even look as good at the GITS movie. Technically speaking, the GITS series may be the best animated in the world but as far as the final perspective is concerned, it certainly does not look that or look that realistic or deep. It sometimes looks quite bland and more like computer rendering meaning that the CGI is way too obvious. Those flaws have been fixed to certain extents in the 2nd Gig which also pays homage to the original movie through certain scenes which should look familiar. The new intro is not great though.


                
When I was a kid growing up. We had tons of cartoons to watch. Many of these shows where also Japanese and very serious in tone or violent and aired on Toonami. Many of these shows where about boys fighting (shonen) . I saw Ghost in the Shell in the bumpers on Sci Fi Channel in 2003. I thought it was a dumb name because how could a Ghost fit inside a shell. As you know that is a metaphor like everything else. Then I saw it when I was 9 in 2004 on Adult Swim on Saturday Night and my views of animation changed forever. Scratch that views of the world!  PLOT
 Ghost in the Shell, is basically like a Law and Order but if it where a cyberpunk Anime. Each episode is unique and interesting. You get tons of action, blood, sexuality, and violence. And there is one thing that is destroying all of Newport City, the laughing man. Section 9 must destroy them. The story explores the dangers of our world becoming too engaged with technology. In a world where we can't get our electronic fixes. We become like pathetic disabled children in a mental hospital. We must become cyborg to be superior. But when we do so we lose our soul. The villians that it creates in the world when you make humans robots. You feel for the lack of humanity of these humanoids.  CHARACTERS
 Major Motoko Kusanagi is the sexy lead in Ghost in the Shell SAC. He is emotionless, cold, but caring deep down, she has her wear abouts but doesn't question she isn't human or not like in the movie. He personality is so cold that it intoxicates the entire show. She is witty and rude to any man or machine that stands in her way. She uses technobabble with her wit. All of this do to that she is a cyborg. Botou is her buddy, he is funny, tough, and smart. He can kill. He's fat but buff. Togusa is the only non cyborg member of section 9. He is quiet but curious and sympathetic. He has one gun and it will blow you away. Togusa is a family guy. Tachicoma is extreme comic relief. They are annoying and high pitched little spiderbots but they are cute anyway.
 
 ANIMATION
For a TV anime, Ghost in the Shell has some of the best animation out there. Especially by Production IG Standards. Though the animation maybe jerky and still, the stillness helps the characters feel more aloof and withdrawn cold and calculating to feel like a world filled by robot people. The character designs though aren't ass toony as what the Manga version had in mind is still top notch and should be the industry standard of all Japanese animation in my opinion. They look kinda half Asian unlike other Anime which they say they're name is Kagome and are a Japanese school student. Please... If you like bad ass cyborgs kicking the crap out of robots and humans. Then please check it out the animation for the fight scenes are fluid. Though they are fluid they seem to go for the hole shaky cam feel which gives me a headache. OH! But speaking of cinematography, the cinematography of Ghost in the Shell is very impressive as it focuses on is what needs to be seen rather than exaggerating on what is happening with annoying Anime camera pans and zooms. The backdrops are just dropdead gorgeous to. The only thing I don't feel to sure about is the CGI. Ok the intro is amazing in my opinion. But the CGI composited with 2D characters has a polarizing effect. I know it's budget reasons because in 2004 making 3D animation was becoming a no brainer. But the already well drawn Anime characters mixed with Tachichomas bantering with more frames and 3 dimension and such strange linework is quite jarring. 
 SOUND
Yokko Konno's work is just perfect in Ghost in the Shell. She does an excellent techno beat with many other traditional cords to make the world feel more cold,alien, and robotic. The intro had my heart racing with that Inner Universe. Oh and the dubs. Marry McGlynn is stunning. 
Every character sounds like an adult. No one sounds stupid except Tachikoma.
 
OVERALL
Best Anime for adults, I highly recommend you to watch. Enjoy the fights, visera, and lore. And Thought I hated Second Gig as a kid. I grew up and loved it because it enfilled me even more on the lore.


                
And that's because I'm not all that willing to give anime the same due many others appear to. Animation style and quality notwithstanding, the "classics" by popular acclaim invariably start out interesting, as you'd expect a pilot episode of any TV series to strive for, but gradually or quickly become weird, occasionally startling, mildly disconcerting, formulaic, or just plain tedious. I respect and enjoy Miyazaki's works and I'm a bit partial to those of Tezuka Osamu, the latter because Astro Boy made quite the impression on me when I viewed its American broadcast premiere. But for today's anime broadcast Stateside there are only two exceptions in my view. Cowboy Bebop is one, for reasons I'll provide among its IMDb comments. GITS:SAC is the other.I first saw the American broadcast premiere of the first of the two GITS:SAC series quite by accident, at about halfway through the third episode. I roused from my insomniac stupor, sat up, blinked, and muttered, "Now this is different." Not a serial in the strict sense, no kids in the lead, no swordplay between mythical creatures or giant robots, no mutated dinosaurs, definitely nothing marketable (perhaps the Tachikoma, but I doubt Stateside), and unquestionably something you won't catch broadcast Stateside anywhere near prime time, though I sometimes think Stateside networks aim for that, whether the viewing public likes it or not<U+0097>Mystery writers would call GITS:SAC "a police procedural," and science fiction writers would probably add "cyberpunk" to that label. Plots, subplots, arcs, you-name-it, all set in a future Japan that subtly requires you to try to figure out what's "different but the same" but not all at once. Nominally each of the two TV seasons has its own principal story arc; the first season features the way the world is, the second features someone who would very much like it different. Miss one episode, no harm done, but perhaps with a lingering enticement to be more certain that you truly did not miss anything. And then they'll have you! Action, obligatory gore (albeit animated), some expletives and "cheesecake" (ditto), but all tempered with a captivating and truly surprising allotment of characterization, dialogue, insight, wit, and "breathing time." Exceptional music. Passing references to "the war," "refugee zones" and the "American Empire," while "all natural" and "puppet" take on entirely different (and frightening) meanings. The settings may look familiar and untouched, but every character is a survivor, and I think you'll catch on fairly early as to just how that's done.I don't normally appreciate this kind of a challenge from a TV series. I frankly lack the patience of a regular viewer and, if I must get hooked, prefer that happen from the very start. But I haven't enjoyed a challenge in quite this way since my equally serendipitous introduction to Paddy McGoohan's The Prisoner many years ago. And I leave it to you to try to figure out the meaning behind the title as well.Plenty Web sites if you want to cheat. Both televised seasons of 26 episodes each are available on DVD. (Catch the interviews with the production members and cast; Kamiyama Kenji is a thoughtful and articulate young man, and "production by committee" here is something to be proud of.) Two predecessor GITS movies to rent, each radically different from the other (one dubbed into competent English, the other subtitled) though essentially featuring the same characters. The TV series is no thematic sequel to the two movies but still another direction taken by the same characters. Besides a recent novelization that bridges the gap between the two predecessor movies and a sequel movie soon to arrive Stateside, two manga ("graphic novels," Stateside) are also available, but you might as well stick to GITS:SAC on the 'tube or DVD, for if the prospect of viewing anime gives you pause you'll probably also refrain from holding a fancy comic book.Whether seasoned otaku, accidental viewer like myself, or just plain curious, take the plunge and draw your own conclusions, but, in a phrase, brace for intelligence.


                
