Many people have told me how devastated they were when they saw this movie. But I was just bored. We talked about it and, in the discussions that followed, I was accused of not caring about the victims of the Holocaust. One person even said I was denying the Holocaust happened!And that soured me on the movie even more. The fact is, Holocaust movies have insurance against criticism: if you say the movie is a waste of time, someone might attribute your opinion to the Holocaust itself. I don't understand it, but that weird emotional blackmail made me really uncomfortable with Schindler's List.I thought Liam Neeson was horrible. His acting is very stiff and unconvincing. The use of hand-held cameras and black-and-white cinematography *should* work, but ultimately they amounted to subtle special effects.I thought the movie was emotionally flat, as well. I watched each character go through the motions, wondering when something unexpected would happen. The horror of the Holocaust is shown in an almost clinical way.I don't know. I just felt that this movie would feel less like a bid for an Oscar and more like a personal film.At the risk of being a complete jerk, I'll give Spielberg this advice: Do it again. Make another Holocaust movie. Why not? He finished Kubrick's "AI." Kubrick had another movie in the planning stages, a Holocaust film called "Aryan Papers" (aka "Wartime Lies"). I hope he'll finish *that* Kubrick movie, too, and create a better Holocaust film, something I can sink into and be surprised by, something that feels much more personal.


                
This is just another film like Amistad that Steven Spielberg thought might be important to put to film. But, after seeing a film like United 93, I feel that, going back to this film, I see it as exploitation. That it is exploiting the pain of the entire holocaust and the tragedy that it really was, and exploiting that for emotional reasons but worse, to give Oskar Shindler an opposite, and something to purify him from a narrative character perspective. It's not that I hate the film, it's well made in every aspect, but it is basically a Frank Capra picture set within a really huge tragedy. One character is not the hero or villain here, there is no black and white. Since it chooses to display the Holocaust so graphically, do it in a better way. But watching the film and contrasting it to what actually did happen, I have to wonder, is there a really truthful way of representing the Holocaust? It's such a monstrous tragedy, the big abomination of the 20th century, should it really be put onto film, and are the words now used to describe it, "Never Again", really a truthful representation? Is this how we want people to remember the Holocaust? Through a film that presents a hero struggling to be a capitalist and struggling to be a good man by Western standards by saving as many people as possible. If he had saved "one more" person, it wouldn't have mattered. The film is permanent, and the Holocaust itself is as well. I firmly believe this is not the appropriate way to depict something that actually happened and was so important. It's the singular voice of the director here, this film might as well by "It's A Wonderful Life", because that is essentially what it is. The same story, the same character arc for Shindler. It's just not appropriate and I think that the time has not come yet for us to truly be able to grasp the atrocity of the Holocaust. I believe the means of representation are not available for us or at our disposal.


                
As possibly the world's most influential film-maker, Spielberg has a responsibility. And that responsibility entails NOT using his cheesy, shallow sensibilities to turn one of the most profoundly horrible parts of human history into a soap opera-style piece of fluff. This film is more than just a bad film, it is a downright dangerously bad film that will be watched by millions of impressionable people who might have had few other sources to base their knowledge of the Holocaust on. Most of us agree that the worst thing to do about something like the Holocaust is to forget it, lest it happen again. The next worst thing is to trivialise it to the point where it resembles so many other Hollywood pieces of trash.What possesses a man who has become rich and powerful in the film industry solely through the making of shallow, transparent films for children to think that he is talented and wise enough to present to the masses a subject which should only be touched by the most careful and socially responsible hands? A Mid-life crisis, and an over-inflated ego, most likely, not that it matters though.Only someone with many years of study may be a doctor; only an experienced engineer may build a bridge, and even the guy who fixes your toilet must be a qualified plumber. Yet this fool, whose only previous qualifications have been cheap, shallow, movies made strictly for entertainment, thinks he is in a rightful position to educate our children. Because, unfortunately, many people have a frighteningly limited amount of knowledge about the second world war, and Schindler's List will be for many of them their main source of information. Showing it to them in as cheesy and hollow a fashion as almost only Spielberg can, is simply a crime.


                
Schindler's list is not a bad film per se - Liam Neeson is very good as Schindler and if you edit out some of the more overblown scenes - the story is still riveting. Yet it could have been so much more if the story just told simply and if the central theme were fully understood and developed.Before the war Schindler and his friend, Goeth were boozy, flirtatious German businessmen. Both would have likely been uninspired failures had there been no war. In a kinder world, Goeth's and Schindler's moral differences might have manifested themselves in the size of the tip that they would leave the barmaid. In war, the consequences of moral choices are greatly magnified, resulting in Schindler becoming a most unlikely heroic figure, and Goeth becoming a loathed prison commandant. In the film, Spielberg elevates Schindler to sainthood status and portrays Goeth as a sadistic psychopath. By sanitizing Schindler's many faults (boozing, gambling, womanizing...) and by demonizing Goeth, Spielberg severs our connection with them and, ironically, blunts the conflict between them. Adolf Eichmann was far more chilling than Charles Manson. Unlike Manson, whom we could dismiss as psychotic, Eichmann was the faceless functionary that we have all experienced, whose defense of "following orders" is one that we have all heard, a defense that was used by many during the war, and one that we might see ourselves using under similar circumstances had we not Schindler's courage. By making Schindler a saint, Spielberg diminishes both his accomplishment and his inspiration to us - saints have no problems making the right decision - the rest of us do. Rather than a gaping chasm, there is but a fine moral line between Schindler and Goeth - one that we tread every day, which fortunately for us, rarely does more than determines a barmaid's salary.Spielberg does not develop this simple theme, preferring to impress us with a grandiose view of a great moral tale. Instead, he comes off as the underskilled sous-chef drowning a wonderful filet mignon in an overly rich sauce. The quality of the ingredients still shine through despite the clumsy handling but does not approach its great potential. In the end, the best thing about the film is that it reminds Americans of a monstrous event in history. It is unfortunate that this reminder is necessary and that it reduces such a timeless parable to a useful public service announcement.


                
Here is Barbara's List of all the reasons why Schindler's List is the most annoyingly overpraised film of all time. 1.Overlong 2.Spielberg's most self-indulgent film, which is pretty pathetic, considering that he also made Saving Private Ryan 3.self-consciously arty 4.overabundance of cheesy filmmaking gimmicks.If I had more time, I could go on forever....


                
This is one of the worst films I have ever seen. Only Steven Speilberg could take an astonishing story of courage and determination in the face of hideous oppression and turn it into a poorly made schmaltz-fest like this. Chief in a series of tacky, amateurish filming techniques is the legendary "girl in red coat". Having decided on black and white in an attempt to show that he can be serious about something, the paucity of Spielberg's imagination is clear in that he can think of no other way to make the girl stand out and be recognised - he seems to think that his audience is incapable of recognising, say, a face, and has to hammer home the identity of the girl by presenting her in an entirely different way from everybody else in the film. The monumental cheesiness of the closing scenes with the people saved by Schindler goes way beyond the point of tackiness - just more evidence of Spielberg's extraordinarily sentimental side sabotaging what should have been a meaningful film. On the plus side, most of the acting is superb, but on the whole the film sensationalises the violence and oppression which it should have set out to attack. Oskar Schindler was such an extraordinary man that his remarkable story, which everybody should know, deserved far, far better than this.


                
I've watched this film about half a dozen times over the last five years and I still don't really understand what Spielberg was trying to do.  Was he trying to outline the horrors of the holocaust or was he trying to examine Schindler himself - why the man did what he did? Maybe both.  In neither case does he succeed.  One can't help but feel the atrocities were greatly toned down for this film thus not really reflecting the true horror of what really happened, and he fails completely in exploring the character of Schindler.  Why did Schindler do what he did?  The man was a philanderer and a shrewd business man who didn't exactly go out of his way to be nice.  Did witnessing what he did make him wake up to himself or perhaps there was an ulterior motive?  Spielberg looks at none of this and serves up a modern day saint.  It is kind of ironic that Spielberg shot this movie in black and white because that is the approach he has taken to his subject material.  He gives us the saintly Schindler, the stereotypical evil Nazi, the honourable Jew and none of the complexities that made these people what they are.  This was Spielberg's attempt to become accepted as a serious film-maker but yet he takes exactly the same approach to making this as he did with his marvellous popcorn movies resulting in a rather dictatorial film that has more answers than questions!


                
This film is very empty, for not only does it portray the Germans as "evil, lop-sided, devil worshippers" but it shows the Jews as being "promising, alluring, good guys".  If one is to question morality, then do so, but do not give us the black vs white issue found in this film.  Speilberg, immature since day one as director, tells us what to think, he strips away our humanity by overdosing us on excessive amounts of guilt and sentimentality.  In effect, the film lacks any moral basis except to denounce all evil men and with that, we learn absolutely nothing.....


                
this is one the worst movies I have ever seen about the holocaust. This movie doesn't do anything to me. If I was to doubt that the holocaust ever happend, this movie would make me a non-believer of the holocaust. To set the record straight I believe and know the holocaust happend.  The movie is predictable, badly shot, has one of the worst scripts and the location looked more like a holiday camp than work camp from WWII. Thru out the whole picture there is not one moment of human emotion. In this picture mister Speilberg shows his short comings in his intellect again, after bad movies like ET, Jurrasic Park and Saving private ryan(this movie is only saved because Tom Hanks played in it). And now Iam reading he is involved in a movie about Anne Frank, I really hope he doesn't have to much influence on the script and the in the shooting of the movie.


                
this is one the worst movies I have ever seen about the holocaust. This movie doesn't do anything to me. If I was to doubt that the holocaust ever happened, this movie would make me a non-believer of the holocaust. To set the record straight I believe and know the holocaust happened. The movie is predictable, badly shot, has one of the worst scripts and the location looked more like a holiday camp than work camp from WWII. Thru out the whole picture there is not one moment of human emotion. In this picture mister Spielberg shows his short comings in his intellect again, after bad movies like ET, Jurrasic Park and Saving private ryan(this movie is only saved because Tom Hanks played in it). And now Iam reading he is involved in a movie about Anne Frank, I really hope he doesn't have to much influence on the script and the in the shooting of the movie


                
Poor Oskars's remarkable and more than brave endeavor in saving human lives during the dark days of WW2 in Europe almost immediately takes a back seat to the lamentations of the filmmaker in perpetuating the plight of a certain group of people on which unspeakable atrocities were perpetrated upon. A film that helps promote liberties taken over the years by that certain group of people from anything to a good seat at the Opera to unabated attempts to destroy other people's beliefs and right to exist.This film is (unfortunately), not about a man's humanitarian well-meant efforts to do what he could to help to save a group of desperate and obviously(for most of them) doomed to their certain death, people.The point that came across was visually witnessing the random acts of a certain person committing atrocities and exaggerating them to an extent that diminished what really happened to those people. In trying to add visual credibility via sensationalism made a mockery and a not so subtle message that a certain group of people have rights forever to commit atrocities to avenge what befell them over the centuries. If there is such a thing as a hate film, well this is it, generalizing 40 million people as monsters for the actions of a handful of lunatics sanctioned by the so-called Allies that were still full of boast and smugness and let's face it, blindness to what was going on. In short, the filmmaker's point was very subjective, to put it mildly.


                
Only Stephen Spielberg could make a film about the holocaust where the point is that none of the major characters do NOT die.  To me the message is lost because of this and the film becomes a glorification of one man surrounded by the deaths of millions.  Oscar Schindler was a Nazi embroiled in the holocaust and the second world war.  He managed to save his friends, yet profited from concentration camps.  Ok, so he wasn't an anti-semite bent on destruction, but he only saved people he was connected to, and their families.And the evil Nazis in this film are all slightly comical.  Where is the evil?  Where is the horror?  Where is all the death and torture and misery.Scrape the surface of this film and you find a gratuitous "entertainment" movie.  If you want to know about the holocaust watch Shoah.
It appears that the comments by IMDB users have to be every bit as black-and-white as the plot of the average Hollywood production? A film has to be either outstanding or miserable?Sorry, can't comply. I recommend Schindler's List to my friends on the basis of its beautiful photography and the outstanding performance by Ben Kingsley. I wouldn't have said that Ralph Fiennes and Liam Neeson do a great job. Charismatic though they both are, they just put on their usual stone faces for their respective parts.The film is definitely worth seeing, but I would argue that it's overrated all the same. Because... such an immoderate amount of praise has been heaped upon it. True, Spielberg's story about human kindness in adversity is a sweet and all-American story. But it doesn't have much to do with the black-in-black disaster that was the Holocaust.


                
I admit, I have never been a big fan of Steven Spielberg. I must also admit however that I have a great deal of respect for his charming and subsequent brainwashing of Hollywood, and how easily he has made himself a brand name that always commands respect despite having made some of Hollywood's most overrated and tired films. With Schindler's List he truly created some powerful images, thought provoking and inciting in how they make you react...BUT... That's about where it ends. The talent of Steven lies in his ability to pull the strings of an audience, and in placing his propaganda so effectively, yet in this film with such a weak cast (other than Ralph Fiennes who was very effective as opposed to the generally weak and painful to watch Liam Neeson) and tired subject he breaks no new ground. Not to say it did not have its beautiful scenes, the executions and murders were poignant and well done, but lost much of their effect being coupled with so much overdone melodrama and sap. Its about time Hollywood wakes up, we need new directors who are bold yet sensible enough to know that there is no such thing as too far, but are intelligent enough to make a film that can rely on something other than pure shock, and that sometimes just a little is not enough and this is perfect evidence of that point. This film would have been excellent had a master such as Stanley Kubrick made it, but as it stands Schindlers List garners a 2 out of 10 in my eyes and is one of Spielberg's better films, but if nothing else its far superior to ET and the wretched Saving Private Ryan.


                
Poor acting, poor direction.  Every theme cannot be made into a movie. This tragedy in our time could not.  The horror of it all is just to great to be made into something the entertain, a popcorn smacking, no-nothing about history, clue-less to suffering, average audience.  Would have been better to have left it alone.


                
It was ok, but more of a made for television movie than cinema.  Not anywhere nearly good enough to be in the top 100 or even 250.  Yes, it's a fine story about a tragic time.  Yes, the actors were competent and it's technically good. No, it's not a film anyone will see more than once or twice.


                
I don't know what to say about this movie. I had never seen it, so when I received it this spring I was eager to watch it. I find the subject of the Holocaust to be fascinating (not in a good way) because it's just astounding that this actually happened. It baffles the mind how this could occur on such a grand scale. I'm always watching shows on the history channel about WWII and the Holocaust and so I had very high expectations for this movie. So, I put it in my DVD player and sat down to watch a movie about a subject that I have a lot of interest in. Three hours later I felt as if every ounce of life had been sucked from my body. I was bored to death. I could never get emotionally attached to anyone in the movie. I know this sounds bad but I never felt sorry for anyone in this film. This film felt like it had no real vision or direction and it never bothered to develop any characters; everyone in the movie came across as wooden figures to me.Now comes the real question; should a person watch a movie about the Holocaust expecting to be entertained? Well, the answer to this question is both yes and no. You shouldn't be entertained because it covers such a dark subject but anyone who enjoys history could be entertained because it covers significant event in human history. This where the film fails. It covers the event but it doesn't attempt to make the movie interesting, Spielberg must of decided that the subject matter alone was interesting enough and left it at that.I can watch a show about the Holocaust on the history channel and I will be more emotionally attached to the people in that one hour show than I will be to anyone in that three hour boring film, Schlinder's List. I'm sorry but that's poor execution on Spielberg's part.


                
I think IMDB was invented for me to get this off my chest, S.Speilberg is not a FILMmaker as in film as art. SS is a movie maker,a talented hack who's success has gone to his head. Jurrassic Park, great escapist fantasy,Raiders, handed to him on a platter by Lucas, Jaws, brilliant horror,Close Encounters, a virtuoso UFO riff. In Schindlers List and Amistad we see two oppressed groups, the Jews and the African slaves are unable to help themselves without help from the oppressive white man who is subjugating them to begin with! Wouldn't a story about the Holocaust or Slavery be more satisfying if it showed how the oppressed helped themselves instead of implying that THE STORY to tell about this particular period of history makes the victims unimportant, interchangable, of NO consequence except to motivate the "HERO"?? Also who is reading these scripts? Isn't the little girl in the red coat the SAME plot device( I don't even know what to call it, motif, ornament, twist??) as having Tom Hank's character release the german soldier that ultimately kills him.?!? In short I think SS should stick to the kid stuff. There is a terrible rumor that he wants the rights to Kubrick's last project "AI"!!!PS I hated E.T.


                
No knock on the story just the story telling.  You hear John Williams cue up and might as well prep that hanky.  I really wish Spielberg would maintain his distance from "deep" subject matter. Popular yes, but no auteur is he.


                
The movie is a slap in the face to the 150 million native americans who died so a place called Hollywood could appear and make it possible for people to make movies that are a slap in the face to 150 million native americans!!!! Where is their movie??  Where is a Ludlow Massacre picture??  "The Emma Goldman Story"??  You want a fair account of Mr. S.??  Watch reflections of evil.  I love the part where he visits Schindler's List "The Ride" at Disney World.  Where is movie that doesn't portray all Middle Easterners as hateful terrorists??  What about this for a movie??  "How the Russians Won World War II.......and bailed out the allies" I would watch it.  Schindler's List is a good movie, but it falls way short of being great.  I feel for a single person who dies in a conflict. (or in anyway for that matter) But it is time to talk about the deaths people are unaware of.  The Holocaust was a horrible display of how disgusting human nature can be, but I want it to be someone else's turn to tell their story of pain and suffering to the world.  We will always mourn those fallen behind, so lets educate people about the dark secrets of our country's beginning.  Or make movies about how our government actually used troops against it's own people. (The Ludlow Massacre) Let's move on.


                
Don't get me wrong, Shindler was a great man who did some amazing things in his efforts to save some Jews from certain death. I just wish Speilberg didn't feel the need to alter an already compelling story. For example, the at the end of the movie...Shindler left with a whole lot of money, which he could probably have used to save even more people, but elected not to. This should not in any way detract from what he did, but it, among other scenes, made the movie a fundamentally dishonest one.


                
Is it possible for Spielberg to make a film that isn't horrendously mawkish ? Can someone please turn off his sentimentality button ?Viewed nearly ten years after its making, this film's sole purpose of letting the world know how guilty we all should feel about the holocaust only serves to point up the horrors of the ongoing Israeli occupations in Palestine. I really don't feel that this is a particularly good film besides that.Ben Kingsley is insufferable, Ralph Fiennes hams it up, Liam Neeson sounds like The Count from Sesame Street. Spielberg has stated that he set out to make a memorial to the suffering of his people, and he has done a pretty good job of that. Unfortunately, his undoubted talents lie in the field of fantasy, not reality, and this self-indulgent polemic will not earn him his place in history.


                
Yep, 100. It's just so terrible that's probably more than it deserves. The reason it's in black and white is because it's so bad, if it were in color than people could actually see the fake blood is, in fact, ketchup! I believe this movie is over rated and I even think Escape From L.a and the new Rollerball are better than it(they are both at least 50 times better). I find Schindlers List a very not so accurate movie but I guess I do have to give it credit for what it stands for. But that is only putting it nicely. Worst movie ever? No. "Johnny got his gun" is still #1 for worst(I reviewed it. Read it. It's very funny!).But Schindlers List is #2 for terrible films so don't see it.You'll never get those 3 hours back. Yep it's just that bad!


                
Steven Spielberg is a Hack! Hack rhymes with sack! Sacks hold potoatoes! Potatoes rhymes with tomatoes(more or less)!There haven't been enough tomatoes produced in the history of mankind to throw at the screen to adequately express my disgust with this shallow, schlocky, melodramatic piece of Oscar bait.I can't believe Jewish groups, particularly Holocaust survivors and their families, weren't up in arms after viewing this film. It's an insult to all victims of all genocides.It's like a 'gritty' Disney version of WW2 and its horrors, designed to 'school' 10 year olds.8.9/10? Whaaaaaaat????? 5/10.....at best! (As always, rated 1 star for balance)WOW!! Just.....WOW!!!


                
Exactly what one would expect.  What a surprise that he won an Oscar for this one.  What an awful, awful movie.  Spielberg's movies get worse and worse.  Still, at least this one has no 'wise kids' at the centre of the action.  Too serious a subject, I suppose.  Black and White.  Or is it?


                
