This interesting story is based on largely unsubstantiated anecdotes. Unfortunately, there is little or no documentation for the events which are portrayed in this sort of "Docudrama".That a Schindler existed is verifiable, but beyond that the film takes huge liberties with the few known facts. It is in fact, a "Fabricated History", and has a propagandistic purpose. The novel and film based on it are entertaining , and Spielberg is a skillful entrepreneur, but the dark side of it was that it was more than likely undertaken by Spielberg as an attempt to exploit the sufferings of victims of the war for his own profit, and as a part of his continuing evident agenda of retribution against WWll enemies of three-quarter of a century ago. The perpetuation of hatred is not a noble purpose


                
OK, I really don't like this film.  So I'll start with the positives.  That would be Ben Kingsley....ok, I guess that's it.First of all, there's the obvious fact that Spielberg was gunning for the Oscar on this one.  He picked an issue that was popular in the politically correct world of Oscar voters, one that nobody can remedy or do anything about but they all like to discuss to show how much they care, and ran with it.  The full weight of the concentration camp massacres can only really be seen in that French documentary (the name eludes me.)  And if you want to get a feel for life in Nazi Germany, you might as well watch the propaganda film "Triumph of the Will," giving the viewer a chilling glimpse at the culture of national socialism.Spielberg's attempts to be "artsie" are incredibly phony, particularly the "red dress girl"'s presence in a B&W film.  An Liam Neeson simply does not pull off his part.  At the film's end, you REALLY want to sympathize with Schindler when he laments that he could have saved "one more," but Neeson's performance in that critical scene is unconvincing.  He plays the cold and reserved parts of Schindler's character so strongly that the character development leading to that emotional climax is lost.People rate this film highly because they feel that they're supposed to. Don't take their word.  The film (with Kingsley as the exception) is poorly acted, drawn out, and pretentious.  If you've been fortunate enough to miss this film so far, keep up the good work.


                
This is a wonderful educational film for kids, I mean the youth between 12-18, to inform them about the horrors of Nazism and the Holocaust, but for adult Viewer who knows a lot about the Fascism and Concentration Camps this film will seem too straightforward and even tasteless. It is not enough to use a serious theme and a black and white film to make a good picture. And I definitely do not understand the viewers who behave as if they haven't seen any of anti-fascist films of much higher quality.It is true -Mr. Spielberg is a great Master, Master of Manipulation and a great specialist of Exploitation Cinema. This is what exactly he does here - he exploits the Important and Painful topic of Holocaust (or it can be slavery, terrorism, etc) being perfectly aware that many would praise the film not for its artistic merits but for the STORY and the MESSAGE, and if one dares to say that the film is lousy - he/she will be immediately accused of being a revisionist, indifferent to peoples suffering, holocaust denier and almost Neo-Nazi. Let me put this straight - I am none of these and still I think that Spielberg film is not good. It is not good as a piece of art but it might be good as an awareness raising reel - for those who had no or very little idea about Nazism and holocaust, but for those of us who don't need a gaudy movie from a Hollywood hack to know basics of history - there is nothing of interest here - I can name two or three dozens of feature films of documentaries that dealt with Holocaust much better, I suspect many of admirers of this film simply have not seen any of those. Uneven script and even worse direction is camouflaged with the important messages and arty shell of BW photography. What comes tomy mind is another film about Nazism - somewhere in mid 70-ies Art-Porn maker Tinto Brass (of Caligula fame) took Nazim as a background for his film Salon Kitty. He invited famous art house stars Tulin and Berger who had previously acted in very highly regarded anti-fascist film of great Lucino Visconti and made own film about fascism. The result? Despite the sets, the stars, the important issues - the film still ended up being Art-Porn - as this was the only thing Mr. Brass could do. The same is problem with Spielberg - he might be really willing to make an important picture but still ended up with what he is best at making <U+0096> exploitation movie. As to the rain of Oscars <U+0096> well, didn't "Around the world in 80 days" once get an Oscar?


                
let us all hope for a world where we care for the ails and challenges of others and care beyond our very own issues solely. That is the way to improve the world: humanity looks our for each other and jumps into action for others without self-benefit or self-interest (other than when all humanity is set right, we are also set right alongside it).A world where Jews only care about the plight of Jews, homosexuals only care about the plight of homosexuals, disabled only care about the challenges of the disabled is selfish and inward looking.We are also not dumb. As we see the camera pan in Saving private Ryan we see a headstone with the star of David. So it wasn't only non-Jews fighting in WWII there was a dead Jewish person too. Manipulative. Self-centered, propagandist. I have little time for people who only care for their own causes. As if they wouldn't get involved if it didn't affect them... Schindler as portrayed here was good. Spielberg didn't learn his lesson though.


                
This is a black and white, 3 hour plus true story, right? Where is their any eye candy in it, either? I would rather read a book, wouldn't you? The topic of the holocaust is all there on PBS specials as well. There was an Elvis t.v. series done in b&w in the 90's, and it sank after 4 episodes. Mention Saving Private Ryan as a great current war movie, gritty,witty, and you might hear a pin drop. SPR became a turning point when movies became more of a risk with the audience.Less about the income and more about the outcome. I am reading Collapse, How some modern societies are in danger of killing themselves. Just because we fought off Hitler, it doesn't make it our choice to get personal with it's history. It was a war that had to be fought, and put behind us like you do with work that is done.


                
I was not as impressed with this film as most.  Though the acting was quite good, this movie was merely a rehash of many that have dealt with this difficult subject.  When the girl in the red dress (the only color in the film) makes her appearance, I felt like I was being hit with a Spielberg baseball bat that said, "Here comes the message...pay attention now."  Not very subtle at all (typical Spielberg).


                
A false story made by a false man for false reasons and people watch it and give themselves high fives? I mean it never happened, dude. 
Also, the director and studio don't need anymore of your dough. Kapisch?


                
When I first heard oh Schindler's list, I was too young to watch it, however I saw it on Netflix and I went "Hey! I heard of it!" So I went and watched it, then I regretted my decicion. The movie was 3 hours of nothing. The plot takes so long to establish that I nearly fell asleep. After the first hour it begins to be tiring and a punishment to watch. The acting is "ok" but plot mundane and uninteresting. The worst part is the runtime. It could be easily cut down too 1 and a half hours. Bottomline, don't watch it, it's a waste of time.


                
After watching the well-crafted and riveting "Judgment at Nuremberg," I was prepared for a worthy follow-up - companion piece - in "Schindler's List." This over-rated film was a dismal disappointment to me. Anyone with a heart and soul could have felt the suffering and tribulations - of the Jewish population - without the director resorting to heavy-handed dramatic subterfuge, telegraphed to elicit sympathy for their plight. Furthermore, the movie could have been cut by at least an hour and benefited from that alone. Conversely, Liam Neeson's final scene was so over-the-top and downright hammy that it was totally unbelievable to me. All in all I deeply resent this important subject matter treated in such a forced-fed or programmed manner that precluded the audience from forming their own conclusions and allowing us to arouse genuinely deep-felt compassion for the victims of these atrocities... If simplicity is elegance this lengthy, haphazard hodgepodge lacked the class it should have displayed and as a result left me cold. I unreservedly recommend those who actually liked this picture to view "Judgment at Nuremberg" to distinguish the difference between mawkish, self-indulgent directing and true art.


                
Steven Spielberg used to entertain us;  now he educates us as if he were entertaining, and his films are leaden with their messages:  slavery is bad, the Holocaust was bad, D-day was bloody.  He keeps taking the path of least resistance.  He used to charm us with his imagination;  in "Schindler's List" he abandons imagination for the sake of repellent explicitness.  It left me longing for the days of "Forbidden Games."  Meanwhile, having succeeded in dumbing down American moviemaking-as-entertainment in the 80s to the level of "The Goonies" and "Batteries Not Included," he proceeds to dumb down the Holocaust with the introduction of fake art-house effects and fairy tale symbolism.  In interviews following the film's release he said that the making of the film had so opened his eyes to the horrors of the Holocaust that he regretted having used the Nazis as villains in "Raiders of the Lost Ark";  apparently he literally needs a picture drawn for him -- a moving one -- and assumes that we do, too.  It made me wonder if he would go back to "Raiders" if he could and digitize all the fun away.


                
Schindler`s List is an over 3 hour long drama in black/white. This in itself is more than enough to put off younger viewers from watching this film.  The movie is about Oskar Schindler who came to Poland as a business man, and ended up saving 1100 Jews from extermination. The fact that the movie is filmed in black and white is quite a masterstroke from Steven Spielberg.  This means that the movie looks like an old documentary, instead of a feature-film from Hollywood.  The movie is packed with emotions and shows who war brings out the cruelty in all people.  Being able to understand the German language, I was delighted to see that small-talk between the soldiers were in genuine German and not English. The scenes from the concentration-camps(KZ-LAGER)are really scary and nasty, but very realistic. Prepare yourself to watch the cruelties of the Nazis in a way that you won`t see in other feature-films, only in documentaries. 10/10


                
