Perhaps I should be shot, but I think four minutes of "Springtime for Hitler" is a more ingenious and powerful argument against anti-Semitism than four hours of "Shoah."Many Jews attribute the resilience of their culture to a capacity for laughter in the face of catastrophe. As Saul Bellow said, "Oppressed people tend to be witty." Pogroms didn't start with Hitler; by the time the Spanish Inquisition burned a hundred thousand Jews, the story of Jewish oppression already could fill many volumes. Many peoples once multitudinous have perished from the earth: there are no Carthaginians left. There are no more Thracians to speak of. The Celts live only in musical traditions and some old literature, having been subsumed by their conquerors. Their gods are dead, and their languages, or nearly so. But the Jews thrive on. Something kept hope alive under Stalin, under Isabella, under the Caesars. A sense of humor is a great virtue, not to be undervalued.But in order to make sure I appreciate the horror of the events portrayed, this movie cheats me of a glimpse at real life. The situations don't live as they might, because all the time I'm being flogged with message. There is no even partially redeemable Nazi in this movie, and Schindler's own late-stage change of heart is presented with such suddenness that the movie veers into melodrama. And even melodrama need not be propaganda; Minnelli and Ray always left us with choices. But "Schindler" must be classified as propaganda because it lacks the truth of even gallows humor, which by many reports existed in great abundance in the ghettos and even in the death camps.The films of Bunuel and Altman are often political but rarely propagandist. The films of Michael Bay and Marcus Nispel are always propagandist and not always political, though they are of course always bad. So propaganda need not be political, and politics need not be propaganda. This shouldn't need saying, but in the modern age of American politics, it's worth remembering. I wish Steven Spielberg remembered it. One can define propaganda objectively as a sort of forced perspective, a narrow range of potential reactions for the viewer. Propaganda is the use of art to persuade. It turns art into an expository essay. Propaganda is therefore by definition a limited form, limited by its very agenda. The tools of propaganda become less necessary the more inherently obvious the subject matter; the mass extermination of a people would seem to me to fit this category. So I think the style of this movie is unfortunately maudlin, an overkill on the negative. I am not heartless; I hate hate as much as anybody, and I celebrate Jews and all humans as valuable and not for burning. But is there no other way to express a political point than to make me cry for three hours? The fact is that film as a medium lends itself to propaganda. There is a decision made about every angle; literally, the perspective is chosen for the viewer. This is not the case with other arts, with musical performance, acting, writing, sculpture; but the more visual the medium, the greater its tendency to make statements and the less its potential for ambiguity. It takes a lot of skill to manage a visual art form into something with real depth, into a question rather than an answer.You can make propaganda about love, like "Love Story" or "English Patient"; you can make propaganda out of character, like "Patton" or "Lawrence of Arabia." The easiest and most common sorts of propaganda are flag-waving and hate-mongering - what's found in state of the union addresses and election campaign ads. At its best, propaganda can remind us of our values, of our responsibilities, of our mythologies and potentials; and so it can be a great good. At its worst, propaganda may contain any of the faults of any medium - it may be bland, dull, predictable. When it is these things, it is not very persuasive, and so it fails at its main intent.In this light, "Schindler's List" is maybe the second-best type of propaganda. It has real emotion, a compelling story, myriad technical virtues; it leaves me with no choice but to agree with it, but of course I agree with it already insofar as genocide is not a force for good. The movie moves me to an extent. But it lacks comedy, the propagandist's most effective tool; and so when it pretends to explore a range of humanity, it tells a half-truth. Liam Neeson plays an excellent cad, and Ralph Fiennes' raptor beak was never used to more terrifying effect. (It is among the many faults of the "Harry Potter" movies that they cut off his nose.) But I prefer "The Pianist" as a portrait of Nazi-occupied Poland. Aside from possessing greater artistic powers than Spielberg, Roman Polanski has an immensely deeper capacity for human truth. He does not preach, and he is not strident, and he is not sentimental. And he allows Adrien Brody to make me laugh occasionally, not as often as he makes me cry but sometimes. Shakespeare's trick of contrasting tragedy with comedy is not simply effective storytelling; it is a view to a more realized universe. "Jaws" has it. "E.T." has it. But Spielberg apparently felt that to be funny about the Holocaust would be in bad taste. As far as propagandist filmmakers go, I'll take Charlie Chaplin or Paul Verhoeven. They are at least funny; the pill of "Great Dictator" or "Starship Troopers" goes down more easily, more persuasively, therefore more effectively, than the pill of "Schindler" or "Private Ryan."
Hello IMDb One of the most moving and captivating films I have ever seen, I would recommend it to anyone! It shows us a side to World War two and the holocaust that is completely unique, due to the fact that it is based upon a true story. The film grasps your attention from start to finish, despite being in black and white and it being a lengthy film. Liam Neeson once again shows us how good he really is, portraying the character of Mr Schindler. The movie is centered around the life of Oskar Schindler, he is a German businessman, who becomes famous due to the fact that he saved the more than a thousand Jewish people during the Holocaust. He did this by giving them work in his factories, making them important to the war effort. Overall. I would say that it is one of the best films ever made, and it is something that I shall continue to watch over and over again. Have fun with the movie alex_der_bert


                
Schindler's List begins with the striking of a match and the consequent lighting of a candle in a small room; an action which illuminates the rest of the locale and sheds light on those in the form of people and items around it. Steven Spielberg's film is a piece which goes on to shed degrees of light on a man, whose titular list and what it incurs, is the harrowing but brutally honest subject for this three hour true-to-life experience. Shot in black and white amongst deathly downcast greys which combine brilliantly with chillingly cold white in the form of snow and general skyline, Schindler's List unfolds amidst a bleak time of murder and pillage but will go on to focus on a ray of hope or salvation in the form of Nazi businessman Oskar Schindler; specifically, his work on the Eastern Front during World War 2 that saw him save and aid a vast number of Jewish people destined for slaughter.Liam Neeson plays the man, a factory owner of Czech origin living in the year 1939 about embark on a period of six or so years which will change his life and many of those he comes to interact with, forever. When we first encounter Oskar, he neatly lays his shirts out across a bed during preparation for an evening out; his room neat and very formal, large sums of spare money sitting idly in a nearby draw for whatever reason suggesting a rich or high lifestyle. The measure of the man in his charismatic abilities is are established when Schindler arrives at an function in the evening full of German Nazi officials; light entertainment in the form of cabaret as well as food and drink which is already flowing. When he first enters, very few people seem to know of him, but by the end of the evening he appears to have wedged himself in amongst everybody as the centre of attention and entertainment. At a function in which all of the other Nazi officials seem greyed out by the, Schindler comes to have a white ray of light fly over his face suggesting there's a little more to this man than just mere self-indulgence and death.Schindler's goals are entirely infused with tendencies that veer towards Capitalism, his dealing with the Nazi party officials see him enter a business proposition that'll have him enter with nothing but come away with a great deal of something. The situation as to whether we are on the side of Oskar in the initial stages is additionally challenged when it transpires if The War were to end, Schindler's enterprise might falter so the longer that most of the activity happening in and around everybody at this time continues, it's going to be pretty good for business. Inbetween all of this, The Second World War reaches somewhat of an infamous crescendo in and around the locality of Central Europe; The Holocaust causing widespread Jewish demotion into set Ghettos, later followed by evacuations leading onto murder for them but a severe clashing of morality for Schindler whom comes to realise employing these proverbial lambs to the slaughter would go a long way in saving them.The film is a high end piece of drama, balancing a character's gradual struggle with being able to offer salvation really well with its meshing of the war genre. Spielberg's gradual dragging of his lead away from a self-obsessed businessman always looking out for ways to make money out of the system into this mournful, regretful man makes for wonderful viewing. By the time he is weeping, towards the end, at what has happened or more importantly what hasn't happened in the saving of more Jewish people, we feel the need to weep with him - thus successfully aligning the audience with this figure whom was once how he was in his indulgent, Nazi function attending self. The comparison is somewhat bookended very simply in how it is both Schindler as a stand alone man and how the Nazis as a collective group go about the employment of the Jews and the manner in which they treat them in a physical sense. Where Schindler will come to offer hope and salvation in the shape of factory employment, regardless of ability or handicap, an early scene will see German soldiers ruthlessly eliminate an elderly man because of his inability to successfully carry out what it is they ask of him through their charging him with a task, namely, the shovelling away of snow so as to clear a public road.Schindler comes to stand in direct opposition to a fearsome Nazi Captain of the S.S. named Amon Göth (Fiennes), Göth additionally being based on a true to-life individual. Like Schindler, Göth is running a business or operation in which management and organisation are key; but while both members of the Nazi party and sharing similar basic ingredients as to their respective action plans, the men couldn't be any further apart in character. Göth arrives on the scene, a Kraków suburb called Plaszów, to help in the construction of a new concentration camp; the house on the hill he's charged with living in a dominant position in which he is able to overlook all of his work – construction orientated or otherwise. Just as Schindler goes out of his way to 'select' an aide or assistant in the form of Ben Kingsley's Itzhak Stern, Göth himself goes through a similar process of 'selecting' a assistant he renders a maid-come-slave in the form of a young Jewish woman. The measure of Fiennes' performance as Göth is highlighted in his ability to have the motivational "tonight is history" monologue prior to a ghetto liquidation come across as just as chilling as the act of liquidation itself. The film is an exhausting watch; an enthralling character study set amidst dark and desperate times as a man's shifting viewpoints play out.


                
The story of Oskar Schindler, adapted from Thomas Keneallay's book 'Schindler's Ark', was brought to the screen by Steven Spielberg. Liam Neeson gives a strong and powerful performance in the lead role, bringing a dignity and gravitas to the man who saved the people on his list from certain death at the hands of the Nazis.The film is in black and white, with the exception of the red dress of a small girl we follow in the Jewish ghetto, and a real-life coda at the end where the people saved by Schindler pay their respects to him. Was Schindler a great man, a humanitarian, or motivated by gain and greed? The film seems firmly in the first camp and in its other characters portrays certain stereotypes - the sensitive Jew played by Ben Kingsley, the sadistic SS man played by Ralph Fiennes.It doesn't flinch from showing the worst of the Holocaust, and rightly so. But - as the story unfolds and the small amount of people on the list are saved - there is hope within the unspeakable terrors of anti-Semitic propaganda. Along with 'The Color Purple', this is Spielberg's strongest work.


                
It's a great movie and i recommended it to anyone who wants to see a beautiful film about the great tragedies of the holocaust. This film's only "bad thing" is that it's in black and white but this believe it or not gives it even more beauty. I think that this movie is suitable for kids 12 and up if they are watching it with their parents. Also remember that is film is based on a true story. Schindler was a man who helped the Nazis in many ways (suplying weapons etc)but he did not think that what was being done to the Jews was right so he helped many of them who are still alive today and many who left their children to tell the story.


                
SPOILERS WITHIN. Don't read unless you've seen the movie.At this point, almost a decade after its release, Schindler's List is what it is: it has become a cultural touchstone, and its reputation rightfully precedes it. It certainly has an aura and a cachet that goes beyond any single endeavor to praise or criticize it; therefore, I plan to do neither, but merely to share some of the thoughts I had while watching it. Some will be positive, others more negative - but none of it is meant to (or will be able to) diminish what Spielberg has achieved with this movie.First off, I must say that all the scenes with Schindler himself I found riveting: Liam Neeson - not an actor I usually warm up to very well - was absolutely mesmerizing: he gave the character an authority and a charisma that was totally captivating, while still preserving the basic enigmatic nature of the man. (He reminded me again and again of a young Richard Burton when he was at the top of his game.) The tug-of-war of conscience in the scenes between him and Stern (Ben Kingsley, underplaying nicely) were, though a bit schematic and obvious, nonetheless powerful - no doubt because of the enormity of the topic at hand. Holocaust movies, of course, can very easily get a free pass because of that very enormity, and Schindler's List is no exception: scenes that might otherwise have seemed simplistic or overplayed are imbued with power because of the context in which they occur.One scene that stuck out for me, though - and not necessarily in a good way - was the liquidation of the Krakow ghetto. It is of course a tour-de-force of filmmaking and technical prowess (a foreshadowing, say, of the Normandy Beach sequence in Saving Private Ryan), but its reason for being I found suspect. Ostensibly - on the level of the story, anyway - it was there to bring Schindler face to face with the horror and waste of the Nazi policy toward the Jews, and so to suggest a reason why he converted from shameless profiteer and exploiter to Jewish savior.Except, as such a scene, it doesn't quite wash. Schindler indeed is displayed as witnessing the liquidation, but from his vantage point - a hill overlooking the ghetto - he would in no way have been able to see the scene in the detail, and in all the different locations, that the movie makes us privy to. No, this scene is designed not to be played before Schindler, but to be played before us, the moviegoers.So why does that bother me? Well, it seems to me a break in form. A movie that had been, up until that time, focusing narrowly on one man, suddenly opens up to wanting to display the panoply of characters and lives that were directly affected by the Holocaust. Problem is, by adopting such a large-scale approach, no one individual (or family) is able to claim our full attention, and so Spielberg becomes guilty in his own way of `ghetto'-izing the Jews - that is, grouping them together facelessly as victims, rather than showcasing any of their dignity or humanity as individuals.My bias, I suppose, in films dealing with the Holocaust, is that the enormity of it is just lost on most of us. It's impossible - unless we lived and survived through it - to do justice to both its scale and its horror. Therefore, a film-maker shouldn't try. Not that Holocaust-themed films shouldn't be made; it's just that, to be honest and effective (not necessarily the same thing - particularly when the artist is Spielberg) they should focus themselves on a small *microcosm* of it - a family, a person, a survivor - and attempt to *SUGGEST* the full horrors, through the particulars of that person's story. Actually trying to show those horrors outright (to put us, as it were, `inside' the Holocaust) is frankly impossible, and I think Spielberg's ambitions to do so, through this liquidation scene and other similar ones in the movie - are, though perhaps high-minded, ultimately wrong-headed.But, as I say, when he's focused narrowly on Schindler himself, the film works wonderfully - and is far more able, in my opinion, to get across the horror and waste of the Holocaust than when it's concentrating on its big (but impersonal) `herd up the Jews' scenes. The making up of the list itself is extremely powerful in this regard: `More names! More names!' Schindler demands, and his mania in doing so tells us all we need to know about the absolute desperation of the times (particularly as it comes from a formerly amoral man only interested in himself).And as such, I must take exception to all those (and there are many) who find the last scene - Schindler's breakdown - to be completely maudlin and ill-advised, a detriment to an otherwise marvelous motion picture. To me, it was the best scene in the movie. For, in the character's hysterical insistence that he `could have done more' - coming on the heels of all the people we saw that he *DID* save - it serves to remind the audience - in absolutely unambiguous terms - that what Oskar Schindler did, though momentous, wasn't'even a drop in the bucket compared to the number of lives taken and/or disrupted by the Holocaust. That this man - driven to bankruptcy and ruin by his (eventual) unceasing efforts to save the Jews - could claim that he `didn't do enough,' only shows how much there was to do, and how much of it was left undone. That, to me, is the kind of moment that brings home the enormity of the Holocaust - not the use of hundreds of extras to be herded onto trains and into showers. We can tell ourselves (and be right) that those scenes are fake (staged for the movie). The point made through Schindler's breakdown at the end is the deepest kind of truth - the kind that never should be forgotten or cast aside.
The movies should inspire, and provide a view of things the way they ought to be.  Schindler is both.  This is probably the most difficult movie you will ever watch.  The liquidation of the ghetto, for instance, or the shower scene, are among the most heartbreaking images ever filmed.  Yet this movie might cause you to rethink the meaning of egoism when you see it manifested in this enigmatic man.


                
Holocaust drama from director Steven Spielberg, with an intense, sweeping scope, a brave focus, and also some iconic movie-star gloss, with Liam Neeson lit up and photographed à la Humphrey Bogart in "Casablanca". Despite this formulaic style, Neeson is very good playing Oskar Schindler, a decadent member of the Nazi party who nevertheless was a reluctant savior to some 1,100 Jews during WWII when he employed them in his factory, saving them from certain death in Hitler's concentration camps. Spielberg won a Best Director Oscar for the film, and he gets terrific supporting performances from Ben Kingsley, Embeth Davidtz, and most especially Ralph Fiennes as a despicable Nazi commandant. Some of the human terror depicted is frighteningly real, and even though the last act smacks of Hollywood grand-standing, the movie has unlimited power. Winner of seven Oscars in all, including Best Picture. *** from ****


                
It is quite an intriguing thing how people react to this movie, judging by IMDb comments: either they label it "masterpiece" or "a sappy, manipulative banalization of the Holocaust". Either 1 or 10 score. I can't understand it. To me, Schindler's List has both merits and flaws. It is a technically perfect film, for example. I think no director can beat Spielberg on that. He is able to film such an overwhelming, astonishing scene as the Warsaw Ghetto raid and simply...well, simply make you buy it. He can offer you a conventional scene, like that Jewish fugitive trying to deceive his Nazi chasers, and provide you a glimpse of his terror so intense that you can even feel it. No other director that I am aware of is able to take advantage of modern technology in a way even remotely close to Spielberg. No one else has the power to offer us wonders, to leave you speechless, to make the unbelievable believable. He did it in Schindler's List, then in Prince of Egypt, then in Private Ryan (perhaps the most amazing visual experience in my life). Even Munich shrinks your guts in the shooting scenes.Unfortunately for Spielberg, though, there is more in movies than technical ability. The man has a knack for sappiness, for easy morals. Now come on, a movie about the Holocaust, focusing on the Jews? Yet one more mouthful of the same porridge that we have been spoon-fed for decades? And then "La Amistad", a film intended to teach that slavery is wrong? Private Ryan, which focuses on how heroic American soldiers were during WWII, support our troops and honor the vets? Not exactly controversial matters, I am afraid. To make things worse, Spielberg doesn't make the least attempt to blur the simplistic premise. His Germans are devils, his victims (Jews, black slaves) are pure, noble and innocent all along and without exception. And critics are right: he is too sentimental, too sappy. It grows just awkward, in some extreme cases (I have in mind a couple scenes from Private Ryan, right now).And then there is the annoying (to me, at least) political undertones of his films. In Schindler's list, for example, the final scene is very revealing. The Jews escape the factory and meet a Soviet soldier. "What can we do" "If I were you, I wouldn't go East. They don't like you there. Neither I would go west". Next scene: we see all the survivors in modern Israel. Get it? Israel is the shelter of Jews against the intolerance of...well, of everyone else, East and West alike. It would be enough to show that some Jews became traitors and betrayed his ilk, it would suffice to show that many interns (millions) in the camps were not Jews, it would make the film much more complex and deeper if we were offered some hint that, well, camps were run in a good measure by the interns themselves, the Kapos, who could be as ruthless as the SS. In fact, we are not even allowed to understand that the 30s and 40s were a time of strong political commitment and that many of those Jews were Socialists or Communists, and that they often created support nets inside the very camps. Does Mr. Spielberg fear we would fail to sympathized with the victims if we understood that they were three-dimensional human beings? Does he really regard his viewers THAT dumb?


                
"Gawd bless you mister Schindler", is one of the few phrases not to appear in Schindler's list, which is useful in that it enables us to distinguish it from a Frank Capra film. Well, to be fair, the phrase "Shoot her now, on my authority" isn't in It's a Wonderful Life either. Schindler's List - the story of a war profiteer who saves the lives of over a thousand Jews from Krakow Ghetto during WWII - is one of the Sacred Cows of modern cinema. This is partly because of its subject matter, the excellent performances of the three lead actors, and the epic length and flashy direction of Stephen - ooh what a long film I'm making (it's in black and white y'know) - Spielberg. Schindler's List is a good film, and there are some performances of real note. Kingsley reprises his role as Gandhi and Fiennes and Neeson look fab in black and white. There is also nice mutual tension and understanding between Schindler and Goeth, which makes their scenes together really watchable. Having said all that, the film can be really infuriating. Why, for instance, does Spielberg try to blur the film/history distinction by shooting it in black and white and having real holocaust survivors turn up at the end? Does the film really need this kind of "legitimacy" for audiences to take it seriously?And where are the Jewish characters? I can almost hear Spielberg with his screenwriters... "Woody, hi, I'd like you to do Schindler and Goeth". "Ah, but, you know, like, that sounds great! But what about the Jews huh - I think I could do really good job with some of the Jewish Characters" Woody Allen replies. "Yeah, hear what you say Woody, but I've promised that to my old buddy George Lucas - he's getting in some practice for a project he's working on called the Yellow Peril, or the Phantom Menace or something". One review of Schindler's List describes Stern as "Schindler's conscience" and that's just about it. Spielberg has outsourced his casting for Jewish characters to Jimny Cricket, which is a real shame because, apart from anything else, it denies them their humanity.In fact, you don't have to be a particularly attentive viewer to see Spielberg's less-than-light touch all over this film. You get the sophisticated monster cliché, with the Stormtrooper playing Mozart (suspiciously well) on an old upright piano during the liquidation of the Krakow Ghetto. You get the violent guard cooing over a Jewish baby "Ein kind, ein kind!" You get the Goeth proving how evil he is by hitting his maid. And, of course, you get that ridiculously over-sentimental ending where Schindler makes his final transition to Avatar of the Almighty.Then there's the death. Young girls and boys are killed, women are killed, old folk kick it - I wouldn't be surprised if the tragic death of a young girl's fluffy rabbit only just made the cutting room floor. But, you know, I struggle to remember any adult Jewish man between 18 and 60 killed on camera. Did these deaths not count? David Irving would be delighted.However the holocaust has been used subsequently, it remains one of the most significant and tragic events in European history. It deserved a great film treatment and it nearly got it. Tragically, though he got great performances from his cast and had one of the best stories going, Spielberg was unable to forget he was the same director that brought us ET and Close Encounters. Surely the point about Schindler's story is that, however bad a person is, and however black the times are, everyone has a responsibility to do good when the world is going bad. The danger of this film is that the MTV generation might regard it as a clarion call for inaction <U+0096> there'll always be a saint like Oscar Schindler along to do the good work for you. 7/10.


                
A movie that everyone must see.This movie had me thinking about it for a long time after it was finished. You can't help but feel for the Jews and the way they were treated just makes you feel sick.Every actor in this movie done a great job. There is lots of violence in this movie that shocks and sickens most and believe me they don't hold back. This movie tells the story of Oskar Schindler, a German who see's what is happening to the Jews and try's to save them. Spielberg done a very good job. This movie is like a history lesson.I recommend it to every person on the planet.7/10


                
I admit: an important topic.I admit: a pretty movieI admit: an expensive movieI admit: good actingBut I believe this topic is too important to be handled this way. Using standard Hollywood style: top actors, lots of stereotyping and a bit "romantic" attitude - we know nothing after this movie.So - it's a good film. But it's unrealistic - and not at all important. If this is the way we process the worst crime in history, then we are not ready yet for the future.


                
I thought SCHINDLER`S LIST was a masterpiece when I first saw it a few years ago and having seen it again a couple of times over the years I find myself admiring it less and less after each subsequent viewing . This is down to my gut feeling that the film sugarcoats many events , especially the eponymous character . Remember the scene at the end where Oskar Schindler gives away his goldnes parteiabzeichen in order to finance the saving of some more lives ? It`s a very touching scene but in reality this badge would have no value , so how is this explained ? Very easily - The holocaust happened but that scene didn`t. And I find the character interaction somewhat cheesy between Schindler and Stern . It`s like Stern`s manipulating Schindler while Schindler is making it clear that he doesn`t need manipulating because he`s going to save as many human lives as possible . It`s like the film is trying to say only someone who is good by nature can benefit humanity , an almost insulting simplification and rose tinted view of human nature . This is why I enjoyed Ralph Fiennes performance as Amon Goeth so much . He`s a Nazi murderer who shoots woman and kids , but Fiennes plays him not as an inhuman goose stepping monster but as an all too flawed human one .


                
Schindler's list tells the story of Oskar Schindler (Neeson)who is a Nazi businessman who decides to open a factory that employs 'skilled' Jewish workers to make pots and pans (as well as other metal products). He then trades these goods and ends up making an awful lot of money. He employs Itzhak Stern (Kingsley)as his accountant and ultimately his 'right hand man'. Whilst he is clearly exploiting his workers, they don't mind as they would rather work for Schindler than be under the brutal regime of the SS. When Schindler's workforce are taken from him by the evil general Amon Goeth (Fiennes) and when he witnesses the horrors of how Goeth and his men are treating them, Schindler decides to take action and tries to save as many of those that are being persecuted as possible.If I was to judge this film on a technical basis only then it would get a 10 for me; the directing, the cinematography, the acting were all perfect in my book. I also liked that it was filmed in black and white as this helped to not only capture the 'bleakness' of the Holocaust, but it also helped in getting a feel for the era. I also liked how the era had been recaptured and created - it certainly had an authentic feel to it. Finally we come to the acting and for me it was Fiennes that shone as the evil General Amon Goeth - he was really creepy and absolutely personified evil. Neeson and Kingsley were great too, but for me Fiennes put on the best performance.So having said all that, you might be wondering why I'm only rating this 7/10? Well for me, it is technically perfect, but Schindler's list (at well over 3 hours long was far too long in my opinion). The first hour was brilliant and the last 30-45 minutes were also very good. It was the middle part of the film that dragged for me. I personally felt that 2 1/2 hours max would have been sufficient, but at 3 hours and 15 minutes it was just ridiculous.Having said that this is still a film that everyone should watch. It's not an easy watch at times, but it's still a very important film. As a side note, the end of the film is probably one of the most 'moving' and 'touching' moments I've ever experienced when watching a film. Great film - but a tad too long in my opinion.


                
I really did like, (though I'm not sure that 'liked' is the word i should be using,) schindlers list, i didn't even mind the black and white, though I'm not sure why the little girl is in red. The film made quite an impression, it was very vivid. I watched this with a group of friends, but their were some of us on who it didn't seem 2 have quite the right impact. To begin with it was very emotional, but it seemed to me that they dragged the killing out a bit to much, and my mind started to wonder, and i don't think that was the effect they were aiming for. But over all this is a very good, very emotional film, which really forced me to reconsider my feelings towards these people, in possibly the most brutal way possible.


                
Articulating my thoughts on this movie has been difficult, given my mixed feelings for it. Schindler's List introduced me to the holocaust and encouraged me to learn more about it. No film has ever made me cry more. Yet I find myself agreeing with some of the common criticisms of the film, that it is emotionally manipulative at the expense of promoting a more complex understanding of the Holocaust. I respect Spielberg for showing little restraint in depicting the horrors of the holocaust. Schindler's List provides a general overview of the subject, from the initial discrimination against Jews, to the liquidation of the Ghettos, to the concentration camps. This is without a doubt Spielberg's most emotionally gripping film. Some of the more memorable moments for me were the scenes where children escape death by hiding in toilets, and the chimneys at Auschwitz. John William's theme earned the score an academy award all on its own; the rest of the movie might as well have had no music. Ralph Fiennes gives a chilling performance as the film's villain, Amon Goeth, and the black and white documentary style gives it an unparalleled feeling of authenticity.To be honest though, that seems to be all there is to this movie. It is purely emotional, with little intellectual value. I believe this is in part due to the way Spielberg treats his characters. The two supporting characters, Itzhak Stern and Amon Goeth, would have been more interesting characters than the lead, Oscar Schindler. Stern, as Schindler's personal assistant, is able to avoid many of the hardships faced by his fellow Jews. I would imagine this would present an interesting moral dilemma for Stern: it is in his best interest to remain Schindler's assistant, but how can he remain loyal to his people in this somewhat privileged position? He soothes his conscience by trying to prod Schindler into saving more Jews. Goeth is presented as a psychopath who shoots Jews from his balcony for sport. The historical record verifies that he indeed partook in such abominable acts, but Spielberg tries to meld him into a three dimensional character with only partial success. Goeth kills Jews because it makes him feel powerful, but Oscar Schindler challenged this definition of power when he said that true power is permitting someone to live, rather than killing them. Goeth attempts to exert Schindler's definition of power by not punishing a Jewish servant, but he quickly reverts to his old ways by shooting him on his way out the door. Another scene involves his sexual attraction to a Jewish servant, but he ends up severely beating her, and blames her for trying to subvert him. These two characters are very different, but they have one thing in common: they are involved in a personal struggle over their own beliefs. Stern has to find a way to remain loyal to the Jewish people while saving his own skin, while Goeth attempts to change his sadistic ways, but fails. Unfortunately, their status as supporting characters limits what Spielberg can really do with them. The film never explains Goeth's brutal ways other than chalking it up to his psychopathic, sadistic tendencies, which pertained to some Nazis, but not all. Nevertheless Goeth is one of the more interesting characters in the film.Oscar Schindler, the main character, does not have an equivalent struggle over his own identity, only a moral struggle, over whether he should challenge the Nazi power to save his workers, which would put his life, as well as his business, in danger. He is strictly an observer to the horrors around him, not a participant, which makes him the least interesting character in the film. He witnesses a series of atrocities and looks sadder and sadder each time. Basically, the message about this character is pretty clear: he's a greedy businessman, but he has a soul, and it's only a matter of time before he does the right thing. He decides to save 1100 of his workers, ending the film on a happy note, but still reflecting on the millions who did not make it. A flawed character such as this would make for some great character analysis, but he feels distant, like an empty vessel for the audience to slip into. Perhaps this was Spielberg's intention. But the character's development takes such an obvious, unsurprising course that it almost feels like the film is just delaying the inevitable for three hours.Optimism is truly Spielberg's forte. Whenever he takes on a depressing, complicated subject, he portrays it in the most simplistic and comforting ways. I find it most interesting that Spielberg, a Jewish filmmaker, would make a Holocaust movie that does not focus on Jews that much. Stern is the only Jewish character who is developed to any degree. I am not trying to accuse Spielberg of being anti-Semitic. I just believe that focusing on the Jews in this story would have been inconsistent with Spielberg's optimistic style of film making, because only Schindler had the power to save them. But focusing on Schindler so much almost robs the Jews of any agency, making them all the more pitiful. This gives the film a strictly emotional core rather than an intellectual one. I admit this is more of a subjective criticism than an objective one, because who says the emotional route is not as legitimate as the intellectual, but I believe a film can be emotional and intellectual at the same time.Schindler's List packs an emotional punch that few films have matched, and for that, it is a must see. Despite this, the most admirable quality of the film is not a characteristic of the film itself, but how it has promoted awareness of the Holocaust. Schindler's List is an excellent introduction to the Holocaust and I believe it will continue to encourage people to learn more about it, but if you are looking for deep analysis, look elsewhere.
Oh-dear; I'm afraid I must inevitably ruffle some self-righteous feathers here.Before the Juggernaut rolls, let me just say that I am not a holocaust denialist. Quite the contrary; I have several books relating to the subject including Martin Gilbert's acclaimed, definitive and enormous work, which I have read right through, and thoroughly accept as fact.What is shown in this movie is almost certainly as meticulously researched, if for no other reason than that some - like me, perhaps - would shout out 'hey; that ain't true', and make a big fuss about zionist dishonesty etc, etc, if misrepresentations came to light. In any case, there are still enough survivors with suitably vivid memories and whose witness testimony is readily available. One suspects that they, of all people, would most object to any omissions or inaccuracies, depicted in this movie.So we can take as a kosher work.But somehow this just didn't cut it for me. I didn't find the principal characters believable. I didn't understand Schindler at all. His reformation from grasping capitalist to saintly cost-no-object saviour was never adequately explained. Perhaps the man himself was too much of an enigma to be understood by others. Whatever the case, I couldn't identify with him. There were times when his suave slightly-reckless, man-of-action persona bore an uncanny resemblance to Indiana Jones, and I began to wonder if Mr Spielberg was having slight de-ja-vue associations with his most famous creation.Neither could I begin to understand the motivation of Ranulph Feinnes' character. He was evidently a lunatic from my standpoint, but attempts to portray his personality left more questions than answers.The scenes of brutality were, if anything, rather less harrowing than some of the descriptions I have read. Though they were frightful to behold even so.And I thought the lighting itself - especially at night - was well worthy of the Oscar that it gained.It's not clear to me why a child was singled-out for colour treatment in what was a specifically black and white production. Did the director think his audience was too dumb to recognise her, despite the constant camera-tracking? This struck me as particularly crass.It was a long movie, and perhaps deservedly so. But the specialised nature of its subject makes it one for students of the holocaust rather than mainstream movie fans.I've described this movie as Jewish propaganda and that deserves explanation. Propaganda is not necessarily lies, but sometimes the truth can be told in different ways. Selective bias, if you like. In this case, we have a movie that was directed by a Jew, financed by Jews, using Jewish facilities (Hollywood), and starring Jews. And, moreover, it depicts Jews as victims and never victimisers - Which is probably how they envisage themselves as a people. And with the best will in the world, I cannot see how that can be anything BUT propaganda.When the day comes that I see Mr Spielberg make a movie about the sufferings of a people of that ghetto we may not mention - called the Gaza Strip - a people who are crowded together just as the Warsaw Jews were, who are brutalised by their Fascist task-masters in Tel-Aviv; who are starved, beaten, bulldozed, bombed, summarily arrested, tortured and murdered, denied electricity even for essential services, and whose land is stolen by a master-race that claims a higher title to it - well, then l'll begin to believe in the unbiased nature of Hollywood. And the devil will be wearing thermal underwear.By the way, there are no prizes for guessing why and how it won so many Oscars.
Shindler's List is supposedly Steven Spielberg's greatest achievement, however I cannot say that I agree. Of course there are a lot of good points about the film, it goes without saying that the documentary style and use of black and white gives it a very authentic edge, but it still has its fair share of faults.The main problem with Shindler's List is the length. I'm of the opinion that when watching a film less is more and if you are going to do a film that is over 3 hours long every scene should be as relevant and important as the next one. In Shindler's List, in my opinion, there are many scenes that repeat each other, giving us no new revelation or insight into the character's emotions or actions.It was probably Spielberg's intention to show us so many scenes of torture and abuse of the Jews to help show the horrific scale of the events that took place, to show us how many were killed without emotion or reason, but I feel he got too emotionally involved and went over the top, getting to a point where with each random killing he lessened the impact to the audience because you've seen the same thing happen earlier.Another major problem I have with the film is that some parts come off as strangely comedic, which in my opinion completely goes against the idea of the documentary style. Scenes like when Schindler threatens the guards so they help him find his accountant and when Amon Goeth "pardons" himself in the mirror were extremely ill judged as in my opinion you should not be made to laugh in a film that covers such serious subject matter.The film is also very biased in a sense that it gives all the Jews a personality and character development whereas every single Nazi in the film is shown to be pure evil and mechanical, enjoying every last little thing they did. Obviously I am not saying anyone committing these atrocious acts should be absolved from our condemnation and scorn, however it would have been interesting to see how the bosses of the labour camps would have dealt with guards who actually had a moral compass and refused to act upon these orders of such brutality. Not doing this, unfortunately, takes a bit of credibility away from the film as it makes it seem only those who are wealthy, only Schindler, had any respect for the Jews or were against the war.However, despite its faults there is indeed a great deal of tragic beauty to the film. Apart from the scene at the end where Schindler breaks down and cries, which seemed extremely over-acted and quite awkward to watch, the film really does manage to evoke very real emotions. It opens your eyes to the pain and suffering of the Holocaust and gives you a fly-on-the-wall style view into what happened. When you watch from such a close up perspective it really makes you feel that you are there in the film, someone who is standing by and doing nothing to stop the dreadful events that are happening so close to you. This style really helps amplify every emotion you feel to great effect.A lot of credit must also go to the actors. It is key that in a film like this that you believe what is happening on screen and all the actors do a very good job, especially Ben Kingsley as Itzhak Stern who really manages to capture the emotions of skepticism and hopeless inevitability flawlessly. Liam Neeson does a really good job as Schindler himself, but lets himself down in the final scene where he is just makes you cringe and think "this is acting".Overall I found the film very entertaining, but there were a lot of minor quibbles with it that lessened my enjoyment somewhat along with a few major problems that I feel cheapened the overwhelming emotional experience that I received. The film is 100% essential viewing and will definitely stand the test of time, but in my honest opinion is not the masterpiece or the demonstration of perfection that many people laud it to be.
Seen from a humanistic point of view, Schindler's List is indeed a goog movie. However, if we have to view it from a filmic point of view, the movie isn't that good.You see the movie suffers from the classic "Steven Spielberg Syndrom". You "see" the movie but you don't "feel" it! In the end it is superficial and insignificant. Even though Spielberg has doen his best to make it a good film, it isn't. That's sad, since the content is so important.


                
No doubt a powerful and disturbing film about THE MOST tragic time in humanity, and it broke my heart to see all the mistreatment and the carelessness/complete disregard for human life. I can't help wonder, though, if the story is really credible. Why would a German businessman risk his life and undergo bankruptcy to save people that his very people were against? If this story really is true, I doubt he did so out of the kindness of his heart, but more for reputation-boosting. I expected a lot from this film, after all, it outlines something horrifying and truly a tragedy, but I couldn't help thinking that this film undermined the sensitivity of this subject by including a greedy, selfish, profiteering, womanizing German businessman in the story. I think that if you really want to learn more about the Holocaust, it should not be through films such as this, but through actual real-life documentaries that include no "other" unnecessary characters/stories, but truly tell the real pain, the real hurt and loss of the Jewish people who were treated so badly just because they believed differently from others. Regardless, there were some truly powerful moments in the film: The pictures of the starving prisoners who were forced to strip and be inspected by Nazi doctors, who would determine whether they could work or whether they should be killed. The little girl in the bright red dress, the only color, the only sunshine, in an otherwise gray, dark period of time, the very essence of innocence, and her symbolism later in the film when her lifeless body is wheelbarrowed over to the ever-growing pile of dead bodies that were to be incinerated. When Amon Goeth's young Jewish maid asks Oskar Schindler why he shot an elderly woman who was just passing by, bothering no one, looking at no one; his reply: because she meant nothing to him, she was just one of those people who neither bothered nor pleased him, just that she was just a random person with no meaning to him, was the reason why he so cruelly took a life so easily.I do think this film is worth watching, no doubt, but please don't automatically assume you know everything about the Holocaust because you watched this film; this film portrayed life less harshly than life for the imprisoned actually was. Please watch documentaries on the Holocaust, research more through books and legitimate media, if you want the true facts.


                
Maybe I just need to see it again or something, but I had a hard time following this movie. I paid attention throughout the whole thing and could not figure out what almost any individual scene meant in the larger context of the movie. Part of it was that I had a hard time hearing through the strong accents, but as I was going through the quotes page I could not remember most of the lines. It's weird to call such a classic movie "forgettable", but I'm having a hard time remembering most of the scenes of this movie.Yes, it does have a great subject, showing how much good can be done by someone with means. The scene near the end when Schindler is lamenting that he didn't save more Jews got me choked up, but that was about it. I don't think there were more than five scenes in the movie that actually made sense to me. Maybe it's actually really well done I just need to see it again, but the first time around it went over my head which is a problem in my eyes. I probably shouldn't even be reviewing this right now, but I am.
Spielberg tends to get a bit overly cheesy in his films and this one is a prime example. Obviously the subject matter is intense and there are a lot of good qualities to the film but the ending was the part that really wrecked it for me and made me roll my eyes back in my head. Another example of an overly cheesed out ending that wrecked an otherwise great film was in Spielberg's 2001 film AI. I thought that was an excellent movie all the way up to the end when it just kept dragging on and on and got totally ridiculous. I don't think the ending on Schindler's List as bad as AI but it was still too much icing and not enough cake.


                
Steven Spielberg's Schindler's List is a reflection on how great this director is. His 3-hour painting of Oskar Schindler and his forever changing view on the Nazi rampage against the innocent Jews is simply the greatest film achievement since the simple secret of Citizen Kane is finally revealed in a magnificent, grand and intelligent way. The final scene in which a marching group of 11,000 or so saved Jews morph into real survivors (an in color vision) and the ceremonial funeral of Oskar Schindler showing the several survivors of the Schindler factory is a real marvel and a sign that box office king Steven Spielberg doesn't work just for money. Spielberg should be knighted or something for this movie, just like Schindler saved the Jews Spielberg let the Jews' pain and suffering be recognised and World War II be looked at beyond the view of the British and American army.


                
However long this movie is, it remains one of the most emotional movies i have ever seen! It has a depth and elegance todays cinematic experience does not give any viewer. For this and the history lesson i am always and for ever in debt! I hope someone else will find it as enjoyable as i did despite the total movie time. My totally nerdy brain had a field day with all the scenery and perfectly depicted emotions these actors give. You will never ever truly understand hopelessness until you have watched this. However DO NOT watch with anyone under the age of fifteen, it is very graphic and vile in some parts. I would be scared if I watched it in a younger age.


                
The most moving parts of the film are at the very start, when the candle is snuffed out in an Orthodox Jewish family, and the very end, when real life 'Schindler Jews' place stones on Schindler's grave in Israel. I found the last scene In the actual movie, of workers solemnly presenting Schindler with the ring they made for him, comes across as terribly schmaltzy and fake. Just the way it's lit, set-up, scripted and the music. It almost ruined the movie for me. Spielberg can't help himself when it comes to schmaltz. He needs someone to stop him!! I also am not a fan of the way Ben Kingsley's character, Itzhak Stern, is written. The humour of him scheming and pestering Schindler is laid on with a trowel -- I guess the writers felt they needed some light relief, but I found it annoying and contrived. The film does have some outstanding scenes. Such as when Schindler and his mistress witness the liquidation of the ghetto; the depictions of camp commandant Amon Goeth's normal family home compared to the squalor of the concentration camp; the Jewish architect arguing with the German guards over poor construction of the barracks; Schindler concocting a story about kids' tiny hands needed for armament manufacture; and the rabbi who isn't shot after several of the Nazi guard's guns don't work. The movie is paced very well, and the locations and cinematography are excellent. Perhaps most importantly, Schindler's List could be a source for education about the Holocaust, and also, to its credit, it doesn't depict Oskar Schindler as a saint. He profited from cheap labour and cheated on his wife. But he did save over 1000 Jewish lives, at risk of his own life.
