A documentary potted history of WW2, the novelty here is that most of the film has been "colorized". The maker does not like to use this word and prefers to say "restored" but to all intents and purposes it is seeing the war in colour that makes it more gory and emotional. Explosions, bodies, speeches, ruins, bombs, it's all there and by the end of the sixth and last episode you are completely drained ! It is difficult to imagine how so much grief, damage disaster horror can be caused at the beginning by such a small number of people. Apparently, over 700 hours of film were examined before selecting the final product which is 6 x 52 minute episodes.
Henri De Turenne and Daniel Costelle have a 40 years old record of documentaries about the WWII period. As it's made by French filmmakers for a French TV it seems normal that the documentary emphasizes on the French point of view. The excellent documentaries about the same subject by the BBC are also "biased"...No history work can pretend to be perfectly neutral, or it would be a long list of raw meaningless facts.Another comment makes the assertion that "A greater number of Frenchmen bore arms for the Axis than for the Allies." Thats seems a pretty foolish assertion if you do very simple maths on the proved ciphers:-Resistance; At least 220 000 people (the historian Paxton estimates the numbers between 200 000 and 400 000). Not all were bearing arms as the 100 000 FFI in 1944, but all worked against the Nazis. -Italy Campaign 1943 130 000 French soldiers (American statistics). -At the time of Normandy Invasion 500 000 French regular soldiers (plus the 100 000 FFI). In May 1945 not far from the million...On the other side: - Milice (paramilitary organization) 25 000.(35 000 including part-time members and non-combatants). - In the Wehrmacht and later Waffen-SS; 7340 in 1944. Lets put at max 20 000 volunteers during all the war, and including the double entries with the Milice.The Alsatian people were drafted in the Wermacht as they were considered as German by the Nazis. So most were not volunteers and cannot be included.So how the pseudo historian has found that "A greater number of Frenchmen bore arms for the Axis than for the Allies."???


                
I saw this originally with an Australian narration, could be English or NZ. Martin Sheen is a very intense guy when acting. I like that very much. BUT, his narration is pretty bad here when compared with other countries version.
The series is awesome and cover many things not in other documentaries. The fact that it was mostly made by French artists really is obvious.
Martin Sheen loves to come up with his own pronunciation of towns and places. Some are laughable.
Try and watch the 25 part WWII series narrated by Laurence Olivier, that is the best. Most participants of the war are interviewed from all sides, even the losers got to speak.


                
A decent documentary series covering the combat of the Second World War (mainly in Europe), but not a detailed work; if you are looking for a great depth and point discussing all aspects of the war, nothing can compare to 'The World at War.' Saying that though, I did find it interesting and enjoyed watching a different series from the usual.However, the titles of the episodes I found deceptive. I recently watched episode three (on the DVD box titled 'Origins of the Holocaust'). The episode neglected the origins of the Holocaust entirely. Simply a narrative primarily of the invasion of the USSR, with a minor part about the SS Einsatzgruppen. I felt severely mislead by the episode's title. Nevertheless, the episode was interesting though.I would recommend the series for a casual watch, but lacks the depth perhaps sought after by the note-taking student.


                
