This is anime at its best. I'm fairly new to the world of anime, but I have to say from what I've seen that Death Note goes above and beyond your typical run-of-the-mill action based anime. Whereas a lot of anime strategically relies on action packed battles and fights, Death Note is a refreshing change of pace. It's slick, clever, and witty with the eccentric "L" heading the investigation. It's a constant game of cat and mouse as the lead investigator and the suspected "Kira" or "Killer" always seem to be one step ahead of one another. The two brilliant minds constantly outwit each other. The plot is complex but easily laid out for you and the story is remarkably intelligent and inventive. All the while you're watching you think, "Wow, this can't possibly get any deeper," but each new episode proves you wrong. What I like the most is that this is very, very complex material but it's flawlessly and easily presented so each new development in the case comes as an excited shock.This is great stuff and I would definitely recommend it to anyone who might be looking for a change of pace in anime. It's not for everyone, of course since it's more of an intellectual thriller and not so much an action fantasy, but anyone who can appreciate the mental challenge of following along with this suspenseful battle of wits will be in heaven with Death Note.


                
After watching the first six episodes, I find that the story line is very well though out. Unlike many series, Death Note has a way of keeping ahead of the watcher, and one can never predict what is about to happen. The series is obviously dark. One of the things that I find interesting about Death Note that the protagonist isn't the good guy, like that of the stereotypical protagonist. The fact that this series goes morally were few others will go is definitely one of the reasons I find this series to be so enticing.I'm definitely hooked!


                
From the pages of the manga to the silver screen and then to the small screen. Manga = breathtaking, Film = groundbreaking, Anime = phenomenal.Death Note the anime is one of the best animes to come out for a very long time. The storyline is amazing but not complicated or cliché. Like the film and manga, it depicts the cat and mouse hunt between L and Light on who will uncover one another's identity.Death Note is a cake; everything good about a cake; and therefore people should see this landmark. Overall, Death Note will remain a classic forever... if the Americans don't remake and ruin it!!!10/10


                
This show just keeps getting better and better! Every episode has a new twist, and is never the same as the last! It will keep you on the edge of your seat, and you will watch it again and again! The story is centered around a young man, Yagami Raito/Light who finds a "Death Note". I won't tell you anymore about this "Death Note" (as that would spoil it). With this "Death Note" he sets about ridding the world of evil and creating a "Utopia", with himself as the new god. Filled with interesting characters, lots of intelligent dialouge and exiting plot twists, this show is definitely on my top 10! I would Highly recommend it to anyone, those who enjoy crime/psychological/dark themes.


                
I have seen many anime but few compare to Death Note. It provides it's viewers with incredible characters, a deep storyline, and view of how power can corrupt. The focus of the story is on Yagami Light, a college student who is feed-up with what he considers a rotting world. He soon finds a notebook named "Death Note." The instructions state that any human whose name is written in the Death Note will die as long as the person who writes the victim's name has the victim's face in mind at that time. While Light considers it to be a foolish prank, his curiosity gets the best of him. Upon learning that the Death Note is real, Light realizes he has the chance to rid the world of crime and create a new world over which he reigns supreme. The story of Death Note follows Light as he tries to create his new world, and the forces that try to stop him. Perhaps one of the most interesting elements of the series is that the main character is neither a hero or an anti-hero but instead an anti-villain. This an excellent series that is guaranteed to leave viewers in awe.


                
I watched one episode and thought the first episode wasn't pretty good, but when i started too watch(watching episode 11 now) i started too love it, its genius and the guy who made this movie got too be one of the smartest filmmaker ever, The animation is one of the best, the story is smart, deep and exemplary written , the characters are interesting, i can gladly say i haven't found one error in this series, so even if you don't watch much anime i just recommend you too watch this and i can swear that you will like it, i think this is as good as elfen lied(or even better). The story is about a guy named light who is top-student and smartest guy in school(without being a geek), one day some kind of diary named ''death note'' falls down from the sky and he picks it up, and then the story begins.. a must see for everyone!!!10/10


                
I saw it only because I didn't have anything else to do, and till this day I am glad that I did.No doubt it is a popular anime, I had seen some screen shots on different sites and my first impression of it was ' A Gothic guy killing people with a notebook', but I was in fact wrong.It is the most intelligent thing I have seen in my life, it was the first anime that I saw and the only one of it's kind.Just watch the first few episodes and you will lose yourself, no big thing even if you become an addict.Ever since I finished the anime, I have been on a quest to find more but unfortunately I couldn't.Once you are done with this you might want to see "Code Geass", if Death Note is a 10 then Code Geass is definitely a 9.


                
WOW. Death Note might very well be the very best TV shows I have ever seen. The anime is very well made also. It has a very intellectual side to it, because you never know who is gonna win the battle. Death Note presents a contest of wits between Light Yagami, who can kill criminals from the privacy of his bedroom, and the detectives seeking his identity, who know only that criminals are dying under mysterious circumstances and that they too might be killed from afar if their identities become known. As a psychological thriller, the action of this series is almost entirely mental or conversational, as each antagonist attempts to out-think the other: taking risks which might reveal their enemies' identities, or expose their own. Also interesting are the many moral quandaries the series poses. MUST WATCH!


                
Absolute pure F****** brilliance. I wont lie, my knowledge of anime is not great and this is one of the few I have seen, and, embarrassingly enough, I haven't even seen Akira (please don't hurt me Anime fans). However, when I watched Death Note, I am more captivated than almost any other movie or show on lately. I got the first 4 episodes on Disc about 4 weeks ago, and now I am up to Episodes 14-16, and I am still captivated. The stories are extremely complex and multi-layered with great discusser issues to it, and great characters. Nobody ever feels safe, you honestly believe anyone of them could die at any turn, and the stories are very well paced, thought out and believable. Another great part of the series is the Music, the music works very well and gives you a early feeling of the type of show you are witnessing. Also, the animation is very top rate, it looks brilliant and is very convincing. The introduction of L, of Misa and Rem, of the Universitie episodes where Light and L meet, the whole issue of both Kira's, the story gets better and better, and each episode whets your appetite for more. It would be interesting to see how it would have been if this was a Live-Action series, but then again, don't look a gift-horse in the mouth. Truly brilliant series, and deserves recognition all over the world.
Well, A friend is mine told my about this new anime series called Death Note. So i got my hands on the first few episode and i was completely blown away. Im actually not that anime freak and i don't watch TV series at all, but this one really got me. The Story begins with a young man finding a book, which kills people once their name has been written down in it. Using the note to purge the world from criminals he soon has to use it to remain undiscovered. Because after the police found out that there is one man killing other people on purpose they try to find him with the help of a genius profiler named L. I don't wanna spoil too much so i wont say anything more about the storyline. However, this series is one of the most intelligent and original stories I've ever seen and even non-anime fans should definitely check this one out. A modern classic.
It is very special and unique and it makes thing about life and the way we live. Police story and a lot of action.


                
I'm a big fan of anime but never have I seen one quite like Death Note. Death note is about a teenager named Light who is one of the smartest students in all of Japan. He's too smart for everything and everyone and he thinks that his life is too boring. But one day he finds a mysterious note book, called the death note. Light just thinks it is some stupid joke but he takes it with him home. When he tries it for himself he soon knows what It's all about. When you write a persons name in the notebook that person will die. He then meets the shinigami Ryuk who owns the note book. Light's goal is to be the god of the new world and he kills all the criminals in Japan. The police tries to find Light or Kira, which is his serial killer name. The police takes help from L, who is one of the best detectives in the world. Light and L fights for who is truly Justice.
The story is full with so many plot twists and that's probably one of the best things about it. The characters is also really good especially Light and L, It's so cool to see them coming closer and closer to each other every episode. So this is probably the best anime I've ever seen and I think you should watch it if you haven't.
The storyline is totally different for a Japanese anime series. An insociable nerd who has the power to cause death and a mysterious detective with a sweet tooth who works in the shadows.


                
Death Note is a show that explores the ideas of justice from two completely different characters' viewpoints. L's is perspective is that Kira (Light) is in fact childish psychopathic killer. Who has a childish view of right, and wrong. Due to Light's actions killing criminals effect progress of our society. Not to mention Light killed many innocent people who were wrongfully convicted of a crime. The cat, and mouse game is absolutely delightful. The clear focus of character's thoughts, and actions is extremely well thought out. Characters have flaws, look and acts like real characters. Death Note has consequences within the story that slowly builds within the series.


                
If you have not seen this show. Watch it. From the ridiculousness and brilliance of L's character to the the insane yet genius calculations of Light this show will make you question society's idea of right and wrong and what it would be like to have the power to make change happen before your very eyes. The show is thought-provoking but if you dislike intellectually oriented shows this may not be for you. Anyway 10/10 would watch again. P.s. If you liked Code Geass, Monster or Fate/Zero you will enjoy this.


                
If you are looking for a good Anime to start with , this is it An absolute perfection an awesome game of cat and mouse with the edge of darkness, cleverness and clash of morals with each of characters Each and everything done in this story arc has a purpose nothing will feel out of content and it's so good after 3 episodes it will become an addiction


                
This anime is perfect in every way. From the first intro song, to the plot, storytelling, tension, character development. Everything. Flawless. A quick summary without spoilers that will not do it justice.... The story follows Light Yagami, a student who one day discovers a journal which primary rule states that any name written inside will result in death of that person. Light initially in disbelief "tests" its power and finds that it does in fact do what it says. Equipped with the journal, Light Yagami becomes the embodiment of what is his view of "justice". If there was ever a time to get into an anime and you have yet to see Death Note, which in my opinion rivals the greatest of greatest anime, its now.


                
This anime succeeded my expectations! I heard about this anime,but didn't pay attention to it because I thought it was just another anime about demons! It is true it has an supernatural element to it! But for the most part this anime is a thriller! And a very good one! I have seen 21 episodes now (i think there are five left) and the tension only is building up! This anime is full of twists and turns and is very exciting to watch! As the story goes on matters get more complex,more people get involved. But the main reason to watch this show is because of the mind battle between "Light" and "L"! "L" is a special agent in charge of the "Kira" case! "Kira" kills criminals in order to make the world a better place! (The way he does it is a real mystery for the police but not for the viewers because we know kira is using "the death note")! "Light" is "Kira" and knows that "L" is close in capturing him! Of course "Light" wants "L" dead so he can continue his quest! And "L" wants to stop "Kira"! Each time when they get close to their goals they outsmart each other! You don't know what to expect!This is such a thrilling experience! This anime is tense and serious but also manages to throw in some humor to lighten up matters! I am hooked! Go watch this anime immediately!Seen all 37 episodes (28june2007)! A good ending! But I would have ended the series earlier (after episode 25)! Than the ending would have been more powerful and satisfying! Still it is one hell of an anime!


                
Death Note has been very intelligently written, directed and dubbed. The story moves with great pace without losing any control over the plot. Though the story and concept is complex, it has been elaborated such that there is no scope of confusion.Each of the next episode beats its previous. Kira vs L, the best brains at work, kept my heart pounding like anything.Its like, story has been written over most brilliant game of chess. But during the last two episodes, I could see my heart beat through my shirt as the mystery unraveled. There is no doubt that it is the best TV series I have ever seen(and I have seen many).Watch it because serial like Death Note is not created every year.


                
This is the first manga-anime conversion I have seen and it has made me very restless to watch other anime shows. Now speaking about the series, it is the exhibition of great minds who have done great work to write this brilliant,suspenseful and ever so interesting story.It is so tempting that you will want to watch episode after episode.Music is just so melodious that at sometimes I got more concentrated on music rather than the story.Here,much cannot be said about acting as its anime<f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+0086><f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+0086>. This is one of the series after watching which you will surely love all the characters,you will also feel sad when the series comes to end.Please watch even you haven't seen any anime or you don't like anime this will sure make you watch more anime. Its a must watch show before dying.


                
Let me begin this by saying there are hardly, if any, things that can be described as 'bad' in Death Note. This anime is just absolutely amazing in every possible way. When I first heard about Death Note a few years ago I was not appealed at all and had no intention to watch it, but then last year I was searching for a series to watch after finishing Dexter and I stumbled across this again. I'll be honest when I say I wasn't sold on the first episode as I found it very sudden and it seemed too rushed. How wrong was I? By the sixth episode I was absolutely engrossed. With the short but sweet 22 minute runtime per episode, the show left me wanting more without letting it drag with irrelevant segments. The entire series is only a brief 37 episodes but it doesn't give some draggy backs-story, it cuts straight to the action. After breaking through the shows somewhat intense opening episode, I managed to watch the entire series in less than two weeks.The characters are amazingly developed with an unusually unique protagonist and other characters with flaws, they give the show a realistic feel and let the audience connect emotionally. The story is probably the most unique story I've ever come across. It packs a punch with its darkly twisted story interlinked with a lightening touch of comedy and jaw dropping plot twists to make the audience completely unsuspecting of the plot's next turn. Bottom line: Death Note is amazing, even if you don't like anime, I highly recommend that you watch this as you will rarely ever find another masterpiece like this. I may seem a bit biased with this review but believe me, it's for your own good!


                
A Good Anime TV Series 
 with Violence, no cringe, Deep Drama, and a good telled Story


                
I heard about this series that its very famous and all that and my friends recommended me to watch but actually i feel nothing special when i started. but now I'm glad that i watched this and it's one of the best series in my life.


                
Great animation, great characters, great story, great everything!!! The sub is great, the dub is great, everything is just- GREAT!! Leave the page right now and go watch it! It's on Netflix, hulu, it's everywhere!


                
Even people who aren't into anime may know what Death Note is. It's a franchise that's turned people into fans of the medium. For me, this series has a damn-fine story told throughout its 37 episodes. We're introduced to bored high-school student Light Yagami comes across a book simply branded with 'Death Note'. And the book's power is that 'the human whose name is written in this note shall die'. And the book does just that. Now Light is stuck with this book, along with its owner: Ryuk the 'shinigami'. After using the Death Note to kill some petty criminals, Light starts a crusade to vanquish evil, and 'will become the god of this new world': Kira.Death Note is well done, and becomes a fun ride and more complicated one, when its best character, 'L' (we never know his real name), is brought into the story in Episode 2 and is Light's equal. And 'L' is my favourite part of the show. He's smart, can outguess even himself in the most outrageous circumstances, and he's completely unpredictable. You can also never tell what he's really thinking; but he fights for JUSTICE! This dynamic is akin to James Moriarty and Sherlock Holmes, Ernst Blofeld and James Bond, The Joker and Batman; Light and L are no exception to these great rivalries.The story of Death Note is masterfully adapted to the television storytelling format, it looks just like its source-comic book ('manga': as they call comics in Japan) and its amazing cast of characters makes the show easily worth a watch from start to finish.You want to watch anime but don't know where to start? Well, start here. You'll thank me later.


                
