This is anime at its best. I'm fairly new to the world of anime, but I have to say from what I've seen that Death Note goes above and beyond your typical run-of-the-mill action based anime. Whereas a lot of anime strategically relies on action packed battles and fights, Death Note is a refreshing change of pace. It's slick, clever, and witty with the eccentric "L" heading the investigation. It's a constant game of cat and mouse as the lead investigator and the suspected "Kira" or "Killer" always seem to be one step ahead of one another. The two brilliant minds constantly outwit each other. The plot is complex but easily laid out for you and the story is remarkably intelligent and inventive. All the while you're watching you think, "Wow, this can't possibly get any deeper," but each new episode proves you wrong. What I like the most is that this is very, very complex material but it's flawlessly and easily presented so each new development in the case comes as an excited shock.This is great stuff and I would definitely recommend it to anyone who might be looking for a change of pace in anime. It's not for everyone, of course since it's more of an intellectual thriller and not so much an action fantasy, but anyone who can appreciate the mental challenge of following along with this suspenseful battle of wits will be in heaven with Death Note.


                
After watching the first six episodes, I find that the story line is very well though out. Unlike many series, Death Note has a way of keeping ahead of the watcher, and one can never predict what is about to happen. The series is obviously dark. One of the things that I find interesting about Death Note that the protagonist isn't the good guy, like that of the stereotypical protagonist. The fact that this series goes morally were few others will go is definitely one of the reasons I find this series to be so enticing.I'm definitely hooked!


                
From the pages of the manga to the silver screen and then to the small screen. Manga = breathtaking, Film = groundbreaking, Anime = phenomenal.Death Note the anime is one of the best animes to come out for a very long time. The storyline is amazing but not complicated or cliché. Like the film and manga, it depicts the cat and mouse hunt between L and Light on who will uncover one another's identity.Death Note is a cake; everything good about a cake; and therefore people should see this landmark. Overall, Death Note will remain a classic forever... if the Americans don't remake and ruin it!!!10/10


                
This show just keeps getting better and better! Every episode has a new twist, and is never the same as the last! It will keep you on the edge of your seat, and you will watch it again and again! The story is centered around a young man, Yagami Raito/Light who finds a "Death Note". I won't tell you anymore about this "Death Note" (as that would spoil it). With this "Death Note" he sets about ridding the world of evil and creating a "Utopia", with himself as the new god. Filled with interesting characters, lots of intelligent dialouge and exiting plot twists, this show is definitely on my top 10! I would Highly recommend it to anyone, those who enjoy crime/psychological/dark themes.


                
I have seen many anime but few compare to Death Note. It provides it's viewers with incredible characters, a deep storyline, and view of how power can corrupt. The focus of the story is on Yagami Light, a college student who is feed-up with what he considers a rotting world. He soon finds a notebook named "Death Note." The instructions state that any human whose name is written in the Death Note will die as long as the person who writes the victim's name has the victim's face in mind at that time. While Light considers it to be a foolish prank, his curiosity gets the best of him. Upon learning that the Death Note is real, Light realizes he has the chance to rid the world of crime and create a new world over which he reigns supreme. The story of Death Note follows Light as he tries to create his new world, and the forces that try to stop him. Perhaps one of the most interesting elements of the series is that the main character is neither a hero or an anti-hero but instead an anti-villain. This an excellent series that is guaranteed to leave viewers in awe.


                
I watched one episode and thought the first episode wasn't pretty good, but when i started too watch(watching episode 11 now) i started too love it, its genius and the guy who made this movie got too be one of the smartest filmmaker ever, The animation is one of the best, the story is smart, deep and exemplary written , the characters are interesting, i can gladly say i haven't found one error in this series, so even if you don't watch much anime i just recommend you too watch this and i can swear that you will like it, i think this is as good as elfen lied(or even better). The story is about a guy named light who is top-student and smartest guy in school(without being a geek), one day some kind of diary named ''death note'' falls down from the sky and he picks it up, and then the story begins.. a must see for everyone!!!10/10


                
In the first episode, you can already see the amazing animation, the well-chosen voices, the immediate gripping of fear over the future in your chest. Death Note is a must-see for those who love to have a good 5 minutes of thinking because Death Note beautifully weaves suspense and unexpected turn of events that leaves the audience stunned and fascinated.You'll notice the good production, but to truly decide whether it's worth watching you will have to watch to the 2nd (and for those who are stubborn, the 3rd) episode. If you are planning to watch this for a limited of time, you're in luck because the series is only 37 episodes long since the manga already ended.While the IQ of the two main characters is straight-out impossible, you still cannot feel but admire just how logical their reasons for making possibilities and theories are (what makes it even scarier is that most of the theories that L or Light, the two protagonists, are true). If you are one who watches things from a personal view, you would have a hard time deciding whether the things they are doing are right and if they are, in reality, insane.There is slight humor that adds faint scratches on the anime, but it is soon covered up in the next minute with what a character has done or said. There was not a moment where I wasn't sitting at the edge of my seat, my eyes literally sticking to the screen. Every minute is worth watching, even the sinister theme songs played by Nightmare.What makes this anime/manga unique is that it's a mystery thriller where you hardly question the origins of something. You rarely ask yourself unanswerable questions (not even in the back of your mind) and without realizing, you're only focused on the present events.I promise, no matter what kind of audience you are, you will be gripped by this chilling life and death chain of events of a bored genius who kills criminals mercilessly with the mysterious Death Note.


                
I have to say two things turned me off. First is the idiot reviewer on the front page who feels the need to use 70% of his review(even titled it "Eat Your Heart Out Naruto"-really subtle) to bash Naruto like some insecure 12 year old spoiled brat fan boy. Pathetic. The second was that it sounded like some Gothic action anime from others. However when I finally saw it I thought, meh, okay. However as it went on I got more and more drawn in.The plot is simple enough to start:successful and brilliant student Light stumbles upon the Death Note, which will kill anyone who's name he writes down provided it's their real name and he knows his face. He experiments with it and sees that it's real. He plays with the other rules all the while killing other criminals and meeting up with the shinigami who wrote the death note. The deaths of these criminals does not go unnoticed as the renound and mysterious detective El is trying to discover who Light, under the name Kira, is. Whoever finds the other's identity first will win in this power struggle.Like I said, the first episode is interesting enough. The story however develops and becomes better and more complex as it goes on. The moral ambiguity of the anime gives it a unique feel among others of it's kind. I was shocked to see a show like this under Shounen jump which usually host anime that combine strong actions scenes with a complex plot and character development. What we have here instead is an anime that dosen't have adrenaline pumping action scenes advancing the plot(not that there's anything wrong with that, in fact I enjoy that as well) but the proverbial chess game between Light and the police as Light becomes well aware the police are after him as he does everything possible to hide himself all the while continuing to do away with criminals at his whim.Ryuk, the shinigami who follows Light, actually provies some of the comic relief of the show believe it or not. He's not over the top goofy by any means however if there's any laughs to be derived, it's usually from him.Even if you're not a fan of Shounen Jump anime, you should give Death Note a try. It easily rivals the majority of thriller films. It is well worth your time.


                
This manga is exceptional: smart, captivating and suspenseful. The script is up to the drawings: astonishing and entertaining. I loved it!


                
I haven't read all the manga's, but from what I've read of the mangas and seen in the anime, this is one of the finest and truest conversions I've seen in a long time.The show somehow creates a great sense of action without a ton of mecha and ninjas and also contains a lot of well crafted tension. This is an intelligent triller with some great characters which thankfully isn't full of anime clichés! As with most great shows, let alone animes, as the story progresses and more intriguing characters are introduced the quality rises and you become hooked.I highly recommend checking out at least a few episodes to see how it sits with you. A lot of anime have a completely different feel from its peers and its worth giving some of them a chance to progress a little before dismissing them.


                
This review does not contain any spoilers. It is OK to read this. I only mention "L".The first half is absolutely absolutely superb. I call this the "L saga". When you watch it, you will clearly know when it ends. I recommend you stop there. I wish I did. It's the halfway point of the series. The main characters story really does end there. But to show some moral lessons they put in another half to show that "good through evil isn't good". All world governments and empires disagree with this, so why did this show have to forcefully fabricate new stories in the second half. It totally ruined it. It takes away from the characters that had been established.Due to the first half being the best thing I have ever ever seen, I give this 9 stars. Even though the second half was so bad I should reduce it to 5 stars.


                
The series starts off great. There are around 5 excellently developed characters; there's a great premise; the plot develops logically and compellingly; the pacing of building tension then action is spot on. You've got a unique feel, and some moral dilemma action thought-provoking action. Everything has a balanced and cohesive feel - pretty much everything you'd expect when you see a series rated 8.9.*I have to warn a very slight plot spoil, but I won't give anything remotely specific.* Then about halfway through the series, to solve some stagnation they throw in a good dose of anticlimax. Now the majority of the interesting characters stop getting any screen time for various reasons and follow up by introducing and then disposing of characters you never have any reason to care about. The very ending was well done. (Pity it wouldn't make sense if you just skipped the 15 episodes preceding it!)Maybe the manga developed all of the lame characters in the second half and had I first read all of them I would have enjoyed it all, but still... I just can't justify how sloppy everything got. Compare with either of the Fullmetal Alchemist adaptations, or Code Geass if you can tolerate mecha action, and you'll see where I'm coming from.It either needed to be around 20-25 episodes and finish off strong without all of the later stuff, of have been extended to at least 50 so that they could have developed the last half into something workable.


                
I saw it only because I didn't have anything else to do, and till this day I am glad that I did.No doubt it is a popular anime, I had seen some screen shots on different sites and my first impression of it was ' A Gothic guy killing people with a notebook', but I was in fact wrong.It is the most intelligent thing I have seen in my life, it was the first anime that I saw and the only one of it's kind.Just watch the first few episodes and you will lose yourself, no big thing even if you become an addict.Ever since I finished the anime, I have been on a quest to find more but unfortunately I couldn't.Once you are done with this you might want to see "Code Geass", if Death Note is a 10 then Code Geass is definitely a 9.


                
If there is one thing that Death Note has, it's a creative concept that could really lead to some very deep and interesting concepts. The show could've been deep and profound... HOWEVER it has nothing to say. While this isn't always bad, it just means this show is nothing but pointless entertainment. There is nothing truly unique about the show because it doesn't take the extra step to actually have a point.First let's get to the plot holes: This show has a lot and this is one of the worst things about this show: the character's will have huge shifts in character just to force the plot in a certain direction. This is frustrating because there are multiple occasions when Light should've been caught but huge character changes (or coincidences) occurred kept him from being caught. If Light is going to escape then I want him to escape fairly. No bending the rules. No forced plot. However, this series constantly forces the world to its will to make sure everything goes in a certain direction. This is cheap, unfair, and unsatisfying to the viewer.Imagine the ending to Thor 2. Why did the spears kill the bad guy in Thor 2 if the red mist was clearly established to protect him like a shield. Imagine if in the The Lord of The Rings the ring got destroyed by dropping it off of a 20 foot drop... even when it was established it was nearly invincible. This show doesn't do this once or twice, no, it does this CONSTANTLY. It will establish rules that are crucial to the survival of the characters and then it will break those rules just to throw in a "plot-twist". This is a blunder if anything else, because plot-twists only work if it fits in the plot. The show acts like it is being really clever but it isn't.Little plot-holes I noticed was: If someone dies by suicide, what is to make them die immediately? Couldn't the person go off and kill Kira and then commit suicide? How was Rem able to kill Watarai when that is clearly helping a human out? Why did Ryuk have a sudden character change of helping Light find the cameras even when before and after that episode he says that he won't help out? Why did Chief Yagami kill the thugs without giving them the right to surrender? This goes against his character. How did ANYONE survive the blast from that gang raid? Why in the WORLD WOULD THE COPS UNBUG LIGHT WHEN HE IS THEIR TOP SUSPECT!!! SERIOUSLY, HE IS THEIR NUMBER ONE SUSPECT AND WHEN LIGHT SAYS "unbug me" they unbug him. That is an example of a terrible character change/alteration. The characters were clearly established as thinking Light is their number one suspect, but when Light says "unbug me... you know... just because" they do it... how stupid.Trust me, there are a lot more.The other major issue with this show is that it is incredibly tedious. The same things happen in this fashion: Light is smart, someone chasing Light is smart, Light becomes friend with the chaser, chaser dies, Light is smart, someone chasing Light is smart, Light becomes friend with the chaser, chaser dies. The show throws in character after useless character that do nothing but just buy time for the show to be longer. Many "new and unexpected" characters start joining the show, but for very little purpose other than to make the show longer and bigger in scale.Overall, Death Note has some good in it, but it also has a lot of bad. The premise is a great one and a lot of the supporting cast (L, Near, Mello) are all very interesting and intriguing characters, the rest of the cast is dull and boring. Light has almost no motivation other than "because I want to" which makes him incredibly 2-dimensional. Why should we care about Light? He has no interesting qualities, he has no "views" and he has no personality other than being "smart". He is a walking plot-device. Even worse, his henchman (who's name escapes me) is an exact duplicate of Light but even more dull. It is a guy who is just obsessed with Kira and has a really stupid back-story: "I kill people because I realized that students in High-School were mean". The good parts of the show are mainly in its premise and a few of its really well done characters. Other than that, it turns out to be fairly disappointing and frustrating to watch.
WOW. Death Note might very well be the very best TV shows I have ever seen. The anime is very well made also. It has a very intellectual side to it, because you never know who is gonna win the battle. Death Note presents a contest of wits between Light Yagami, who can kill criminals from the privacy of his bedroom, and the detectives seeking his identity, who know only that criminals are dying under mysterious circumstances and that they too might be killed from afar if their identities become known. As a psychological thriller, the action of this series is almost entirely mental or conversational, as each antagonist attempts to out-think the other: taking risks which might reveal their enemies' identities, or expose their own. Also interesting are the many moral quandaries the series poses. MUST WATCH!


                
Absolute pure F****** brilliance. I wont lie, my knowledge of anime is not great and this is one of the few I have seen, and, embarrassingly enough, I haven't even seen Akira (please don't hurt me Anime fans). However, when I watched Death Note, I am more captivated than almost any other movie or show on lately. I got the first 4 episodes on Disc about 4 weeks ago, and now I am up to Episodes 14-16, and I am still captivated. The stories are extremely complex and multi-layered with great discusser issues to it, and great characters. Nobody ever feels safe, you honestly believe anyone of them could die at any turn, and the stories are very well paced, thought out and believable. Another great part of the series is the Music, the music works very well and gives you a early feeling of the type of show you are witnessing. Also, the animation is very top rate, it looks brilliant and is very convincing. The introduction of L, of Misa and Rem, of the Universitie episodes where Light and L meet, the whole issue of both Kira's, the story gets better and better, and each episode whets your appetite for more. It would be interesting to see how it would have been if this was a Live-Action series, but then again, don't look a gift-horse in the mouth. Truly brilliant series, and deserves recognition all over the world.
Well, A friend is mine told my about this new anime series called Death Note. So i got my hands on the first few episode and i was completely blown away. Im actually not that anime freak and i don't watch TV series at all, but this one really got me. The Story begins with a young man finding a book, which kills people once their name has been written down in it. Using the note to purge the world from criminals he soon has to use it to remain undiscovered. Because after the police found out that there is one man killing other people on purpose they try to find him with the help of a genius profiler named L. I don't wanna spoil too much so i wont say anything more about the storyline. However, this series is one of the most intelligent and original stories I've ever seen and even non-anime fans should definitely check this one out. A modern classic.
One of the best anime ever. Light is a sort of "Walter White" from "Breaking Bad". He is the protagonist and the antagonist at the same time. He wants to reach something good by playing an evil game. At the beginning we can see a normal boy who wants to create a new better world, but after L's death, we can see a change in Light's personality. He becomes more cruel and without consciousness. He can kill everyone who stands in his way, even his family. L is one of the best anime characters I've ever seen. His abnormality makes him a man without feelings who only wants to play a game. He is not even frightened by the possibility of loosing his own life. This two characters keep the world in an equilibrium that breaks after L's death. L and Light also share a mutual respect for each other knowing that only they know the truth. They could have been friends or even lovers, regarding the fact that they both never felt something for girls (I know it's a stupid thing to say, but maybe it's true), if not for the Death Note. While now the only thing they can do is to hate each other. That's because, as L said, they are both childish and hate to lose.The directing is very good and highly watchable. The atmosphere is very dark and obscure from the beginning, as it has to be.I also think that this anime has one of the greatest soundtracks I've ever heard.10/10
Needless to say that I was never an anime person, and when friends were talking about it I loose interest. I kept hearing about Death Note and because they are short episodes I took the time to engage. WOW!!! in only 20 min. I was hooked and each episode keeps getting better. The characters are clever and they will stimulate your mind. Just when you think there is no coming out of this one the characters take a different route that the spectator does not expect. It is very easy to watch because the episodes are short. I am on the 11th episode and I still haven't come across a boring one. Now I can say I am an anime fan, Death note has changed my perspective. :-)


                
The series and its premises is really exciting, but this series has the same problem I feel many anime series has, too many episodes. Even at 37 (or something), it's just 10 too many. After seeing them the pattern is all too clearly, like a thorn in the side, it just screams "bad story writing". The entire series goes like this:Protagoninst: Haha, I have this super plan that no one can stop. Arch enemy: AhAha, but I knew you would do that, so I did this. Now I got you! Protagonist: HAHA HA! I knew you knew I knew! So instead I did this! Arch enemy: WELL!!! I knew that you knew that I knew, so therefor I did this!! Also, f**k you! Repeat...And this goes on for every episode. Killing off the main opponent was a bold move, but replacing him with an identical kid, just younger, just didn't give anything story wise, you could have just kept "L" and the story would have been the same. If it hadn't been for that kid they could have taken the last episode and aired it whenever they wanted and no one would have reacted.
I am a fan of animes and I watch diverse varieties of them, mostly the the ones with the highly praised. So, I decided to watch Death Note. Everyone was talking about how geniusly written it is, how great is the battle of two of the greatest minds, how it is suspenseful etc...I watched the whole series, but I really don't get it. The idea of some mortal boy finding a death god's notebook and using it to create a crime-free "Utopia" is genius. However, the writing of this anime is not genius at all, as most people saying. Actually, it has very dumb logical flaws in the base of its story. Until the last episode, I waited to see that jaw dropping moments, but there were none.Let me explain: The so-called genius boy Yagami Light finds a death note and wants to erase crime from world by killing criminals. That's okay. However, he kills small time criminals like murderers, rapists etc. The genius isn't able to think about the big guys who finances crime and creates the environment the crime thrives in. For a genius, he's pretty dumb. Making the world crimes by this way requires hundreds, even thousands of those death notes, there are hundreds of thousands small time criminals. A genius would have go after big corporations and organizations which promote crime, and corrupt politicians who sides with rich and powerful, instead of righteous.Another thing about Yagami is, aside from his intelligence, that he's a normal person, having a normal life until finding that death note. He has a good family, he is successful student, he didn't have a psychological trauma caused by a criminal. Then the minute he found that notebook, he turns into cold hearted killer. He even uses the girl who loves him, just to learn more names to write to death note. The only time shows signs of emotions, when he writes to death note and at the end he got caught. If he doesn't have any compassion in his heart, why does he want to rid the world free of crime? Now, let's talk about "L the genius detective". He's more than a genius, he must be a psychic. From the first time he gets the case of dying criminals, he gets after "the" killer. Criminals are dying of heart attacks, traffic accidents or other natural causes at random places, at random times. Yet, our psychic genius smells murder. Even if this isn't enough, he starts to investigate who the hell is "murdering" those criminals. I mean, even if those deaths are murders, it might be some organizations doing. It might be a vigilante organization, a corporation that tests illegal drugs on unwanted people, or it might even be the government. But no, thanks to his genius and psychic powers he narrows it down to murder and decides to go after "the dude" murders those criminals. Riiight!!! After beating the anime's plot senseless, I want to say about a few good things about it. First of all, acting is very good, and the sense of suspense and mystery is very appealing. The animation in this anime is top notch, characters are realistic, and movements are fluid.If the plot wasn't that flawed, I would have loved this anime. I really, really don't get why people get so exited about this. Its whole point is to have geniusly written plot, its mediocre and high school level at best, like the most of other Japanese animes. It isn't worth more that five stars, just because of acting and perfect animations...
I just watched all the 37 episodes after some friends recommended the series. I am not sure why I watched them all, to be honest. Really unlikable characters, same things happening over and over again, with some rare twists that are not even that brilliant. I am completely ignorant of the anime world, and this might be considered good. But it never happened to me to be so utterly indifferent about the main characters (especially after the time jump). So watch it if you really don't have anything better to do, or if you really like egocentric and self-loving, arrogant, overbearing, presumptuous characters who try to defeat "mistrerious" and brooding ones by "manipulating" an army of weak and stupid (by the main character's own definition) ones.


                
Let as an exposition suffice, that I expected, after reading the comments, a somewhat reflexive series -i.e. something that requires thought to get insight out of it- and was extremely disappointed; to be fair not during the whole course of watching the series, but really instantly after the sobering first episodes and anything that followed.My purpose is not to get into the story details of the series, as those are not its primary flaws, but rather get done with the notion that Death Note is in any way "intellectually stimulating", or such. The conception and nearly any other aspect of it's protagonists characterization is extremely misguided, and the series whole dynamics -by whichever standard you choose to evaluate art by- deeply ignorant. It isn't simply that the whole presentation of the protagonists is immature (though there are many parallels to, for example, flat, heroic depictions in fantasy books) they are throughout strongly misconceived, or rather devoid of conception, only tagged with primitive notions like "genius", "dumb", "girly" etc. This naturally determines the pacing of the series, and it does so in a negative way, especially in the beginning: I of course get, that it was the intention of setting up the premises fast and to develop a character setup that efficiently generates suspense, which led the writers to compactify Light's decision to become the 'god' of his envisioned 'new world'-utopia and hence to murder countless criminals, without considering any evidence but TV-newscasts in the first episode- but exactly this decision already nearly destroyed the possibility of the actions of the main protagonist being believable in any way. And as absurdly it may feel to state the plot as above: that's essentially all there is to know about it.The exception being the presence of Death Gods, whose powers allow the titular Death Notes to work: but these are a unmotivated, comical construct that rob much of the series credibility, not only because they are Death Gods, and as such rather ridiculous, mythical creatures- but most of all because they are extremely helplessly, and without any interesting explanation, embedded in the story and they individually have no defined personality whatsoever. They further are seldom of importance as plot catalysts (because there were seemingly no ideas about how to include them reasonably) but still are featured the whole time simply because of their function as a necessary story-device and as such constantly introduce (outragouesly arbitrary) 'rules' that shape the possibilities of the Death Notes. The Gods themselves are badly thought-through, badly presented and badly integrated in the story-arc, and therefore their presence often is awkward and irritating.As the overall story is really hard to take serious, I hoped the characters would at least partially relief this circumstance by being interesting- but this is not the case. Light and L. -which are for a good part of the series the absolute center of the plot- are its gravest flaw. They are at no point characterized and act at (nearly) no point like humans. Both seem to have no interest in anything still mysteriously know and are able to predict everything (for example: neither of them is ever seen reading a book, neither of them has at any point a scientific or philosophic discussion). These demands are primitive I know, and should serve only exemplary: it doesn't suffice to let some character hold a book about string theory and tag him a genius- but L. and Light are worse than that: they simply are geniuses, without having a personality- which is obviously a paradox and makes them seem like obsessed robots bare of any motivation. The central premise, that Light wants to create a world for 'gentle people', isn't addressed in more than a few sentences in the whole series. He doesn't reflect any moral dilemma, or is tormented by it in any way, he doesn't even sense that there may be a contradiction in murdering without regret in order to create a purer world- instead everything the viewer perceives of his thoughts are his childish schemes and ridiculous deductions. L. on the other hand is vaguer still: He has no personality, background or declared motivation except pride, and is only given a few stereotypic trademarks that obtusely symbolize concentration and obsession. The plot dynamics therefore are: will he be caught?, and diverse variations of it- the rest of the series' construct is devoid of any believable aspect. I didn't mention another important character, Misa. I don't want to spend much time discussing her because she really is a f--king disgrace. Never, I think I have seen -not even in b--lshit Holly-Wood-action fabrications- a character of such sexist design. Her unconditioned love for Light is never explained or analyzed, but merely introduced as another premise which can be used as an artificial story device and includes thereby conveniently the possibility of randomly showing her of in a short negligee. Really; it occurred to me that her character comes closest to a 'babe'(proverbial: as she behaves like a little child) out of some hentai. I cannot belief how anyone can be satisfied by such an ignorantly cpmstrued protagonist. In spite of this having been only criticism, I give the series four stars: Primarily because it managed at many points to really generate a strong field of suspense and kept me watching -unproportional to its quality- many episodes (though leaving me, besides of wanting to know what will come next, deeply unsatisfied), and furthermore the criticism is at a fairly high level,in comparison to, say: Pokemon. Finally Death Note is anything but a thought-provoking, good series and at best to be called -in terms that aren't too harshly degrading-: harmless, naive, slightly childish. So it really either is misconceived and misshapen or doesn't intend to be thoughtful. It generates an atmosphere of intellect, for those who cannot envision it themselves, i.e. it creates a model of genius that is pleasurable for those who can't see that it's phony.
It is very special and unique and it makes thing about life and the way we live. Police story and a lot of action.


                
It makes you wonder, what does this life mean, why all the struggle. In the end, we all die, that is it, no doubt about it.


                
