I checked out Death Note because I had seen a couple of episodes on Adult Swim way back and had been intrigued by the premise but never caught it from the beginning and wanted to see what all the hype was about. While the series is entertaining and wasn't necessarily a waste of my time, it fell short from being a masterpiece for me for several reasons.The characters and their motivations are simple and static. They barely develop if at all throughout the show. Light is the same from beginning to end: a brilliant sociopath with a black and white sense of justice and a God complex. L is the equally brilliant oddball detective not above taking unorthodox and unethical measures to take Kira/Light down. That's about it for the two most interesting characters in the show. Everyone else is even more one note or if they are interesting or have potential, they are disposed of. These characters have no shades of gray no complex or conflicting emotions, what you see is what you get. Just as simple as the characters is the plot. There are a lot of plot points and details in the schemes of the characters that make it seem like the plot is convoluted but it really isn't. Light wants to rid the world of criminals so that he can rule it like a God. When L and the police start investigating to bring him down, he focuses on covering his identity as Kira and bringing down the task force before they can bring him down. The cat and mouse game between two geniuses is what the whole show boils down to. The rules of the Death Note and the different players that come in and out keep the routine from becoming stale, but the plot is straight forward, the sides are clear, the stakes don't change.Then there are some plot point actions where characters do irrational things to either secure Light or the task force a win. For example Light's big plan to throw suspicion off of him relies on two Shinigami following through on a plan that they have no incentive to follow through on because one said he wouldn't get involved and the other hates Light, yet she goes and helps him anyway because? Then the last part of the series has one character just figuring out every key detail that identifies Light as Kira with no explanation as to how they drew all of those conclusions.Like I said before, the show is still entertaining as long as you ignore all of these shortcomings and don't think too much about what you are watching and if you are expecting this show to deliver a message about morality or justice or have any depth. It could have offered so much more and been a true masterpiece, but just doesn't do enough.
I have to admit that at the beginning I was not sure whether watch it or not, it took me more than a year to encourage myself about taking the decision to have a little time off to watch the entire series, it may sound dramatic to you but that's how it is, during this time, I had read and heard great comments about this anime, a lot people saying how a masterpiece this anime is and so. I have never felt the obligation to follow people's advises or 'recommendations' but there have been times when you have to be honest to agree with people's opinion. Unfortunately this was not the case.When I finally finished to watch the anime, I felt DISAPPOINTED - yes, in capital letters- disappointed with the end and disappointed with the plot. I do not consider myself as a genius but the plot turns out to be clever and dumb at a time, with unrealistic points on the table. Although I have to admit that the first half is interesting and entertaining, the animation is great and the character designs are awesome. The story is predictable and you easily lose interest in the series after the first half. I won't say it is a waste of time because it is not, but it's not like watching Code Geass either, which keeps you up with the story.I do not try to offend people that may find this series as a masterpiece but I guess the cleverness on the plot makes it boring at one point (if you are smart enough to understand), maybe Death Note does not have the perfect balance between cleverness and silliness, turning it into a plain story.I think the '7 out of 10' is perfect for DN!


                
I have to admit that this anime hooks you from the very first episodes and it is most definitely interesting to watch to the very end (maybe except a few episodes). However, the more you think about it the more ridiculous it gets. Characters are pretty typical for an anime (even if the main character is a bad guy, he's still a typical anime bad guy)... a bunch of weirdos for fan-girls to feast on.The more I think over the plot the less sense it makes. A lot of things simply seem unnecessary and unreasonable. Actually, it's hard to find anything that makes sense in this show and some parts simply seem funny.Basically, it is interesting to watch but I'd suggest doing it only once otherwise you might start hating it.


                
I believe that every favorable review for this title is coming from persons who watched the show only until 25th episode, because there is absolutely no chance this show would get so good reviews based on all episodes, since the ones from episode 25 are just... blah... (sigh)
So here's is my opinion, an opinion coming from a guy who watched the entire series and reviews it as a whole. An my verdict is simple: This is the most inconsistent show ever put to screen. The first 11 episodes are awesome with some of the greatest moments ever put to the smaller screen, then comes around 15th till 17th episode some great moments, and then from there the show lost it's tempo and never recovered it. Then aside from 23th, 24th, 25th, 29th and 32th episode the rest is just generic anime that compared to those great episodes seems like garbage.
I don't understand how many people consider this as one of the best anime since it has some huge problems, especially about character and story.
The Character: Light Yagami is very one-sided character from the beginning. I remember when he found the death note he acts as he has an inside turmoil about keeping the death note or not, seeming as if he knows what the death note is from the moment he first saw it. It seemed so in your face along with countless other moments throughout the show where I was like: "Why is that happening? What's the reason/logic?". Next, his motivation has no background. He wants to bring justice because he is bored? Is that really a motivation? Usually a human being wants to bring justice because events that either shaped his life or someone who he cares about. Here? Nothing... absolutely nothing. More, he wants to become god of the new world... again why?... don't know... the same reason most of the Hollywood villains want to do bad things and that's because they want and maybe can. The show even went so far as to give "L" background before his death and give background and motivation to the fourth "Kira" instead of Light who was THE MAIN CHARACTER and the one we should understand and feel for... but nah... there is room for filler and other nonsensical stuff.
Story: The story is interesting only in the episodes I mentioned above... the rest is just filler due to the fact that the show introduces characters and situations that are just not interesting and at one point repetitive. The story was interesting until the 25th episode with a few exceptions because there were so many drastic things that happened that made you think "what more can happen now that can be better than this?" well the show up until a point improved upon every previous great moment. But from the 25th the story became a rehash of the first 25 episodes but faster and more ridiculous. The death of "L" was the most bold thing this show did and maybe any other show did. But they should have continued it with something different not the same with different characters that were just boring. For example at the beginning of episode 26 we see a video that is pretty much a compilation of all the proves "L" got all along the case. I expected that to be a background plan of "L" to make the other people in the task force doubt Light(since he was a suspect and even imprisoned at one point) and bring him down in the end. What did the show did? The same thing it did before episode 25: bring another "L" called "Near" that was just way too over powering that eventually brought Light down, who after episode 25 got dumber and dumber eventually reaching the lows of childish behavior somewhere around the end of episode 36 and 37. All these scream inconsistency which is a problem that many TV shows have, and honestly I would rather prefer a medium TV show like "Person of Interest" that had clever writing and action that improved each season and showed that the writers had ideas, rather than watch a show that has some great moments followed by stupid filler and repetitive stuff.
In conclusion, this is another overrated TV show that just wasted my time overall, even if it had some of the greatest moments in TV history those were unfortunately followed by repetitive and stupid stories. 7/10 from me.
Death Note is a pretty good anime. I am pretty picky about my reviews (so that even above 6 is a rarity since it is hard to find something good. Just look at Sturgeon's Law), however I must say that there is a ton of good in the beginning. This anime had alright characters (not much character development), good music, good animation, and some of the most clever plots and plans I have seen in anime. However, I must note that while it had some great features, this was in the first half before L died. If it had ended there, it would have been a masterpiece. However, after L's death the show became quite boring. The show had a deus ex writing moment when it is revealed that L had a timer to tell everyone in Watari's orphanage that he was dead. The once clever plots became boring, and the new characters were bland and boring. And the ending? Oh god, the ending. This was especially disappointing since the first half was so good that if this half did not exist I would have perhaps given this show a perfect score. Otherwise, Death Note was a fairly well done show that could have been a masterpiece had it known when to end and not show off its flaws.
Deathnote's reputation as an excellent anime is well-earned in my eyes and it was a pleasure to watch. However, it is not without flaws and while I would strongly encourage any anime fans to watch it, I would also never recommend this to someone who didn't already have an interest in anime.The series greatest strength lies in taking the relatively simple premise of the deathnote and building complex and highly engaging characters around it. The challenges and interactions between these characters is the singular driving point of the series, and what keeps the viewer engaged.Kira and his continuous battles with his pursuers, most notably L, are fascinating to watch and well executed in concept and form. The visual animation is excellent and the production values, scripting, and voice work (in both Japanese and English) are very well done. I also noticed that the music for the last 7 episodes was especially perfect. The major plot twist at the end of the second act of the series is absolutely stunning and there have been few times I've felt so engaged in what I was watching.Despite these winning combinations, I did find some faults with the series. First and foremost is that the final act failed to live up to the second. I found many of the key actions of the characters lacking in previous brilliance. Yet an ultimately satisfying conclusion is still there.Secondly, the series can seem a little too long at times. While I don't think it could be fit into the usual 25 episode anime format without losing some of its quality, I did feel that there were at least 5-6 episodes that could have been cut out for being ultimately inconsequential.My third and final criticism is more about my personal preference. I found that it held on far too strongly to the conventions typically associated with Japanese-animated film. Deathnote lost some of its potential by making use of several overt stereotypes, most notably the highly annoying character of Misa Misa who seems to exist only to provide fan service, and the far-too-perfect Chief Yagami who's every comment is both unneeded and boring. In addition, the over elaborate settings, resources, and quirks the characters are provided with are somewhat over-the-top.The core focus of deathnote remains the brilliant game of cat-and-mouse between Kira and his pursuers, but the fact that it is framed within the overly-conventional aspects of anime means it lost both its accessibility and some of its potential to be truly unique. I'm aware that the series is extremely faithful to its source material and thus don't see this as any fault of the series creators. Yet this is why I consider more accessible/nonconformist works such as Watanabe's Champloo and Bebop to be slightly superior to Deathnote, and certainly a better introduction to anime for new-comers.Despite my complaints, the pros far outweigh the cons and I'd like to reiterate that this is an exceptional series that should be watched by anyone who claims to be an anime fan.


                
It's all interestingly aggregating & hooking in start but as soon as L dies next episode are just waste of time
As soon as I started watching this series, while the start was a bit slow, I loved it. The battle between Light and L was just beautifully written and I couldn't help but just binge the show. But then they had to kill off L and try to bring in Near. Near was not nearly the same as L, and it was sad to see the producers try to make the same rivalry between them that Light had with L. However, I did love the ending where everything came full circle.
I'm only about 6 episodes in, so I will have to update this in the future. I'm new to anime, with only some exposure via Avatar, Korra, GITS. I actually watched the live-action 2017 movie first, and that piqued my interest enough to check out the original anime. This show already is much more detailed and in-depth than the movie (which I admittedly did like), yet still moves at a very quick pace. I'm definitely curious what there is left to explore in the remainder of a long season, but every episode so far has been very intriguing. There was definitely a lot of thought put into the play between Light and L and their constant intellectual chess (think the intricacies of the story in Primer). Very well done.
Even though I'm new to anime, I know that the English dubbing is a big part of the review. The English dubbing on this show is amazing. Very great voice-acting. The actor voicing Ryuk actually sounds very much like Willem Defoe in the live-action movie-a pleasant coincidence!


                
A great suspenseful clever anime that doesn't rely on action to make it great. Usually I'm not one for any TV show that lacks action and is slow paced but however the suspense keeps me gripped into watching. It is visually stunning with it's dark Gothic tone. The idea of the main protagonist being a bad guy makes it interesting and the cat and mouse chase between a bad guy and a detective makes it so gripping you won't know which side you should root for. First half of the show is enjoyable but without giving any spoilers the second half does go a little down hill but still watchable. Overall great anime and probably one of the best crime dramas to have watched.


                
Death Note is arguably the most popular and well-known series in both mainstream and the anime community.The story involves the existence of death note or a notebook of death in which if a person whose name along with the though of their face then that person would die in a few seconds. Ryuk, a death god drops the death note onto earth in hoping that someone would find it and satisfies his boredom.A high school student light yagami finds the death note at his school and starts using it to kill all criminals and thereby create a peaceful world where he can act as it's god.However upon taking law upon his hands light quickly brought police attention and that of the worlds greatest detective known as "L". From there on it become a psychological warfare between the two characters where morals and ideals of a person are questioned.Death note is without a doubt among the greatest anime's ever made(at least for the first half). It's a Will crafted story with a tight script, amazing soundtrack,smart deducting and a peculiar color pattern. the first half is basically a psychologically warfare between L and Light. The characters of L and Light are portrayed as intelligent, manipulative and knowledge people who uses questionable methods to find the other and achieve their sense of justice.Light in particular started out as a brilliant and innocent student waiting to join the police force after age but upon finding death note we see light's progression towards a dark nature as little by little as the series progressed.L on the other hand acts as the law but also reveals have no problem in using immoral methods to solve the crimes committed by light.The rivalry exhibited by both light and L is the highlight of the series as it is full of twist,turns and substance.The art direction is really well done often displaying a realistic expressions in picture and the dark and drained color of the art compliments Lights journey to darkness.One of the best elements in death note is it's music.Every track is brilliant is some ways and the soundtrack's are used so efficiently and effectively that it really gives an addictive world of evil as given by the show.Howerver as all good things come to an end, Death Note's quality severely dropped after the death of a certain character and the newly brought out characters both N and M were not properly utilized or written thus cheapening the legacy of the series.The finale which resulted in Lights death was among the most divisive finales in anime where in reality the writers tossed away a realistic conclusion and simply bent the plot to give a morally acceptable solution(don't even give me the crap of how mikami's screw up resulting in lights breakdown and even the more lamer excuse given by N on faking the death note and copying the names in one single night). Like i said the quality goes down the drain during the second half however the overall story ark still prevails moreover we witness the dark and evil nature of light yagami from an innocent student to a sociopath.So overall death note is an iconic and enjoyable anime.The overall morale are basically revealed in the opening episode and the rest is basically an entertaining battle of wits.Highly AttackedFirst half(9.5/10), second half(7.5/10), overall(8.75/10).
This anime can be wrapped up kinda quick (Warning.. kinda spoilersish) Okay so the beginning started out with a first episode that I can only compare as, perhaps, almost as powerfully grabbing as breaking bad. Seriously it was great, then it followed up strong and kept it going good until it starts to make you wonder how there going to keep it going around half way. Then...WHAT THE !@#$ DID THEY DO TO THIS MASTERPIECE, they start off by killing off THE WRONG !@#&@#&#&ING GUY... :*( WHY HIM SERIOUSLY (If you watch it.. you will know who I mean), then they throw in some stupid generic anime twists to a already convoluted plot line. NOW to top it all off, three new terrible antagonists step in and eventually it all winds down to a very anti climatic ending.It's kinda funny, you can see it happening a million miles away, despite the convoluted pile of crap leading up to it, yet you watch it to the end... Sort of like if you could only look as your life's savings got slowly poured through a wood chipper..Really... sad... I hope the manga is better, still gets 7 out of 10 for the first half though.


                
Death Note, at first, sounded like a very generic title to me, with those twists you can foresee without a problem. But after reading the User reviews on IMDb, I tried some episodes of it, and believe me, it got me hooked.The mystery and suspense in Death Note are par Sherlock Holmes. You can't predict what will happen in the next episodes, and you want more! I almost saw it Back-to-back and finished the whole series in something like a week. Ligh Yagami, the Protagonist, is a genius, and surprises you at every turn, while 'L', the Protagonist, is as every bit genius as light. So, here you see a Clash of minds rather than Swords or guns or anything else, and believe me, it is better than those. So, see it for yourself, and you'll come to know what an anime should be like.


                
Unlike the two movies made of "Death Note", this less than 40 episodes long anime series stays very close to the manga. The plot moves almost picture to picture following manga and we are presented the characters the movies lacked, like Mello, Near and Mikami.The plot is pretty much the same: Light, a young and brilliant Japanese student finds a Death God's note book, which allows him to kill anyone whose name and face he knows. Light starts to use the book to execute criminals all over the world, believing he is creating a better world. After a while he is started to chase by L, a mysterious detective. The third important part of the story is Misa, a pop model with her own death note.The characters are well played, animation incredible and music perfect. Each episode is thrilling and leaves to want more. Not to mention voice actors are all perfect, especially Light and L (L is played by the same guy who gave his voice to Inuyasha).Highly recommended, especially if you loved the manga!


                
The start was quite impressive and extremely satisfying but after El's death, the anime was slightly boring. The end was expected.
Start really great.
addictive binger.
probably lasted too long.
still, great soundtrack and ideas.
very recommended.


                
A great first part with minor errors, the second one it´s just not good, they tried to keep the feeling of the beginning unsuccessfully.


                
-Good Start
-Meh Middle
-Bad Ending-Light is a flat character
-Convenient plot devices / plot twists to extend the story
-Filler crap to further extend the story
-Cringy monologue
-Show falls apart and becomes a rinse & repeat after a certain main character is deleted.
-Characters on the show are so intelligent but also the dumbest people at the same time.
-Ending felt uncharacteristic to the show. Light still had a page so he would have written everyones name down to die at X hour just in case something went wrong with the 'Hand of Kira's' Death Note. Would have left only Near alive.
-For the most part, Ryuk & the Shinigami mythos disappear towards the end.
-Lights behavior at the end just feels like a slap to the face.


                
This anime is not that long, and still I did not want to watch the whole anime because i was disappointed by the lack of skill of the Death Note user. Leaving plot holes for him to be easily revealed at first. I really like the character L and the new detective just did not work for me, so i stopped watching after L died. I think this is not an anime for children because it is pretty dark in nature, the characters are shallow and not that developed. The plot is easy to see although if u do not watch the whole time of an episode and if you are not that into it you are gonna get confused. There is also no comedy in this anime of course. The music is a bit irritating and the main character is most probably a Hitler no.1 fanboy. Even if i was not a detective i would clearly see that he was the killer in the anime just from his attitude and the nervousness and anger he emits while trying to be deceptive. Overrated by a landslide if there were more episodes of this anime i would doubt it would be so appreciated as it is, and not so many people would watch it. I would place it bellow Naruto and One Piece simply because of the difference in filled capacity of the script. I think this anime could have been a lot more interesting, and not so nervously agitated.


                
My friends keep telling that this is the best anime they have seen so I had lots of expectation from it maybe that's why it disappointed me.why i didn't liked it: * first of all it's video and animation quality is not near today's anime but it's obvious because it was made in 2006 but I like good animation quality. * sometimes story gets predictable (i don't want to write spoilers). * one of my favorite characters died.why I liked: * It's story line was full of suspense and thrill and some good characters.but obviously it's my point of view, you should watch it because it's a short series and I think it's worth your time.
