I have to say two things turned me off. First is the idiot reviewer on the front page who feels the need to use 70% of his review(even titled it "Eat Your Heart Out Naruto"-really subtle) to bash Naruto like some insecure 12 year old spoiled brat fan boy. Pathetic. The second was that it sounded like some Gothic action anime from others. However when I finally saw it I thought, meh, okay. However as it went on I got more and more drawn in.The plot is simple enough to start:successful and brilliant student Light stumbles upon the Death Note, which will kill anyone who's name he writes down provided it's their real name and he knows his face. He experiments with it and sees that it's real. He plays with the other rules all the while killing other criminals and meeting up with the shinigami who wrote the death note. The deaths of these criminals does not go unnoticed as the renound and mysterious detective El is trying to discover who Light, under the name Kira, is. Whoever finds the other's identity first will win in this power struggle.Like I said, the first episode is interesting enough. The story however develops and becomes better and more complex as it goes on. The moral ambiguity of the anime gives it a unique feel among others of it's kind. I was shocked to see a show like this under Shounen jump which usually host anime that combine strong actions scenes with a complex plot and character development. What we have here instead is an anime that dosen't have adrenaline pumping action scenes advancing the plot(not that there's anything wrong with that, in fact I enjoy that as well) but the proverbial chess game between Light and the police as Light becomes well aware the police are after him as he does everything possible to hide himself all the while continuing to do away with criminals at his whim.Ryuk, the shinigami who follows Light, actually provies some of the comic relief of the show believe it or not. He's not over the top goofy by any means however if there's any laughs to be derived, it's usually from him.Even if you're not a fan of Shounen Jump anime, you should give Death Note a try. It easily rivals the majority of thriller films. It is well worth your time.


                
This manga is exceptional: smart, captivating and suspenseful. The script is up to the drawings: astonishing and entertaining. I loved it!


                
This review does not contain any spoilers. It is OK to read this. I only mention "L".The first half is absolutely absolutely superb. I call this the "L saga". When you watch it, you will clearly know when it ends. I recommend you stop there. I wish I did. It's the halfway point of the series. The main characters story really does end there. But to show some moral lessons they put in another half to show that "good through evil isn't good". All world governments and empires disagree with this, so why did this show have to forcefully fabricate new stories in the second half. It totally ruined it. It takes away from the characters that had been established.Due to the first half being the best thing I have ever ever seen, I give this 9 stars. Even though the second half was so bad I should reduce it to 5 stars.


                
One of the best anime ever. Light is a sort of "Walter White" from "Breaking Bad". He is the protagonist and the antagonist at the same time. He wants to reach something good by playing an evil game. At the beginning we can see a normal boy who wants to create a new better world, but after L's death, we can see a change in Light's personality. He becomes more cruel and without consciousness. He can kill everyone who stands in his way, even his family. L is one of the best anime characters I've ever seen. His abnormality makes him a man without feelings who only wants to play a game. He is not even frightened by the possibility of loosing his own life. This two characters keep the world in an equilibrium that breaks after L's death. L and Light also share a mutual respect for each other knowing that only they know the truth. They could have been friends or even lovers, regarding the fact that they both never felt something for girls (I know it's a stupid thing to say, but maybe it's true), if not for the Death Note. While now the only thing they can do is to hate each other. That's because, as L said, they are both childish and hate to lose.The directing is very good and highly watchable. The atmosphere is very dark and obscure from the beginning, as it has to be.I also think that this anime has one of the greatest soundtracks I've ever heard.10/10
Needless to say that I was never an anime person, and when friends were talking about it I loose interest. I kept hearing about Death Note and because they are short episodes I took the time to engage. WOW!!! in only 20 min. I was hooked and each episode keeps getting better. The characters are clever and they will stimulate your mind. Just when you think there is no coming out of this one the characters take a different route that the spectator does not expect. It is very easy to watch because the episodes are short. I am on the 11th episode and I still haven't come across a boring one. Now I can say I am an anime fan, Death note has changed my perspective. :-)


                
It makes you wonder, what does this life mean, why all the struggle. In the end, we all die, that is it, no doubt about it.


                
The show is fantastic, episodes 1-25 are the best, after that the show kind of takes a nosedive, I would still highly recommend the show


                
This is like the Prison Break or 24 amongst anime. Every episode is building up a certain tension, leading to the most nerve wrecking cliffhangers you can imagine. It fuels the drive for its viewers to watch the next episode as soon as possible. And I think that's the best thing about this show; the addictiveness of it. It is also a nice intellectuel ''chess'' game between great minds, the evil Kira and the noble L., both making their moves one at a time, trying to defeat the other one with cunning plans. At a certain point the story takes a slightly different approach by introducing some new characters that join this game. Most of my friends hate this, but I think it refreshens the battle between Kira and L. and gives it a new dimension. I can't be more specific without spoiling the plot. On a deeper layer it asks a philosophical question: is it alright to kill rapists and murderers without any trial? Will it make our world a better place? Answering that question may well spoil the show for you, so I'd suggest you better go watch it! This is anime in optima forma!


                
"Death Note" is simply one of the best anime series from the recent years, having an outstanding animation, very interesting characters and a magnificent plot, filled with many unpredictable and surprising plot twists, keeping a high level of tension from the beginning until the ending of the story.The main premise of this series was pretty attractive and very well developed, making a great use of some supernatural elements in a realistic context.The motivations and psychology of the characters are portrayed in a very convincing manner: Their complex personality's serves as the main core of the plot development, resulting in one of the most fascinating mystery series ever made in the history of television.The animation is simply excellent: Not only the character's designs are beautifully made (Having all those designs many subtle details which are able to combine realism with the stylish characteristics from the anime aesthetic) but also has a flawless atmosphere, which captures perfectly well the overall mood of this series. The use of colors and light effects is equally brilliant, keeping a high quality level in all the episodes. The voice acting and the music are pretty effective, complementing the greatness of the plot and the animation."Death Note" deserved all the hype and praise that it received, being one of the most brilliant television shows that I've ever watched. It would be the perfect series if it wasn't for one little detail: Misa Amane. She is one of the most annoying characters ever made, and she feels totally out of place in the context of this series. I know that there is too much hate directed toward other characters (Such as Mello and Near) but none of them were so irritating and dumb as Misa. Maybe is just me, but I feel like this character were from a completely different anime, and that's the main reason why I don't like her very much.Other than that, this is a magnificent series, which I highly recommend to anyone who hasn't seen this yet.
So I started to watch this show years ago but somehow I forgot about it and stopped watching after a few episodes and recently my friends started talking about it so I thought I'd re watch it all. This show starts off great and would have to say the first 12 episodes are amazing.. music is so good too! After that it gets a little confusing and you kinda think to yourself that it's repeating itself over and over and what could happen next but then a few more episodes in and it drags you back in for more. Friends told me it gets boring after the first few episodes but I would have it gets better! Overall great TV show one of the best animes you'll ever watch


                
This is one of the greatest series that ever created, and very simply there is no words to describe the peace of art in this anime. It's amazingly beautiful, incredibly smart, and very thriller. There is no talk about the animations as drawing and characters, as the Japaneses anime is very known, amusing and attractive. But the story is incredible, i just sit and watched the whole series one time, an episode after the other, because you just can't stop. I'm addicted to movies and series, where smart and intelligent tweaks dominant the story, and this is the case here, the complexity, the smartness, the intelligence and the events are very amazing. I recommend this anime for everyone who's searching for a brain teaser, and who likes brain tweaks and tricks. It really deserves 10. Good luck watching it.


                
Death Note is a masterpiece among thousands of anime. It shines above all, basking in the light of a new world. The plot line is slightly confusing, which is why I gave it a 9/10. I still need to re watch it to refresh my mind, as it has been over seven months since I watched Death Note. However, I remember a twisted main character, an ominous foreshadowing, and an incredibly intense game of cat and mouse. This anime will keep you on the edge of your seat until the end. Death Note was the most intense thriller of my entire life, and this diamond in the rough of many other anime is definitely a keeper. For the love of Light Yagami, please watch this!


                
Episode 25 is its last and it was a glorious ride. Everything worked wonderfully.


                
Yes, Ending was not satisfactory for the audience. Its not like we are expecting bad things to win but atleast some satisfying scenes should be there in the last episode. Its like we are wasting our time to watch a good going series to be end like this. Its not bad ending but it is what we predicted it from the start. We know the reality. But we wanted some unreal and unexpected ending which would fullfill both reality and audience. Otherwise ofcourse it is a good thriller experience and must watch. Anime at its best!!!!


                
Suspenseful and twisty. I get why this is so popular, it's deserving of its fame.


                
I read the manga but never seen the anime until now, 12 years late. 37 episodes which will make you want more that you will end up finishing it within 2 days. I loved everything about it, the plot, characters who will engage in a sophisticated way of events. Sometimes it relieves the stressful atmosphere with surprising outcomes but often it falls into a sad and bitter taste which hapoens to raise more questions than solving the puzzles. Light and L, Yin and Yang, accompanied by the perfect musical score and dialogues, will surely lure you into a magical realm. Not an anime, but an artwork.


                
I can't believe I skipped this before! 
Cons: After Episode 25, the show isn't as good as it was before. Plus the ending is disapointing.
Pros: Everything else!


                
This anime can really prove that how much powerful can an anime character be even without any super powers. Yagami light's brain and the this supernatural phenomenon made the entire anime's content very deep and complexive to understand. Yagami light's motives were mostly unpredictable. His rival L was also very clever, clever than any normal human being. I highly doubt if there are any human with such intelligence exists, may be the authors are one of those people.
I was ready to give up on anime. I'd tried watching several anime series and none of them appealed to me. Most of the ones I've watched have had one-dimensional characters, an unrealistically fearless, heroic main character and a below- average plot. And then comes along Death Note. The concept is immediately intriguing and although it toys with moral ideas, it doesn't have so much moralising that it gets in the way of the plot. In fact, it's very plot-focused, with the majority of the focus being on Kira trying to sentence all these people to death without being caught. This makes Death Note a constantly gripping thriller full of ingenious plot twists and a complex plot that sets the mind racing. At first it seems deceptively simple but within a few episodes it's turned into a game between Kira and the authorities as they try to outdo each other in attempts to get one step ahead of each other. It had me hooked till the final shocking episode, and even then I didn't know which way it was going to go. If there's one problem, it's that the focus on plot comes at a cost. Some characters are introduced with strong emotions with seemingly no reasons to feel those emotions. When this happens it seems jarring at first, but you can see why the writers made those decisions as those features are later crucial to the plot. It makes the experience uneven at times though.Death Note is an excellent series about justice and the best anime I have seen.


                
Astonishing to start with! this anime is one of my most loved I have ever seen this way, Seriously I was the fan of "Death Note". The voice was ideal for each character, and it gave every one the very life you would expect to see.The activity is incredible, one of the more detailed I have found in anime, and the design of the characters is brilliant. Go watch this anime quickly!


                
Im a big anime fan, So I've seen many many series.However, I can honestly say, this is the best of the best.Death Note is creative and well thought out. While there are a few moments during the show where things could have been changed slightly, but overall, Its near perfect. During its 37 episode lifespan it throws enough twists and cliff hangers to keep you going and wanting more.It may not appeal to some people.But if you begin to watch this I can guarantee if you at this show you will be thoroughly entertained.Death Note9/10 stars


                
Death note is about a genius high school student Light Yagami who one day finds a note book on the ground. Instructions in the note book say that you can kill anyone by simply writing their name and picturing their face in the note book. Light is stunned that it actually works and decides to create a world without evil by terminating all the hardcore criminals in the world however worlds greatest detective only known as L gets closer and closer to the truth of all these killings.There only a handful of series who get my 9/10 vote, but Death note deserves it, the thrilling and intellectual cat and mouse game between Light and L is brilliantly played out yet simple to follow after the 3rd episode your eyes will be glued to the screen by the breath taking story, which is a accomplishment by itself without much real action. Anime fan, or not, 80 or 16 years old I would strongly recommend watching one of the best series of all time, Death note 9/10
The anime series I had watched before this one, Ano Hana, was a solid show but definitely didn't make me fall in love with anime. It had some clichés, some horrific plot holes and overall just didn't blow me away like all my friends said it would. This show, Death Note, was what got me into anime. I'd recommend you go into this anime knowing nothing as all I knew was that it was about a high school student who used a notebook to kill people. The story is written so well and unlike most television series' it doesn't make you anticipate a thing. When you start wanting to know what a character looks like or wondering where a plot point goes it reveals it to you almost immediately yet only then unfolding more plot points and complications to always keep the series tight. The story is so well-written and it's at it's highest point when the characters show off how smart they really are. Also what's so amazing about this show is how many different directions it goes that you just wouldn't expect. Nothing gets dull as interesting situations are always happening and they are presented in such fantastic ways like the subtlety in story-telling, the awesome art-style and really cool music.The story's themes surround morality and it's presented in such a clever way that you start questioning yourself and who you are really rooting for. A few flaws I have with this anime is that a few plot holes arise at around Episode 20 and the show get's a little underwhelming between Episodes 32-36 but it is horrible because it finishes off brilliantly at Episode 37. This series is impeccable and I recommend it to everyone,especially people who are first getting into anime. 9/10


                
The show that the addiction is equivalent to heroin consumption. Intelligence characters, intense interaction and dark atmosphere around the show is the main highlight of Death Note. As the show involve police case, the mystery element of the show will hook everyone up! Many considered to be flawed whereas other believe the show is over- complicated especially with the Death Note rule, thus, causing audience sometime in extreme confusion. Death Note offers unique experience for the audience and I don't think there is no other show similarly like this, one of the best anime out there!Plot- 8.9 Character- 9 Originality- 10 Animation- 9 Enjoyment- 10 Overall Average- 9.38 Word Summary- Genius Sociopath vs Intelligence Detective Therefore, AWESOME SHOW!!!


                
Obviously anime's have nothing to do with the reality, but the most amusing fact about "Death Note" is this that it keeps the viewers intact with the darkness inside a normal human being of 21st century!!!The story is just so thrilling and "class" that movies are missing for the past 20 years- - Strongly recommended for not only teens it was good to know that Americans are going to have a movie of the same name and concept i have to say that This show is just as good as Breaking Bad and Code Ge ass. This show is seriously recommended for people who do not want to stay in peace for the rest of their life and keep their hair erect for sometime.


                
