I've heard about Lawrence of Arabia for years, but not really knowing what it was about. One day, while I was on the internet, I came across information about the film. I've learned that it won best picture in 1962; I've learned about how it influenced filmmakers like Martin Scorsese and Steven Spielberg; and I learned about how it adapted the memoirs of T.E. Lawrence and made them into a feature length film. This interested me so much that I decided to head down to blockbuster and rent it. Now that I've watched it, what do I think of it? Well, to be honest, I thought it was just plain out boring. The problem I had with this movie is that not once I cared about Lawrence or his conflict. I did not see any depth in his character and I did not for once care for what he was fighting for. To me, this felt more like a boring history lecture than an actual film. There is a plot in this movie, but it doesn't really surface in an interesting way and the viewing of this film just becomes tedious.I do admit that this film was very well made, but it's only icing covering a bland, tasteless cake. There are some good scenes in this film, but why couldn't the filmmakers make Lawrence or his conflict more interesting. At least in Seven Samurai, the conflict was simple enough and the characters were well developed to keep me interested, but Lawrence doesn't have that.I can't recommend the film, but I know other film buffs will want to see it. If you want to see, by all means go ahead. I hope you enjoy it. I sure know I didn't.


                
This is a prestigious film distinguished by a large production budget and extended investment of time. The result is director David Lean's hallmark signature, i.e. a saga that is a lavish travelogue serving as backdrop for masculine interchange and conflict. I've tried to watch this film many, many times throughout the years and never managed to sit through to "The End." Peter O'Toole's performance comes off as the stereotypical, effete British colonialist, hardly an admirable character worthy of heroic accolade. One can say much, much more about the shortcomings of this film, which has been highly praised and festooned with awards. I will sum it up with this: "Lawrence of Arabia" is a not the great masterpiece it is considered to be, but one of the most over rated movies ever made. P.S. In the last fifty years, have never met one woman who liked this movie.


                
This film left me almost breathless - I nearly died of boredom!! Four hours of absolute guff. Oooooh wow look at the shot of Omar Sharif riding out of the mirage,imagine what kind of lens could make that shot possible zzzzzzzzzzz Who cares? It couldn't have been that hard to spot him - astronauts have reported being able to see his nose from outta space! And people wax lyrical over the fact that David lean shot a sunrise for real - whats so good about that? The battles were terrible, there's no sense of being involved it's so fake. Most of the film consists of camera moving left to right over yet another sand dune - it's like being on a really boring journey and never getting to the destination.If it wasn't for the music everyone would hate this film. No women in the film at all, plenty of camels but no camel toe. If watching a bunch of thesps mincing around the desert like they were in a Turkish mardi gras for four hours is your bag you'll love it. This film stank like a sand camel's gusset.


                
Would have received a 1 if not for the good acting and great cinematography. This is the clearest example of the fact that great acting and great filming do not necessarily make a good movie.  However, many people don't realize that.  Do you realize there is a 4 minute-long scene of a man just walking in the desert- no music, no dialogue, nothing.  That is what America calls entertainment?


                
What was the point of 90% of this movie??  They could've condensed this into an hour and we all would've had less time wasted by Lawrence of Arabia. While the cinematography was excellent, the unnecessary scenes made the movie a thumbs down for me.


                
As this was at no. 24 in Imdb's top 250 I didn't exactly expect it to be superb, but at least watchable. Well, I thought it dragged on for way to long. It lasted three and a half hours and it maybe could have captured me if it had only been one and a half hours. I think the first while it was alright, had a good mood and so on and didn't feel too long (which maybe also had something to do with that I had a couple of small breaks to get juice and so on), but when it got past the two hours/two and a half hours it dragged out. Nothing exciting happened, it got dull and just wanted it to end. I've seen other movies that has been this way, but a good ending came in and dragged the movie up. I didn't really see such and ending in this movie. It just went downhill and didn't really have a climax in my opinion. So all in all a disappointment in my opinion as it was way too long and boring, so I can't really give more than 3 out of 10, I'm afraid...


                
First of all, movie was shot in 1964 and because of that fact, it is not edited. So, I advise you to watch it in x1.5 speed to save your time. It has long scenes without any spoken word such as sunset and riding camel in desert for days. Secondly, there are many illogical and untrue concepts. For example, in that time, (I mean World War I) Ottoman Empire (Turks) didn't have air force. Another untrue thing is that Arabs didn't fight for their freedom but for money. Presicely, they sold their Muslim brother, Ottoman Empire and this caused today's caotic Middle East geography. Movie is not covering true history even if it claims it is based on history.


                
