Shockingly one-sided portrayal of real, tragic events that left thousands of innocents dead on both sides of the Anglo-Scottish border.Previous historical epics have dealt very maturely with the subjects of conquest, rebellion, repression, etc - 'Spartacus' being one good example, 'El Cid' another <U+0096> so for that reason alone, this self-indulgent, schoolboy fantasy rates as a big disappointment.Basically, Mel Gibson throws the history book away, and makes Scottish knight William Wallace into a Geronimo-like hero, constantly on the run, constantly outwitting (and brutally slaughtering) his cruel, pompous, haughty, tyrannical, cowardly, ignorant, 'pagan' (!) enemies. Rarely is it mentioned that the real guy killed anyone who understood the English tongue, and often skinned and burned alive his prisoners <U+0096> many of whom were taken during Scottish raids into England (yes, it happened both ways, though this film would have you think differently).Does it work? Sure it works, on a very simple level. The scenery is lovely, the battles are probably the most convincingly filmed to date (though if you look closely, you'll see that they mainly consist of brawny Scotsmen bloodily butchering screaming, squawking Englishmen). But it does work. It's pacey enough, it's entertaining and it has as raw, gutsy feel.If, however, you're like me, and you prefer at least a little bit of historical accuracy, then it's a dog's breakfast. To begin with, the armies Wallace led are portrayed in the movie as poorly-armed highlanders, whereas in reality they were lowlanders, easily as well equipped as the English armies they fought. The battle of Stirling Bridge was decided by the collapse of the bridge under the weight of the English cavalry, most of whom then drowned in their armour. The Scots did wreak some butchery, but mainly on the small infantry vanguard who'd got to the other side <U+0096> the English 'heavy horse' were never involved. At Falkirk, the Irish didn't side with their fellow Celts (they despised the Scots), and though the battle was indeed won by the English because the Scottish nobility fled the field, Wallace also fled <U+0096> how else did he survive? The characterisation is extraordinarily weak. Gibson himself, though his performance strikes a convincingly muscular, patriotic note, speaks in modern Glaswegian and sports blue woad and Celtic plaits that predate the Dark Ages never mind the Middle Ages. Sophie Marceau's beautiful French princess is totally one-dimensional as an abused innocent (in truth she was a scheming harpy, who later connived in the savage murder of her own husband and then an attempted coup). Patrick McGoohan (who steals the show for me <U+0096> at least he gives his character some charisma), concentrates mainly on the stern, unyielding side of Edward Longshanks <U+0096> we don't learn that he founded Parliament, or revised countless laws for the benefit of the underclass, etc.It's a big missed opportunity. The same story could still have been told, painting Wallace as a hero, depicting Scotland as an oppressed society, but a bit of balance and political back-story would have made it much more interesting and, dare I say it, more adult.It sill works, but only the way a pre-1960s cavalry vs Indians western works: as a bit of rousing fun, anachronistic in a more educated age.
I hate Braveheart! As an Englishman and as a history student I am insulted by this film. It is obvious that Mel Gibson has a hatred for England and Britain as whole and Randell Wallace only looked at a basic history of the Scotland war and I mean really basic!The film is about William Wallace's rising against the English in the late 13th Century. They are many historical inaccuracies in the film. I can understand minor things just to make the story flow better but Braveheart takes the biscuit. William Wallace was a minor noble and he wouldn't have lived in a shack, and most of the Scottish nobles in the film also were living in poor conditions which was not the case. Scottish nobles were well-off and wouldn't have been must different to English nobles. Many Scottish nobles tended to own land in England as well as Scotland. The film make out that England had invaded and occupied Scotland for a long time, what really happened was Edward I wasn't too interested in Scottish affairs at first and he was later invited to help the Scottish to solve the crisis in picking a new king. However, Edward I became upset when his ally he made king tried to flex his muscles. Braveheart also makes out the Scottish army ran around painted themselves blue and defeated a superior army with ease. The Scottish army in the late 13th century wouldn't have been much different to any army in Western Europe and would have been as well armed and armoured to as the English army. The only different between the English and Scottish armies were the Scottish army was more infantry based whilst the English army was more calvary based. I personally think this film is pretty insulting to Scotland as well as England! William Wallace would not have fought for revenge or freedom but for his own personal interest, believing he would have got a better deal any an independent Scotland then under semi-English rule. They was no idea of nationalism or the nation-state in the medieval period. As well as already mentioned many Scottish nobles had land in England and many had English names like Campbell. The film also ignores that William Wallace was also a brutal man, not some heroic revolutionary. They are other things such as the Battle for Stirling Bridge was not fought at a bridge and that it was implied that Queen Isabel was in love with Wallace and that he fathered Edward III, which couldn't have been possible because at the time Wallace's death Isabel was six-years-old and lived in France. Some people have praised the acting in the film, I ask why? I don't think its anything special. Mel Gibson's performance wasn't particularly good, and only Sophie Marceau stood out to me. Edward I was a one-dimensional villain, showing he takes joy out of violence and death, in real-life he was an experience commander, but he was no different to any other Christain king at the time. William Wallace was a simple man who was driven to going to war, against this did not happen. Prince Edward was effeminate, weakly wimp: he was bisexual and not a good military commander, but he was not weak willed and he couldn't have lasted in medieval society if he was effeminate. He was also famous be being a fit man. The portrayal of Prince Edward was homophobic.This was a hate-filled movie that shouldn't have been made. If it was made as a fictional film set in an made-up country it would have called unrealistic. This was a weak film and should not have won Oscars for best Director or best Film, the Usual Suspect was hundred times better and should have won those Oscars. The only good thing to come out of the film was some good action and the costumes of the English army. But this is not enough to save this film and people have seen Mel Gibson and Randall Wallace for what they really are for making films such as the Passion of the Christ, Apocalypto and Pearl Harbor. If you have any taste at all don't watch this film!
The biggest heap of dog dung ever to be unleashed on the cinema going public. Absolutely no redeeming features other than the soundtrack. Crap story which bears no relationship to historical fact, acting and direction woefully poor and the accents are a joke (save for James Cosmos-a genuine Scot, so he should have been expected to get it right) Battle scenes are straight out of Monty Python. With legs getting chopped off and the victim toppling over, you half expect one of them to get back up and say "Come back and fight you coward" like the Black Knight in "Monty Pythons Holy Grail" A totally one sided perverted, twisted version of history. Presumably made to pander to the sort of Scottish football fan yobbo who hates everything English and blames all the worlds ills on those south of Hadrians Wall. One thing I would agree, at the end when "wee Jimmy Cranky" (Gibson) screams "Freedom" I felt the same way, at last it had finished and I could get out. This should have been a great film given the true facts of events at the time. Suggestion to Mel Gibson, next time don't let your prejudices rule your head and read a history book!!
Mel Gibson really does seem to have a downer on the English doesn't he? But my dislike of this film is certainly not based on some misplaced jingoistic pride.I'm quite a history fan and I don't mind at all when the sins of the father are hung out to dry. But I do insist on credible - don't insult my intelligence with a pantomime villain and romanticised plot developments. William Wallace was the father of Edward III? Give me a break, Edward II having other um, 'interests' doesn't mean he couldn't father a child, or that his wife is likely to sleep with Scottish outlaws.As for Edward, the ruthless, brilliant strategist and general; getting his archers to fire on his own forces in a mêlée - yes that must be how he was so successful a military commander. Confidence and loyalty-inspiring stuff.The only difference between this and the Alan Ladd Knight of Olde fifties Hollywood crap is that you saw people's arms being chopped off. Yes, the violence is more realistic. That's it.I prefer my corn on the cob, not the screen.


                
Braveheart has to rank as one of the most overrated movies in the history of cinema. Yes it is visually stunning and the battle sequences are extremely well done, but it is historically inaccurate and portrays the English in such a bad light that the film has been used by the Scottish National Party to whip up support. This distortion of history is, sadly, all too common in Hollywood film making. If and when the United Kingdom breaks up then Mel Gibson can smugly boast to have played a part in its downfall. The fact Braveheart won 5 Oscars awards also shows how politicised the ceremony is. Rated 1 / 10


                
Another Mel Gibson film that ignores history and decides to make it up, the Irish never joined the Scottish. Wallace wasn't a highlander, he fought for himself, not his country. Also princess Isabelle was 6 at the time and in France. They portray the Scottish as farmers with sticks in this, in reality they had the same equipment as the English, Longshanks son was not gay either. I could go on but i don't think this movie deserves it. I suppose this is a good film for anybody that thinks they are a Scottish patriot and choose to ignore history, this film is so stupid i cant believe people actually believe this stuff happened.


                
How this film won so many Oscars is beyond me.To start with its totally inaccurate,it looks like a typical excuse for Mel Gibson to try and look macho and at the same time practice his racial hatred on us English.I don't know about anyone else,but i saw this film about ten years ago and the thing i remember most about it apart from his silly hairdo,was the sheer offensiveness of it,I've never watched it since.He implies that the kings son was homosexual,which there's no evidence of,and then implies that homosexuals are evil people,how bad is that in the 20th century.Films have been banned for implying a lot less.But on the whole why cant he just leave our history alone and do something useful like make a film about the Aborigines or the American Red Indians,which is more his neck of the woods,not tear British history apart with how he wants to see it.I'm worried that he may try and make a version of the Battle of Britain,could you imagine it,he would probably portray the English as sitting around drinking tea saying,go on taffy and jock old boy go and kill some Hun for us ha ha tally ho.It would be that bad.


                
The fact that Mel Gibson is in it might be enough to dissuade anyone from watching, but if you continue to watch, you're in for a nasty fright. Although against the best recommendations of British historians, millions of Americans still view this movie as accurate history.  Thanks Mel - you've rewritten in 3 hours a nation's history that took thousands of years to form.  Some strange facts about this fiction were that the English king actually spoke English, as did his soldiers, who themselves identified as English, when historically you're looking at a would-be further Norman conquest further into Britain.  Also, it appears that many Americans, and now many other nationalities (thanks Mel) seem to think that Scotland and Britain are separate entities.  If ever there is a Braveheart II, which portrays Scottish raids and invasions into pre-Norman Northumbria, Cumbria, Yorkshire, which shows how the Scots conquered the English city of Edinburgh and made it their capital, which awakens in 50 million Irish Americans a sense of their English heritage (hahaha), I'd watch it.  Trouble is, Hollywood doesn't make those sorts of reality films as they're just too real.  The English as victims?  Perish the thought!


                
No really, I don't. Because it was not only incredibly stupid, half of the time it didn't make any sense at all. I don't mind violence at all, as long as it is done for a valid and proper reason. That Wallace killed off half of England screaming FREEDOM! all the time because some jackass killed his wife. Pure nonsense, I'm telling you.Secondly, all the action scenes were filmed with this horrible shaky handy-cam view to give you the feeling you are 'in the battle'. This is the point were I really lose all my interest. Why would you make blurred shots, that shake all the time, if it does not truly enhance the visual style of the movie in any way at all? Of course you're not in the battle! And even if you were, you wouldn't shake like that all the time! Honestly, get a clue.Then the acting. Good god, all the drama and nonsense. I really hate the overacting they sometimes put in movies. It was okay in Lord of the Rings, but here it was dramatic. Bland expressions and faces, people getting angry for no proper reason, no person in the movie tried to say something a bit realistic like: let's try to think out a normal solution instead of fighting in terrible greyly coloured landscapes. No,everyone was screaming, and/or looking as stupid as possible.This movie lacked so many things, was so gray and boring, overlong and with a lot of irrational actions, I really disliked it. A lot. Possibly the most overrated movie I have ever seen.


                
I just watched this, although it took me days to finally finish watching this 3 hour bloated boring movie in its entirety. I would watch one hour and then had to take breaks because of how bad it was, but I was determined to watch it to the end. Its the kind of movie that is so bad, so amazingly goofy, that its funny.I don't know anything about the history of Scotland and don't care, my review is on the movie itself. Mel Gibson, I liked him in the Mad Max movies. But in this movie, he is nutty and just totally ridiculous. He wears weird blue makeup in a battle scene, and then after killing all the enemy he stands there covered in blood and gore, and looks at his men, and screams "YAAAAAAAAAAAAAARRRRRRRRRRRGGGGGGGGGGGGGG" It is so ridiculous and laughable! Then it gets worse! At the end of the movie he is brought in on a freakin' CROSS, like he is Jesus Christ! I have to say I lost it at that point. What in the world were they thinking? I was blown away by how loony and silly this scene was, with Mel looking at all the people throwing things at him, and he is pretending to be holy like a Jesus or somethin'. When he screamed "FREEDOM" at the end, I wanted to scream too - in agony! I can't believe this movie won awards, except for if it had won a raspberry award for worst picture!
The scenery is nice,costumes are good, acting not bad,but that is about it.What is it with Mel Gibson and his anti English feelings.I find him dangerous in modern day film making,he takes a story and twists it around with out knowing anything about our history and comes up with these very offensive anti English films,almost like Hitler and his anti semitic propaganda.According to him English men are either gay,rapists,murderers,torturers,we are yet to see how he wants to portray English women,ma by he thinks their lesbian prostitutes who go around murdering small boys, please don't give him ideas.The worst thing of all is that the film is set many centuries ago when every one was barbaric to one another,he makes it look like it was last week.I'm an Englisman who has Scots and Irish friends,and all actor /directors, if you can call him that do is just stir up trouble.He knows nothing about our history so he should stay out of it,leave it to the professionals,like Richard Attenborough.


                
I think that to even things up Hollywood should finance a motion picture in which Sean Connery, playing an Aborigine, leads his people in an uprising against their white Australian oppressors! If nothing else it would give Mel"Patriot" Gibson an overdue taste of his own medicine. Now if you will kindly excuse me, being English, I have some evil to go and do.


                
Very silly ego trip by a forty-something star(Mel Gibson) past his prime, playing a twenty-something year old Scottish patriot with blue paint on his face, courting a leading lady who could be his granddaughter. Boring and dumb film without any single redeeming element.I thought that "Titanic" was the most over-rated film ever made, and then I saw this. Now I know that "Braveheart" is the most over-rated film ever made, and it is pretty bad as all the other movies of Mel Gibson, which it is not only a terrible actor, but a terrible director as well. I know, I have seen his other movies like "The Passion of the Christ" and "Apocalypto". Both were awful. Overrated, overlong and boring. This movie it's a complete waste of time.
Honestly, it's not that good. It's too long, too trite, too formulaic and too revisionist.Wallace WAS seven feet tall (more or less), but as far as I can tell he was a racist thug - the film conveniently skips over the fact that he had an argument with an Englishman who he murdered, along with five or six others, and then ran away. So much for 'Freedom'. More like "I can't control my temper and the English are after me,so I'd better get some help". He was about as popular with the Scots nobles as he was with the English. Oh, and he wasn't a peasant either.Anyone saying "it's only a movie"-well read how many comments are praising this film for its historical accuracy. I can take historical fantasy, most "Robin Hood" films for instance, but not when they're touted as 'accurate'.


                
For a Scotsman watching this film there can only be the sense of some of the most vital legends of a country being raped and pillaged by Hollywood. Disgusting in its sentimental Mad Maxisation of a historical character of great mythic importance to another nation this just goes to show how the financial weight of Hollywood has more influence over popular opinion than the entire sweep of history. Idiotic beyond belief. Two dimensionally racist in its depiction of both Scots and English. Disregarding any truth of what is known about WIlliam Wallace. Shame on everyone who helped put it together.


                
This movie was utterly awful.It was historically inaccurate and portrayed the English as the Villains where as both countries in that time committed terrible acts.One of the events which occurred was when the Scots raided an English town, murdering everyone including woman and children and making purses out of their flesh comes to mind, one of the events that caused the hostilities between the two countries.Either the movie makers did not do their homework as to what went on in that period or they decided to purposely ignore and warp some of the events in order to make the English out as the Villains and the Scots as heroes.It was due to this movie that I decided not to go and see the Patriot also by Mel Gibson as I knew they would do the same.


                
I can't imagine how anybody can take this farrago seriously.I can see that if you didn't give a toot for Scotland or its history, but you liked vigorous hack-and-bash action with one-dimensional villains and heroes, cartoon acting (Gibson was clearly channelling Fred Flintstone), simple-minded penis-size jokes and a dash of good old-fashioned homophobia, all set in beautiful (and totally inappropriate) landscapes, you could really enjoy this film. But it beats me how anybody can stumble out after watching it babbling "inspirational", "enthralling", "heroic", "romantic" and all the rest of it. It's a joke movie to rent for a raucous evening at home over some cans of beer. (Provided there's nobody in the house who cares about the history of Scotland <U+0096> they will certainly come out in a rash.)


                
Unhistorical, badly acted, overwrought rubbish.What the hell an intelligent, capable actor like Patrick McGoohan is doing in this dreg is beyond me. Perhaps he had a big bill that needed paying.One of the few films of recent years that is worse than 'Titanic'.I'm not sure I can write a minimum of ten lines about this garbage. I suppose if I just cut and paste 'it's rubbish, don't watch it' a few times to use up the space.............In short, Avoid.....'it's rubbish, don't watch it'.... 'it's rubbish, don't watch it'


                
watched Braveheart for the first time in many years recently and it's fair to say that I was genuinely surprised by how utterly and irredeemably bad this movie actually is. If you need reminding it won a whole host of Oscars way back in 1995 (including Best Picture). I'm not a fan of Mel Gibson, not just because he hates me, but because he really doesn't float my boat in a dramatic sense. I think Braveheart is a really good film<U+0085> to highlight his chronic lack of on screen charisma and the notable absence of any real acting ability (that doesn't involve looking solemn or crazy). His performance in this movie is almost a parody, at points I felt like I was watching something from the people who made the likes of Date Movie etc. (which incidentally is probably a better movie than Braveheart!). Mel's lack of charisma and ability are just two of the reasons I dislike this movie. There are however many other reasons. Firstly we are supposed to accept that it is perfectly fine for William Wallace to express indifference at the English occupation so long as his wife is with him. When wifey has her throat slit by an evil Englishman (more on them later) suddenly Wallace catches the highly infectious 'freedom at any cost' disease. He gets rival factions of Scottish tribes together and with no real chance of victory, he murders the English and drags his countrymen into a evidently and ultimately futile war in which thousands will perish and all to avenge the death of his wife; whose memory he abandons/desecrates half way through the movie when he sleeps with Princess Isabelle (who of course finds his ruggedness irresistible). Wallace is portrayed first as an abject coward unwilling to oppose oppression and then as a selfish madman who gets off on butchering people with a large variety of obtusely shaped metal objects, and finally as a man-whore who can't keep his genitals concealed under his kilt for more than 5 minutes. And we are supposed to believe this man is a hero and that his acts are heroic? Come on! Now I'm not really that fussy when it comes to historical inaccuracies in Hollywood movies; however I think artistic license is probably taken a little to far in this movie, particularly when every English character is represented as an inept, bloodthirsty, paganistic murderer and every Celt as a loyal, rugged, family orientated, God-fearing freedom fighter. Also Gibson, as director, seems to present, with the Prince Edward character, homosexuality as either a) a weakness or b) as being part of a type of madness. Seriously, this is straight from the Rambo textbook of social and geo-political representation. In other words; the complex Anglo-Celtic relationship is dumbed down so much that it becomes a laughable parody of a serious and interesting subject. On a technical level Braveheart also falls foul of anything resembling a coherent narrative structure. As I have mentioned, Wallace's motivations are at the very least muddled, at worst incompressible. One event (usually a big battle or a shot of Mel's arse, or Mel stood on a mountain, or Mel holding a sword, or Mel giving a monologue about those pesky Jews, sorry English) leads to another with no real logical progression or explanation or fathomable reasoning. It's like watching a movie with every other scene missing. Overall, I would love for someone to explain to me why they like this movie because I'm totally baffled as to why anyone would.


                
I really enjoyed this film. Most amusing. The idea that some Scottish rebel impregnated the Queen of England - hilarious. O wait! This is supposed to be serious - hmmmmmmmm. Ah! But then Mel Gibson is in it so what do you expect? Another example of bash the English - nasty, nasty English - yawn! Come on Mel, get a life. This should be such an interesting period of history, ripe for dramatisation, and you go and spoil it with this tripe. It reminds me of "Patriot" - that other great artistic work of yours. Does anyone detect a theme here? Never mind, perhaps we should leave you to blame to Jews (makes a change from the English) for all the world's ills, you sad, bigoted drunk.
this is just mad max goes to Scotland,he plays the same part in all his films .a poor actor in a poor film.a film for the immature fantasist who like to see men with big swords ,like a lot of Mel Gibson films they are full of his own dislikes and personal animosities,this time the English get it,there is the bad bad double crossing king Edward, with all the bad bad solders. up against the bare bottomed Scottish good guys,yes it must have been written on the back of a fag packet after watching the wrestling on the TV,totally unbelievable and simplistic take on British history,take a real good look at this film and you will see a mediocre piece of fluff,


                
someone previously attacked the English for being Norman/Saxon in origin and for being invaders. That is a very simplistic view of things. For a start William Wallace himself was descended from a minor Norman lord. Does this mean he too was an invader ? most of the lowland Scots had Anglo-Saxon blood in them. The easiest way to view Englands invasions is that England was a potentially powerful nation but as long as it had enemies who were able to mount serious raids (and often did) She could not influence the world. it is no coincidence that when the British Isles were united they went on to forge the greatest empire the World had seen. So when you slam someone for being proud of Englands military achievements bear in mind that those military achievements laid the base on which the cultural achievements lay.


                
Did Mel Gibson actually read any books on William Wallace? A brigand that ransacked and raped his way across the borders is turned into a matinée idol that fathers the future King of England. His lack of historical fact turns what could have been a dark and gruesome tale into a over dramatised love story. Character development is poor; you meet card board cut outs of people but you never seem to connect with any of them. He has all the Celtic nations represented with the thickest accents they are able to muster splattered in woad and draped in fur but little is mentioned about their motivation they meekly follow offering nothing. The battle scenes while well done, don't leave you routing for them, they just wash away in to the back of the battle scene. Although Gibson seems to take particular pride at portraying any English man as either twisted and evil or weak and effeminate, what happened did the Queen forget to send him a Christmas card? The real shame is he had the actors, the money and the potential of a real story and all he did was botch it.
This film is great and everyone should watch it at least once, thats the review out of the way. If you are reading this review i assume you have read the reviews before it and will probably read the ones after it. All the other reviews can be broken into 2 groups. Group 1 are the people (i'm ashamed to say often my fellow Americans !) who write "this film is great and is about how the Scottish beat the British" this may be a small point but Scotland is a part of Britain as is England. Therefore the Scottish were not fighting Britain and anyone who writes a review featuring that statement is well worth avoiding. Group 2 are the people who will mention the historical accuracies. Whether or not you read those reviews is very much up to you. If you want mindless entertainment dont bother with them. If you want educating read away as you might learn something. This film made one major change to my neighborhood and that was that a lot of the Irish-Americans suddenly "discovered" they also have prominent Scottish ancestry.


                
This film is a tragedy.This is unacceptable as a film.. so off the mark..Yes i am English, as in i was born in england. The English did massive injustices however this film does not hi-light facts about the who Scottish raped and burnt English villages! well i should come over to America and re direct last of the Mohican's and put it in total favour of the US!so i think that we should all bear in mind of historic bio's!Please watch this film though.. so you can have a good laugh.Good night and good luck!
