Braveheart is a rousing adventure, a passionate romance, and a soul-stirring drama. In short, Mel Gibson's 1995 classic is everything a great Hollywood epic should be. Gibson's second feature film as a director was a revelation. Who knew that Mel Gibson, an established action superstar and leading man, would be capable of helming a grand Medieval epic with the artistry of Braveheart? The story of William Wallace's legendary fight against English tyranny in Medieval Scotland works as a strong action spectacle, but more than that, Braveheart is a heart-rending, almost spiritual experience, a rare film of bellowing passion that earns every towering emotion it conjures.Braveheart tackles the ambitious task of retelling the legend of William Wallace (Mel Gibson), a Scottish warrior who led a revolt against the English occupants of Scotland in the early part of the 14th Century. After his secret love (Catherine McCormack) is killed by English noblemen occupying the Scot's village, Wallace begins a rebellion that eventually leads all the way to King Longshanks (Partrick McGoohan) of England. The story is not a historical retelling of the real William Wallace, but an account of the mythic figure of William Wallace, the larger-than-life Scottish hero. Mel Gibson is at his charismatic best as Wallace. His presence on screen conveys every bit of the folk legend that Wallace has become. It might not be an accurate portrait of a real historical figure, but it is an exquisite visualization of a fabled warrior. The movie is, after all, based on the epic poem written by Blind Harry in the 15th Century. The choice to treat the story romantically rather than realistically is treated as a negative by some, but it is actually a brilliant decision by Gibson and screenwriter Randall Wallace. The romantic approach opens the film up to more emotion, more drama, and more action than a straightforward docu-drama would. Braveheart relishes in the romance of a time and place. The story is massive in scope, and it plays to all those time-tested notes of classic Hollywood adventures. Braveheart is a sentimentalized version of William Wallace, no doubt, but it is also surprisingly authentic. From the muddy village huts and crude stone castles to the close-quarter violence of the battle scenes, Braveheart is a legitimately unvarnished look into the cold, cruel world of Medieval Scotland. This marriage of idealism and realism strikes at the heart of what makes Braveheart so special. It works just as well as a tear-jerker and an action adventure.One of the standouts in Braveheart are the battle scenes, which Mel Gibson stages with tremendous scale and violence. The action is appropriately chaotic, but the way Gibson and editor Steven Rosenblum cut between the indecipherable mayhem and punctuative killshots gives the battles orientation. The violence is effective. Every brutal blow is wince-inducingly severe. This is not typical Hollywood sword and sandals action, this is real, visceral action, and it carries a purpose. Braveheart brilliantly captures the strategy, as well as the barbarism inherent in Medieval warfare.Braveheart is a fantastic action epic, but it outclasses those trappings. There have been many historical epics that have come and gone before and after Braveheart, but precious few of them can compete with this film's craftsmanship. What Gibson has achieved here is almost miraculous. He takes what might be groaning clichés in the hands of a lesser director, and injects them with a poignancy that they frankly do not deserve. We get the obligatory love stories, the death scenes, the speeches, the evil kings and the treacherous allies. It's all been done before, but never with such unbridled passion behind the camera. The characters are archetypes, but they show what influence a great director and great actors can have on a character. The supporting cast is so filled with personality, you just cannot help but root for what could have easily become two-dimensional placeholders. James Cosmo's Campbell, Brenden Gleeson's Hamish, and Sophie Marceau's compassionate Princess Isabelle are excellent, and Angus MacFadyen as Robert the Bruce does Oscar-worthy work as a man who's loyalty balances precariously between the English and the Scottish sides of the conflict. James Horner's music may be the under-appreciated key to Braveheart's success. The mournful bagpipes and spirited Scottish melodies of Horner's score are downright essential for the film's emotional climaxes, of which there are many. When those climaxes hit, they hit hard, and that is thanks in large part to the music. Horner's score carries the same earnest spirit of the rest of the production. The music of Braveheart is precisely as big and bold as the story demands.Braveheart is a masculine story, a simple-minded tale of heroes and villains executed with brute force. Of course it is an exciting action movie, we might have expected that from the star of Mad Max and Lethal Weapon, but the real discovery in Braveheart is its beauty. For all its violence and primitive mayhem, Braveheart never lets go of its absolutely rousing grandeur. It doesn't just allow you to look on it with appreciation, it demands it. Braveheart is cathartic in the way it overpowers you with emotion. There are shots in this film that nearly brought me to tears by their sheer beauty alone. When the story, the characters, the images (filmed by cinematographer John Toll), and the music crescendo, it hits like a wave of overwhelming gratitude. The admirable thing about Braveheart is how Gibson and company stick to their guns. They don't conceal the drama or play it subtly. Gibson allows the tragedies, the treachery, and the triumphs of the William Wallace legend to be extravagant. The story is sprawling, the romances are passionate, and the emotions are let out with uninhibited fury. Braveheart is a man's movie, a brutal action epic that will satisfy any red-blooded man's desire for violence and carnage. The remarkable thing is that Braveheart is also a movie that moved me like few have before. 95/100
Most on this site pick the Godfather, or the Shawshank Redemption, but this is it, this is the best film ever made. People will complain, will argue that I am wrong, but I will say it again...Braveheart is as close to perfection as a movie can be. The acting is superb, the man who played Lonshanks, the actor who portrayed Robert the Bruce, both should have been nominated for Oscars due to their powerful rendering of evil and a man who is saved from losing his humanity (from becoming evil) by meeting William Wallace. And let us not forget the direction, the cinematography. Braveheart is glorious, beautiful to look at. The slow motion pictures of horses preparing to charge armed combatants, the entire landscape of Scotland that Mel Gibson captures with the camera. Braveheart is artwork, it is as good as any picture. That the film is number 93 on the list of the top 250 movies ever is a shame. Yes there is violence in this film but that violence does serve a point...that freedom isn't free and sometimes it takes death, gruesome and horrible, to let ones people taste what it is like to be free. Braveheart is a great movie and it deserves to at least be in the top ten of IMDb's list of greatest films.


                
I remember seeing this movie for the first time in late 2003, and I was impressed. I saw it again last night, and I was even more impressed. The acting is amazing, and the ending was brilliant. For me, all my guesses were incorrect. Everything that happens in this movie in unpredicted. The last half hour itself was highly unpredictable, and it had a powerful message. When a scene was meant to be dramatic, they did a great job at it. I don't know about everybody else, but the ending did make me cry. The message the movie sent kept me thinking for a while. The amount of courage and bravery was inconceivable, there was barely any faults or anything wrong with the movie. For a movie of 1995, they did a great job.I absolutely guarantee this movie to anybody who enjoys action and war with a bit of drama mixed in. One of the best, or maybe even the best movie of the 20th century.


                
Unfortunately, I wasn't able to watch Braveheart till 2003 when it was on TV. However, the lack of theatrical effects never stopped me from being mesmerized by this epic for one moment. So mesmerized, I literally sat motionlessly on the couch for two minutes after the movie. Any normal audience would likely to cast his/her sense of reality away and be captivated by this distant Celtic saga. Beside proving himself as a brilliant director, Mel Gibson more importantly gave life to a historical hero whose superb gallantry, vivid character and magnificent spirit shall never be history. Along with the unforgettable 'Alba gu bragh!' and the unprecedentedly heart-stopping 'Freeeeedom', Braveheart unquestionably is one of the greatest movies ever made.


                
This has to be one of the best movies I have ever seen. I recently purchased it and have watched it at least five times since then, and each time i pick up on things I did not see the other times. The fight scenes are great, the plot is both interesting and thought provoking, there is romance and comedy. This is a movie that any person can appreciate at some level. True, the historical content may have been distorted, but even though, this movie is meant for entertainment. It is not a history lesson caught on video.The acting is absolutely superb, this movie is guaranteed to have you on the edge of your seat for the entire three hours.


                
Unfortunately, I have yet to find a film of quite this caliber again. Braveheart contains elements of Romance (several heart- wrenching and warming instances), Epic/Action (spectacular scenes), Mystery (can take a few viewings to put it all together), History (albeit romanticised) and of course Drama (perfectly unravelled). This level of uncompromised multi-tasking allows the film to move you to laugh and cry, love and hate or even to think and be taught. I'm trying to avoid the clichés of glowing reviews (almost as bad as entirely negative ones) - but this is one of the few movies that I feel deserves one.The witty banter between friends/foes/lovers/relatives is, in my opinion, flawless and aids the film's claim as a true classic. The soundtrack is similarly top-notch and encapsulates and refracts the patriotic theme during several key moments. The political sub-plot and gorgeous scenery also serve as refreshers during otherwise heavy areas of the story. Perhaps Braveheart's only flaw (but if you share my sentiments it's actually a bonus) is its length so you'll want to prepare a comfy seat and maybe even two pots of tea (complete with cosies!).I suppose it's also relevant to touch on the historic inaccuracies as I expect this is what people might dislike most about this film. However, "History is written by those who have hanged heroes"; also, the overall sketchiness of such periods coupled with the right of artistic license are enough for me to personally dismiss such thoughts. On that note, I hope you also enjoy what, to me, is the greatest film created (so far).
I'm talking just in the 90's. The 90's were a great time for the movies, we had so many memorable one's and there is no doubt that "Braveheart" is one of them. "Braveheart" is one of my favorite movies that never gets old. Despite it's long running time, I will watch this movie any day.Mel Gibson has come so far in the movie business and he not only stars but directed Braveheart. He did a terrific job and deserves a lot of credit for this remarkable film. Despite it not being totally accurate with history, anyone can enjoy "Braveheart". Based on the life story of William Wallace, a town peasant who just wants to live in peace and harmony with a wife and children. But when the British king of England, Longshanks, is sick of Scotland "being full of Scots", he comes up with a way of bringing them more into a British land by "breeding them out". Promising any British soldier to a Scotish bride on her wedding night before her husband can have her. Wallace won't hear of it and marries his love in secret. When a British soldier notices his wife and attempts to rape her, Wallace comes in and saves her causing a riot in their village and he thinks he's got her safe when he sends her away from the soldiers, but they catch her and kill her right in front of her family.Wallace has had it and wants war for not only the murder of his wife and love, he wants freedom for Scotland and will shed blood to do it. "What will you do without freedom?!", this is one of the most memorable speeches of all cinematic history during their first major battle with the British. Through countless battles, friends, traitors, and bloodshed, all Wallace just wishes for is freedom. As Robert the Bruce says to his father "They look at him and fight by his side." He describes Wallace's bravery and what everyone feels in wanting to be him. I love Robert's last line "You have bled with Wallace! Now bleed with me!" and the army stands and continues their struggling battles for freedom! This is such an inspirational movie with a powerful message "Every man dies, but not every man really lives" to a tearful ending that will make anyone shed a tear to a terrific heartfelt sound track, it's no wonder this won best picture with other Oscars. This is a movie, a terrific one that everyone should enjoy and watch.10/10
This is simply the best movie ever made, containing all the elements a perfect movie should, even considering that every person has a right to his/her opinion. The soundtrack is amazing, the scenes are ingenious and the story is simply excellent! This is a story about a Scotsman named William Wallace (Mel Gibson) and his fight for the freedom of the Scottish people, from the oppression of the English ruler-ship. After seeing the death of his wife at the hands of an English nobleman, William Wallace (Mel Gibson) sets out on a quest for vengeance that quickly turns into a crusade for freedom for the entire "country". The extreme violence as well as the human compassion in this movie are overwhelming in its brilliancy.


                
The Best film I have ever seen. And the most successful one which has stayed in Turkish cinemas 2 years in a row. Having watched this movie more than 200 times, I am declaring it as my whole life's movie. Special side characters, as Steven, Hemich and most of the rest remind me of a huge history "wirtten by those who have hung heroes".When dying in your beds, many years from now; Would you be willing to trade, all the days -from this day to that-, for one chance -just one chance- to watch this film and tell everybody we know, that they can watch lots of movies but they will never watch any Braveheart quality movie again..


                
OK, so it was not 100% accurate in content or historical detail but that aside, it was one of the greatest films that has yet to be truly matched. The cast performed very well as this well written tale was told. Even though it is over 10 years old now, it still holds a place in my heart as one of the best. The accuracy of the battle scenes are only eclipsed by the expressions of the actors faces as they share this story. Stephen the Irishman steals the show with his plucky comic relief. Hamish the sidekick does a great job playing against the over the top performance of Mel Gibson. The predominantly European cast does a great job of not needing to fake accents and mannerisms. I have watched this film several times and every time I see something more special.


                
If you are a Mel Gibson fan of any sorts this movie is a must see. A wonderful directing job, supported by a wonderful cast. Men will appreciate the attitude depicted by Mel Gibson towards his love and his country along with the added violence. Women will swoon and pine for the hopeless romantic they will find in Mel as he avenges the death of his wife and fights for the freedom of his fellow countrymen. This movie gave me a whole new respect for Mel as a director and actor. In my opinion it is the best movie Mel has made to date.
This was a very emotional experience, this film deserves every bit of praise it gets, with an incredible story, and an Oscar worthy performance from Mel Gibson!. All the characters are wonderful, and the story is just brilliant!, plus Mel Gibson is simply incredible in this!. To be quite honest i was expecting to hate this film, since it's generally not my type of movie, however i am a big fan of Gibson's and the movie is praised everywhere so i decided to check out, and i must say it's as good as everyone says it is!, plus the ending is extremely powerful, and left me staring at the screen in awe!. i found the mooning scene to be fairly humorous, and this has to be one of the more violent films i have seen in a while, plus The direction is simply phenomenal, Mel deserved his Oscar in that department!. it's extremely well written and made, and all the characters were very likable!, plus i was rooting for Mel all the way, and was sad with what happened to him. The opening is very memorable and quite disturbing, and the dialog is wonderful, plus i loved Mel's Scottish accent!.I loved the scenes between Mel and Catherine McCormack!, and not minute was boring, as it was constantly engrossing!, plus The setting was great, and felt very real. Mel had wonderful chemistry with,Catherine McCormack,James Cosmo and Sophie Marceau!, and the cinematography was just beautiful!, plus this film deserves the spot it has right now at IMDb's top 250!. It does run a tad long, but it was never overlong or boring, and the score is simply magnificent!, plus the finale while wonderful, is very hard to watch!. I cannot believe 2367 people voted this a 1! and i must say, the battle scenes are some of the most exciting i have ever seen!. This film was a very emotional experience, and it deserves every bit of praise it gets, with an incredible story and an Oscar worthy performance from Mel Gibson!, and if you haven't seen it, what are you waiting for? Do so immediately, and even if you don't like this sort of thing check it out anyway you might be really surprised!. The Direction is phenomenal!. Mel Gibson does a phenomenal job here, while nothing fancy, it's still incredible, with wonderful camera work, and just keeping the film powerful, and very engrossing throughout!, he deserved his Oscar in this department!, in my opinion. As for the violence, No comments, i'll just say it's extremely bloody and violent, see for yourself. The Acting is Oscar worthy!.Mel Gibson is amazing as always, and delivers an Oscar worthy performance here, he was extremely likable, incredibly convincing, was a man of courage and honor, who fought for revenge and his country, and you will be rooting for him all the way, and approving on how he decides to handle it, i just wished what happened at the end to his character didn't happen!, he was incredible!. (Gibson Rules!!!!). James Cosmo was fantastic here!, he had a great looking beard, , was very likable, and had wonderful chemistry with Gibson!, i really liked him. Catherine McCormack is stunningly gorgeous and was simply wonderful here, i just wished she had more screen time!,cause she was wonderful, and had great chemistry with Gibson, she was also very charming. Brian Cox has a small role, but he had presence as always, and did fine with it. Patrick McGoohan and Peter Hanly are both very intense and do fantastic!. Sophie Marceau is beautiful and is excellent with what she had to do i really liked her. Brendan Gleeson is fine as well. Rest of the cast are fantastic. Overall if you haven't seen it what the hell are you waiting for? Do so immediately even if you hate this genre!., you might just be really surprised!. ***** out of 5, it's one of the best films ever!.
This movie is almost two decades old now and as is often the case with blockbuster films, I'm just now getting around to seeing it for the first time. My timing is kind of serendipitous too because Scotland will be voting on leaving the UK next week on September 18th, 2014 as I write this. It's pretty much a toss-up on how it goes, though whatever the outcome, the geopolitical consequences will be felt for a long time.Mel Gibson and Kevin Costner are a couple of names who frequently find themselves involved in controversy for their projects. In recent years, Gibson has been at the center of some embarrassing personal exploits, but there's no denying he's had a major impact on film making with movies like "Braveheart" and "The Passion of the Christ". Both films offer an epic sweep and are cinematically dynamic. The battle scenes in "Braveheart" are among the most expansive and realistic as you'll see anywhere.But as with most historical films, and I've learned this all too well by now, what you see is not necessarily what the world got at the time. I don't think such departures from accuracy are always meant to be made for the sake of revisionism, nevertheless they detract from a film's educational value. So one's approach to "Braveheart" probably ought to be made from the standpoint of an epic period drama with it's attendant personal stories thrown in as human interest. That's what you have here with this Best Picture winner and the award is well deserved on that score. Personally, I have my doubts whether the Scots ever mooned the British at the Battle of Stirling.
Personally, this is my favorite movie of all time. I'm not going to ramble on and on about this movie...I'll just lay it on the line for you. It's great. Most importantly, it has a little bit of everything.In my mind, it's the ultimate movie, it has all aspects of humans. Violence, courage, betrayal, love, death, comedy, it has it all. It's more action based than anything, but there is a love plot and friendship plots and everything. All in all, it's a very deep and touching movie with large amounts of killing.If you like action movies or just great movies in general, then definitely check this out, it shouldn't disappoint.


                
I think Braveheart Is the best movie ever made. It has a unique story cast and crew.But what made it so good and emotional was the beautiful music to describe the feelings and energy that went on in each time. I think that the music in Braveheart is the best i have ever heard in theater. I have seen many films in my time and this one has not only given me entertainment but inspiration to do things. Mel Gibson will always be William Wallace to me. He is a brilliant actor as well as a director and i think that in Braveheart he did the best anyone could ever do. It keeps you exited as well as overwhelmed with grief over the things that William went through and the legend he grew into. It's a movie of honor and a story about a man who stood for the things he believed in and never went down. Although the justice was not served freedom was.


                
So it comes to pass in the year of 2007 {not a year of our lord I think} that I finally choose to write a user comment for the award winning epic that is Braveheart, a film that is historically bent in the extreme. A film that is directed by a man who has a less than favourable reputation at this moment in time, a film that has a heavy handed approach at times, a film that is as choppy as a boat ride during a tidal wave. Oh yes, Braveheart is far from flawless folks, but it will forever be a 10/10 movie to me because the flaws can't take away the brilliant structure of the film, and they never will.It's a lavish gargantuan epic that somehow seems out of place for the year it was made, perhaps the secret of the films success is because the 90s were crying out for an epic to get us hankering back to those halcyon days of Spartacus et al? Or just maybe the film punched the button of the public psyche because it is a great and grand thing to see the little people rise up and kick some ass? The oppressed and the bullied strike back as it were, surely that theme works for the normal human being? It's a sweeping tale that involves love, loyalty, honour, dishonour, treachery, death & heroes and villains. In short it ticks all the boxes for the genre it sits in. Mel Gibson is William Wallace, and although he may struggle to nail the Scottish accent to fully convince at times, he more than makes up for it with his verve and vigour when delivering his lines; with the Sons Of Scotland speech at Stirling a particular rousing highlight.Patrick McGoohan is pure egotistical villainy as Longshanks, King Edward I, and the supporting cast also do sterling work {or should that be Stirling?}. Brendan Gleeson, Tommy Flanagan, Catherine McCormack, Angus Macfadyen, and the wonderful James Cosmo all add flavour to the delightful scotch broth on the screen. The score by James Horner is appropriately tight to the movies themes, and the cinematography by John Toll was rightly awarded at Oscar time because he captured the essence of the film. Be it the lush rolling hills or the blood stained field in the aftermath of battle, Toll's work is critically in sync with the unfolding mood of the picture.So yes, damn straight, it's a 10/10 film to me. Because it lifts and inspires many a discerning viewer. It does kick you at times, but as it does so, it also emotionally engages you. From start to finish. To which the film deserves every accolade and award that it won. Because to me the grandiose epic had seemed long gone, but Gibson and his army brought it back to the modern era and made a genre piece fit to hold it's head up high with the greats of years gone by.


                
On the surface Braveheart is an epic film of medieval warfare. A band of Scotts, lead by William Wallace, surges against a cruel and unscrupulous King. They get farther than they should, but ultimately fall short of their goal of a free and independent Scotland. But this movie is far more. It is a story of the human spirit. It is a testimony to the power of conviction; that drive and desire can achieve more than strength of arms. The simple belief that Right triumphs over Evil is the center of Braveheart. As a result, it bands us, as the audience, together for the common good; victory.William Wallace is a compelling historical character because it was never his intention to be a freedom fighter. He left his homeland as a small boy amidst family tragedy and spent many years abroad. He returns to Scotland a new man. He is smarter than his brethren, not that he flaunts it. Initially, we do not see an idealistic Scottish rebel. He is a simple man with simple desires; to live in peace and raise a family.Circumstances make that impossible. The circumstance of living in an oppressed country makes a simple life unattainable. This leads to tragedy, which leads to rage. Rage leads to conflict, which leads to victory. Victory leads to purpose. This is where the movie takes shape. The movie takes shape when Wallace realizes that his purpose is no longer exacting revenge. He is meant to lead an uprising.Braveheart, for all its battle scenes, is a political picture about a desire for "something better", as Wallace describes it. He has seen his people suffer. He has seen the Scottish people accept their place as a second class society and settle. There is no belief that this will ever change. While the uprising begins as a product of revenge, we get the sense that Wallace's initial actions are just an outward expression of the misery all of Scotland is feeling. They're "Mad as Hell" and their not going to take it any more. And while the pen may be mightier than the sword, in 13th Century England the sword was the only means some people had. Scotland needed the courage and will to stand up and fight. Wallace gave them that.Mel Gibson is at the forefront of Braveheart. He starred in and directed this picture. While he was rewarded by the Academy with Best Picture and Best Director Oscars, his acting role as William Wallace cannot be overlooked. Braveheart is, after all, the story of William Wallace. It could not have succeeded without a tremendous performance from the film's leading man. Mel Gibson was not nominated for his acting, but should have been. He captured the spirit of Wallace. His rousing speech at the start of the first great battle is now a classic in cinema. A scene in Lord of the Rings: Return of the King is eerily similar. Every scene he commanded. He not only earned the attention of the characters on screen, but of the audience as well.Visually, the film is a masterpiece. The rolling countryside makes for a beautiful backdrop. The battles are like expertly choreographed ballets. The meetings in the great halls have an ancient flair. Every set built is detailed and breathtaking. Costume, lighting, make-up; everything comes together flawlessly. In a world where computer effects are used so rampantly, Braveheart still has the feel of a classic epic project where every detail is given expert personal "hands on" attention.Epic pictures are a credit to film-making. They are many times very big budget productions with a lot of extras, a lot of props and a lot of details that need to be accounted for. To make a great epic is to get everything right at the same time, take after take. Braveheart is one of the best of them.
Without any doubt, one of the greatest motion pictures ever.It is impossible to describe what an effect this movie has on me... every time I watch it... I can stay for hours, just blinking,... overwhelmed by emotions and thoughts,... unable to do anything at all...Thinking of the good and true things, that are so few in this cruel world.Knowing that there are still innocent victims and peoples under oppression.I remember when I saw Braveheart the first time, back in 1995,...It was a unique experience not only because of the movie, but also because of the effect it had on the audience. Such situations are very rare.Everyone in the theater, down to the last man, cried at the end... EVERYONE. It was a big theater and a big crowd too.When Murron walked from behind the crowd at the moment of Wallace's beheading, I felt something like a cold blade of happy sorrow, going through my throat.You can't help it.It was even funny to watch some of my friends feeling uncomfortable because they had cried, while they're trying to play the "macho-down-to-earth" role in life. :) It was very funny :))).The entire audience was like hit with a sledgehammer, people slowly and quietly going out of the cinema, discussing the movie.Then it started raining :).Good old Bulgarian rain<U+0085> falling straight down<U+0085> If we should analyze the movie, I think there would hardly be any flaw to find: FLAWLESS script, master directing, great cinematography, supreme performances by the actors (the Scottish accent of Gibson!), <U+0085>a devastating score,.. pushing the cold blade even further<U+0085> In short:If you haven't watched Braveheart, you haven't watched anything<U+0085> A true Work Of Art and a touch of the Divine.God bless you, Mr. Gibson.


                
''Braveheart'' is one of the greatest movies I already watched in my life. Really, it will be hard to find the exact words to write a review about it, but I will try. It's the story of the Scottish hero William Wallace,and Mel Gibson, even being older then the expected for the role, is great as director and actor, and I think this movie totally deserved to have won Best Cinematography,Best Picture and Best Director.The movie itself has many MANY inaccuracies. Things like kilts were not worn by the Scottish and British soldiers had no uniform during that time,the fact that the Princess Isabella never met William Wallace and was 8 years old when Wallace dies, prima noctis never happened, Wallace died before Edward I and the blue body paint for battles had stopped being used 800 years before the events of the film are some examples. But I think we cannot be very angry with this, since William Wallace's records almost doesn't exist, and many of the facts were taken largely from an epic poem by a man called "Blind Harry'', who possible wrote many things that never really happened.I think this movie is a masterpiece, even that the real connection with Scotland from about 1280 to 1305 is not right. We should watch this movie thinking that it is just a movie, and not a history lesson. I am glad the movie is in top 250 from IMDb.aka "Coração Valente" - Brazil
i think this is best movie ever made in the world... everything is so perfect...this is wonderful story telling... i went back to see the film again. the battle scene simply brilliant and fantastic looks real.. i just loved the character of hamish... visual effect were amazing and direction is awesome..the battles of this movie is looks real and too great.the ending of this movie is satisfying . Intentionally and unintentionally it was simply emotional in the ending when he say freedom and see his wife after his death its to touching.. i.e it is magnificent, visually emotional and so touching i will always remember this name WILLIAM WALLACE::


                
There are many criticisms about how inaccurate this film is to the real William Wallace. But i have to say to the by-the-book historians to shut up and enjoy the greatest film ever made! Braveheart is obviously about William Wallace's tale against the English in the medieval days. Mel Gibson's direction is beautifully done, with countless aerial views of the fair land of Scotland, which pulls the viewer into the film's romantic vision of a wonderful land and gives them all the background information you need to know about the land, with the help of the cinematography by John Toll. The music composed the famous James Horner fits the vision with a powerful flow that deepens the story into something amazing. Now, Mel Gibson plays the legendary role of Wallace in such a believable performance that is up there with Russel Crowe's for Gladiator. The accents may jump around with his tone when he speaks, but his voice is firm and strong for the role, as is the rest of the cast which were all excellent. Patrick McGoohan portrayed Longshanks very viciously and as a hateful villain. Sophie Marceau is the stunningly attractive, but naive lady who is drawn between country and what she truly believes in.The best part about the whole film though, is the two epic battle sequences that are not choppy, nor has the shaky camera like so many other films nowadays do, avoiding all the blood and gore a battle really contains. This movie surely rubs it in your face, and is needed to make what these men believed in, for what they were fighting for...freedom! it had to be as realistic as possible, and not to mention the slow-motion images again by John Toll, the sound mixing, and the uplifting score of James Horner, which makes them all the more intense and moving.And last but not least, the film, despite all the art it values, it has a great story that is powerful and stands strong alone. it is easily my favorite film, and is the best one ever made. I am incredulous that IMDb holds it at #93 on the top 250. It should be at least on the top ten. If only more epics were made this way, Hollywood would not be in the mess they are in.
favouritist film ever in the whole world ever! There is blatant disregard for historical accuracy here, which would normally wind me up, but the sheer scale of the film makes up for it.It is gorgeously written, beautifully directed, and magnificently acted. So there. I'm not entirely sure there's much else I can say! Only there's something for everyone; action, romance, drama, even some humour. I've never met anyone who isn't a fan of the film! One last thing, James Horner's music is stunning. I've got the CD, and it's an excellent investment, even if you don't like the film (something I highly doubt!!)


                
For sure it's my favorite movie. The picture and music are perfect. I saw the movie twice at the theater, I've rented it and I've bought it. I saw the movie 20 times and I'm still enjoying it. The battles are greats. My only deception is that I can't jump into the movie to help Wallace kick some english's butts. This movie is marvellous.


                
it would have been even better if it was historically accurate. wallace came from elderslie near paisley in the lowlands,so why they had to portray him as a highlander beats me,what would have been wrong with him in chain mail like in real life. wallace mentions england has committed theft rape and murder for the last 100 years in Scotland,wrong war began in 1296 and Scotland and england had been at peace with each other for the previous 100years. there are irish at the battle of falkirk,wrong they were weeks late for the battle,therefore with the fighting over they looted saint andrews,scotlands ecclisiastical capital and headed home with as much loot as they could carry. in my view though the worst liberty the film took was its portrayal at the end of bannockburn, in reality both sides had come to annihilate the other, the bruce coming to pay homage is sheer and utter nonsense. and the battle was fought over 2 days,not one headlong rush like the film. still an amazing film.
Fighting for freedom an't always go the peaceful Gandhi way. In order for true freedom in brutal times to come as peaceful as possible, revenge was essential. During the 13th century a war hero from Scotland named William Wallace experienced the cruelty and corruption the English enforced on the Scottish. Violence, corruption, rape, and rule were all used to take complete advantage over the Scottish until Wallace started a powerful rebellion to become a war hero and lead the Scottish to fight against the English in order to restore freedom and peace. William Wallce's incredible story is shown through the eyes of director Mel Gibson. Gibson envisioned the history of the tension between the two United Kingdom provinces beautifully, as he captures groundbreaking film-making to portray a biography and historical film like no other film has ever gone. Every shot is so intriguing and relevant to the story. The film-making aspects such as cinematography, setting, costumes, and editing are superbly made to make the history come to life. The filming of the Scottish highlands is magnificent and beautiful and really gets a feel of what warfare in the 12th century looked like. Historical films can often be dragged out and too biographical to tell a story as if it came from a history book. Writer Randall Wallace gives great background that is timed perfectly and developed the struggles and inspirations for William Wallace that leaves Mel Gibson to direct and portray William Wallace beautifully. He nails the Scottish accent! As for themes, freedom is a virtue that is a gift! Freedom is something that is a privileged to have and should be fought for if needed. Gibson and Wallace also get the message of fighting for anything. Not violently like William Wallace had to, but fighting in any way in order for good outcomes to be released. This is a classic film that is one of the best of the 90's, and is the greatest historical biography film ever directed.


                
