A stunningly beautiful move that has no historical merit at all Mel Gibson has won the adulation of the world and most importantly the Scots. It captures the honour of the Scots. By today's standards the stereotypes are all in there. The prejudicial Irish, the dastardly English King so if your easily offended stay away from this film. But this film is about landscape, tragedy of lost romance and lots and lots of bloody violence. The action and costumes alone is what makes this film incredible. The movie is a giant re-enactment of ancient Anglo- Scottish rivalry. All Gibson did was point the camera at a beautiful countryside and have fun. So it is a truly exciting film.
Spoilers herein.This was an amazingly successful film, which is a little puzzling. Let's call it the Wolfdancing syndrome. It is overly long and not well paced, it is exceedingly simplistic. Some of the battles are so unbelievable they grate.But it has a beautiful woman, beautiful scenery, then-novel grittiness, and likeable star, The scots have an appealing attitude, transformed for modern tastes. It is photographed competently and edited expertly. All of its art resides in the Peter Weir tradition of multiple speeds of the camera superimposed on multiple paces in the edits. I guess that's enough to garner tickets and awards. But on seeing this a third time, one notices how thin this scaffold is.But I suppose it is much better to have a visual awareness and some character in the images than not. Mel is not an intellect, simply an energetic man in show business, but I do give him credit for trying on Hamlet and here working on a visual awareness. The two attempts borrow from others but at least have some appeal in their energy.Ted's Rating -- 2 of 4: Has some interesting elements.
William Wallace loses his father at a young age. After going away for a while, he returns (now as Mel Gibson) to raise a family. That dream quickly comes to an end when his wife is assaulted and killed by English soldiers. He becomes a patriot in a romantic rage, not resting until England gets its boots off the throat of Scotland.Historian Sharon Krossa notes that Scotsmen did not wear kilts at this time, saying that this is akin to "a film about Colonial America showing the colonial men wearing 20th century business suits" and further that "The events aren't accurate, the dates aren't accurate, the characters aren't accurate, the names aren't accurate, the clothes aren't accurate -- in short, just about nothing is accurate"... which more or less sums up my primary complaint about this film.I enjoyed it as a story about an oppressed people rising up against their masters, even if it didn't really have any basis in reality. I was a bit confused about Gibson as Wallace, with hair styled by the same person who helps Dog the Bounty Hunter. And I'm not sure how this received "Best Picture" or "Best Director". I do not think it's a bad film or bad direction, but I have to believe the other films this year must have been considered pretty bad for Mel Gibson to enter the list of legends and giants. I would say, for example, that "Mr. Holland's Opus" is a better film.I had the film presented to me as "chick flick", and I can see that. Despite the violence and political message (about freedom and independence and nationalism), the underlying theme is that Wallace loved his wife and fights in her honor... though he doesn't really take issue with hooking up with his enemy's wife. I guess two wrongs make a right?I see this film as a bridge between "Spartacus" and "300", as a story of a small number of people fighting against a much larger enemy. Like Spartacus, Wallace is to some extent a slave. Like the Spartans, the Scots have everything against them when fighting the English. Despite the parallels, the sad fact is that "Spartacus" is the best film, and "300" the least... seems that uprising films are becoming less grand.


                
I am a fan of this particularly period in English History and when I initially saw Braveheart I recognised that this whole story is a complete fabrication and bears no resemblance to the truth at all. But I didn't worry too much - surely everyone would recognise that this is just a film? But no - it seems that a lot of people have swallowed this drivel and think that its all true.This film is not just a little bit inaccurate, its a complete and utter joke historically. Just because Edward I (or Longshanks as the film constantly refers to him) died nearly seven hundred years ago is not an excuse to assassinate his character and to depict him as a coward is a complete disgrace. Edward had another nickname apart from Longshanks - The Lion of Justice - now I doubt he got that from being a tyrant!!!! This film makes the classic mistake of judging historical events and characters by todays standards rather than the context in which they existed. The political and social environment of medieval Europe was a lot different to modern-day USA, and do not be thinking that the Scots themselves were averse to invading weaker countries - they attempted to invade Ireland while Bruce was on the throne under the pretence of 'helping' them (they lost!). Now, I have the utmost respect for Wallace, but to depict him as a moral crusader is way off the mark - he was certainly capable of acts of brutality and barbarism himself. The character of Robert Bruce is equally inaccurate - being depicted as feeling guilty over changing sides when in fact all of his actions were for his own gain - and this is a man who murdered another Scottish claimant to the throne in cold blood - hardly a nice guy!The storyline and characters in the film are also terribly one-dimensional. Every single Englishman in this film is evil and cowardly - there are no good English people to create a conflict in the English camp that would have made things more interesting. The English, like all European and World powers have been guilty of their fair share of atrocities in the past, none of which I am proud of, but to cast us as complete villains is clearly racism.  Also, the plot has far too many holes and the characters do not behave logically - for example a royal French princess (Isabella) falling for a common Scottish peasant (although in reality Wallace was not a peasant and Isabella was only a child when Wallace died anyway and she certainly never met him). Edward also behaves illogically - loosing arrows on his own troops and throwing a young nobleman out of his castle window. The barons in England were immensely powerful at this time, and the king could not just do as he pleased without repercussions. However, perhaps the best joke of all in this film is the suggestion that Wallace was the father of Edward III. Apart from the fact that Edward III apparently looked very similar to Edward I and every bit a Plantagenet, he was born about 7 years after Wallace died anyway. There are enough historical inaccuracies in this film to fill a book.As a piece of cinema this film is highly entertaining, if a little simplistic in plot. The battle scenes are exciting (although not accurate re-enactments of the battles they represent) and the story interesting enough to keep you watching. So, watch it and enjoy - but please treat it as a work of fiction, as apart from the names of the characters this is clearly what it is. History has always contained more exciting stories than fiction ever could - but the fact that the scriptwriters of this film needed to be so economical with the truth tells its own story - Wallace's life, although historically important, wasn't that interesting at all in reality.


                
This movie is a well made and rousing movie. It is a gritty movie.And it taps deeply into the Scots-Irish socio-political background of America. And I would know--I am an American of mostly Scots-Irish descent.The Scots-Irish socio-politics is maybe the biggest single problem with America, and the biggest problem with the world, at least right now.There is a massive reservoir of cultural stupidity in the Scots-Irish culture. You can see it ALL OVER this movie. It is central to this movie. What it is, is the idea that fighting and dying for this ephemeral concept, freedom, is a Good Thing. What a sad sad idea that really is. Better to live and sabotage and fight a low profile cultural fight, rather than fight and die as they did in this movie.Unfortunately, the Scots Irish has bought into this fantasy time and time again. But throughout history, it has never been the brave warrior-patriot-citizen who has exhorted the Scots-Irish and the American people to war for fight for "freedom." No, indeedy. Instead, it has been the rich, the powerful, and the corporations who have used this subterfuge in order to persuade the SCots Irish to fight and die. Corporate profits and more riches and estates for the wealthy have almost always been disguised as "freedom." Those Scots Irish wound up immigrating to America, and now they form the base of the Republican party. And now we have yet another faux warrior-patriot-citizen in George Bush, exhorting the Scots Irish to die for freedom. And once again, they are falling for the manipulation. Well, at least most of them. But not this old Scots-Irish....


                
My point is which group of villains rule over a country could not interest me in the least. Where on earth do you imagine all this iniquity flows from? Human Nature, good luck improving it. The glorification of the Scots and the concomitant delineation of the English as Satan's imps, forgive me, speaks more to Mel being an Australian than to historical veracity. There is this unrelenting demonetizing of the English right out of a comic book. The Lords Of The Congregation who ruled over Scotland, for a time, were not renowned for their heavenly saintliness towards papists. This is the other problem the movie's deep sense of historical unreality about it. You feel right away that you are getting a parallax view, a very biased one sided picture.


                
I have no problem with the film as entertainment, what I object to is how the film was used by the SNP in the recent referendum, to condemn the English out of hand: I should like readers to know that it was Norman-ruled England led by Edward 1 of the Norman line of succession to the throne, that inflicted injustices on Scotland. The English(Anglo-Saxons) before then, had little desire to rule Scotland, yet to the present day it is the England of today that is subject to the vitriolic hatred from the Scots. These attacks are then misguided, by reason of their original premise, that Edward was as English as Churchill. In movies it is artistic License, in politics it is false accusations and fomenting of trouble by inaccuracies and this is dangerous folly!


                
Entertainment - 9-10 Acting - 9-10Hisorically accurate 0-10A movie featuring Mel Gibson as William Wallace Himself. It is an exciting, and entertaining movie if you don't care about facts.For anyone that has studied Wallace at all they can testify that there is very little that is accurate in this movie. There is stuff worn in the movie that was not worn in that time. while i wont spoil it historians have said that is not how his dad died, etc All-in-all great movie, just don't go and see it expecting it to be anything more than an action flick
This movie is really amazing and interested me. I had sad time like during the death of the lovely girl in the beginning of the movie. William showed who he was and why he fought for, and this is the most important. Main characters are nice and then this is a good and lovely and hard story who everybody can see it.


                
The story is good but it doesn't correspond to the history. The main character is a fabulous actor, he plays very good. The landscape represents the era before. The creator takes to the Medieval Scotland and the characters and the scenes are unforgettable. The viewer is surprised, charmed and interested. The film installs an emotion. Sometimes, it's a little bit long, but it's poignant as whole, Braveheart is simply epic. There are good actors,a beautiful Landscape, an enterprising music.


                
I can somewhat forgive the movie for being considered the most inaccurate historical blockbuster ever made. Without even knowing this while watching the movie, I couldn't help feeling that 40-something Mel Gibson was close to 20 years older than the 20-something young buck he was supposed to portray. It's also a very cheap shot to make the enemy so incredible evil, with the whole hanging children, killing innocents, and raping wives (Prima nocte: which for the record never happened), so we don't mind when they brutally kill them however they like Moreover, what's with the whole homophobic and womanizing explicit scenes of the movie? It's clearly overreaching at times, yet is still has its moments and it's at times artful in its brutality.


                
Great romp with a hilarious take on reality <U+0096> but where's the bridge Mel???? Mel's accent is funnier than this acting - lethal weapon 1297<U+0085> Cosmo well hey he's great at playing Cosmo and woad a millennia after the Pict sensational.A major gripe more than the lack of the bridge is the total absence of the real 'boys own' hero of the time Andrew Moray, (Murray as you may want to write it) On the real funny side - to see the aftermath of the film just get down to Edinburgh airport when you get a flight of yanks <U+0096> even a decade on there are still American 'Scats' wondering around in ill fitting kilts packing their cases with Malts and Iron Bru chews - However this is a great romp and as far a totally inaccurate historic films go, leave Alexander on the shelf, check you brain at the doors and grab a few ODIs.


                
The Scots, the Irish, even the French.......where were the Welsh? A little ironic they got left out, because if anyone had more cause to resent Edward, creator of the British, it was probably the Welsh aristocracy! Still, this movie only uses it's historical setting to create a story of individual physical and moral courage.Mel Gibson goes into Mad Max mode when his gorgeous wife is foully done to death. How come she was so pretty and clean when all her relatives were ugly and dirty? No matter. Rightly roused, William Wallace foments an uprising. Cue lots of Terry Gilliam style slashin' an' bashin'. The cuttin' an' buttin' pretty much continues on through the film. Fair enough, makes a change for violence to be stomach-churning and filthy rather than clean and tidy, as in so many machine-gun-toting or light-sabre-waving movies. Being butchered in a battle should never look like fun. Well done, Mr. Gibson.As the story behind the fighting took shape it all started getting a bit biblical. This Bruce fellow - our Rabbie....he's part of some disgusting cabal of Scottish aristocracy. Their meandering meanness and geedy self-interest makes Edward 1st (portrayed brilliantly by Patrick McGoohan) look like a positive beacon of moral courage. So why does William Wallace seem to worship the Scottish lord so much? The answer seems to lie in Mr. Gibson imaging Wallace as being John-the-Baptist to the second coming of the Scots: Robert-the-Bruce.That seems to be the only explanation for why Wallace, despite being metaphorically as well as literally, kicked in the teeth by these treacherous aristocrats, keeps deferring to the One: the Bruce. Finally, Wallace as Scottish John-the-Baptist suffers his own form of crucifixion, in lieu of his god, strapped to a horizontal cross by the English judges and being publicly disembowelled. ! FREEDOM ! he screams. Freedom for the Scottish? Or freedom for Wallace from serving his Master? By the end then, we end up with two historical figures possibly being traduced: Edward the First and Robert the Bruce. I don't know much about history.I do know that, aside from the early romantic scenes of Wallace in love, the only parts of the film I could take a delight in watching were those wherein Patrick McGoohan acted his creation. McGoohan was rightly 're-discovered' by the public as a result of this role. He does of course get most of the best lines. But he still had to deliver them and he did. Brilliant. Unfortunately his character is struck dumb by the end of the movie. It might have been more interesting had he been physically paralysed but still able to speak his defiance of the scheming French witch and all the other useless people he ended up surrounded by. Just as Wallace proved impotent and was superseded by Bruce so his nemesis, Edward, shared the same impotence; as his bloodline was erased by those less 'moral' than he.
There are many comments here obsessing over historical inaccuracies, but here is one you missed: the overwhelming american ideology present throughout the film.  "Freedom" is mentioned again and again to the point where it really gets painful to watch.  I know the primary audience is american, but did Gibson really have to bring out the buzzword time and time again?Apparently it worked, judging by the number of americans who love this film and who mention the freedom aspect in their comments. Not that this is the ideal place for political arguments, but really how americans unerringly swell with pride at the mere mention of "freedom" is beyond me.  If freedom means having one of the highest incarceration rates in the the world, letting 18 year olds carry concealed automatic weapons, but not allowing them to touch alcohol until 21, and keeping a heavy military presence throughout the world to brutally restrict any behavior they dislike, then I want no part of it.However, there are many good points to this film as well.  It is beautifully filmed, well acted and flows well from beginning to end.If it weren't for all the chest-thumping ideology pushed down our throats, it would be one of my favourite films.


                
When I first saw this film, I thought it was fantastic! In particular, it skirted the second act letdown. Tonight, I saw it on DVD. One, too many and too long battle sequences. Two is enough for me. Second, Wallace (Gibson) is carried to his execution on a cart with a cross. Well, OK, Christ dies for all of us. But then, when he is secured to have his head cut off, he is also spread out in a cross. Too much Christianity for me. I did not notice this aspect when I first saw the film.Otherwise, this film hooked me well into its story, and it has a very strong spiritual aspect. The love that was consummated (twice) struck me as more of the spirit than of the flesh.


                
This is one of my top five favorite films, so forgive me if I continue to ramble on about how incredible it is. This film has it all: romance, spirituality, action, amazing cinematography and background score, and second to few others. What I took was this film was the in-depth look at what makes men... well, men. To many characters in the film, there are different beliefs in what makes a man noble. I will not spoil the enjoyment for anybody, all I'm saying is GO SEE IT. If you have seen it, see it again. The film may be three hours, but when you watch it, that time will feel all too short. Every second is worth it, with emotions that are not overdone like in "Titanic." I know of the Mel Gibson controversy and people rip on him for his dumb beliefs, however, most will admit that he is a wonderful filmmaker and actor. I usually like movies, though this tops it all, even "Lethal Weapon." I even liked his "Passion" film (and I am NOT a religious guy), but that is nothing compared to this. Again, what really blew away about the film was the depth, the musical score, and the cinematography. The shots of Scotland were incredible as well as the beautiful battle scenes. The score made me smile for days on end, particularly when I left the theater. There is just something about it that holds you in its grasp until days after you watched it. This a must-see and the film is a lot deeper than some take it for.
Braveheart is one of the the most influential films ever made and a film that changed much about films.The movie 'Braveheart' tells the story of a Scottish man named William Wallace, who, after the loss of all his loved one, goes on a quest to pretty much wipe out the evil that has invaded Scotland and give its people their rightful freedom and peace.The movie premise is very basic. Its not the story itself that is so compelling in the film. Its mainly the direction and acting of Mel Gibson, who absolutely masters both aspects to one of the greatest films ever made.The film itself is beautiful in every single aspect. All the supporting cast did a fantastic job and each made their character be as real as possible. The guy playing King Edward Longshanks does such a great job making sure you totally despise the character in every way. Mel Gibson's portrayal of William Wallace is one of the finest and most professional acting I've seen.The musical score to the film is very beautiful, further adding to the incredible brilliance of the film. The cinematography shots around Scotland were breathtaking. In fact, it is Braveheart's brilliance of cinematography that ensured masterpieces such as Lord of the Rings would follow the same trail.The moment the film really started, I absolutely loved two things about it. The musical score and the breathtaking cinematography! The start of the film where we see swooping shots through mountains is so breathtaking that from here on in, I loved the whole film.Though a few of the fight scenes now may look a little aged, and a little disappointing, which is my ONLY minor concern, they are certainly watchable and I enjoyed MOST of them. The action in Braveheart is what brings us the action in Gladiator, Lord of the Rings, Troy, 300 and so on.Braveheart in short, is nothing less than a masterpiece. It exceeds every aspect that a film should by including brilliant performances to relate to characters, breathtaking music, great direction and superb cinematography.
Hi! I have seen Braveheart five days ago; At beginning, i was not very motivated; not at all! Three hours of film, just in one time! It was very difficult to find motivation... After all, it was great! I appreciate this movie a lot in spite of a few drawbacks. I adore the medieval style with castles, knights, etc... so i very appreciate this movie for that, but i think that, the battles between SCots and English were too gory with too many details and too much blood and violence, but it's very realistic, so it's a good point! I have also appreciated the little scenes of fair between villagers when Wallace goes back in his old village. I have adored the enthusiasm and the motivation that Wallace gives to his soldiers when they have to fight against the English who are too many for them, and they want to go back home for staying alive. At this moment, Wallace shows his bravery and courage and says to them to fight in the name of liberty! Finally, i can say that i very appreciate this movie, in spite of it too long length!!
Braveheart is actually not a historical movie, just an adventure/action movie. But I thought it was not a bad film either. I think the movie was well-made, it was pleasant to watch but in my opinion, Mel Gibson over-played his part so it wastes the character of Wallace. And as I said it isn't a historical movie when you know all the mistakes like: the Scottish didn't wear kilts at this time, some fights in the film are invented, they went too far on a point: the Prima Noctis; Lords didn't really used it), and many others. So if you wanted to know about the history of Scotland, you shouldn't watch this movie, if you want to know the basis maybe but be careful. The love story between the princess of England and Wallace is really really too much and another big mistake in a historical way. Some people say it was annoying as a movie but I didn't think it was as annoying as they think, some scenes are interesting. And I thought the King of England and Robert the Bruce are two great characters, these two actors make a good job ! To resume, it wasn't a bad movie but it can easily be much better, it is not historical, don't trust what you see immediately. But some great actors play in, so it is a good point.


                
This might not be a perfect film on the life of William Wallace but it is a really good story and gives us an idea of what might have happened and a few things that really did happen. OK there are inaccuracies and this is a historic and biographical movie - but those inaccuracies kinda made the film a bit better.I like the film. It's entertaining: sometimes fun and funny other times gut-wrenching and very sad. There are some exciting battle scenes, great costuming (no matter how inaccurate the kilts are), super nice scenery and some fine acting.No, Braveheart is not perfect historically but it is good entertainment.7.5/10


                
I am not denying the quality of this film when I say that it is a slightly overrated movie. I know that since I viewed it during it's twentieth anniversary year, I probably don't fully appreciate it. It's still a good movie two decades later, but I just think that calling it the seventieth best movie ever is a bit of a stretch. It perfectly fits the epic genre, but has a very Prince of Thieves feel to it.The story is both character and plot driven. The characters that advance the story the most are Longshanks, Robert the Bruce, and of course William Wallace. Though his character is less prominent, Longshanks provides most of the plot twists in his attempts to stop Wallace. Most of the storyline consists of moving from one battle to another with some form of complication regarding the nobles or Longshanks arising between skirmishes. It can get a little complicated, but you can follow the plot without having to concentrate too much since there aren't too many characters to keep track of. There is a minor internal line with Wallace avenging his dead wife, but it doesn't have any real progression, though it is addressed a number of times. I didn't feel like the characters were written with anything award winning, but I'd say they're all above average. Wallace fits the Scottish bill of being very strong-willed, but with an emotional side. He has a few inspiring speeches and lines, which is part of what makes this movie as renowned as it is. That said, his character isn't the deepest protagonist that we can all really relate to, though we can certainly sympathize with his various plights. Murron is well developed considering her limited screen time. Longshanks is a pretty good villain with a prototypical tyrant personality and arc since he has a downfall of sorts. Robert the Bruce has a pretty good arc in turning away from the wishes of his father to follow Wallace's guidance and his own conscience. He has a very evident and strong progression in rejecting the standard that his fellow nobles have set for him. I wasn't thrilled with the incorporation of Princess Isabella, especially since she historically never met Wallace according to the FAQ page. I think she could have been left out and let Wallace mourn over Murron's death like in Bourne Supremacy, which I guess he does a little. The other minor characters like Edward Longshanks II, the Irish guy Stephen, Hamish, Prince Edward, Robert's father, and the nobles are written with fair proficiency, but I've certainly seen better.The action sequences come mostly in large scale battles. The sequences aren't too long, but there is a lot packed into them. There is a pretty good amount of blood, but it's not presented in too graphic a fashion. Apart from the big battles, there are a couple of smaller skirmishes in military outposts and villages, but no duels or other high-octane confrontations.The technical execution seems pretty good for the time, but I know I can't really gage that properly twenty years out of context. The sound mixing and editing was satisfactory for the most part, and exceptional in a couple of places. The high-pitched Scottish bagpipes didn't make for James Horner's most impressive score, but it wasn't bad all in all. There were a couple of sequences that could have been shortened, like the one where Wallace re- enters his village to avenge Murron. I understand that it was a very pivotal moment, but there still could have been a good twenty seconds of slow-mo shaved off.I would recommend this to anyone who likes action but doesn't mind a good story to go with it, and anyone who likes a good story but doesn't mind some blood and battles on the side. The elephant in the room is that the film is almost three hours long, so just be conscious of that when you decide when you want your rental period to start. I haven't seen enough Mel Gibson movies to know whether this Gibson fans will enjoy Braveheart, but since it's regarded as his crowning achievement it's probably a safe pick for all Gibson fans. So set aside a school break or long weekend to watch it through if you're okay with the genre and subject matter. I sometimes recommend a twenty to thirty minute trial period, but this is more of an all or nothing kind of movie. Overall Rating: 8.2/10.
Nominated for ten Academy Awards and winner of 'Oscars' for Makeup, Sound Effects Editing, Cinematography (John Toll), Best Director and Picture, few can argue that this movie was not well made. This film managed to propel Sir William Wallace, the infamous 13th-century Scottish hero through nearly seven centuries via the magic of a Hollywood script that took great liberties with historical fact.While many praised this movie's epic film making accomplishment, just as many historians decried it's lack of historical accuracy. The film's script, by American screenwriter Randall Wallace (no relation), of William's life, love, and death owes much to Blind Harry, a 15th century minstrel who put his rhymes into writing *150* years after Wallace's execution. Wallace historians and biographers continually dispute part or all of Blind Harry's narrative, but his account of the patriot's life DOES provide the most entertaining version of the tale.Blind Harry also used a heavy hand when sprinkling his tale with bitter sweet passion. His mention of a young maiden named Marion Braidfute of Lamington, who Wallace allegedly courted and wed, provided the inspiration for Murron (Catherine McCormack), Wallace's secret wife in this movie. However, no factual evidence of the marriage survives to corroborate Blind Harry's, and now Hollywood's, tale. On the other hand, Wallace DID murder Sir William Heselrig, English sheriff of Lanmark. Wallace put him to the sword and cut him into pieces in May 1297.One of the film's most intriguing twists is pure Hollywood invention. A calendar puts the LIE to the tale of Wallace's affair with Princess Isabella (Sophie Marceau), wife of Prince Edward II, and the fathering of her child. Isabella and Edward II married in 1307, two years AFTER Wallace's execution. Her son Edward III, was born in the years that followed. Incidentally,Wallace was executed by hanging, drawing and quartering, not by being disemboweled at the gallows as the film suggests. The script was also very unkind to Edward I (Patrick McGoohan) specifically, and to the Normans in general, who no historian will dispute, regardless of tactics, unified a then very culturally diverse England and molded it into the great nation it still is to this day.MANY other inaccuracies appear in this film as well, too many to name here, the most glaring of which had Wallace attired in the more familiar Highlander costumes when he was, in fact, a Lowlander. So what we have here is a film that is almost as much a fantasy as it is an epic. But admittedly, it is the good-guy, bad-guy scenario that is the proved Hollywood formula for success.The true power of this medium is that it has the ability to EDUCATE as well as to entertain, and it's truly shameful that so many viewers think this movie is an accurate representation of historical fact. It is NOT! See it for the character portrayals, costumes and well orchestrated battle scenes. But remember, the story itself is as much a self-serving, Hollywood-formula fantasy, as it is somehow well done.


                
After watching this film for the millionth time about 10 minutes ago I have to say this is easily one of the best films I've seen. We can go on all day about the best films ever made, but it's rare to find a film like Braveheart today.This film is not the most factual piece in existence, I would consider it fiction based on fact. William Wallace existed as did Longshanks, and England did invade Scotland, however some characters are obviously fiction, a lot of what happens is fiction and I would like to think of it as fiction for film. Being honest this film was made primarily for film-making and money, not historical accuracy, and there is nothing wrong with that due to the film being excellent in my own opinion. The battle scenes are well done with little flaws (continuity errors happen in every film, not just braveheart), it's stuck to the "rules" of film making for the most part and the camera work and angles come across sometimes as stunning, along with the scenery, great acting, scripting, and emotion put into the music and story itself it's a recipe for a great film.I would definitely recommend seeing this film to anyone that hasn't, if you haven't, why not? This is easily one of the best war/sword films that has been made and is definitely work a watch, however it is quite long, and at some parts slow. It personally took me a few watches to realise how Wallace thinks, and how he has known certain information he shouldn't know, but I won't spoil it for you and urge you to watch the film to understand.Enjoy.


                
Well made, good looking, but highly romanticised, suspiciously clean and historically suspect account of the famous Scotch hero. The non-stop music is tedious and intrusive; even in the Hollywoodised Highlands they don't go around accompanied by string orchestras. It never seems to make up its mind what it wants to be, pseudo-history, action drama or love story. Carefully positioned to breed a spin-off TV series!


                
I truly enjoyed this movie, from the direction and realism of the medieval battle scenes, to the cinematography and score. However, for the sake of equal time, please note the following information."Edward I might be taken as a pattern of the medieval king. He is remembered on the whole for his achievements rather than by his personality. Tall, strong and handsome in figure, he was magnificently royal in presence, clear and emphatic in speech, forceful and enterprising in action. He was uncertain in temper, but reasonable in council. Above all, he attempted to live by the ideal of Christian knighthood -- devoutly gallant and heroically chivalrous."I'm not saying the book I culled this information from is any more accurate -- we are talking about events that took place 700 years ago. But don't take this movie to heart as the whole truth. Examples of history vs. Hollywood:William Wallace was 19 when his father was killed. He had killed English soldiers before his father's death. The French princess first arrived in England years after Wallace died. Edward I lived years after Wallace's death.My favorite error/omission was that in the movie the Battle of Stirling Bridge was in an open field without a bridge in sight. The bridge was the key element to Wallace's victory.


                
