In this spectacular, historic movie a young Scotsman becomes the hero of his country, after his wife gets killed by the members of the English occupying force. In the beginning of the movie young William Wallace experience the death of his father and brother. They get killed by the English Kings Soldiers. After this he grows up with his uncle. Years later Wallace (Mel Gibson) returns back to the farm of his father to fall in love Murron (Catherine McCormack), the same girl who gave him a flower after the burial of his father and brother years ago. Because the English noblemen have the right to deflower every new married girl, Wallace marries Murron in secret. But the young luck won't last forlong. A few English soldiers try to rape Murron at a marketplace. Wallace tries to rescue her but the agressors can catch her and kill her right on the marketplace. When Wallace finds out about it, he takes revenge. He executes the murderers of his beloved. This ation is like a wake-up call for his fellow countrymen. They see him as their Leader to defeat the English occupying power. In their first battle the highlanders accomplish to defeat a numeral superior English Force. Wallace becomes an inspiration and more and more Scottish people follow him into war. Meanwhile in England the tyrannic King Edward the Longshankes (Patrick Mc Goohan) takes notice of the triumphs of Wallace. But this is not his only problem: His and heir apparent is a mollycoddled coward, who doesn't behave like his father would like to see it from a Prince. At least Edward the Longshakes arrange the marriage between his son and the lovely Princess Isabelle of France (Sophie Marceau). Besides this the Kings health is not the best anymore. But not only the English have their problems: The Scottish Landlords betray each other for more land and try to get more land for themselves from the English King. During the movie you'll see a lot of great filmed battles, two heart breaking love storys (first between Wallace and Murron, later in the movie young princess Isabelle falls in love with Wallace) and an exciting story about love, hate, patriotism, deception and heroism all in front of a wonderful landscape (the movie was actually set in Ireland). When you watch this movie, you'll be carried away by this powerful and always haunting epic and unterstand why there was no other chance than giving this movie 5 Oscars (including the award for the best film). It is a film who has it all: A great story, perfect filmed battles, one of the best soundtracks ever made (it is a shame, that the score didn't win an Oscar) and a hell of a cast. The role of William Wallace fits Mel Gibson perfect: heroic, romantic but always in a down to earth kind of way. Sophie Marceau and Catherine McCormack are lovely from their first appearance until the end of the film and Patrick McGoohan gives the most despicable (this is meant as a compliment) interpretation of an English King ever seen. This movie you can see over and over again and it never looses his magic and it is a movie you can watch with men and women as well: Men will love the great staged battles and women will love the lovestory.
In 14th Century Scotland, when his secret bride is executed for assaulting an English soldier who tried to rape her, William Wallace begins a revolt and leads Scottish warriors against the cruel English tyrant , the nasty ruler Edward I (Patrick McGoohan)the Longshanks (as he was called "The Longshanks" -long legs- since he was uncommonly tall for a man of the time , Edward I was at least 6 feet, 2 inches) who wishes to inherit the crown of Scotland for himself , ruling Scotland with an iron fist and succeeded his effeminate homosexual son Edward II Prince Edward (he was indeed the first English prince to carry the title Prince of Wales, although he did not marry Princess Isabella until 1308, after both Wallace (1305) and Edward I (1307) had died) . As William Wallace begins his long quest to make Scotland free once and for all, along with the assistance of Robert the Bruce. There took place several battles such as Stirling , York (though the sacking of York was invented for the movie ,Wallace never got as far south as York during his invasion of northern England) and the famous Battle of Falkirk (July 22, 1298), in which the English army was personally led by King Edward I, who decisively defeated the Scots , the real-life King Edward I was a military genius who learned combat tactics while fighting the Mamelukes during the Eighth and Ninth Crusades . There also appears Robert the Bruce , though many Scots were offended by the film's portrayal of Robert the Bruce (Angus McFayden) , who is considered a National Hero of Scotland . This epic movie contains thrills , emotion ,romance , breathtaking battles and being based on historical events . However , some reviewers often cited as the least accurate historical epic of all time and more than 90% of the movie is fiction. This is the classic story about confrontation between good guys , the Scots , versus bad guys , the Sassenachs . A simplistic and pure tale with rude stereotypes and offering a stew of Hollywood clichés , being overlong but well played and directed by Mel Gibson . Interesting script by Randall Wallace , this screen-writer had been visiting Edinburgh in 1983 to learn about his heritage when he came across a statue of William Wallace outside Edinburgh Castle; he had never heard of the 14th-century figure who shared his name but was intrigued enough by the stories told to him about "Scotland's greatest hero" to research the story as much as possible. The film was heavily fictitious but Gibson claimed the changes had been made for dramatic purposes , he also admitted he had always felt he was at least a decade too old to play Wallace. Impressive production design , including thousands of extras , a majority of the actors and extras in this film were actually Irish - members of the Irish Army - although they are supposed to be Scottish or English, as many as 1600 were used on a given day. The film is very crude and brutal , including bloody battles , strong tortures with disembowelment provoking brave grimace and violent scenes as when Edward I threw his son's lover out of a castle window was particularly criticized for inciting homophobia , the lover was based on Piers Gaveston, who was allegedly Edward II's lover. Colorful and glamorous cinematography by John Toll , showing marvelous outdoors , including glamorous opening shots , snowy peaks , silvery lochs , dark mists and many other things . Evocative and sensitive musical score by James Horner ; despite the film being set in Scotland, and based on the life of a Scottish folk hero, the primary instrument heard throughout the soundtrack -most notably at William's father's funeral- are the Uilleann pipes, which are a smaller traditionally Irish version of bagpipes rather than the ubiquitous Great Highland Bagpipe.This motion picture was very well directed by Mel Gibson and he picked up two Oscars for Best Film and Best Director ; though this film has been accused of promoting Anglophobia. Mel said that was influenced by various classic and historical flicks , among the films Gibson watched in order to prepare to direct "Braveheart" were Polanski's "Macbeth," "Spartacus," "Chimes at Midnight," "Alexander Nevsky," "A Man for All Seasons," "The Lion in Winter," "Seven Samurai," and "Throne of Blood" . Rating : Better than average. Worthwhile watching . The picture will appeal to Mel Gibson fans .


                
i liked watching Braveheart, it was a good movie. It has a beautiful story and great landscapes of Scotland. I really liked it because there was a lot of action. I did appreciate the battle scenes between the Scottish and the English. Moreover I think that's a beautiful way of thinking as William Wallace did, the vengeance for Murron and fighting for freedom and die young instead of dying old in your farm. It teaches us a certain way old life. But with hindsight there have a lot of inaccurate facts. The first is simple, it's about Scots' clothes, at this time they didn't wear kilts and tartans as they do in the film. Secondly the love between William and Elisabeth of France is just impossible because she was only four years old when Wallace came to France and even if he asked to see her, he couldn't. For all these reason I admit that Braveheart was a great film with a good story and battle scenes so congratulation to Mel Gibson. But what a frustration about the real story, the gap between the film and the reality. At least it's still a good movie to watch with friends or family.
The search for freedom started by the feeling of revenge, the story of a man who could have everything he wanted, gold, land, titles or power, but he only wanted freedom, this is William Wallace, "Braveheart" has a very good script And complete with regard to history, although some characters are poorly developed, the plot is a true epic, its 3 hours may even tire in the first act of the movie, but then gears and not for more, with many twists and epic battles , Technically you do not have to talk about the film, costumes, cuts, performances, everything perfect, with a special highlight for combat photography that is hard, dark, it shows the violence of combat at the same time the hope that arises there, Another highlight is the soundtrack composed by Jamer Horner is extremely perfect for the climate of the film, it is impossible not to listen to the song and not remember the film, not to mention the great dialogues, and I want to emphasize here again the great battles. "Braveheart" is not perfect, has rhythm problems, and even development of some characters, not to mention his first act, and lack of completeness with the real history of William Wallace, but even so, "Valiant Heart" is A movie far, far above the average and deserves our respect.


                
Mel Gibson's "Braveheart" tells the story of William Wallace, a near-legendary 13th century Scottish hero who fought for his country's independence. While based on actual people and events, the story departs from history in some respects as it hews closer to myth than to reality.The Oscar-nominated screenplay by Randall Wallace was admittedly written with more attention paid to creating dramatic situations than to being as factual as possible. I won't argue with dramatic license when it produces a story as compelling as this but I do think that Wallace stretched the facts beyond the point of credibility on at least one occasion. Others are even less forgiving. So, if you get hung up on stringent historical accuracy, this is assuredly not the movie for you.If you can get past that, you'll find that Mel Gibson's Oscar-winning direction is surprisingly well-handled, particularly given his relative inexperience at the time ("Braveheart" was just his second directorial effort). There's no doubt that renowned first assistant director David Tomblin also proved a valuable asset to the production. Furthermore, the film is also impressive from a musical standpoint, with James Horner's Oscar-nominated score effectively utilizing Scottish and Celtic influences.Apart from directing the movie, Gibson also delivered the goods with his portrayal of the larger than life lead character. He didn't do it all on his own, though; he had a fine cast supporting him. Patrick McGoohan played King Edward I with villainous relish, Sophie Marceau was stunning as Princess Isabelle and Angus Macfadyen gave a complicated portrait of Robert the Bruce. Among Wallace's men, Brendan Gleeson & David O'Hara both stood out. Catherine McCormack was also notable as Wallace's secret lover.All in all, "Braveheart" amounts to a well-constructed epic the likes of which we don't see enough of these days. It may take some liberties with history but they don't detract too much from the overall picture as I see it. While Gibson has fallen out of favour in recent years (through no fault but his own), this movie shows him at his best and deserves to be fondly remembered.


                
So when I learnt that the movie is three hours long, I thought "wow, it'q going to be bring" but I was totally wrong ! I wouldn't think that i was going to LOVE this film. First of all, the actors have been perfectly chosen, Mel Gibson was made to play William Wallace even though he isn't Scottish a all. While watching Braveheart, i've been though so many feelings: joy, sadness, anger, excitement. Joy when Wallace achieved to make Murron his, sadness when Murron's throat was slit, all the sadness and anger that Wallace felt, I felt it too ! I almost cried when Wallace was tortured at the end of the film, during all the battle between Scottish and English, I was as excited as them, I wanted them to kill them all ! But when Wallace and Isabelle got "married" I didn't understand Wallace, how could he do that to Murron but anyway ! Braveheart is very well played, the actors are great, the story is wonderful, when you watch it you can only be focused on the film, it's so fascinating. I must admit that it's really worth the three hours. It became one of my favourite films and if you watch it entirely it'll be one of yours too !
This film is a very great film. Seriously, usually, I hate films about war, which take place many years ago. But I have to admit the film was great. It was so gory but I enjoyed it because Wallace killed all these men without heart. I'm crazy about films with love because Wallace was in love with Murron. They got married but in secret because he was scared that she had to live the primae noctis with this horrible king. At a moment, his beloved was almost raped by these Scottish occupants.But, Wallace, as superhero, saves her! This action was my favourite because it was adorable!! Unfortunately, she was killed by the sheriff, it was so sad...But! Wallace took his revenge. I liked the way as even in jeopardy, Scottish were funny and courageous, and even if they had less weapons and less clothes to protect themselves, than the English. What's more, I admire courageous men (like Wallace) who can feel so sad if someone has made something bad to the girl they love. Braveheart was very admirable because it gave a moral, a lesson: "fight for what you want"
It was among swords, sandals and battlefields that Mel Gibson truly found his directorial niche. 'Braveheart' proved a polarizing force <U+0096> a rare amalgam of war, heroes, romance and comedy (yes there is a surprising amount of fun to be found) <U+0096> that arguably catalyzed a series of sweeping epics including Gladiator. Undoubtedly, the aforementioned movies are typically seen as Oscar-bait and even more so when interwoven with historical references like Braveheart is. Unsurprisingly the film boldly snatched five heavyweight Oscars at the 1996 Academy Awards...Yet it needs to be said that this was rightly earned, for Braveheart is an excellent film in which nothing feels missing or incomplete. It tells the heartfelt story of revenge <U+0096> not served as coldly as The Bride, rather with fierce intensity <U+0096> of William Wallace of Scotland against the corrupt Englishmen who long plagued the Scots for land, money and women. William grows up something of an intelligent brute; he is long-haired, scruffy, kilt-wearing and Sco'ish-drawling warrior, whom, upon the death of his beloved young wife by English lords, swears bloody revenge. He becomes so committed to vengeance and freedom that he rallies all Scottish clans under one banner <U+0096> for freedom! His appeal? He is exuding courage.Mel Gibson is busy navigating both a layered performance as national Scottich icon William Wallace and the direction of the film. Perhaps this is why the latter is kept relatively straightforward. This can be seen through the highly black-and-white image he projects of his characters. In other words, the English are almost exclusively corrupt, greedy and evil while the Scots are a lovable, brave bunch. It does not leave much room for interpretation, but then, this is a sweeping epic about a hero and not an elaborate character-study. Nevertheless, Gibson undoubtedly glosses over history in search for his perfect, idealist protagonist and the good news is that he truly finds him in this William. Gibson also portrays him with remarkable emotional transparency.Stepping away from its characters, the battlescenes in 'Braveheart' are nearly unrivaled (well, they were until LOTR showed up) and deftly showcases the film's striking cinematography through the now-obligatory kinetic cutting of frames. The end result is fast-paced, adrenaline-pumping, graphic and gory. There is also a thankful poignancy of sorts that follows these fierce, outnumbered battles <U+0096> dynamic, escalating sense of patriotism among the Scots that translate well for the viewer as William raises his sword and cries out. It is owing to these moments and an assured centre from Gibson that regrettably shifts Angus MacFadyen's character Robert the Bruce to the backseat in the story, even though he inhabits a vital main role. You'll see.'Braveheart' is an easy story to sell when you have the budget and actors <U+0096> its heartfelt and heroic content purposely jerks you for reactions: the dead father, the dead wife, the patriotic buddies, the evil villains, the pretty princess, the wailing 'epic' score by James Horner. It is spelled-out and extremely effective, making Braveheart into a worthwhile swords-n-sandals adventure.8 out of 10


                
Continuing my plan to watch every Mel Gibson movie in order, I come to Braveheart (1995)Plot In A Paragraph: William Wallace (Gibson) begins a revolt against King Edward I of England, after his wife is executed for assaulting an English Soldier who tried to tape her. I love this movie, it takes a while to get going, we don't see Gibson for over 20 minutes as the movie takes its time showing his early years. But once it gets going it's a sweeping, gripping epic movie. Brilliantly acted, as well as directed, One of the best compliment I can pay this movie is it doesn't look like a Hollywood movie, it's locations for example, look green, but very muddy and very wet!! There is so much in this movie that is deserving of praise, but it's the battle scenes that stand out in this movie!! Once they start, they are often violent, bloody and very graphic!! But it never feels like shock gore (as so common now a days) it feels appropriate and it makes the world feel real. It's even more impressive when you consider this was only Gibson's second movie as director!! It's interesting to note Gibson didn't actually want the role of William Wallace, as he felt he was too old, however Paramount would only finance the movie (With a $53 million budget) if he would star in it. If there is a criticism of this film it is how it handles the love affair between Wallace and Princess Isabelle (Sophie Marceau), at 3 hours long, the movie didn't need to be any longer, but they meet, they're in love, she's pregnant, she's gone. It's all so rushed and it takes a little away from it all. Braveheart didn't do as well as I thought, at the domestic box office, grossing $75 million to end the year the 18th highest grossing movie of 1995. I thought for certain this would have topped $100 million domestically!! But as I scrolled down the list, looking for where it ended amongst the years top grossing movies I was very surprised to see it so low, as I thought it would be amongst his top grossers.I'm sure the lack of box office returns was made up by the fact that Gibson won two Oscars, one for best director and the other for best movie for Braveheart.


                
Mel Gibson has come so far in the movie business and he not only stars but directed Braveheart. He did a terrific job and deserves a lot of credit for this remarkable film. Despite it not being totally accurate with history, anyone can enjoy "Braveheart". Based on the life story of William Wallace, a town peasant who just wants to live in peace and harmony with a wife and children. But when the British king of England, Longshanks, is sick of Scotland "being full of Scots", he comes up with a way of bringing them more into a British land by "breeding them out". Promising any British soldier to a Scotish bride on her wedding night before her husband can have her. Wallace won't hear of it and marries his love in secret. When a British soldier notices his wife and attempts to rape her, Wallace comes in and saves her causing a riot in their village and he thinks he's got her safe when he sends her away from the soldiers, but they catch her and kill her right in front of her family.


                
As a teacher, I use this film with some of my classes (English as a foreign language). I find quite useful to get the students used to other accents than the usual RP or General American. What's more, it helps discuss not only this bit of Scottish history, but also the historical inaccuracies in the film, this question being a good conversation starter.


                
I remember coming out of the cinema after first seeing this film back in 1995 and being so fired up and just enthralled by it. It may in part have been because of the Irish references and the Irish connections and to note that the Scots weren't all that dissimilar to us Irish in celebrating getting one or two over on the ole English oppressors.Yesterday I visited the Wallace Monument on Craig Abbey in Stirling overlooking the battle site of Stirling Bridge and just had to re watch it when I got home.Of course Randall Wallace, as well as being responsible for some subsequent awful clangers, most notably Pearl Harbour, took some considerable poetic licence in stretching the fiction of Wallace's life to its very limit and even beyond, but considering that little it actually known about very much of Wallace's life beyond what has been based on Blind Robbie's poem, he succeeded in weaving a powerful and inspiring and both uplifting and harrowing story of the man, who probably more than any other, still lives within the hearts of Scots more than 800 years on.Possible Spoilers: Of what we do know of Wallace's life, well of that presented in the museum in the Wallace Memorial in any case, is that he was the son of a very minor Scottish noble, he was educated in Latin and French probably by one or two of his uncles who were priests. He had a disagreement with some English soldier/occupiers while he was apparently fishing and had to go on the run and, the English, in trying to get at him did burn down his house with his wife inside and he did revenge her murder. He did achieve a great tactical victory over a superior English force at Stirling Bridge which was achieved more by the nature of the swampy terrain and the narrow bridge than by what is depicted in the film as a battle on an open plain with a cavalry charge defeated by pointed sticks. The English were supposedly shocked by the savagery of the Scots who systematically slaughtered all the injured English on the battlefield and it is alleged that Wallace himself had a sword belt made from the skin of the English commander of the battle. He was betrayed by the rest of the Scottish nobles at Falkirk, who refused to lend him their support. Robert the Bruce's father did have leprosy which Robert himself ultimately also succumbed to. Wallace never did meet the Princess of Wales since he was dead three years before her arrival in England and Edward de Longchamps outlived Wallace for some three years also and whilst Edward Prince of Wales may have been exaggeratedly or misleadingly portrayed as an exteremely camp weak prince, there is considerable evidence to indicate that he was a homosexual, this in spite of producing a number of offspring with his French wife including Edward III, who ultimately overthrew him with the assistance of his mother. However, if all these hard facts had been adhered to too rigidly would it have made for near as good of a movie? I don't think so. There are a number of excellent scenes within the movie, most notably Wallace's visit to the English military camp to revenge his wife's murder, The Freedom speech before the battle of Stirling is probably one of the best in movie history, all the battle scenes are magnificently if gorily realised and the final execution scene is both graphic, harrowing and inspiring and overall the graphic gore developed within this movie was ultimately to become Gibson's trademark and that which was to invite so much criticism in The Passion. This is a truly inspiring film, perhaps not entirely nor anywhere near historically accurate, but in terms of large scale entertainment and the realisation of a vision in cinema it is a great achievement, right up there with Spartacus and Ben Hur, and well worthy of the recognition it received.
And that's the problem really. The battle scenes are well directed, but Gibson seems to revel in making it as gory as possible. Gibson, while not doing a bad job as Wallace, looks like a straggly Kevin Costner from Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves who's lived away from civilisation for a while. Mind you, he conveys the wild side of the Scottish rebel's character well, and gives a good performance. There are several historical inaccuracies in the film, such as the ban on playing bagpipes stated near the beginning (about 450 years early). The affair with the queen is ridiculous, but serves as a plot device. After all that, you're probably wondering why I gave this an eight. Despite all its faults, Braveheart is beautifully filmed, attractively scored and the acting of the majority of the cast is positive. I would not go out of my way to see this film, but if it's on television and you aren't busy, I would recommend you seeing this film.


                
When you watch "Braveheart" you can't help but feel like you've seen it before. That's because "Braveheart" did it first. James Horner's thematic bagpipe music that could make a grown man cry is nearly replicated in his score for "Titanic" (although "Titanic" won him the Oscar). The highly skilled love and revenge-fueled hero is all that is Maximus in "Gladiator." The list goes on, but the point is that "Braveheart" set formula for the modern day historical fiction war film. Watching this film today, you aren't exactly blown away by it, but it doesn't do anything wrong."Braveheart" is the story of William Wallace, the Scottish farmer-turned-warrior who sparked a rebellion that eventually earned Scotland independence from England. Mel Gibson (director and producer) plays Wallace and does so quite well. Gibson's performance is in his presence on screen. He doesn't do the nuances that well, but I would've gotten off my couch to fight for that guy. The other performances were all good, but no one stands out, though Angus Mcfayden really communicated the inner-conflict of Robert the Bruce quite well.You certainly don't put on "Braveheart" for acting lessons, however. This is a film about emotion, the human spirit, good triumphing over oppression and of course: brutally violent battle sequences. This is where "Braveheart" delivers. The script is just one little pearl of wisdom and motivation after another. If I was a coach of a sports team, I'd just quote this film before games, half time, after games--it's just full of great one liners and as much as you want to laugh and say "that's cheesy" it just never feels that way. The film is about one man that stood for freedom and never made an exception, which resulted in him killing a lot of people. The romance angle (for added emotional effect) is not as strong, but certainly balances out the mood of the film that's supposed to be about heart (though of course Wallace is a champion of using his head.) The combination of the two make for a film that is both entertaining and touching.At this day and age, "Braveheart" might seem a little stale. There's nothing revolutionary going on (well, cinematically speaking, not plot-wise). Unless you have a fond attachment to the film from when it first came out and was indeed revolutionary, you'll find "Braveheart" an entertaining and solid tale of heroism and belief in good winning out. It's hard to watch in an entirely secular light knowing the post-Passion of the Christ Gibson of today, but it will still make you feel good.~Steven CVisit my site at http://moviemusereviews.com


                
Braveheart is a epic story of Sir Willaim Wallace, who fought for a free Scotland. This Mel Gibson version contains some fictional swings, to make the character more heroic. This movie is absolutely beautiful, one of the most beautiful music score of all time. A movie that contains everything, romance,drama, comedy, tragedy, war, defeat and victory. How villagers becomes warriors, how warriors become heroes, and how heroes becomes legends. Braveheart is story about a son who lose his father, a brother who lose his brother, a husband who lose his wife, but he still keep fighting for the thing he loves more than anything.... his country.
I can see why ordinary laymen love Braveheart so much.  What's not to like about spearings, stabbings, slashings, and other miscellaneous pokings with other sharp objects?Problem is that the film falls too quickly into the whole good vs. evil mentality.  How I HATE that cliche!  Gibson never was high into the "moral ambiguity" idea, prominent in much of Kubrick and Scott's work.  This movie only emphasizes his lack of education.I will give him credit, though, for trying to make Scotland look ugly and dirty.  After watching this, you'll probably want to take a shower.  Gibson is too obvious in his camera, creating scenes and shots that you wonder why they are there other than eye candy for James Horner's music.  Horner has done better (ALIENS), but he's also done worse (Patriot Games).Overall, Gibson nicely remade this movie with The Patriot and showed how even someone of his stature could screw things up.  I think Braveheart is better than average, but many of its subtexts make it too obvious for its own good.  3.5 out of 5 stars.


                
I think the reason that this movie was not in the top ten or at least 20 was because of it being historically incorrect. But that is not what the top 250 movies of all time is about. Put aside the historical incorrectness and this movie is top ten. Yes, it is long but you can get by that. After all, it is very much worth it. The Battle at Stirling is one of the greatest battle scenes I have seen in any movie. Many war movies have stolen little things from this movie. For example, the "Hold, Hold, Now" in Gladiator. And there were others. This movie deserves to be top ten, just look at all the reviews. Historically incorrect should not put this movie in the 90s.


                
Hello everybody ! I'm Lisa Today, I will make you the criticism of the movie « Braveheart ». I like this movie. It was very interesting. I love the scenes of fight especially the first scene of fighting in the film. But this movie is too long. I love this movie because I like the historical movies. Moreover, the film takes place in Scotland. I love Scotland. The battles and the sceneries are superb in the film. Braveheart is a romantic movie of action, and of treachery. There is a good atmosphere. The costumes are good and the music is magic. However it takes an hour of film to have a first battle . It's so long . I'm addition , in this movie the are many anachronisms. For me, I think it's a pity. I prefer movies that are true . I also prefer when there are no lies about the actors . However it does not bother me enormously. For example, in the film, Wallace and Isabelle of France are lovers , while in reality, she was only 4 at the time and in reality, the king never killed his son's gay lover, if they were lovers at all. Therefore this movie has both positive and negative points. I still loved watching this movie. Watch this movie ! It is very good<U+0085> Goodbye and I hope I can do many other reviews.


                
Braveheart,according to me, is the best film ever made. For me, the film should be number one in the top ten of the best film of 90s. That's awesome I like the film. Some people will say that the film is too violent that the war scenes are gory and boring and that this film has no sense. According to me, violence does make sense in the film. Why would you call the movie "Braveheart" if the movie wasn't violent. I think that it would be ridiculous. For me, there are great war scenes in the film, they are awe-inspiring, I like the violence of the wars. they made a really good job on the Medieval's weapons. The performance of the actor who played Edward the Longshanks is absolutely wonderful. The guy has the most bone-chilling look in the movie. Robert the Bruce is one of the best character in the film. His face makes you think that he is innocent but in reality he is a coward, he is a sell out, he sets Wallace up. He is guilty of the execution of Wallace. I think that it wasn't so good that they changed some elements of the true events. In reality, Robert never betrayed Wallace. I was really disappointed by this side of the film. Why change the details of the story when it's already written. They changed the plot in order to make the movie more dramatic.
Wow ! This movie has touched me ! This unites everything , love , the fightings ,sadness , fear etc...All these ingredients to be a good film. Yes i'm conscious that this movie lasts three hours but believe me , you won't see the minutes pass.About the historical inaccuracy I don't care because a movie is a entertainment it's not compulsory to be exactly the same story as the reality. Mel Gibson has impressed me , it's an incredible actor and he plays with so much emotion. His determination , strength and devotion for the freedom of Scotland was amazing. Finally i cried when he was hanged and draw...it's broke my heart :( In resum this film is a golden .Good sequence:)


                
The film Braveheart shows the epic tale of a hero fueled by vengeance and love, that stands for what he believes in, no matter the enemy. From a village rebellion to a full-scale war against the English, Mel Gibson's William Wallace captivates viewers to follow his journey for Scotland and inspires both the characters and the viewers outside of the film to fight for what they believe in. Watching this movie certainly did inspire me and the work which was done in both acting and capturing the emotion added up to a powerful story. Although many elements of the setting were uncontrollable and hard to manage, John Toll personally did a very good job at turning factors such as rain and natural lighting, into aspects that give the film more life. The overall tone of the movie was that of a burdensome nature. The gray sky and the rain did a really good job at weighing down and making the poor villages seem like they were even more disadvantaged. Starting from the beginning, you see this area that has clear signs of high precipitation. The movie itself takes of slowly, maybe too slowly for my taste, but soon after the story begins to move forward at a comfortable pace. John Toll portrayed this journey that William Wallace had with a very intense outlook. His high key lighting worked to enhance the details on the characters, the mud, the scratches, blood crusts, and cuts which they have. He chose to continue to shoot the film during unfavorable weather and whenever anything that would have been a setback to the camera presented itself, he simply would find ways to incorporate them into the movie and add more to the dramatic look. Although ambitions of John Toll, the issue with shooting everything in natural weather means that there were continuity issues regarding aspects like the rain and the lighting which had to be adjusted to it. Shooting in the rain limits the use of lights but the team did continue to try and run cables through the mud to help with the shots. Personally I believe that this is an inconvenience but it does go to show how invested John Toll was in having the shots be how he envisioned them. Other issues were minimal, although towards the end of the movie scenes like the battle scenes were never perfectly in focus due to the fact that characters were moving about everywhere in a non determined way. It is not that easy to notice but when looking through a critical lens, it is something that should have been adjusted. Overall the movie was great, I really did enjoy it. I felt inspired and passionate after having watched it. The mood and the characters were portrayed to perfection thanks to John Toll's good work as the cinematographer. I recommend watching it if you have not already because it truly does speak to everyone.
first thing i wanna say is about music is great most heartbreaking music i have ever heard in any film.performance specially by Mel.Gibson is great his dialog's and his luck make me sad and yes the character has power to make anyone.sad the scene when he left his home.on childhood and the funeral.scene of flower will.blow.your mind.i don't.write reviews for.every film but some movies make.me.helpless to.unfold.my experience.the portrait they made for war.is very realistic the main power of film is its story music and.dialog's which shows.their.feelings one of.the.best films.i.recommend.the brother bw them.is the only key of.their.success and at the end what a miserable scene of murder you cant hold your years inside and will.start thinking about that times. history is very interesting whether its of.your.country or others


                
I think braveheart is a great film and is terrifically acted by the lead characters. I think it is a great story about William WAllace a great Scottish man i think it shows that Scotland's struggle for independence was more difficult than it seems. Some of the events in the film are not really true but it makes a good film. I think Mel Gibson is excellent in the film and plays William Wallace brilliantly. I think the way the film is directed is great and the way they show William's own personal struggle during the story. I think the battles are really well done and thought about. All in all i think this is a great film to watch and also a great film for Scotland.


                
I am by no means a Mel Gibson fan, as in many of his films I find too much violence, often unnecessary (Lethal Weapon series, Mad Max sequels, etc). However, with "Braveheart" he came up with an extraordinary story that just had to be made known to the general public. I shall skip any historical inaccuracies: I am talking about the film in itself, beautifully photographed by John Troll and well backed by James Horner's excellent music. I shall add no other comment to the hundreds thus far submitted to IMDb. However, this story of Wallace fighting the English was only the beginning. If after seeing this film you would like to know more about Scotland and how the English carried out genocide against the clans, I thoroughly suggest the following reading:John Prebble: Fire and Sword: the destruction of the clans I - TheHighland Clearances II - Glencoe III - CullodenIn this meticulously documented trilogy, John Prebble uncovers the genocide carried out in Scotland from the beginnings of the Industrial Revolution through to the late 1800s, documents well hidden from the general public. These books, though dating from the early 1960s, should still be available from Penguin (London), or Penguin-Bantam (USA and Canada).


                
In this epic medieval war film set in the 13th century and based on actual events, (Mel Gibson) stars as William Wallace the leader of the Scottish who brings the country together hoping to take the power away from the English who are killing and doing as they wish. Bravehear is a sad, couragous and moving film, I cannot find negatives for it, after watching it, I realised that standing up for what you believe in is a hard thing to do. One of the best war films made.Pros well-acted, great action scenes, original story, very movingCons what can you say?
