It's hard to explain what this movie means to me. Words could never. I remember when I was a kid, I never liked the first Rocky, was too obsessed with III and IV. It happened when I was 11 and I went to see V in the theater. I never been to a movie like that before. People were screaming and cheering. Shook the whole damn place. They were dancing in the isle's and celebrating. It was then I realized the true power of Stallone's vision. The realization that only the original would ever really matter.Rocky to me is so many things. I had to beg my girlfriend to see it. She said she doesn't like boxing. I almost dumped her right there. If she wasn't so hot, I probably would have. I was crushed that someone could think that this movie is about boxing. To me it was never that. It's about a guy, much like you or me, who's down on his luck and everyday feels like Sunday. He's pushing 30, single and broke. I'm sad to say that at this moment it almost reminds me of myself. Every minute more another reason. It's hard to pick my favorite scenes from the movie. I love the chemistry between Rocky and Adrian (Shire). When he's talking to door and she finally comes out and then stops to look in the mirror. It's a thing of beauty. Or when Mickey (Meredith) goes over to Stallones apartment. Rocky gets upset and punches his shitty wall, then goes to hide in the bathroom. The look on Stallone's face when he comes out to find Mickey still there is priceless. I heard it wasn't in the script or directed, just happened. But the one that does it for me is when he comes home in the opening scene after the chapel fight. He turns on his record player and goes for a beer, but it's empty, like everything else in his life. Talks to the turtles and his fish, why because the Rock is lonely. Goes to the mirror and practices a joke for his love. Looks at a picture of himself and realizes he's wasting his life. It's more than beautiful or real.It's safe to say that I have seen the original more than 100 times. I still feel all the emotion. I love this movie more than any other film. I hope one day, with God's help, to show it to my kids and have them feel the same way. I think if I ever got the chance to meet Stallone, I'd want to thank him. Tell him how he changed my life. But in reality, he probably wouldn't care. Because, "I'm at least half a bum."


                
When I was a kid there were only three major things in my life: food, wrestling and `Rocky'. My brother and I followed the numerous Rocky Balboa struggles religiously, and even today, there is no exception. Although the latest efforts of Stallone have been pitiful, the movie that made his career is the 1977 Academy Award Winner for Best Picture, `Rocky'. On top of that, `Rocky' also earned two more Academy Awards for Best Film-Editing and Best Director (John G. Avildsen).This movie is unlike any other ever put on film. It's films like this that remind us of the beauty that is going to the cinema, and if only I was around during that year when such films as `Close Encounters of the Third Kind', `Jaws', `Saturday Night Fever' and `Network' were all playing in cinemas. The storyline takes place in Philadelphia, where Rocky Balboa (Sylvester Stallone) struggles to make a living as both a small-time boxer, and the brawn of a loan shark. Until one day, a sudden opportunity is handed to Rocky to compete for the World Heavy-Weight Title against the champion, Apollo Creed (Carl Weathers), a charismatic and flamboyant fighter labelled as `The King of Sting' and `The Master Of Disaster'. Attracted to Rocky's reputation as "The Italian Stallion", a match between Creed and the unknown boxer is set, which is subsequently advertised as a fight where a "nobody" can become a "somebody". Mickey (Burgess Meredith), is the owner of the gym where Rocky trains and later becomes Rocky's manager. Mickey is passionate about the world of boxing, and believes that Rocky has the potential to go the distance, instead of being `a cheap second rate loan-shark'. However, the central character in Rocky's life is Adrian (Talia Shire), a shy pet-store clerk, who acts awkwardly when Rocky even breathes in her direction. However, these almost completely distant outcasts are strangely drawn to each other. While one `didn't have much of a brain', the other `didn't have much of a body', so they worked on their opposites, only to end up together. The legend of this film when it was first released in the mid-70's was: `His whole life was a-million-to-one shot', but what Stallone did was prove to the world that `Rocky' is one-in-a-million.Seeing `Rocky' is both a cinematic experience and a religious experience. When first released, the film appealed to the widest audience, and all felt the emotion and intense passion which passed from the film, to them. The film's possession of realistic acting, superb dialogue and the most phenomenal music score by Bill Conti to date, indeed transformed the face of cinema. Stallone's wholesome performance of his own screenplay is electrifying as the film celebrates of the underdog battling to beat the odds. Fans of cinema aren't manipulated into thinking that the inevitable will happen as it does in every other tedious hero drama.Over 25 years on, `Rocky' still manages to let the audience's emotions explode; Rocky's blossoming relationship with Adrian, the seedy worlds of Mickey and Adrian's alcoholic brother, Paulie (Burt Young), and the affirmation of Rocky's inability to overcome Creed. And who could forget the excruciatingly compelling Balboa / Creed confrontation? Rocky's determination overturns the boxing fraternity, and supplies cinemaphiles with one of the greatest moments in cinematic history, as a body of spectators both on-screen and off applaud and chant for Rocky in unison. The following four Rocky sequels attempted to deliver the same magic as the original, however failed to convey it's message. `Rocky' illustrates how life itself is stifling and perplexing, but sometimes when you lose your way as well as your original intentions, you may just find something better.Simply put, if anyone has a free Friday / Saturday night, this is the film to go out and borrow from the local video store. It's unbelievable that this film was only voted in at #78 on the AFI Top 100 films of all time, and worse yet, was voted in at the SECOND best sports film of all time (the first went to `Hoosiers', starring Gene Hackman). C'mon people, be you black or white or brown or any other skin colour we have yet to discover, get out there and be inspired by Stallone's masterpiece, `Rocky'.


                
I don't remember exactly when I first saw this film, but for a long time I thought that the second of the series was my favorite.  Well, I recently bought the DVD box-set and after I watched the first movie again I knew that it was definitely the best in the series, and also one of the best movies ever made.  Rocky is very much more than just a boxing movie.  It's a movie about the unbreakable human spirit, determination, and the will to "go the distance."  Rocky(Sylvester Stallone) is a second rate club-fighter and a debt collector for a loan shark(Joe Spinnell).  He becomes involved with a shy girl working in a petshop named Adrian(Talia Shire), and also becomes friends with her brother Paulie(Burt Young).  Rocky's life really isn't anything of interest - until the World Heavyweight Champion Apollo Creed(Carl Weathers) gives him an unexpected shot at the title.  An old boxer-turned-trainer named Mick(Burgess Meredith) offers to be Rocky's manager.  Although the whole film is outstanding, what follows are some of the greatest and most memorable movie moments of all time.  Rocky striving to go the distance in the training scene, the final fight, and the closing moments of the film are so emotional and inspiring that they perfectly demonstrate the human spirit and can bring out the will to win in anybody. Add to this an excellent music score and you have  a classic and unforgettable movie.  Without a doubt deserved the Best Picture award in 1976.   Exceptional performances by all the cast members, notably Burgess Meredith and Sylvester Stallone.  **** out of ****


                
"Your gonna eat lightning and your gonna crap thunder" Rocky is about a poor boxer living his life in Philadalphia. His life changes when an invitation from the heavyweight champ Apollo Creed is given to him.Romance, Drama, Fight.Story- With minimum resources and low money, this movie was an underdog itself. Stallone wrote it and fought to play Rocky. When they were low on resources, they changed the story all together and made it even better. The story is flawless and keeps you on the edge of your seat. 9/10 Music- The best thing about the movie itself. The music in this movie is guaranteed to give you goosebumps every time you watch it. Bill Conti gives you an excellent score throughout the movie, including the famous "gonna fly now". 10/10 Acting- 4 nominated performances in this movie. The acting is very good as well, especially Burgess Meredith who offers one of the greatest acts I have ever seen. Stallone plays Rocky Balboa and changes his voice very well to be Rocky. He did a very good job. Talia Shire plays Adrian, a shy pet store owner who has never had a BF before. She did a good job as well. Burt Young plays the drunkard Paulie. Burgess Merideth plays the boxing trainer Mickey. I have never seen a better performance. 9.5/10 Stallone fought for this triumphant movie that made me want to go the distance (sounds corny but its true). It made me strive to work harder and not give up. If you haven't seen this, buy it and watch it. I'll guarantee it will change you too. A classic.I give it a perfect 10/10


                
The first common misconception about Rocky, and something that's almost inevitable when you put a half-naked Stallone with boxing gloves on the cover is that it's a fighting movie.  In that time it would fall into a category including Jean-Claude Van Damme and Jackie Chan.  Now don't get me wrong, I like both of these actors a lot, they're among my favorites, but Rocky is not just another cheap movie about a man who like to win a fight or tournament because he deserves it (Bloodsport, Quest).  Instead of a fighting movie we should say that it is a movie about a fighter.  That changes the context altogether, it means that sure he has fighting on his mind but has other personal issues that are demonstrated throughout the movie.  In fact in the whole movie there are two fight scenes (at the beginning and at the end) which together add up to about 15 minutes.
The rest is the portrayal of a man who has never had it easy in his life but nonetheless keeps his heart.  That is to say that he keeps his moral and ethics, just keeps on trying no matter the hardships.  A MAN WITH A DREAM... an un-realizable dream to be frank.  But in the end, a lot, even most, of our dreams are un-realizable... but we try anyway.  The difference here is that this man is given a shot at his dream, a "one-in-a-million shot". It's something that we all would like so we can relate and CAN'T HELP but cheer for him at the end of the movie.The largest portion, in minutes, of the movie is actually devoted to the love theme between Rocky and Adrien.  So that should maybe make this a "love story" movie instead of fighting movie.  Adrien is another of his dreams, slightly more attainable which is why he devotes more of his time everyday to trying to attain it (her).  She won't open up to anybody but in the end, with a certain amount of tenacity on the part of Stallone, she can't help but fall for the heart deep inside the rough exterior.Another theme here is that of fraternity between Rocky and Mickey, his trainer/manager.  In fact THE MOST TOUCHING SCENE in the whole movie in my opinion is one of about 15 to 20 seconds long and without any words.  It's when Mickey goes to see Rocky at his home the first time to see if he can manage him.  Rocky gets angry with him but keeps it to himself until Mickey leaves, at which point Rocky takes it out on the door jam and yells at Mickey who can still hear him outside.  Rocky's life is being turned upside down by this whole "fighting Creed" business and although it is his dream, he doesn't know how to deal with it and is scared to get mangled in the ring, knowing he's not of the same caliber as the champ.  The touching scene is when he realizes that he has yelled at an old man.  His heart takes him out into the street after Mickey, he joins him and shakes his hand.  The beginning of an enduring friendship which will ultimately lead to tears in a later film (Rocky 3 and 5).This movie simply seeps with "classic", and by the end you know you have just seen a movie of courage, of the portrayal of "the indominable spirit of man" (Rocky 3).  No matter the difficulties, Rocky's heart takes him through it all.  It doesn't fit the mold of today's classics (like Private Ryan) with melodrama and grandiose scenery, just a simple movie, with simple qualities but very large meaning intricately woven into the fabric of the film itself by Stallone and the director John G. Avildson, with the musical overtones of Bill Conti.  A classic from a different age, and the mold of a lot of movies to follow.


                
"Rocky" is about a man. It is the story of a man who exceeds past all normal expectations and makes the most out of what he is doing. What is he doing? Boxing. Why? As Rocky says in the film, "You have to be a moron to want to box."Rocky is played by Sylvester Stallone, whose only other film before "Rocky" was "Weekend at Kitty and Stud's," and, as you can probably guess by the title, it was an X-rated movie. But Stallone gives just about the best performance of his career here. Before he started getting into recycled action movies and unfunny comedies, the man had talent, as seen shining through in "Rocky." Somewhere along the way he lost that talent, but it's pretty evident that he had it at one time.Stallone wrote the script, which is about a down-on-his-luck Philadelphia man named Rocky Balboa. Rocky is your average tough-guy you see walking down the street, but this film takes a closer look INTO the guy walking past you, and not AT the guy walking past you.He lives in a beat-up, old apartment, infested with roaches, and he barely makes enough money to support himself. His job? Rocky retrieves money for loan sharks. His real job, however, is to break the loaners' thumbs if they don't pay up. He's a muscle man.After he returns from his "job" every day, he takes time to do what he has been doing for the past six years, which is boxing. Then, after that, he takes a trip to the local pet store to see the love of his life, Adrian, who works there. He constantly tries to impress her and talk to her, but she is shy and literally does not talk much throughout the entire film.But things change for Rocky after heavyweight champion Apollo Creed (Carl Weathers) decides that he wants to make a big performance on the 4th of July. He wants to appear nice by letting a regular Joe Schmoe fight him in the ring. All for show, of course. As he is looking through a book of local boxers, he points his finger at the letters THE Italian STALLION, a.k.a. Rocky. He says that fighting an Italian is perfect. "An Italian found America," Creed says. If he fights an Italian-American on the 4th of July, it will be symbolic and will also make Creed look good.But Rocky doesn't realize this is all for show. When he receives word that Apollo Creed wishes to fight him in the ring, Rocky begins to train long and hard with Burgess Meredith, which results in the famous scene where Rocky runs up an entry of stairs in Philly with the music "Gonna Fly Now" playing in the background. This scene is spoofed by films world-wide, and it's one of the cornerstones in film history. You will see it all the time. It's just one of those film moments that are marked down in history.The most entertaining thing about "Rocky" is how innocent Sylvester Stallone comes across in his role as Rocky. You feel for him when he is trying to impress Adrian and she shrugs him off. The scene where her brother invites Rocky over, and Rocky keeps saying, "Are you sure she knows I'm coming?" is a sign of how the guy has been put down. And then when she comes over to his apartment, he acts nice and talks to her. He's not trying any moves on her. He just enjoys being with her. Rocky is a bit of an idiot, as he himself admits, but he's a sweet idiot.And the end, when Rocky fights Apollo Creed, is amazing. A nobody who actually stands a chance against the heavyweight champion of the world. Creed and Rocky are being battered by each other. Creed goes into the opposite corner as Rocky, and one of Creed's managers says, "This guy thinks this thing is for real -- knock him out!" You feel sorry for Rocky there, because he is giving the fight all he's got, when it was just a publicity stunt from the beginning, but he didn't even realize it.Things like that are what make "Rocky" what it has become over the years. It is a great film, and it has many classic moments that you will see spoofed in films all the time. You should probably see it just for that fact.But the truth is, if you take away all the underlying intricacies, "Rocky" is just the story of a simple guy who gets a chance to do something amazing, and he gives it all he's got. I think we've all gone through something like that before, and if so, you will be able to identify with "Rocky" all the more.


                
Rocky is one of two great boxing movies. Only Raging Bull challenges Rocky as the greatest boxing movie of all time. Not only is there great action inside the ring, the story and drama outside the ring makes for a movie worth watching over and over again. There is no doubt in my mind it should be at least in the top 25.


                
What more can I say about the greatest sporting movie ever made? I don't think there's a person in the world who doesn't like Rocky. He is the ultimate underdog that we love to root for. The movie is an absolute masterpiece and can be enjoyed time and time again. I've seen it countless times myself. I hold this film close to my heart. Sylvester Stallone wrote the screenplay in 2 days, but you would never guess that judging by the depth of the film. It's an emotional roller-coaster that keeps you coming back for more. Rocky Balboa is up there as one of Hollywood's greatest ever creations. It's a very basic movie, but that's what we all love about it. The best films are usually like that. Very rare a big-budget blockbuster will take home an Oscar. Not only is it a love story, but it's also a boxing tale as we go on an unforgettable journey with The Itallian Stallion. Sylvester Stallone is my favorite actor, and for good reason. During the Creed movie he stole the show and should have won as Oscar for his latest portrayal as Balboa. Stallone is not only a great actor, but also a director and writer too. He can do it all. Some say Rambo is his greatest creation, but for my money nothing comes close to Rocky Balboa.


                
What can you say about a this movie that has not been said already? It is my all time favorite movie series ever and I could watch every movies back to back time and time again. I have owned this movie series on Video, DVD, Blu-ray and owned just about every version going.The main story is about one mans struggles to overcome the odds life has stacked against him but it is also a love story. There are real touches of greatness such as Burgess Meredith as Mickey as veteran boxer who does not want to train Rocky as he sees him as a washed out bum until he is offered a shot at the big time. Then seeing his relationship with Rocky grow. The acting is superb and the music still pumps my blood to this day. This may have been the movie to invent the training montage which is now a must in any movie about sports or fighting. Stallone's performance is phenomenal as the film celebrates the underdog battling to beat the odds and it is still amazing almost 40 years after release.


                
Rocky Balboa (Sylvester Stallone) is a struggling Italian/American boxer who also earns cash collecting debts for shady Philadelphian 'businessman' Gazzo (Joe Spinell). When heavyweight boxing champion Apollo Creed (Carl Weathers) finds himself without an opponent for his upcoming match, he offers the unknown fighter a chance at the title as a gimmick, but doesn't count on Rocky's determination to go the distance.I watched Martin Scorsese's Raging Bull not that long ago, an excellent film, but something of a downer—a gritty study of a not very nice character whose horrible personality and poor choices see him winding up losing everything. Rocky, on the other hand, is a real feel-good film about a guy on the skids who is given a once-in-a lifetime opportunity to make something of himself. It's an uplifting Cinderella story, a classic underdog tale that leaves the viewer with a big smile on their face, which is why I prefer it slightly over Scorsese's film.Rocky also has a great story behind the making of the film which mirrors that of its main character: star Stallone went from an almost broke struggling actor to Hollywood mega-star by not only writing the script for Rocky, but also insisting that he play the title role. The rest, as they say, is history.Those only familiar with Stallone's later action hero work will be surprised at how good an actor he is in his breakthrough role, tackling the drama just as well as the boxing: Rocky's burgeoning romance with shy pet store clerk Adrian (Talia Shire), his friendship with her brother Paulie (Burt Young), and his strained relationship with trainer Mickey (Burgess Meredith) are all handled superbly.Director John G. Avildsen also manages all aspects of his film with aplomb, with the final fight between Rocky and Apollo being the absolute showstopper, a gruelling battle of wills, both combatants pushed to their limits. Add a rousing score from Bill Conti and what you have is an unmissable, uplifting classic of the '70s.9.5 out of 10, rounded up to 10 for IMDb.


                
Rocky was written and starred by then unknown actor but present Hollywood superstar Sylvester Stallone.This 1976 Oscar Best Picture winner tells the story of a boxer that was given a once-in-a-lifetime shot at the world heavyweight title by the world boxing champion Apollo Creed,whose character is based on boxing legend Muhammad Ali.John Avildsen directed the film about an uneducated but kind-hearted debt collector who is a boxer in small-time fights at Philadelphia,Pennsylvania and how the opportunity that was given to him changed his life.In addition,we are also told of his love story with the shy and pet shop employee Adrian,who provides him tons of inspiration to face his challenges in life.No question that this was the highest grossing movie on the year it was released.It continues to provide inspiration to millions of people not only when it was released in the United States when Americans were facing a lot of difficulties like unemployment due to a economic recession but to people around the world at present. Many got a lot of inspiration from Rocky especially when he managed to go the distance on his boxing match with Apollo. Added to that,it ushered six sequels from Rocky II to Rocky Balboa until a spin-off franchise entitled "Creed" was released that continues to provide inspiration to people to remain optimistic and hopeful in life.No question that it is the ultimate film that one will surely remember especially for people who gave strength and courage to face the challenges of life amidst pain and suffering.With that in mind,Rocky Balboa has remained one of the most endearing character in cinema for the last 50 years whether he faces a challenger as an underdog or whenever he acts as a trainer to Apollo's illegitimate son,Adonis Johnson a.k.a Adonis Creed.
one of my favorite movies. never give up.. always keep moving and always stay positive. I still got the music in my head loli can watch this over and over.My favorite part is running up the stairs.I couldn't run before like that but now ill take it on.


                
My opinion---For all this beautiful saga "ROCKY" deserves a beautiful 10/10 and it is necessary especially to be well said and realize that at the exit of the film, this one was a huge world success and the actor Sylvester Stallone propelled to the Zenith of the world's biggest stars and still marks all the spirits of those who followed him and still follow the immense career of world cinema giant Sylvester Stallone because his whole career is exceptionally good Completed. Thank you, Mr. Stallone. Thanks Sly - "We will never forget you"


                
I've probably seen this movie a hundred times. It almost defies review at this point. But I'll do it anyway.Rocky is a small time fighter who gets a one in a million shot at the heavyweight title. On the way, he falls in love with the girl from the pet shop, and wins the heart of the city of Philadelphia as he seizes his one shot at proving that he is not just another bum from the neighborhood.Rocky is a product of its time. Its series of events literally occur about 6 days after I was born. In many ways, one can point to the courtship of Rocky and Adrian as a quasi-creepy encounter, one that would not fly in 2016. One could look at Paulie and Mickey and wonder what the hell is wrong with them. And one could wonder why Rocky beat out Taxi Driver for Best Picture. But every time I watch this, I just love it. So many iconic scenes, so many moments that just make your heart race and make you love it so much more. It is inspiring, it is timeless, it is a film for anyone who ever needed to just hang in there and still be standing at the end. Rocky fights for anyone who has ever been down but not out, Rocky is anyone who ever made the most of a one in a million chance. And anyone who can say the last scene did not put a tear in his eye is either flat out lying, or not even human.Rocky is so much a part of my childhood that I probably can never be completely objective about this movie, and maybe my 10 star review will not persuade anyone to watch this. But it is what it is. If it affects you the way it affects me, then maybe you have the power to hang in no matter what life throws at you.


                
A first-rate film that's about as close to perfect as any movie about boxing (or any other sport) that I've ever seen. The plot is very simple -- small-time boxer Rocky Balboa (Sylvester Stallone) is given a chance to fight the heavyweight champion Apollo Creed (Carl Weathers). It sounds no different than a ton of old movies about the sport. But this film proves that it's not always how fresh or unique the story is but how well it's crafted. Rocky is a masterpiece of filmmaking with dynamite acting from Sylvester Stallone, Burgess Meredith, Talia Shire, Burt Young, and Carl Weathers. Many classic scenes, lines, characters. Bill Conti's score is one of the all-time greats. It was nominated for nine Oscars, winning three including Best Picture. It was director John G. Avildsen's best film and many would argue it is Stallone's best as well. Certainly his best screenplay. The fight choreography is terrific. Followed by a string of enjoyable sequels but they were just solid entertainment. This one is very entertaining but it is also something much more than that. It's one of those movies that becomes part of culture in a big way where everybody recognizes something from the film even if they've never seen it.


                
Over the Fourth of July, I was channel surfing and caught Rocky on AMC....and as usual, after watching about 20 seconds, it sucked me in again to watch it for the 124th time or so. Since it's been about 35 years since Rocky premiered, I was waxing nostalgic about the film.It's so impressive now to remember that Stallone wrote the film, then went up against the Hollywood movie industry and got it made even though he had only been in a few previous movies prior to this. AND, he wouldn't sell it unless he was cast to play the title character, turning down offers even though he was broke and hungry at the time. He believed...and wouldn't compromise.So basically, as a kid, a novice in Hollywood, Sylvester Stallone created one of the true all- time classic American movies....a masterpiece that has grown even stronger over time....with an Academy Award, necessary or not, to add its official stamp of approval.Over the years of his career since them he has had many ups and downs. He's been the butt of jokes, always type-cast, let his celebrity status overshadow his movie roles. He's been grouped in with Schwarzenegger, Seagal, Van-Damme...just another cookie-cutter action- hero...and hey, he's chosen the roles that put him there. Nobody's ever compared him to Pacino, Spielberg, or any of the upper echelon of the Hollywood elite.But then there's Rocky. It'll probably never place higher than The Godfather on the all-time lists....never compare to Citizen Kane or Casablanca in film school discussions...or mentioned in conversations discussing Pulp Fiction or Schindler's List. But Rocky is the cinema equivalent of Tom Sawyer, The Grapes of Wrath, The Old Man and the Sea....a true American classic. His portrayal of the title character (which was probably more just being himself than acting) embodied what all us guys want to be. He was a guy who knew where he came from, he didn't have much, but what he had was yours if you needed it, he tried to guide those in his neighborhood down the right path, he remembered to always feed and care for his pet turtles, Cuff and Link...he was a street-tough that was sweet, kind and gentle. He was a friend to a guy, Paulie, who didn't deserve his friendship, and he fell in love with a woman and treated her as if she were a Queen. He knew he couldn't offer her much in the way of the material trappings of life, so he gave her what he could...himself, his heart and his unconditional love....He was humble in attitude, and gave respect to everyone, regardless of their position in life. Stallone wrote and portrayed the character that all us American guys hope and try to be. And when offered the chance to make a dream come true, Rocky Balboa accepted the challenge. The South Philly lunk put his American work ethic into achieving his goal...something all of us are...or want to believe we are...doing in our own lives.The hero doesn't win in the end, at least not on the scorecard...but his victory comes from knowing that he gave it his all...he didn't give up. So this is a movie that grabs your heart and shows you that if you believe that good things can happen...and if you just be true to yourself...that the journey is itself the victory, and the people we love and who love us are the real treasures in our lives. If you're not cheering at this movie, than you may not have a pulse...and you're definitely lacking a soul.When you're in one of those ruts where nothing seems to be going your way, when bad luck is your constant companion, and you're asking yourself, what's the use? Rocky will give you an encouraging pat on the shoulder, a firm kick in the butt, and let you know that you're not alone in your struggles.That a kid outta Hells Kitchen wrote the script, and nailed the lead role, is an underdog story in itself. No matter what Stallone has done since...or will do in the future....he created Rocky, one of the greatest American movies..and characters... .ever made. No one can ever take that from him. So thank you Sylvester Stallone. I'm grateful for the gift of your movie.
This movie change my life,goal and make me a better man .


                
What makes a great film? Engaging characters, immersive story-line, brilliant editing, fantastic music, an experience you can revisit again and again. Rocky has all of this and more. When it comes to performance I honestly do not know where Rocky starts and Sylvester Stallone ends. Stallone did not just play this character he conceived, created and crafted it. This is not method acting this goes way beyond that. What is this film about? Loneliness, love, self-respect, poverty, heartache, shyness, chance, pride, friendship, boxing? It is about life! Rocky is a downtrodden character, in the words of Mickey (Burgess Meredith) Rocky is a bum, a loser, he had talent but never applied it. Rocky does not see this, he lives his life, he has some boxing skills which he puts to use in the occasional low-key cash fights and working as a money collector for the local crime lord (Joe Spinell). Rocky has the physical attributes for the debt collecting job but deep down he has a soft heart. He is not the smartest guy but ultimately he is a good guy. Rocky is friends with Paulie (Burt Young) who is a deeply flawed character. Unlike Rocky he has a chip on his shoulder at life and the cards he has been dealt. Paulie has a sister Adrian (Talia Shire) that has not had an easy life either. She is painfully shy and introverted. Adrian works at the local pet shop which Rocky visits often. Rocky tries to make conversation and get to know her. The courtship between Adrian and Rocky is awkward at times but has a reality and sweetness that is undeniable. Rocky and Adrian eventually date. Rocky's life is on a nowhere trajectory until out the blue his name is selected by Apollo Creed (Carl weathers) the heavy weight champion of the world as a publicity stunt. Apollo Creed wants to stage a boxing event where a lowly ranked amateur boxer gets a chance to fight for the title, "The American dream". Initially stunned and unwilling to take on this challenge, Rocky does not feel he is worthy or capable of this. Mickey eventually persuades Rocky to take this once in a lifetime chance. And so begins the rest of the film. Cue training montage. Rocky works on many levels, that is why bit is such a fantastic film. The characters have a human naivety and poignancy that resonates. The editing and music are sublime in parts. It is a film I will watch again and again and appreciate more each time 10 out of 10.


                
Rocky is a true masterpiece of writing, acting, directing and music. The implausibility that this film was even made, and the choice to cast (then) unknown lead actor/writer Sylvester Stallone is worthy of an Oscar in and of itself.The story of Rocky Balboa cuts to the heart of anyone who's ever been beaten down, cast aside, or given up on. Rocky is the story of a million to one shot underdog given a chance of lifetime and a shot at something more, and an opportunity to find worth and respect. The films beautifully unfolds the arc of a man who ultimately finds his worth and finds someone worthy to fight for, love for and live for. Rocky finds the balance between the brutality of boxing and the beauty of love and romance. Featuring young actor/writer Sylvester Stallone in his first and perhaps signature role. Sylvester Stallone captures the heart of Rocky Balboa, a two bit club fighter just existing. Finding his only passion being that of his best friend Paulie's (Burt Young) shy sister, Adrian, who works at the corner pet store. The romance between Rocky and Adrian blossoms as the shy intellectual (Adrian) finds value and worth in the brash boxer (Rocky). We find the current World Heavyweight champion, Apollo Creed played masterfully by first time actor (former NFL Linebacker) Carl Weathers. Creed is unable to locate a worthy opponent for his November championship fight. That is until Rocky is pulled from obscurity and given the change of a lifetime.The film also introduces us to Rocky's somewhat bitter, angry, and antagonistic manager played flawlessly by Academy Award Nominee, and veteran stage and screen actor, Burgess Meredith. Rocky is more than just a simply film about boxing. It is a true love story. It is a movie about finding one's worth, going the distance, finding love and never giving up. This is as close to a perfect film as you will ever find.


                
It gets me every time. The humanity that you can see in this movie is something you won't find so easily in movies these days anymore.


                
Rocky was a hugely pleasant surprise for me, as I'm not into boxing at all and often fail to understand people's passion for sport. What I thought would be a standard sports movie ended up being an incredibly well told and wonderfully acted underdog story that has strongly inspired and uplifted me during the hardest times of my life. Sylvester Stallone has appeared in more bad movies than good, but Rocky is up there with his best. Rocky is a surprisingly endearing character, he's tough, not too well-spoken and a little dumb, but he's kind-hearted, loves animals and doesn't demand for much outside of not being seen as a bum. The other characters are excellent too: Adrian, Paulie, Mickey and Apollo Creed are blissfully cast and compliment Rocky well, they all have an important place in the story and the movie simply wouldn't work without them. Many think of Stallone as another generic action movie star, but to me, he's not John Rambo, Barney Ross, Judge Dredd or The Toymaker. He's the guy who inadvertently might've saved my life with this excellent film. He is Rocky.


                
I'm not sure what brought me to review this so many years after the fact but...well...it's Rocky!I don't know why you haven't seen it, maybe you're too young, don't like boxing or don't like Stallone. What I know is you must see it.Forget the sequels, entertaining though they are, they never recaptured the honesty of the first, they never inspired like the original and they will never be loved like the first.Rocky is the story of a boxer but boxing isn't what this movie is about. This is depressing and uplifting in equal measure. Rocky Balboa is a bum in every sense of the word. No money, no intellect, no real friends, no love interest, no talent for his beloved boxing (and even then he'll lose if it makes more money) and he has no joy in his job as a loan-sharks's muscle. He has almost nothing.Almost....but not quite. He has a dream, he has hope and (in addition to all the other things his poorly educated mind doesn't know) he doesn't know what giving up is.Meanwhile, on the reverse side of the coin is Apollo Creed, the undefeated Heavyweight Champion of the world. He's rich, he's slick, he's blessed with talent and speed, he is surrounded by an admiring entourage and a loving family. Hell, he's never even been take the distance. Apollo Creed has everything, literally everything Rocky dreams of.Fortune smiles on our eponymous hero and he gets an unlikely shot at the Champ.Now we see it...Rocky has no head movement to speak of, no jab, no foot movement and he blocks with his face. He's not very good, really and the world can see it. Creed is the antithesis of Balboa...short night's work and an easy payday surely. Balboa, just wants one thing no else has had from Creed. A judges' decision. The final bell, to be standing at the end. To show he isn't just another bum from the neighbourhood.What we are treated to is a fight not even Micky Ward and Arturo Gatti could have given us.If you haven't seen it I shall leave you to find out how it goes for yourself.This movie is an all time classic. The ultimate underdog story. Stallone both wrote and starred in the movie he didn't sell until somebody was willing to give him his shot (sound familiar).Talia Shire is brilliantly timid as Adrian, Burt Young is excellent as Adrian's ne'er do well brother, Paulie and Stallone is superb as Rocky. However, my favourite performances are those of Burgess Meredith & Carl Weathers.Weathers as Creed is convincingly confident, boorishly braggadocious and looks every inch the pro-boxer. Weathers provides us with an easily a champ who is easily disliked yet grudgingly admired.Meredith as Mickey is the star of the show for me though. An ageing terrier of a man, rough of voice and harsh of word but kind of meaning. As knowledgeable about boxing as he is old school in his methods. He provides inspiration, perspiration and frustration in equal measure and is a marvel in this role.This is a fantastic movie with the message that it if brains and education, natural talent and quick wits have failed to bless you you have two choices. Fight or Succumb.What Rocky teaches us is that while you are alive, you can fight, if you can fight you can land punches and if you land the right one incredible things can happen. If you are prepared to take the hits and keep coming then anything is possible.Failing? That's OK, it means you're trying.
ROCKY was written in three days by Stallone . An Actor that didn't find employment too much his best roles were blink and you miss him in Woody Allen's Bananas and Robert Mitchum's shot at Phillip Marlowe in 75's Farewell my lovely. as well as Roger corman's death race 2000 as Machine Gun Joe Vitallo. Stallone wrote and starred in the Lords of Flatbush it launched a lot of careers but failed at the box office. Struggling Stallone wrote a novel and a screenplay for PARADISE ALLEY that he failed to sell then he went to the Bar to see Ali fight Chuck Wepner. Stallone became inspired. He only had 120 dollars in the bank. Inspired he wrote Rocky in a fever pitch during the course of three days. Stallone sold it but stipulated that he and only he play Rocky. A gutsy move that paid off. Rocky had the makings of a hit. The Studio didn't want Stallone as Rocky they wanted Burt Reynolds or Jon voight. but Stallone stood his ground and wonRocky is about a local club fighter Rocky balboa. rocky is broke and humble. he has a good heart loves people and tried to do his best. He's in love with Adrian his best friends sister. She's shy works at the pet shop across from his gym. Rocky thinks life has passed him by. His only goal is to get Adrian to go with him on a date. Rocky is pushing 30. And thinks life has passed him by. The owner and trainer of his gym Thinks Rocky has the potential to be more then the enforcer for a loan shark. He thinks Rocky is becoming a bum. Life is just another day for Rocky. He hides his anger and pain deep inside. And then His whole world is turned upside down and shaken up. Apollo Creed The Heavyweight Champion of the world. Is in trouble. he's spent millions putting together a bicentennial match for Jan.1 1976. and his opponent has broken his hand. Millions of dollars on the line Apollo looks for a idea to save it and comes up with one. Find a local fighter. And give him his biggest chance Ever at becoming The Champion. He chooses Rocky based on his nickname the Italian Stallion. as For Rocky life is good Adrian has become his girlfriend and he's happy. then Apollo's promoter offers him the fight and Rocky suddenly becomes famous. his close friends stay close and ground him. As Rocky trains and tries to come to terms. he's scared that he's just a bum but he has one slim chance at proving that he isn't. nobody has ever gone the distance before with Creed.if he can then he can prove he's a good fighter. And has done something nobody before has ever done. Just the writing alone is incredible. the depths of personality that Stallone infused into his characters. they live they breath and they are full of passion. More then anything else that alone elevates the movie into Cinema immortality. Rocky might not be the greatest film ever made. but you'll be hard pressed to think of another one that's stood the test of time from 76. Rocky does. And it stays in your memory nicely.


                
Rocky saga perfectly reflects the lives of many who do sacrifice to be better in life. It has a script very well reflected in the image. The cinematography and photography are excellent and the Vanguard scene at the time when the Steadycam Rocky Climb the stairs is best achieved in the film. Sylvester Stallone is eternal and will be an icon in the world of cinema. Rocky saga perfectly reflects the lives of many who do sacrifice to be better in life. It has a script very well reflected in the image. The cinematography and photography are excellent and the Vanguard scene at the time when the Steadycam Rocky Climb the stairs is best achieved in the film. Sylvester Stallone is eternal and will be an icon in the world of cinema.
Words can not describe how such a low budget movie with an at the time underwhelming cast, can produce one of the finest pieces of cinema in history. The first true underdog boxing story with iconic lines scenes and characters has anyone who watches it wanting to run a mile and become the heavyweight champ of the world. The story of nobody to somebody might as well have been invented by this movie. There is nothing that gives me more goose bumps in all of cinema than this movie. From the incredible training scene, capped off by arguably the most famous shot in all of film of Rocky's arms in the air after climbing the steps of the church, to the ending of the fight as when Apollo sees rocky down and thinks he has the fight one only to see rocky get back up and taunt Apollo to fight some more. The incredible writing acting and cinematography in this movie makes it a classic every time you put it on. Ending it with Rocky losing on paper but truly winning in the hearts of the fans and viewers at home was something so original at the time that it was the perfect ending to the most transcendent sports movie ever made.
