Now that I've seen it again, I gotta wonder how in the world did this movie beat Taxi Driver, All the President's Men, Network, and Bound for Glory, or most other films released that year. True, I haven't seen any of those movies, but I'm sure they're better than this cheeseball flick.To begin, the movie is dull for the most part. It follows around Balboa through his plainly ordinary life with plainly ordinary shots, and painfully bad dialogue. The acting ain't much better either. Every character in the movie is a caricature, and none of the actors do anything to raise them above that status. Sylvester Stallone's Rocky is the mindless thug with a heart of gold. Despite the fact that he part times as hired muscle for a loan shark, he practically walks around with a halo and choir throughout the rough streets of Philly. Adrian (Talia Shire) is a mousey shut-in, pure and chaste, who does nothing to show why Rocky would be so into her. Apollo Creed (Carl Weathers) is a cocky, disinterested imitation of Muhammed Ali, Burgess Meredith's Mickey is practically a cartoon character, and there is no scene that Burt Young can't ruin with his ham-handed, oafish, stereotypical portrayal of Adrian's brother Paulie.The movie tries hard, reeeeeally hard to get us to care about the underdog Rocky and his lady-love Adrian. Their made for each other, you know? Nevermind that they're first kiss gives off creepy date rape vibes, they're sweet, especially since she seems mildly retarded. That this film has achieved full-on Spike TV guy movie status is kinda baffling, giving how slow and sentimental it is. You figure that it must be the boxing scenes that redeem it and stand out in the collective guy mind, but then the climactic boxing match between the Italian Stallion and Apollo Creed begins, and you realise that it kinda blows.First off, there are waaaaaaaay too many punches thrown for the early rounds of a heavyweight fight. These things are dances, not slugfests. But, hey, that's okay since this is the action sequence, bring on the violence! Except... that after the brief flurry at the beginning, the movie just skips through most of the fight, a few seconds of round eight, a spit-take from round 11, then the obligatory cut scene to begin round 14 (where the cutman cuts Rocky, not a scene that didn't make the movie). It's ridiculous really, since all of Apollo's pre-fight hype involved him knocking out Rocky in three rounds, and then they skip past the third round. WHO IN THE HECK SETS UP A MOVIE LIKE THAT? And, better yet, who in the heck awards such a movie Best Picture, Best Director, and Best Film Editing? But, the entire movie wasn't a loss for me. Eventually, the big thug won me over (or wore me down), and I looked past how one dimensional he was. I've always been a big fan of his monologue scene before the big fight, where he admits to Adrian that he's nothing more than a bum, but if he could just go the distance with Creed, not beat him, but go the distance, than maybe he'd be something more than a bum. It's still a great scene (albeit cheapened by the sequels where the unpolished fighter beats a better prepared Creed and goes on to be unstoppable). And, when Rocky was training, pounding the beef, drinking the raw eggs, and running the steps of the Philadelphia Museum of Art, I got chills. He's Gonna Fly Now, darnit! But, all in all, not a good movie. I'll give some of the weaker visual sequences a bit of a pass, since it was made for only about $1.1 million dollars, which also explains why some of the performances aren't up to snuff, since they didn't have that many takes (my favourite scene, the aforementioned monologue, was done in one take). But the budget doesn't account for the overall cheesiness of the flick, or the film's treatment of the final climactic battle as an afterthought.
It's been a long time since I last watched it. I could've sworn it was a movie about boxing. About an underdog who gets a chance and makes the most of it.But as I watch it now, I've come to realize it's in fact a movie about the dangers of brain damage. Every single person in this movie is brain damaged, from the boxers and trainers down to the ice rink janitor, meat hauling half-wit...There are a couple of different ways how this shows. The most obvious and most irritating one is the way people communicate. Talking to people is done almost entirely via screaming. Everything turns into a screaming match. It is not only tiresome, but also just plain obnoxious.Many parts of the movie are good, though. The premise is interesting, the setting dramatic just by itself. The boxing parts seem authentic enough, but there's not enough of it here to satisfy those of us who are only here for it.All other things aside, first hour of the movie is skippable, and the rest pretty forgettable. If you took the screaming out, maybe it'd at least be tolerable, but as it is right now, it's not as good as you might remember. An iconic movie to be sure, but not a particularly good one.


                
'Rocky' is a film about a boxer who goes to ultimate levels to become a champion of the ring. Along the way, he gathers confidence and meets a young woman who gives him the strength that he needs. This is a story of endurance and love, and it is one of the most quoted films of all time with the line 'Yo, Adrian! I did it!' There's also the famous clips of Rocky running, getting exercise to build up his endurance. This is filmed with the Rocky theme, 'Gonna Fly Now'. The story drags on a little bit, but those moments are worth fighting for. Not a bad film, and it does have a good choice of music and gives you a sense of hope.


                
This is "Rocky" a boxing movie that is gonna have its 40th anniversary at all and is widely considered a classic. Maybe my title for this review is even incorrect as I am not entirely sure if this movie could have been a quality film back in the 1970s and 1980s. It runs for pretty much exactly 2 hours and takes us on a journey with Rocky Balboa a formerly very talented boxer who just fights for little sums of money these days and also debt collector with fairly violent methods. The first hour of the film is basically about the title character's relationship with a friend and his sister who he has been crushing on for a while. The two become a couple around the 1-hour mark, so the second half has more focus on the actual fight that is about to happen. The second half is also when Burgess Meredith and Burt Young have their great Oscar bait moments, even if I found them both a bit over the top, especially Young. This is mostly though due to the weak writing for the characters.This film was a huge success that year with the Academy. It won Best Picture, Best Director, Best Editing and managed to score many more nominations, including no less than 4 for the actors (one of them Stallone, who was obviously trying to channel Brando from "On the Waterfront"). I think the acting is certainly not the worst aspect of this movie, but I am quite baffled by how much love they got. Also it is debatable if Talia Shire is lead or supporting. Anyway, this film has one big weakness: Stallone's script and it is really a joke that this one was Oscar-nominated as well. The first half is okay, maybe a 6/10. There are no moments of greatness, but it is bearable to watch in terms of the story and the acting. The second half, however, has some very bad moments and it all accumulates in the final fight where an athlete who is almost a complete nobody is on par with the best boxer in the world for 15 rounds, almost knocks him out in round 1. Are you kidding me? Imagine that happen to Mayweather or Klitschko these days? Not a chance. Realistically, he could not have survived a single round in there. Now the only thing that could have made it worse would have been Rocky actually winning the fight, but it was so nonsensical that it almost didn't matter anyway. The ending with the big love confession was pretty cheesy and cringeworthy too. The scenes of Rocky fighting pig halves at the slaughterhouse or running alone with his arms up in the air were not really as epic or memorable as I would have liked them to be either. This film was Stallone's big breakthrough and he built a great career (including more Rocky, Rambo, Expendables...) on the film's success in the decades after that. Good job on him for doing so. However, "Rocky" is not even close to being as great or epic as it is considered by many. A definite contender for Worst Best Picture winner of all time. Not recommended.
Vastly overrated.Not sure how this got to be regarded so highly, and won the Best Picture Oscar in 1977. Story isn't too plausible and is quite dull in spells. The opening setup was interesting, as it painted a picture of a man in a dead-end situation. But then, just when you think the movie is going to be how he gradually works himself out of that situation, it turns out that it is all about winning a lottery, rather than hard work, essentially.The only thing that made it watchable after that was the fight scene, right at the end. The Rocky-Adrian relationship is implausible, contrived and clumsy.To add insult to injury, Sylvester Stallone got a Best Actor Oscar nomination for his series of monosyllabic grunts that pass for dialogue. In total Rocky received three Academy awards plus seven other nominations. Of these, only the nomination for Best Original Song was deserved. One of the most over-rated and over-awarded films in history.


                
This may have one our two fight scenes. But it is meanly a romance. O.k so Sylvester Stallone is the star of this movie. And he is playing a t.u.f guy. But meanly it is about him his girl friend. Sylvester Stallone is star of this movie to sell a romance movie to men. Rocky II is better. Not that Rocky II is good. It is pretty bad. But not as bad as this one. It is so overrated. Rocky III is better. Rocky III is better. Rocky III is pretty bad but not has bad as this one. This is all hype. It is not action movie. It is a man's romance. And don't like to many romance movies. Overrated overrated overrated hype hype hype. And no action. Sports yes. Action no.


                
This movie is worth a viewing every now and again but I must say it is quite boring in parts.  Who cares about your love life.  All I care about is the fight.  More fight less romancing.  Lets go Rocky.  Don't bore us with your love life.  We just don't care!Grade...4


                
