This is the first (and the best) chapter of one of the most famous saga ever. The story of an unknown boxer that have the chance of his life challenging the world heavyweight champion. A story of hope, of dreams that come true, where the life suddenly changes form a day to another. From the misery of Philadelphia suburbs to the fame and the glory.


                
If there is a chance for you which can turn you from nobody to somebody, how would you treat it? Would you let it go pass because it is almost impossible to achieve or you want to use all you have to give it a great shot? This is what the movie about, how a struggling underdog became hero, legend or more. This is the one of my favorite movies. Because it has a simplest storyline but it successfully gave expression to it's theme-if you want to be on the top, you have to pay the price which means hardworking and determination A good movie must require an understandable storyline which clearly tells its theme. That is why I think rocky is a great movie. The movie is about the sudden life change of a struggling underdog boxer-Rocky, the world champion set up a fight between himself and Rocky, but he decided to give it the greatest shot just to prove that he is not a bum for a entertainment show. So basically, whole movie is about how Rocky trying so hard to achieve his goal: go the distance with the champion.The acting of the film is another shinning point; it has many great actors in it. Especially the main actor Sylvester Stallone (Rocky) he made a great impression in my mind by his excellent pyrotechnic acting skill. In the famous fighting scene, Stallone performed an emotion of a boxer who is suffering from pain, frustration and exhaustion, but he is not giving up. The scene became so real because Stallone's incredible performance. Also, other actors like Burt Young (Pauline), Tailia Shire (Adrian) Burgess (Mickey) acted perfectly in the movie.If there is anything else can highlight the movie that is the fantastic music used in the movie. Because the music played in the movie perfectly contributed to the atmosphere of each individual scene. E.g. when Rocky started his morning run, pumping up style music plays simultaneously while he is running, that generated a memorable scene. Also again in the fighting scene, a part of passionate and stirring background music played when rocky is trying so hard to stand on his feet, it has successfully reinforced the mood of the scene.This movie is simple but well made. Fantastic music, excellent action sequences and incredible acting crew lined with a nice storyline to express its theme: a man can be anyone he wants to be but is requires great determination and stamina to achieve that. The movie is appealed to audiences who are 15 or above, and strongly recommended to every boxing fan! PG Rating: 8/10


                
Initial outing dealing with a small-time boxer named Rocky (he took the nickname from real-life boxer Rocky Marciano) , he is panned as a down-and-out fighter , being nicknamed as the Chicken Stallion . But he gets a supremely rare chance to fight the heavy-weight champion Apollo Creed (Carl Weathers , real life boxer Ken Norton was offered the role , but because he was 230 pounds, it was felt he would dwarf Stallone too much, and a smaller man was sought) in a bout in which he strives to go the distance for his self-respect . Rocky attempts to prove himself and his girlfriend (Talia Shire , Carrie Snodgress was originally offered the role o but dropped out due to a disagreement about money , Susan Sarandon also auditioned) , friend (Burt Young , Stallone had originally wanted Harvey Keitel for the role) and trainer (Burguess Meredith who steals the show as an old coach , though the character was initially offered to Lee Strasberg) . This enjoyable predictable entertainment displays splendidly various elements as drama , emotion and spectacular boxing . This soaper on the ring is developed in gentleness , dignity and feel-good style . Magnificent Stallone as a tough boxer , prior to shooting, Sylvester trained for six months with legendary fight-trainer Jimmy Gambina, who was also the film's technical adviser ; during this period, Stallone also studied every available piece of footage of boxers Rocky Marciano and Ezzard Charles. Great training montage and spectacular and climatic final bout . Writer-actor Stallone first entry is surprisingly entertaining and packs good feeling . Although Stallone famously wrote the first draft of the script in 3 days, it went through nine sizable rewrites before it was purchased by Irwin Winkler and Robert Chartof ; originally, Stallone's much darker script depicted Mickey/Burgess Meredith as a bitter old racist, and the film ended with Rocky throwing the fight after realizing he did not want to be part of the professional boxing world . Originally the filmmakers wanted several former heavyweight champions to appear at the beginning of the fight between Rocky and Apollo ; they put out a call for all former champions to show, but on the day of the shoot only Joe Frazier turned up ; the filmmakers thought it worked well however, because Frasier is a resident of Philadelphia, which was where the movie was shot and took place . Some immortal scenes include the iconic shot of Rocky running up the steps of Philadelphia Art Museum came about because of Steadicam inventor Garrett Brown was from Philadelphia . Most of the scenes of Rocky jogging through Philadelphia were shot guerrilla-style, with no permits, no equipment and no extras . Good production design , though for the championship fight, the filmmakers had trouble getting extras to fill the arena because it was a low-budget film that was not yet known to anyone . Stock footage of crowds was used to help this problem, but empty seats are still visible in some shots . Emotive as well as unforgettable musical score by Bill Conti and atmospheric cinematography by James Crabe . The motion picture was rightly financed by the producers of complete saga , Robert Chartoff and Irwin Winkler and compellingly directed by John G Avildsen , being shot in 28 days. The picture achieved big success as critical as public and in 2007, the American Film Institute ranked this as the #57 Greatest Movie of All Time and ranked #2 on the list of the 10 greatest films in the genre "Sports" in June 2008. Followed by various sequels that work at usual manner, fitting appropriately to franchise , even though we know the plot the films work, continuing the 'formula Rocky'¨, such as ¨Rocky II¨ was co-starred by Carl Weathers , in which Balboa returns to take on Apollo Creed ; ¨Rocky III¨ after being dethroned by obnoxious , corpulent Mr T from A Team ; ¨Rocky IV¨ against a massive Russian boxer played by Dolph Lundgren ; ¨Rocky 5¨with Tommy Morrison and Sage Stallone , real-life son plays Rocky Jr. and finally ¨Rocky Balboa¨ proving his estranged young son Milo Ventiglimia who still can fight .


                
After not seeing this film since it had come out in the theaters in 1976, I was almost shocked at how little action this movie had compared to what you see today....or in the Rocky sequels, for that matter. It's okay. It was needed to give us character studies of the main players: Rocky, his wife, his brother, his manager, etc., people we would see in subsequent films. Also, the fight scenes in those sequels went on too long, anyway. Frankly, I've enjoyed all the Rocky movies, beginning with this one.In this film, the romance between "Rocky Balboa" (Sylvester Stallone) and "Adrian" (Talia Shire) was a major subplot to the boxing saga. It reminded me a bit of the '50s film with Paul Newman, "Somebody Up There Likes Me." If you enjoyed this movie, check that classic film out.The DVD transfer is excellent, especially considering the movie is 30 years old.


                
First of all this movie is not about the boxing. This movie is about a fighter (Rocky) who struggles with his life without losing his courage to continue pursuing his dreams. It is movie about courage, about love, about unfulfilled dreams. It is a movie that shows with which the real life winners are made from. In the first scenes we meet Rocky. The man who tries to make some cash by participating in low level boxing games, but he doesn't want to. He knows that his life and his potential is far above. Then he comes back home where he reveals to us his loneliness and his unhappiness for himself. He is so lonely that he is talking to his turtles, sharing his news with them and feeding them. After he looks himself in the mirror, where there are hanging photos of his childhood and early life and next to the mirror is a poster of his idol, the boxer Rocky Marciano. His is unhappy about his life and thinking that his life turned to be different than it should be. The important thing is that behind his loneliness and his disappointment is a smile that never fades away and a positive attitude for life. Although life has treated him bad, he is not a give up guy and continue to pursue his dreams. The movie has exceptional character interactions. The first one is between Rocky and his dream girl, Adrian. She works at the pet store of the neighborhood where Rocky bought his turtles. She is a lonely and shy girl. She doesn't have any friends, same as Rocky. Rocky trying to flirt her but she is too shy to give in. She like him too but she's afraid because she doesn't want to get hurt because she doesn't trust him. In the end she gave up and Rocky seems more relaxed. His face is more calm and feels stronger to pursuit his other dreams. The other interaction is between Rocky and his coach Mickey. Mickey is an old and difficult to handle man but with a heart of gold. He always knew where Rocky potential is but he was disappointed that Rocky ruined his life with his choices. A great scene is when Mickey visit Rocky at his home. Rocky is angry at him because he feels that Mickey doesn't help him when he was in need. He almost doesn't speak at him. On the other hand Mickey, has come to offer his help. The reasons are two in my opinion. Firstly he is feeling guilty for his behavior towards Rocky the past years and secondly to help someone else succeed in order to calm his ghost of past failures as a boxer. When Mickey leaves the house, Rocky blasts at him. All his pain comes out fiercely. Mickey can still hear him and Rocky knows it. Mickey leaves even more disappointed. At some point Rocky understands that he was yelling at an old man, a man who believes in him and a man he could help him reach his goals. He runs out of the house catching him and made peace at last. The turning point in Rocky's life is the sunshine of luck after a bad strike of luck. He was chosen to confront in the ring the champion Apollo Creed for the title of the World Champion of the World. He isn't ready to deal with it. He is scared because he knows that Creed is out of his league. He is champion for god's sake and Rocky is just a low level boxer but with extreme potential. Adrian helps him to deal the fight mentally while Mickey trains him for the match of his life. An important point in the movie, which shows us the character of Rocky, is the night before the match when he talks to Adrien. As expressing his fears to her at some point says that he doesn't care if he win. The only thing that matters to him is not to fall because he knows that this have never happened before in Apollo matches. If he achieve it then he would know that he is not just a bump but someone who has really achieved something in his life. The important background of this movie is the story of Stallone himself. A man like Rocky who can't find the way to succeed in life, writes the script of this film and run to producers to sell it, but with one condition, Stallone to play Rocky. Almost everyone turned him down. Fortunately almost everyone. Stallone got his chance as his character does and both fight the battle of their life at the exact same time.
For this review, I'd like to go through all the Rocky movies (including the most recent Creed) and talk about their good points and their bad points. Rocky - The first one is obviously a classic and the best out of the series and made people like Sylvester Stallone a superstar. It takes a simple but touching story of the underdog boxer and rise to have a chance to be a champion. Rocky II - I felt was kind of the same story and was a little cheesy but it still carried the spirit of the original.Rocky III - Like the second one, was cheesy but it was entertaining. But I like how Rocky was doing more boxing and had more drama and Mr. T was a good villain even though he talked too much. Also it featured a great song, "Eye of the Tiger".Rocky IV - Again like the two other sequels, cheesy but still entertaining and it had another great song "No Easy Way Out". Rocky V - I know this one disappointed a lot of fans but I thought it was okay but I can understand why people didn't like it but I don't think it deserves to be hated.Rocky Balboa - Was redeeming and I like how it has a lot of references to the first Rocky. Creed - Finally, this one was another great comeback for Stallone as Rocky and gave Michael B. Jordan his big break as well. But you can't beat the original because it's the first and a classic, like I said before. But I'm still looking forward to the sequel to Creed next year.


                
This film's main idea is amazing. It inspires everyone who wants to reach their dreams. And character has written well about that because he is poor,lonely and he is a person who is trying to be "someone". That's why lots of people find something from theirselves in this movie and in this character. Sylvester Stallone plays his role amazingly. He acts like a loser and boxer. He fits Rocky Balboa character. Also he has made a good job as a writer too. He created a few great supporting characters like Creed and Adrian. Apollo Creed reminds me Muhammed Ali. Also I really liked the way Rocky and Adrian have met and started to dating. Other great things about this movie are its music and low budget. It is not even 1M dollars.
Just admirable.


                
Rocky shot a then struggling actor and writer Sylvester Stallone into the A list. This is a great underdog story enhanced by some gritty direction and great performances by Stallone, Talia Shire and others. What many do not realize is how little Rocky is about boxing. In fact the boxing doesn't even take center stage until well into the second half. This is a character study first and foremost and Stallone should be commended for penning such a heartfelt screenplay. Rocky has entered pop culture lexicon but its important to remember that it started off as an independent feature with a minuscule budget. This is a great start to the career of a fantastic actor.


                
Rocky shot a then struggling actor and writer Sylvester Stallone into the A list. This is a great underdog story enhanced by some gritty direction and great performances by Stallone, Talia Shire and others. What many do not realize is how little Rocky is about boxing. In fact the boxing doesn't even take center stage until well into the second half. This is a character study first and foremost and Stallone should be commended for penning such a heartfelt screenplay. Rocky has entered pop culture lexicon but its important to remember that it started off as an independent feature with a minuscule budget. This is a great start to the career of a fantastic actor.


                
The film Rocky of 1976, was created to do nothing more then inspire audiences at the height of the Cold War and finale of the Vietnam War. It's vision of hope that a regular American with his own faults and struggles can rise above himself and achieve greatness. The message it pushed was for Americans to not give up hope, and that a brighter future was right around the corner. Along with an amazing plot, this was done by utilizing a fantastic soundtrack that captured the essence of the American spirit.


                
So if you have not watched the film yet. Then rent it, but it or stream it now. Simply this is a film that should be watched when lost or at odds with the world. Clearly for the time when it was shot in the 70's it was head of its time. You can read all the other reviews on this and will go into performances or how it launched his career. But the fact I like most about this film was that he write the script. I admire the dedication of this undertaken and how he managed to pull it all together and make such a masterpiece on the first attempt.So watch and enjoy it and consider if you could do better if this was your first try at filmmaking on this scale.


                
I guess there's A lot of people born in the 80's or 90's taking this for a poor 70's movie. Slow, boring, and dull.Filmed in a semi-documentary way by the director to get that "street-feeling", it's really a great move. Today not many people can't stand to see a movie filmed in a "handy- cam" way...)Re-visit - for an example - "French Connection" (1971.)Younger watcher's of Sylvester Stallone by his so called youth can't believe their eyes, but for god's sake: Do It!!Here is pure and good acting, from a guy that was almost broke and finished in the business he once choose to enter, in then 1975.Made up A boxer's story his way and made it work all the way to an Academy Award.The company did not had high hopes and gave away just a strict 1 M$ (same as the 1st James Bond movie 14 years earlier) in production costs.)You can clearly see the fails and the flaws of a 70's movie, but that's the charming parts of it. The whole cast crew gives their most to make you believe it, and you do that. The steps Sly takes on the way to the final confrontation is very heartful and moving, which of course was the attention.Fellow actors Burt Young and Talia Shire is excellent all the way.Accused for stealing a concept from a real heavy-weight fight in 1975, Stallone always denies the Ali-Wepner comparison. (The difference of Rocky almost punch movie champion to the floor; the latter being saved by the bell and then pronounced as the winner by judge decision.)Real boxer Chuck Wepner gave Ali a real deal to handle, referee didn't blow the whistle until a few seconds left of the 14th.(?) (Correct me please...)All in all a great "feeling" movie.Carl Wheaters is going punch you hard if you disagree!A beautiful 70's movie; you like it... or you're not.


                
Rocky is another great classic of the 70 , a film that has a beautiful message of never giving up , we have here with the Rambo the most iconic character of Sylvester Stallone , the direction of the film is good , and the script is good, unfortunately proceedings simply took the script of this film , just changed who he would play to be the champion , the soundtrack is excellent , especially when he will train and classic , the acting is not really the strong point of the film, Sylvester Stallone is the best film, he is very well , since the rest are from reasonable to weak, Rocky won the Oscar for best film, for many the real winner is the Taxi Driver , as for me anyone who won was a good size, Rocky is a film which shows that you should not give up, even if the opponent is stronger than you , because size does not matter . Note 8.8


                
"Rocky Balboa" (Sylvester Stallone) is a boxer who struggles just trying to make ends meets in the city of Philadelphia. Although he certainly isn't the brightest person around he has a big heart and does the best that he can. Yet even then he realizes that he is going nowhere fast. Then one day he gets a call from a man who wants to schedule a fight between him and the undisputed Heavyweight Champion of the World who goes by the name "Apollo Creed" (Carl Weathers). At first Rocky refuses because he doesn't believe he is in the same class as the World Champion and doesn't deserve the honor. However, he eventually comes around and gets more serious about his training. But even then he has grave doubts about his chances. Now rather than reveal any more I will just say that this was a very good movie which really highlights the importance of never giving up and always trying to do your best in spite of the odds. Admittedly, the first hour or so is quite slow but during this time it provides the character development necessary for the intense action and drama in the second hour. This is especially true for Talia Shire (as Rocky's girlfriend "Adrian") and the aforementioned Sylvester Stallone. At any rate, I thoroughly enjoyed this film and recommend it to those who might be interested in a movie of this type.


                
There are probably no people who have never heard of Rocky. But I surely had never seen it. I guess it was just one of those films that didn't appeal as much, but I watched it in preparation for Creed. I think it's a pretty entertaining film with its heart in the right place, and certainly more than just a "boxing" film. I guess I never really considered Sylvester Stallone as much of an actor, but here he really shows such great natural charisma and quiet, sensitive strength. His resilience is noticeable and he really makes the character his own in a way that I don't think the screenplay did. Overall, I don't think it's a totally amazing film, but definitely very good and very pleasing, and I can see why its Best Picture win hasn't been begrudged by many.


                
I only saw Rocky for the first time recently, after getting access to Netflix. I know it's been on TV recently and that's partly why I wanted to watch the full movie when I saw it on Netflix. I was pleasantly surprised by how good it was.I know since watching this movie that I had been missing at least one important 'cultural reference' that you wouldn't get until you've seen Rocky - that is, him yelling out "AAaadriaaan!" which is also a quote in the first Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles movie (which I also love ;) ).Stallone's character was surprisingly interesting to me and I thought he was a real sweetie. I found the story compelling too. As other reviewers have mentioned, it's much more than just a boxing movie. I really enjoyed the fact that he went after a girl who was, let's face it, quite dowdy and not your typical love interest in any Hollywood movie. I thought their love story was really sweet, though I could relate to Adrian not wanting to watch him get beaten up in the fight!One other thing to love about this movie is the classic theme song, too. And I finally got to see what that guy was talking about when I visited Philadelphia as a teenager - the steps Rocky ran up. That was back in 1997 that I saw those steps - I'm glad I finally know what that reference was about!I haven't seen any of the others as yet, but I know they're available on Netflix. I have a feeling they won't be quite as good as the first, just like I prefer the first Lethal Weapon movie to all the others I've seen.


                
I cannot tell you how many people make fun of me for loving this movie. Never mind the fact that it was the top grossing film of 1976, and won a whole slew of industry awards, including the highly coveted Academy Awards for Best Picture and Best Director. Perhaps it is the eventual deterioration of Sylvester Stallone's career (I still sympathize with the mental anguish that anyone who saw 1995's JUDGE DREAD in it's entirety suffered), or maybe it's the endless series of glitzy sequels and imitations that the film inspired (which did become numbing), but, for whatever reason, the reputation of this film seemed to get permanently soiled along the way. This is a shame, because ROCKY remains possibly the best underdog romance ever.After years of glossy sequels, it's a bit amazing in retrospect how grim and downtrodden much of the film feels. There is a moving aura of sadness and desperation that hangs over the majority of the film's characters, as if they all realize that they have wasted much of lives and are running out of time. Though he has (perhaps deservedly) become the butt of hundreds of jokes over the years, Sylvester Stallone (who also penned the film's screenplay) has undeniable charisma and displays mega-watt star power in this picture. Many people may forget this now, but many respected film critics actually compared Stallone to a young Marlon Brando when the film originally opened, and that high form of praise is rarely dispensed if undeserved.The remainder of the cast is similarly winning, particularly the quiet strength of Talia Shire, long before she became a punch-line on the sitcom "Friends." So many film romances have used the tired plot device of the ugly ducking who becomes beautiful by the film's finale, but Shire truly does make the transition from a put-on wallflower to a beauty right in front of our very eyes. Her transformation is so truly convincing that it makes the cliché seem fresh. The sister of director Francis Ford Coppola, Shire still acts today (most in bit and supporting parts) with considerable regularity, but I would love to see her tackle another lead role again in the future.Inspired by Mohamad Ali, Carl Weather's Apollo Creed is appropriately energetic and arrogant, while Burt Young's despicable leach of a brother is so unsympathetic that you actually start to like him about halfway through the film. Best of all is Burgess Meredith, whose short-tempered trainer could have ventured into unbearable campiness, but Meredith's fiery hostility is interlaced with considerable nuance. All these individuals seem less like film characters and more like real people, a feeling that is enhanced by the pseudo-docudrama style in which John G. Avildsen directs. And that, in and of it's self, is a far cry from all the glossy sequels that followed.


                
Sylvester Stalonne doing what he does well... to fight. When you join a good story, a good director and the right main actor you have a good film.


                
Rocky has become a part of popular culture for so many years its hard to look at the first film as a standalone low budget entry in the boxing genre. This is a great film and put the writer and main lead Sylvester Stallone into the stratosphere of Hollywood. Considering what the Rocky series became - popcorn action films with little heart, less intelligence, and a lot of testosterone - it's a somewhat refreshing experience to go back and re-connect with the original, which offers a lot more substance than the sequels. Rocky is not a flawless motion picture, but it is a feel-good classic, and well worth another look. The basic storyline has been done to death over the years; this is still one of the most effective and successful applications of the formula.


                
"Rocky" (1976) is a professionally produced drama about a struggling boxer, Rocky played by Sylvester Stallone, who gets a "once in a lifetime" shot to fight Heavyweight Champion of the World, Apollo Creed played by Carl Weathers. This film, even with the occasional technical issues and bad punches, is a wonderous underdog story that brings me joy every time I watch it. I wish this original story would have been made in this era with more attention on the little details as to keep those little pesky nuances from detracting from the story itself. This film is still very much a classic, especially with the need of an uplifting story during that time.I believe the writer, Stallone, and director, John G. Avildsen, did an immaculate job intertwining both the sport story and the love story between Rocky and Adrian, played by Talia Shire. The editing had moments where it felt a little like it was dragging on, even though it was purposeful, but the ability to effectively display the slow love in contrast to the fast-paced boxing was spot on. This film has a decent number of things that can be criticized which I believe has a lot to do with when it was produced, but overall this film, particularly the story, is a stand alone classic to my whole family.


                
I don't usually write reviews but I couldn't leave this masterpiece alone. I understand that I'm many years late when writing this review but it doesn't matter whether the public reads this review for it is for satisfaction purposes.Rocky is a masterpiece of a film that has produced iconic and lovable characters as well as beautiful movie soundtracks that were continuously used or remixed in its following prequels (praise Bill Conti for his genius).


                
Rocky is a film that just works on so many levels. Yes, it was low budget, even for 1976, but it's one of the aspects of the film that actually works to it's advantage. Rocky is a man from the humble streets of Philadelphia, poor and seemingly going nowhere in life. The movie, much like it's sequels paralleled the struggles that Stallone faced making it as an actor. The cinematography and the way it's shot really sympathizes with the way Rocky saw his life. Stallone with his charm and wit took a lot of the limitations and budget restrictions of the movie and just made it work. It is unquestionably the best of the series. As time goes by it's more clear that this film carries an inspiration that resonates. I recently visited the city of Philadelphia, and saw the Rocky statue, and felt the movie has a lasting legacy, not just for Philadelphia but for all humanity. The scene just before the fight where Rocky reveals to Adrian his doubts and fears about fighting Apollo was shot at the last minute but is one of the key scenes to the movie. Truly, one of the most inspiring movies ever made!!
This movie is a great movie. It showed you how no matter what, work hard and believe in yourself. it also showed that sometimes in life you need the good corner man push you towards your greatness. There is so many different scenarios you can find in this movie. Another one is having a great woman by your side. A lot of great men had a good loyal woman by their side. I think everyone can get something from this movie.


                
Rocky is a film you simply never want to stop watching. In my opinion this is the best sport movie I have ever watched . Fight scenes , great acting , emotions, amazing script blend together so wonderfully


                
Film Review: "Rocky" (1976)Winning the Academy-Award for "Best Picture" to utmost surprises all-around the guests at Dorothy Chandler Pavillon, Los Angeles, California on the evening of March 28th 1977 over a favorited Sidney Lumet directed still prevailing motion picture classic "Network" starring William Holden (1918-1981) and Faye Dunaway, winning for "Best Supporting Actress" as mesmerizing media-blood-sucking character of Diana Christensen, when initial "Rocky" director John G. Avildsen (1935-2017) took leading actor Sylvester Stallone's solely-written original screenplay on the ultimate underdog from urban streets of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania to be produced for less than One-Million-Dollar by teaming-up producers Irwin Winkler & Robert Chartoff (1933-2015) for the pretigious, Charles Chaplin & Mary Pickford 1920s established, motion picture label "United Artists" then from 1981 affiliated with distributing thunder-struck Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, witnessing a public-running phenomenon of a motion picutre by all-too-limited releasing standards at first in holiday season 1976/1977 to a margin of more than hundred times multiplying the initial on-production investment, putting everyone involved in the production on the map of an independents-emerging liberated "New Hollywood" industry-branches in favors of exclusive-first-look-deals despite downsizing in quantity principal studio-based full-circle-film-productions of "The Golden Era" of the 1930s and 1940s.With "Rocky" comes along the theme of boxing as market-driven target-group-initiative as an additional suspense-accelerator in this case of the main character's way into the public-related mind of world-heavy-weight champion Apollo Creed, performed with ease and conviction by actor Carl Weathers, who give all-heart-playing Academy-Award-nominated Sylvester Stallone the emotional space to act in a highlighted interior midnight apartment scene, when suddenly under a modestly-static shotlist by crowded-tiny-space authentic atmosphere-indulging lighting cameraman James Crabe (1931-1989) Stallone's performance breaks all boundaries of dignified as artificially-restraint patience to let out his frustration and anger on the world a vocal free-run, when the chance of a life-time by fighting "15 Rounds" with world-champion Apollo Creed in showdowns by the beat under Bill Conti's ear-trompets-recalling memorable main theme of an original score, staying with any spectator, who finds himself in time to visit this motion picture's galvanized vision of a 30-year-old man with nothing-to-lose by the name of Sylvester Stallone, who brought in career-defining moments in world cinema alongside highly-supportive feminine-nature-blooming counterpart-actress Talia Shire as Adrian in favors throughout after heart-warming timid inceptions to the picture-owning character of "Rocky", when mentoring casting members actor Burt Young as Adrian's buddy-like brother Paulie and managing training providing actor Burgess Meredith (1907-1997) bring further motivation for "Rocky" in and outside "The Ring" thanks to perfectly-edited as Academy-Award-honored and dramatized editorial sequences by Scott Conrad & Richard Halsey cutting the blast out of a man's life at the lower end of human existence, struggle for all and everything working on a dream.© 2018 Felix Alexander Dausend
(Cinemajesty Entertainments LLC)


                
