This film is bad in the sense that it is hardly a film at all. It has no structure, no dialogue, no screenplay, a threadbare story, but one that is not told because of non-existent direction, etc. It continues where the original left off, and just notches off plot elements one by one without any urge to tell a story, or develop characters, relationships, etc. The makers probably conceived this as a filler between numbers one and three and didn't bother with it. Of course, that's all right. I don't have any problem with that. But what really does disturb me is the high praise meted out to this "film" from almost every quarter – from viewers and critics alike. On this board it's being rated as the 17th best movie of all time. I've consulted quite a few film guides, and they all tag maximum, or near maximum, stars to this film. Even more bizarrely, they consider it to be the best of the series, and in my mind it's clearly the worst. What is going on? Of course, it's not difficult to see why this film is idolized. The first film was both good and a milestone. Not great, but it was the perfect statement for an age. It was a fairy tale that was confused as science fiction. The "Force" embodied morality, even religion, for the space age. It is set in the distant past and therefore pertains to origins rather than where technology is going. Spaceships and laser guns are just the backdrop, and have nothing to do with the story or the subject matter. When this film appeared in the middle of the crisis-ridden seventies, it really must have been a beacon of "new hope". And to put the ground-breaking special effects into its proper context, they symbolized optimism. There is no doubt that the effects served the story well, but they served even better the mood of the age. And with all this going, Star Wars rightly became a tremendous hit, and the focus of fanatic devotion. It was to be expected that any sequel would have been gobbled up by the fan base, as long as it didn't spoil the original. Empire doesn't spoil the original. It not only continues the war between good and evil, it does so with more spectacle, more aplomb, more special effects.When people say they like Empire, what I think they really mean is that thy like Star Wars so much that they are thrilled that it has a new and glossy wrapping. Because Empire is nothing but embellishment. They're not judging the film itself. The ideal situation would have been if Star Wars remained as a standalone fairy tale. Fairy tales end, and they leave us with the aura of "happily ever after". They don't go on and on and become sagas, and if they did that would totally destroy the aura. Empire is the first mistaken step towards saga, and that is why it quickly finds itself out of its depth. There is nothing else to be told, and that's why the film is so bad. One boring battle joined to another boring battle, and in between we have cardboard characters mouthing atrocious dialogue that serves no purpose whatsoever. The strain tells. Everybody is straining to do something when there is nothing to do. The third film, The Return of the Jedi, redeems itself by trying to finish a story. The prequels are interesting because they are filling in the background. But Empire is caught in no man's land. It is bad, and it should be exposed as such. All this pretending isn't healthy, I don't think.


                
The Star Wars movies were the worst movies of all time. Science fiction by itself is bad enough, let alone being a cult-like nerd flick.The music was the best thing, and even that was melodramatic at timesAnd come on, what's the whole "long time ago" thing. If we don't have flying machines now, we most certainly didn't have them in the pastOK, so maybe the Star Wars movies don't belong on the bottom 100, but in the top ten is ridiculous.First, the movie does not have a proper ending . It just stops when all the battles have finished and do not explain any other things after the battle. Instead, it only shows a shot of the characters looking out the window. This really disappoints me. Second, about the love between Princess Leia and Han Solo. I have never thought that Leia and Han Solo are a couple until they suddenly kiss. It makes me feel very surprised because the movie does not show any obvious relation between them. Third, the movie does not tell story but showing a battle sequence instead. It is very boring for audience to watch. Finally, the battle of Luke and Darth Vader did not bring out a mood of climax but instead it makes me think that "It is ridiculous."


                
How anyone can rate any one of these movies very high is perplexing. This is like fodder for the middle American masses. Lengthy boring scenes of mediocre effects and dumb costumes. (The monkey suit takes the cake and sums up the whole mess.) Terrible acting. (Wow, they found someone who is actually worse than Harrison Ford!?) Lucas using Joesph Cambell to lend credibility to this crap was a sin. I wonder how much money was spent on Joe to get him on the SW wagon. OK, so it is a harmless movie and some people apparently like it, but come on. Better than American Beauty, or Being John Malkevich, or Spirits of the Dead, or any Monty Python movie, etc. etc. etc.! Oh well, enjoy it... :)


                
Worse dead movie it is. Unsatisfactory unethical things it does to your feelings. Not a good realization of science fiction. Dumb characters.I have seen many good movies. My expectation was that this movie would be good. But it is not. Complete waste of time! Nothing I promise you get from it! Baseless.. ambivalent matters.. runs through the movie. I hate and would rate is as the worst one!The robot talks too much unnecessary junk talks.The monk was not a necessary character.Disappointed with the relations of Princess. Movie made her unattractive.
SPOILERSThis has to be one of the most boring movies in existence(with the exception of Superman).  To me, Star Wars has always been about the action scenes, but there's barely any of them going on in this film.  The sappy romance subplot between Han and Leia falls flat on its face being too predictable.  The only good thing was Vader's revelation that he was his father to Luke.... and that wasn't even confirmed until the next film(I think I read something about that at one point it originally turned out Vader was messing with Luke's head).  All in all, a weak film in the middle of the series.BOTTOM LINE:  The worst Star Wars movie.  Yes, I AM including "Menace."
This middle oddity is a very laborious experience indeed. It's all 'life saver' battles with an added dose of averageness thrown in to pad it out a bit. Dirk Vader is seeking Luke Shytalker (or whatever his name is - it's something along those lines, anyway) because he wants to cut him down with a swift blow from his 'life saver' if he does not join him in wanting to rule the galaxy as Dull and Duller: maniacal space duo. Anyway, it all ends with Dirk confronting Shytalker in a 'life saver' battle to the death. Dirk swings his 'life saver' at Shytalker. Shytalker swings his 'life saver' back at Dirk. This goes on until either Shytalker gets his hand cut off or the audience don't care anymore. That's about it, really. Not much here for real fans. Empire is nowhere near as good as it's predecessor or indeed it's sequel, Jedi, both of which are truly engaging. This one is not.
Sadly , I did not heed my instincts after watching star wars and decided to follow up with what the fans call the greatest chapter of this saga.It certainly makes for a good bookend.After blowing up a giant floating orange and being given a medal (for that?!?) , our Farm boy finds him self not in Kansas anymore . In fact not even northern Canada gets this Cold. Now the rebels are hiding on a planet with plenty of available ice for cocktails. And you the viewer will need it. Han and Leia are in love? When did this happen? How can a politically driven woman like that suddenly chair the committee of lousy lover oversight. Then again this woman did kiss her own brother. After the dripping sap of exchanges between these two you will probably want to kiss a wookie yourself.And the farm boy he decides that with the entire imperial fleet looking for him it's time for an episode of national geographic. Most people don't need to be hit by a meteor to figure out that riding alone on planet thats average high is about 2 is a bad idea. Does that bit of common sense stop our hero nope. How ever a ten foot cave beast does the job just as well.After performing a few magic tricks and slicing the beast in to a bored submission our hero decides he'll have better chances in the whiteout styled blizzard outside. His chances ? 725 to 1. R2 has been wrong before though. Particularly on the 3,720 to 1 odds that Han solo is in a lovers quarrel and not thinking clearly.Our hero with the aid of Han survives . All so he can face the empire . I would say at this point that the rebels choked on their ground fight , but the choking Admiral Ozzell received should have been directed at the effects team ( I can see the fishing wire moving the walkers, really I can see it)After the abysmal turn of events on hoth our farm boy hero decides nearly freezing to death on an ice planet was so last episode and proceeds to strand him self on a world of endless jungle at the advice of his dead Jedi friend. One would think seeing dead people is enough but no. Along with seeing and talking to dead folks we also follow the wise tutelage of talking green puppets ( honestly is Yoda what Kermit will look like in the year 2689?)I wish it was over but there is more hot air to come. While learning how to poison sith with bad cooking (himself the guinea pig) the farm boy has a vision of his two friends being tortured by Darth Vader. Its not as bad as your torture however. As we wander around the endless hallways that seem replete with a single image of clouds everywhere. We ask ourselves was there maybe something more exciting we could use as a background in cloud city?No matter how many times this metal balloon went around the world it could not avoid Darth Vader. Han is captured and frozen for later review. Lando the city's leader and Han's friend (guess relations cooled after that incident. He really didn't forget) stands around looking dazed as Vader runs amuck. Then of course our hero shows up. He is warned that it is a trap.he keeps going . He knowingly steps over the door rise , that his droid can't use Its thrusters to get over for reasons episode ll or it being 1980 can't readily explain. To no ones surprise he comes face to face with Darth Vader. After a brilliant round of laser fencing and one of the single greatest bat swings in light saber fight history , our hero is unhanded. Then the most unbelievable scene of the entire film . Darth Vader is the father of our hero. Im supposed to believe a machine fathered a normal humanoid. Next you'll tell me the only difference between Mt. Dew and Mello Yello is bromanated vegetable oil and carob bean gum.Will this train wreck story line ever end. The droids are horrible actors . C3PO s performance alone fell to pieces. Not even hiring a stand in director saved this. I m certain it was nice to shift the bulls eye however.
I first saw this movie when I rented it out from my local video store, I can honestly say it is the worst movie I have ever seen! It doesn't even deserve the right to be called a movie, I am a big fan of episodes 1 and 2 and I wasn't really disappointed with 3 but Empire Strikes Back is just horrible. The acting is dreadful, the bad guys aren't scary of funny and aren't even both guys! The kid who plays Luke Skywalker is dreadful and your left hoping the bad guys actually get him and strangle him. The storyline is just stupid and why they decided to keep the same characters as the first two home alone's is beyond me. Overall I have to say this movie is a big disappointment and I only gave it the rating 1 because I had to, if I could give it a zero I would.


                
This two hour version is a terrible war movie, very violent and I wouldn't want my kids to go through what we went through watching these six piles of garbage. The Empire Strikes back 30 minute version that Garry Hixon put in his files after Innerspace, is really really a masterpiece. Unfortun- ately Disney would not allow it to actually be released. I only get about 30 hits a day on my 4 videos and im sorry to say, don't have the money to release too many more, but there's always hope. I really enjoyed the exp- erience in 1980, but I was a dumb kid, stoned on marijuana and acid. The computer graphics were very avante-garde at the time. Its definitely a love story compared to my version, but is is very long, and very boring. There version of THE FORCE is levitation, which is not the force. The force is feeling it, feeling it, and not using the ability too often, then levitation is possible. Thank you Disney, love Cinderella.
