Star Wars: Episode V - The Empire Strikes Back (1980) is an excellent timeless classic that it is the best sequel of all time. I love this film to death, it is my second favorite film and the best sequel in the Star Wars franchise that I love. The Empire Strikes Back is a movie that it is one of the best sequels I can think of, it is right there with Aliens (1986), it is right there with Terminator 2: Judgment Day (1991) it is an excellent sequel and it really does establish The Empire as a value treat. Empire Strikes Back is still and excellent film which I really believe is a timeless classic. This is my second favorite film from director Irvin Kershner. Number 1 favorite Irvin Kershner film will be RoboCop 2 (1990) which is very underrated action flick. I still have to review those movies someday.Empire Strikes Back (1980) is the best one of the series, because it's deeper, darker, more philosophical. It's great because Darth Vader and the Empire are at their most menacing, the direction is creative, the characters feel real, the nature of the Force is explored more without losing its mysticism, and the pacing is, as George Lucas would put it, faster and more intense than any other film in the saga.The plot is actually more a rescue mission that Luke Skywalker (Mark Hamill) is coming to rescue his friends Han Solo, Princess Leia Organa, C-3PO and Chewbacca are captured on a planet Bespin in Cloud City from villainous Darth Vader. Han Solo's friend Lando Calrissian (Billy Dee Williams) set the up and with Darth Vader he set a trap for Luke. Also Luke studied the Force under Jedi Master Yoda to become a full Jedi Knight but in the end he must confront Darth Vader (David Prowse) by him self. The origins of Luke Skywalker are reveled.Empire Strikes Back was released in 1980 it is directed by Irvin Kershner this time and not George Lucas. Because George Lucas decide that he want to make this sequel independent one, so he ended up coming with his own, founding for the film. Getting a loan and money he earn from the first movie and it success, so he decided he wanted, to found the film him self, and he wanted to be more an executive producer to keep an eye on the lamp, he moved to a bigger studio in Orange County, California, so he diced to be more a producer he did not want to direct Empire Strikes Back. So his first choice was Irvin Kershner, who was a professor at UC in the UC film school, that George attended too and he always liked Irvin Kershner and of course he was a former professor and it was a hard way talk him to do it and the first time Irvin Kershner didn't want to do it, so George called Irvin's agent and his agent said to Irvin take it so he did and the rest is a history. This stands the test of time, the best film he ever directed! I love John Williams score still the same, but I think John Williams changed the music score for a little bit, but that's just my opinion.Things that I love in this film: I love the battle with Rebels fighting with the Imperial AT-AT walkers on the ice world of Hoth. That is my favorite scene on ice world in the film. The Imperial AT-AT walkers are incredible well made with classic special effects.I love that the origins of Luke Skywalker are reveled, that Luke is the son of Darth Vader, who is actually Anakin Skywalker, before he become Darth Vader and went to the dark site.For the first time ever, we see an Emperor in a Hologram talking to Darth Vader.The Falcon with Han Solo, Princess Leia Organa, C-3PO and Chewbacca hiding in the rocks try's to eat a monster.Luke faces with Darth Vader him self face to face and get his arm cut off and then he jumps off the bridge, because he didn't want to join his father in a dark force. The lightsaber duel throughout the chamber between Luke and Darth Vader was excellent and it was epic.The training sequence with Luke and master Yoda were excellent and epic. A New Hope and The Empire Strikes Back are my favorite films in series, that are in the franchise, this film get's a perfect 10 score for been the best sci-fi adventure sequel of all time.


                
`It avoids having the standard shoot-'em-up ending,' says a friend of mine, `by not having an ending.'  I suppose this is what most people think, but all the same the film manages to form a satisfying whole; or at least, a whole that satisfies me.  I'm therefore inclined to think it DOES have an ending.  Obviously, I can't discuss this without giving things away to those few who don't know what happens.  If you're one of those few, then believe me: your ignorance is precious enough to be worth guarding until you see the film.  Stop reading now.After the surprise attack on the rebel base, Luke Skywalker splits with Han, Leia, et al.  Han's party gets away first (is it just me, or is the shot of Luke watching the Falcon flying off while he stands stranded on the ground, a poignant one?), but thereafter they face one narrow escape after another, while Luke slinks off quietly and safely to train with Yoda.The training scenes are many and Yoda talks a great deal of rubbish.  But somehow it doesn't matter.  The film is ambivalent in its attitude towards Yoda, anyway.  Our sympathy clearly lies with the entirely non-spiritual concerns of Han, Leia and the adolescent Luke.  The main story concerns the understanding that builds between Han and Leia.  In the end they are honest with one another; and if Han's being frozen and shipped back to Tatooine is the price to pay for this, well, it's the price to pay.  It was very important NOT to end with the dashing rescue that opens `Return of the Jedi', which would be dramatically beside the point.  Instead we end with the promise that the rescue will some day occur.  That's enough.As for Luke: he abandons Yoda to rescue Han and Leia, and achieves NOTHING WHATEVER.  This was my favourite touch.  All five Jedis - Luke, Obi-Wan, Yoda, Vader, and the Emperor - find that their conflicting instincts are all entirely wrong.  The film is really about the temporary triumph of human impulses over the mystical Force.  Luke's human idealism is vindicated, but his supernatural powers, just this once, are not.When George Lucas gave his Star Wars trilogy a fresh coat of varnish in 1997 he felt he had to justify the expense by making needless changes.  You'll notice he made precious few changes to episode V.  There just wasn't room. He added a few extra shots of the ice monster, which of course weakened that one scene; but even with those changes in place the Special Edition is virtually identical to the original edition.  Since Lucas was so keen on making changes wherever he could this is obviously a tribute to the tightness of the story and the direction.  It's also a tribute to the perfection of the original special effects, more innovative than the effects in the first Star Wars movie and better than the effects in any subsequent one.


                
My five children were all pre-teens when 'The Empire Strikes Back' came to the theater. While there had been other Sci-Fi movies with a theme of conflict in outer space, the 'Star Wars' trilogy filled our imaginations like no other movies before them. The fantastic, strange worlds were presented almost like we were there too. Aliens sitting around a tavern, enjoying drinks and speaking in all sorts of languages. Nothing before had approached the sheer size of the space ships depicted here, huge cities traveling all over the galaxy. And how about the jump to hyper speed, then disappearing from the screen as the speed exceeds light speed! And the light sabres of the Jedi Knights. The Jedi Knights, a striking parallel to the Japanese Samurai.It is fruitless trying to argue 'which is best' in a trilogy, because the first one, in this case 'Star Wars', starts it all and has to be the 'father'. However, an argument can be made that 'The Empire Strikes Back' (now on DVD called Episode V) is overall a better-made movie which has more excitement, and grabs your imagination,than the other two original installments (now called parts IV and VI). The DVDs finally came out last month, and they are near perfect, as we should expect from Lucas Films and THX. The bit rate is high, and the picture is nothing short of superb. As is the Dolby EX surround track. My wife and I watched all three of the movies on DVD this week -- Star Wars, Empire Strikes Back, and Return of the Jedi -- compliments of our local public library. It was an appropriate reminder how good these movies are, and still ahead of their time. Nothing else has been made to compare to them.


                
In a film like The Empire Strikes Back, especially a few years on the heels of such a mind-bogglingly great film like the original Star Wars, there is something that comes immediately to mind that would at first seem to count against the film, but instead only winds up increasing the respect that it commands. In the 1977 Star Wars, there is a clear reliance on simplicity in some parts. Obviously, it is much more than a simply made science fiction film, but like I said in my review of it, there was a lot of highly effective reliance on things that were not put on screen, such as Obi Wan's description of The Force to Luke. In The Empire Strike Back, the first thing that we are treated to is the traditional scrolling text along a background of stars, depicting what has happened between the last film and this one, and reminding us of the things that were mentioned in the last film but never explained.At first, this would almost seem to be a way to save money to get more information across to the audience without having to actually put it on screen, but this is really an ingenious way of furthering the story. The very fact that we are so willing to read all this information and forgive our inability to actually see it is a testament to the quality of the series, even at this early stage in its presentation, and we know the story so well from the first film that we are glad to see such a large change in what's happening in the films, not for a second lamenting the fact that we have obviously missed so much action. And besides that, if and when George Lucas runs out of new prequels to release, and maybe if he someday begins to run low on how many hundreds of millions of dollars he has, he could go right back and make these in-between scenes into full length films. What would he call these, if he did that? Introquels? Who cares! The names themselves would be interesting enough, and if you go back and read the stuff that introduces this film, it's obvious that there's an entire film there just waiting to be made. I guess the question of actors would be a formidable one, though.The Empire Strikes Back is the film where we are first introduced to the great Jedi master Yoda (`Away put your weapon!'), as well as some of the most thrilling battle sequences of the entire Star Wars series, and that includes the prequels. The battle scene where the rebels fight the Imperial Walkers on the ice planet is an incredibly well-made battle scene, not only in the way that it was put together so convincingly using models, but that the machines themselves are so creatively made. Indeed, the Imperial Walkers are some of the most recognizable machines from the entire Star Wars saga, right up there with the Millennium Falcon and the Death Star.
I have just watched this film again, having already seen Episode I and Episode II, and not having seen any of the original Star Wars films for maybe 10 years (except for the original 1977 Star Wars, which I saw and reviewed a few days ago - and these aren't even the Special Edition versions!). When I first saw Yoda when watching The Empire Strikes Back again, I was really struck by how different he looked from in the newer movies. Obviously, he's completely computer generated in the new films, but here in Episode V he looks like a muppet! Even so, I would like to express my opinion that Yoda is more realistic and more interesting here as a puppet than in the newer films as a computer generated image. At least here in the older films you know that he's actually THERE, and that he's not just added into the film later.Oh yeah, speaking of Yoda, can I just complain for a minute? What the hell was up with the Jedi training? Yes, I realize that I'm just a lowly IMDb reviewer, while The Empire Strikes Back is a part of the greatest science fiction series of all time, but would it have killed George Lucas to write in a little more creative training for Luke? The thing that struck me first about the Star Wars films when I first started watching them was how incredibly imaginative they were, but then Luke started his training. You know, when I was in high school I played football. I was a wide receiver/tight end and I hardly ever got to play because I was too tall and too skinny, but part of my workout was to carry the linemen up and down the stairs to the weight room. Some of these guys weighed 100 pounds more than me, and I still almost never saw the field, and here's Luke Skywalker. He carries Yoda around this boggy swamp and he gets to be a Jedi! What the hell!There is also the addition of a surprisingly fitting love story. First of all, anyone who has ever read my review of a Jerry Bruckheimer movie will know that I am not the biggest fan of cramming a love story into a movie where it doesn't belong. I can't seem to write anything about Bruckheimer movies without complaining about the idiot love story, and now it's even worse because here's this movie that was made so long before, from which Bruckheimer could obviously have at least learned a LITTLE bit about how to do it right. Han Solo and Princess Leia maintain the personalities that they developed in the first Star Wars film and there is now a sort of love/hate relationship between the two of them, where neither one of them wants to admit their feelings for the other. This romantic subplot is characterized perfectly in the scene just before Solo is carbon frozen, when Leia risks approaching a cheesy romantic moment by saying `I love you' just before Han is lowered into the freezing chamber, and he saves the moment by responding, `I know.' Han Solo. Smart-ass to the last drop.Before I end I would like to point out that the goofs that can be found on the IMDb for this film are some of the most blatant that I've ever seen in a film. The scene where you can see someone giving a woman at the tactical maps a cue to deliver her lines is amazingly obvious, and some of the other ones, such as the stage hand swinging the light saber prop briefly into view as he switches it for an `off' prop with Luke just after he knocks Darth Vader over backwards, are just as much fun to look for. I have one question about the goofs, though. There's one where Luke looks off into the fog just after R2-D2 is eaten by the sea monster, and you can CLEARLY see a person running to the right a little ways off in the fog. Is that meant to be Luke? It seems that it's supposed to be him running in his search for R2, because you can even hear the FOOTSTEPS of the person running. I can't even IMAGINE how they could have missed THAT!!It is, however, a testament to the quality of a film when such tremendous oversights in editing do nothing to take away from the overall quality of the film. The Empire Strikes Back remains an extremely powerful and well-made installment in the Star Wars series, not taking even a single step backwards in the sheer breathtaking adventure of the original film. It's not often that a film as good as Star Wars can be released and then followed up with a sequel that is just as great, as is clearly the case here. Star Wars was a gigantic film upon its release, and with The Empire Strikes Back, Lucas has begun the formation of one of the greatest film series' in cinematic history.


                
SPOILERS Three years after "Star Wars", creator George Lucas released the second part of his trilogy. Giving scripting credits to Leigh Brackett and Lawrence Kasden, as well as directing to Irvin Kershner, Lucas made his smartest ever decision and as a result was able to release the finest film of the trilogy by a mile. Considerably darker and more mature than it's predecessor, "The Empire Strikes Back" is a masterpiece of modern film. It is an intense, powerful, entertaining film with the ultimate cinema twist and with a script worthy of it's potential.After the events of the first film, Luke Skywalker (Mark Hamill) and Han Solo (Harrison Ford) are now members of the rebel alliance. Hidden on a frozen planet, the rebels hide from the domineering glow of the Empire. All is not well however as the evil Darth Vader (voiced by James Earl Jones) is on his way to find them.Easily the best of the trilogy, "The Empire Strikes Back" has so much going for it. A wonderful plot, an equally good script with some brilliant lines (even actor Harrison Ford joining in with a line or two of his own) and special effects to match, this film is a glowing example of why people love the trilogy so much.Since George Lucas passed on the major responsibilities for this film, we are given a more professional, well made film for our attention and Lucas's vision is better off for it. With it's recent remastering, it is also the only film in the trilogy to not be damaged by Lucas' tampering. Extra images are added, graphics are honed, but nothing major is changed. As a result the film appears to us to be no different from it's original self.Darker and more mature as well, this sequel is better than the original "Star Wars" because it isn't so black and white. Presenting the evil Darth Vader as a more balanced individual, we don't quite have the confused Vader of the final chapter, but we are beginning to get signs that he isn't quite as we expected.This second part also gives us the finest performance ever by one of the universes most important characters. Still a rubber puppet with bendy ears, Jedi Master Yoda is introduced in this film as a creature of wit and intelligence. Voiced by Frank Oz, Yoda is brilliant because of his lines. Legendarily possessing of an obsession for splitting sentences up and rehashing them together, Yoda very often speaks normally throughout this film. Occasionally demonstrating his penchant for bad English, he does make a few minor errors, but ultimately it is up to the later scripts of George Lucas to corrupt Yoda's style and turn this wonderful character into an annoying figure of fun.There's no real way to fault "The Empire Strikes Back". The finest part of the original trilogy, this film is amazing because it is professionally done. Nobody would ever deny that George Lucas did something wonderful when he thought up "Star Wars", but unfortunately for a lot of the films, Lucas always insisted on too much control. A dire writer of scripts, Lucas can destroy his films by making them infuriating to watch. In this part though, Lucas didn't get involved and as a result, "The Empire Strikes Back" is a masterpiece in it's own right.
I cannot believe some people out there didn't like this film, yet claim to have enjoyed Episode One. No comparison whatsoever. "The Empire Strike Back" is George Lucas' best contribution to human history, and it will be remembered long after most other science fiction films have gone the way of the Do-Do Bird. The optical effects still stand the test of time, and the acting is superb. Harrison Ford, Mark Hamil and Carrie Fisher are all better than they we in the original Star Wars, having fully developed and grown into their characters, and the story just keeps going and going, from asteroid fields to swamp planets to cities in the sky, everything in this film works. So ignore anyone who claims to dislike it, and see it for yourself if you haven't already done so. 20 out of 10!!Oh, and Han Solo shot first! =)


                
This film changed the game forever. The people behind the scenes took an exciting science fiction adventure film with a happy tone where the heroes have a happy tone throughout and throwing that on its side. Throughout the film the rebels are in a constant rush and panic, pushing the viewers to the edge of their seat wondering if the heroes would make it to the end okay. This is done brilliantly by splitting up the heroes putting them in a worried state for one another. As well as that the rebels are all tested as they go through their own personal trails and try to find their way through.
Even though this might put you on a constant worry for the characters the movie is paced perfectly with breathers and amazing storytelling by the characters to fill in anything we need answers for.
That is just the story, the film also has gorgeous cinematography, going from the AT-ATs on Hoth, to the Imperial pursuit of the Falcon through the asteroid field, all the way down to the beautiful shots of the final battle in Cloud city. Even though we as viewers are worried for the rebels, the imagery is jaw dropping. 
The imagery is further enhanced by the most popular score of all time, John Williams delivers his best work ever as it has stuck with people their entire lives and is recognizable by even those who haven't seen the film. 
The film was released in 1980 and all of the set design and special effects still hold up to this day as they are just as convincing now as it was apon first watch for everyone in the past 38 years.


                
The sequel to Star Wars is argueably the best of all the Star Wars films.This is much darker than the 1st one.Look for the Super Star Destroyer,it is a awesome ship.Boba Fett makes his fist appearence here.The chase scene the M.Falcon is being chased down by the Star Destroyers and Tie Fighters is really a cool scene.I f you like the 1st Star Wars then you will love this one!Note: The special edition has added scenes,special effects,sounds,and creatures. To ME the highlight of this special edition is seeing the Wampa monster!


                
''Star Wars: Episode V - The Empire Strikes Back '' is my favorite one from all the star war series.Things are getting more and more complicated for the Rebels.Spite of the fact that the Death Star was destroyed, the Imperial troops had success expelling the Rebels from their secret base, and now they are being hunted in all galaxy. The new secret base is localized in Hoth, a very cold world even for the native animals. Darth Vader wants to find Luke at any cost, and now he sent many remote probes to find him in all space. Luke is attacked by a big animal and almost dies, by stays lost in the ice. He sees the ghost of Obi Wan Kenobi talking with him, and he says that Luke needs to go to a system called Dangoba, where Yoda will teach and explain to him all the steps to become a Jedi. Han Solo goes after Luke and they both are saved by their rebel team.The system Hoth is discovered by the Empire(since it should not have any human form living in there) and consequently the Rebel Base. Darth Vader decides to attack the Rebels by the surface,and the Rebels really stay in disadvantage. Han,Leia,C3pO and Chewbacca escapes from Hoth,but after many attacks from the Imperial troops and even asteroids fields, they arrive in the Cloud city that Lando,an old friend of Han,rules.Luke goes with R2 to Dangoba,and there he finds Yoda. The problem is, Yoda does not want to teach him how to become a Jedi,since he finds Luke extremely impatient, old to be trained and also with many anger inside of him,like his father Anakin. Obi Wan tries to change Yoda's mind, but only when Luke promises to really gives his best that Yoda accepts the challenge.The Emperor talks to Vader about a disturbance in the force that comes from Luke Skywalker. He finally says that Luke is son of Anakin and that Luke should never be trained as a Jedi,because of the risk in destroying the siths,that are very high. But Vader has other plans: He always imagined that his offspring died when Padme died, and now he thinks about making Luke a sith,to they both rule the galaxy together and also kill the Emperor.In the city of the clouds, Lando betrays Han and gives them all to Vader.It's all a trap to take Luke that Vader did, and while he tortures Han, Lukes see the vision of his friends suffering,and gave up his training. Yoda alerts him that the risk of turning to the dark side is high, and that he should not stop his training, but Luke is so worried with his friends that he cannot think about anything else. Vader call the award hunters and Boba Fett(the clone of Jango Fett,remember?)is the one who takes Han Solo to Jabba,to win a big prize.We are now in a risky situation, where Lukes needs to confront his dad without be tainted to the dark side, and someone needs to help Han,Chewbacca,Leia and C3po.Ps: *In this movie we can see the first demonstrations that Leia and Han likes each other,and when Leia wants to let Han with jealous and kisses Luke is kind of a funny moment. Another nice moment with Leia, is when we see the connection between her and Luke, when he has his hand cut and is in a dangerous situation after fighting with Vader.*I really like the big Imperial robots called 'walkers': I think they are one of the most impressive artilleries the Empire has.
I literally watched this movie about twenty times when I first got it, VHS , a box-set of the original three. But this one is best! It was the most exciting, it kept you on the edge of your seat and your mind the whole way through. Although, I have to say, Lucas has become very lazy in the Star Wars saga since the Phantom Menace, which was quite poor. This is vintage Lucas and this your vintage space movie. Star Wars (any of the original 3 and Episode 3) is a must see! It includes many household names. Some, though, hate Star Wars with a vengeance. Those people lack in creativity and are subject to boring, lack-luster films. All I can say is have fun because I know you won't for missing out on this 5-star, one of a kind classic. Must see, it's too great for a 10 out of 10 rating. It was way ahead of its time. It's a film of the ages and has caliber modern films dream to re-create!


                
While the Titanic made all the rich people (with the exception of Molly Brown and Rose) automatically uncaring, snobby, and thoughtless just because they were rich and needed a couple of villains for the story, The Empire Strikes Back did not portray "the villain" in a completely evil light. Sympathy is induced when we see the back of Darth Vader's scarred and pasty head.  When he tells Luke of their blood relationship, some feeling is allowed to creep in, telling us that he is not just some maniacal killing machine, but a human, fallen from grace, yet able to retain some sense of love, however twisted it may be.
(Note: This review contains some spoilers.)Movie novelty quickly wears thin, which is why so many sequels pale in comparison to their originals. "Star Wars: Episode V: The Empire Strikes Back" is the best of the original "Star Wars" trilogy, darker and deeper and even more powerful than the first film. Granted, the original pioneered an endless saga of imitators and somewhat imaginative knock-offs, and is still one of the greatest films ever made, but "The Empire Strikes Back" is a tiny inch ahead in the race.It is the dark middle chapter in an almost perfect trilogy, crammed full with imagination and special effects. It is simply one of the most visionary movies of all time, which is rare for a sequel -- any sequel -- especially in the case of a sci-fi film. Just take a look at "Predator 2" for an example of an idea running out of steam, or a director who cannot cope with his script.The film generally picks up where the last left off: Luke (Mark Hamill) saved the day by blowing up the Death Star, the heroes were awarded with medals by the princess (Carrie Fisher), and peace was temporarily restored. But Darth Vader (voice of James Earl Jones) is still alive, and the Emperor's fury grows stronger as Luke begins his Jedi training under the help of Yoda. Meanwhile, Han Solo (Harrison Ford) and Leia flee to Cloud City to escape an attack from the empire, where they are taken under the wing of Lando Calrissian (Billy Dee Williams), an old pal of Han's who is secretly working for Vader, somewhat against his own will.The movie is strong in its morals and Biblical metaphors, just as the original. Luke is the savior, Calrissian could be considered the equivalent of Judas, Han Solo is one of Luke's good disciples and Vader represents pure evil. And of course, there's the truly iconic line, "I am your father," that is relevant to the devil, who -- according to the scriptures -- was an angel before being cast into the bowels of hell and becoming Lucifer.
Lucas admittedly used these various metaphors to strike a nerve in the subconscious of his viewers. Like all good fables, of fantasy or reality, "Star Wars" is a trilogy that relates to just about everyone, in one form or another, and is -- at its roots -- a story we are all very familiar with. It is the ever-familiar notion of good-vs. -evil at its core that helps propel these movies into the hearts of many. Yes, "Star Wars" is the quintessential nerd's film, engulfed in an entirely different dimension, but the film's bad rap for this is undeserved -- it's still a wonderful story, and you don't have to be a die-hard fan to appreciate its fine points (and it has many).One of the most popular legends (and misconceptions) regarding the "Star Wars" phenomenon is that George Lucas helmed the entire Star Wars trilogy, when in fact he only directed the first and wrote the screenplay for all three combined. "The Empire Strikes Back" is directed by Irvin Kirshner, who also delivered us the disappointing "RoboCop 2." How could one sequel be so great, and the other so bad? Simple: Kirshner's darkness in "The Empire Strikes Back" had a point, and a high value. In "RoboCop 2," it was just excessive and silly, not to mention totally unnecessary. What Paul Verhoeven was able to do with the original "RoboCop" was something not many films can accomplish, and Kirshner tried to add on to this with a darker narrative, which only ended in a frustratingly empty motion picture."The Empire Strikes Back" has a point amidst the action, and is the most important of all three "Star Wars" movies. It has the famous introduction of the creature Yoda, who sits tucked away in his hut on a swamp planet, at first startling Luke with his strange features, and then with his subtle wisdom. It is Yoda who trains Luke in the ways of the Jedi, and eventually leads him towards his destination: The showdown with Vader, when the infamous secret is finally revealed.The movie is expertly crafted, both in terms of a a narrative and literal context. From beginning to end it is darker, fiercer and more powerful than the original film, which is not an easy feat. All trilogies have their dark areas, and this is usually the middle chapter ("Back to the Future Part II" is a good example), yet in "The Empire Strikes Back" the darkness seems very appropriate given the material. It is a film that dwells long and hard on betrayal, murder, revenge, and unrecoverable mistakes. By the end of the movie, we know what Luke is feeling: There is still much to be done, despite an overwhelming emotional downpour of attachment and confusion. For us, as an audience, we know everything must come to an end within the next installment. For Luke, it could be an eternity of struggle. But we all know there will be an end to the epic saga, and we have always known this, ever since we first caught a glimpse of a younger, more innocent Luke working for his uncle on that deserted planet, so many years ago, when he could only dream of having adventures in other galaxies far, far away...5/5 stars.John Ulmer
I remember to see this movie with my father(R.I.P)in theaters and in that time you don't know nothing about the movie is not like this times that you have magazinez and web to know everything about the movie so i was in 0 when i got to see it.Of course i see STAR WARS about 7 u 8 times and i was amazing when i see this movie i was open mouth..so dark so mysterius so thriller so tragic i mean everything in this movie was perfect.I can't believe that is almost 35 years of this movie and still looks great with new effects o not look's great!!!.That's why all the fans of SW knows that this is the best movie of the saga and simply one of the best sequels ever make in movie story!!!.


                
The rebels' new base is hidden in the icy planet Hoth and Princess Leia (Carrie Fisher) commands a unit with Luke Skywalker (Mark Hamill), Han Solo (Harrison Ford) and Chewbacca (Peter Mayhew). During the investigation of a meteor crash, Luke is wounded and captured by a creature but succeeds to escape. While dying on the snow, he has a vision of Obi-Wan Kenobi telling him to go to the Dagobah system to be trained by the Jedi Master Yoda. Later he is saved by Han and they are rescued in the morning by the rebels. Meanwhile Darth Vader (David Prowse) sends probe droids through the galaxy to find the location of the base. The rebels are located and they need to leave the planet under the attack of the Imperial Fleet. However Luke heads to Dagobah to find Yoda while Leia, Han, Chewbacca and C-3PO travel to the planet Bespin to meet his friend Lando Calrissian (Billy Dee Williams) and repair the Millennium Falcon. However, they are betrayed by Lando and captured by Darth Vader. Meanwhile Luke has a premonition with his friends in danger and he decides to interrupt his training with Yoda to save them, despite the warning of Obi-Wan and Yoda. Will Luke be ready to face Darth Vader and save his friends? "The Empire Strikes Back", later retitled "Star Wars: Episode V - The Empire Strikes Back" is a fantastic sequel of Star Wars, with a great story. The plot has adventure, romance, comedy and betrayal and is engaging until the very end. The characters now are more experienced and bonded. The mannerisms of C-3PO recalls Dr. Smith, from "Lost in Space". This is the type of sequel that keeps the high quality of the original film. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "O Império Contra-Ataca" ("The Empire Strikes Back")


                
This, is one of those times where it's great when the bad guys win. I had grown up watching old westerns and kiddie movies, where it was all good guys win at the end. And when I first saw this when the Original (Best) Trilogy reopened in theaters, my parents rushed me to the nearest cinema. I was astounded. Great acting. Even better directing, it's the greatest space movie pretty much ever made.It's only better because "Star Wars" set this one up perfectly. And it allowed a suspenseful "Return of the Jedi", which needed all it could get, because it was the worst of the Original's, but still pretty darn good. Overall even though it was made in the 80's it was still captivating to a boy used to computer graphics. The absolute best part was the final lightsaber battle between Vader and Luke where... well, I won't spoil it for those who haven't heard the line.


                
The best of the Star Wars series? Without a doubt. What makes this movie so great is the fact that it is not like other movies, leaving you with all the hope you need at the end. In this film, however, the only hope is that all of the main characters are still alive at the end.Another thing that places it above the others is its ending. The "I am your father" scene is no doubt the most famous single scene in film history, as well as one of the most shocking twists in any film ever made. Jones' delivery during the scene, as well as Hammil's reaction to it, only makes the scene better.And, of course, we can't forget the introduction of everyone's favorite Jedi master, Yoda. The jump he makes from strangely hilarious ("MINE! MINE!") to calm and serious is very believable, unlike most films, where major jumps in personality are not believable at all. His unique speech is also interesting.In closing, one of the best films ever made. Thank you, George Lucas and Irvin Kershner, for bringing one of the best movies of all time.
The first Star Wars movie, is a Sci-fi and cinematic masterpiece. But where Star Wars capitalized, Empire Strikes Back took it to the next level.Here's what I think of the movie: Story - I'm pretty sure we all know the story of Star Wars. A Galactic Empire is empowering the galaxy, and a Rebel Alliance tries to stop it. Today, it's sort of a cliché plot but back then, it was imagination skyrocketing into the heavens. Now, thats the plot of Star Wars. The story spans from a battle on the frigid planet of Hoth, to a space dogfight in an asteroid field, to Cloud City where the greatest plot twist in the history of cinema, is reveled. The film ends on a cliffhanger which leads to Return of the Jedi. I'm not going to spoil it, but I don't think I would need to because I'm willing to bet that about 99.99% of people have already seen this movie anyway(to that .01%, where the hell have you been?).-Rating 10/10 Characters - The characters from the original movie are back, including Luke, Han, Leia, C3P0 and R2D2, and of course, Darth Vader. But the films also introduces some new characters as well, including Lando, The Emperor, Boba Fett, and Yoda. The Emperor doesn't really play a big part in the movie(I think he only has like, 10 lines) and Boba's name is never really mentioned. However, Yoda plays a big part by teaching Luke the ways of the force, and Lando, who is Han's old pal, plays a big part by betraying our heroes and giving them to Vader. Of course, he's still a good guy, he had to hand them over. Overall, I'd say the characters are still great.Rating 10/10 Visuals - This was back when Star Wars movies didn't rape the fabric of CGI. So what you see in the movie were real things. The Walkers, asteroids, X-Wings, Tie Fighters, everything. The original Star Wars set the standards for Special Effects with the light sabers, Death Stars blowing up and everything. Empire Strikes Back isn't any different. The Effects are still awesome and look great.-Rating 10/10Music - The Star Wars theme is (of course) still here and it's one of the most recognized themes in cinema. You only need to hear a second of the Star Wars theme, and you'll know what it is. Like any other Star Wars film, the music is composed by John Williams, so everything is played by an orchestra. Even though it's great the here the Star Wars theme in all it's nostalgic glory, the music thats played is still just as great.-Rating 10/10 Overall - Empire Strikes back is my favorite Star Wars film and is one of my favorite movies. If I had to make a Top 10 list of my favorite movies, about 15 movies would be tied for the #1 spot, and this would be one of them. Everything about it is just perfect.Final rating : 10/10 -PeterPPK


                
This film changed my life....i fell in love with Star Wars when it was re-released on video in the early 90's.I was a small boy that would obsess over things like Batman & Nickelodien.After i saw the trilogy, i went and bought everything i could get my hands on.Children of nerds should be given this at birth.This film is,in my opinion,is the greatest of all the Star Wars films.I think that it has a fantastic ending,cool characters (Boba Fett,Yoda,Lando) and great acting.I recommend this film for every Sci-Fi fan (even the Trekkies).I also must say that this is just a great film all around(not just for a space-fantasy).
And I've seen some great films. However, within this one it's the culmination of both fortuitous events and the craft and skill of everyone involved that makes this the best film of all time.If you start with the script, because many people leave this detail out, you realise how well crafted the dialogue is. This is no accident and arguably the key to this success was the work by Leigh Brackett, the woman that was also partly responsible for the script to the Bogey classic "The Big Sleep". I've often said that it you place Han and Leia's script in empire and compare the sparkling repartee between them and Marlow and Rutledge you could almost switch them between films (Those are harsh words to throw at a man, especially when he's walking out of your bedroom and sorry sweetheart, I haven't time for anything else, in particular).Then of course the luck factor kicks in. Bad luck at first with Mark Hamill's terrible bike accident which had to be explained with the wampa attack, which in turn leads to the scene where we see how Luke's powers are first coming along. Then arguably the best piece of lateral thinking. The obvious jedi master would be 6 feet tall and virtually indestructible, and rather than do that, they make Yoda anything but, they went the other way and created one of cinema's best realised fake characters. In Empire, Yoda is masterfully done and every scene with him is like a moment with a treasured Grandparent whose wisdom is strange but unquestionable. This is Yoda's film and is fantastic for it.The John williams score in this one is breathtaking, key moments, include the lifting of the X-wing and the confrontation between Lando and vader, so subtle, but so perfect.Finally the effects, the light sabre duel is arguably the best one ever put on film, as Luke's quick but not perfect yet, going up against a Jedi Warrior whose powers are second to only 2 others in the galaxy. Awesome, and as for the revelation, I thought he was lying when I was 10 years old, it is almost too unbelievable, but believable it is.First three aren't a patch and this one is George's masterpiece.10/10 Mikey B
There's only two Star Wars films that I actually really love: A New Hope and The Empire Strikes Back. That's not to say that I like some of the other films in the franchise, but the two I just listed are my alltime favorites.The Empire Strikes Back is a very in-depth film. While it's predecessor was simply just a lot of fun, this film is something special.Luke is an extremely flawed character. He rushes into things eithout thinking things through, he is very whiny, etc. But all at once, that's what makes him such a great character. Characters are supposed to be flawed, but that doesn't mean they shouldn't get development to make them less flawed. People complained about Luke being s whiny character, but that's part of the development process. Characters start off bratty and childish, but eventually get better with each film.The story of this film is amazing. From the pacing and dark tone to the characters and writing, this film has a lot going for it. The first film also had a good story, but the characters didn't have as much development. Not to mention that unlike A New Hope, Empire has a much darker tone to it. After the Rebels lose the Battle of Hoth, there's really this feeling of uncertainty as to what will happen to our heroes next. And Darth Vader is, in my opinion, one of the most iconic and badass villains in movie history. And the scene where Luke rushes to Cloud City before he could complete his training to help his friends after they're captured by the Empire really shows just how flawed of a character he is.Empire is a special movie. It, along with the rest of the Original Trilogy, changed cinema forever. This movie was made with legitimate care and love for the first film.Its a great film, and if you haven't seen it yet, I highly recommend you check it out.
Wow, what a film, I never knew that I could love a film soooo much in my life, but here it is, my favourite film of all time, the one that made me love Star Wars. First of all, the acting in this film is amazing, People who watched the film didn't know that actually most of Harrison Ford's lines were improvised, which is awesome. Carrie Fisher as Leia was great, especially when she talks to Ford, Frank Oz as Yoda is great, way better than CGI Yoda from the prequels. Luke as the hero was great, but I like how they show Luke as the hero, but he still loses, which brings me to Darth Vader. He is by far one of the best villains of all movie history, he is menacing, mysterious, then when he tells Luke, "I am your father", that completely changes how we first watched A New Hope. Effects are good for that time, also two others characters that I need to mention are Boba Fett and Lando Calrissian, these two characters really showed me that this is such a great movie franchise, Lando with huge charisma, and Boba being silent badass, so out of ten I would give this incredible movie a 10/10. Perfection.


                
I love this episode of the series. It's a fun comfortable watch for me and I enjoy everything about it.My only wish is that I could watch the original trilogy again without the added F/X and remastering.


                
While Star Wars: Episode IV - A New Hope (1977) started the ball rolling with a bang, Star Wars: Episode V - The Empire Strikes Back (1980) takes that explosive start and runs with that momentum in leaps and bounds. I've seen many sequels over the years, Terminator 2, Aliens, RoboCop2, Shrek 2, Harry Potter and Lord of the Rings (bare with me on those two since I know they're book series), etc. and yet none of them seem to hit the beats of the development of the characters and plot alongside the action so perfectly balanced. I don't know, my review may seem a little ramble like but it's just one of my all time favorite movies and I'm kind of at a loss of words for how to talk about it professionally.


                
So, I was almost 1 when this movie dropped and, well, it started the opening night tradition.OK, well, how to do this? I guess we will start with the hate. I like to address the hate in movies, especially ones that are well regarded and loved.Now, I'll excuse it for the people that just don't like Star Wars. Everyone is entitled to their own opinion.But then there are the people that really hate Empire because of...reasons. And those reasons are Revenge of the Sith.I'm sorry, panning Empire because of loyalty to the prequels--misplaced as it is--doesn't make I-III any better. It just makes you petty.Now, why its loved and, I'll admit, I am one of those fanboys that really do love this movie.For starters, Empire went dark. It was the really the episode that the good guys lost and, that made it unique among, well, among just about every movie not made in the 1970s. I guess that is what made the 70s such a wonderful time for movies.We could use a little more of that. We could use a lot more of that. We use a lot more gritty in cinema. And, we could use a lot more "lived in" Everything looks too clean.Empire had that.And then it had that big, legendary, reveal that made all those kisses between Luke and Leia utterly wrong once the second big reveal hit in 1983...which explained that look Han gave Leia when she told him in the next installment.Moving on...We have the Battle of Hoth, which, yeah, nerd awesomeness with kind of a WWI trench warfare v tanks feel and a WWII Evacuation of Dunkirk feel with the rebels on the run and the Empire forcing its way across the galaxy with brute strength.And that prolonged time on the Falcon, well, that was just brilliant for character development and, incest blocking.So, really, honestly, there was way too much to love not to put Empire on the throne.


                
This film is the continuation of the story of the first. The war between the rebels and the Empire continues, while Darth Vader Luke demand throughout the galaxy. Directed by Irvin Kershner and written by Leigh Brackett and Lawrence Kasdan, this film has the participation of the same actors from the first film.The film inherits most of the qualities of his predecessor. It has a carefully chosen cast and consistent performances, with some emphasis on the work of Harrison Ford, actor who was already highlighted in the first film and now consolidates his success. Action scenes are excellent, thought of meticulous way and the fight scenes with lightsaber remind us some great duels of piracy and swashbuckling films. The special visual and sound effects are the best that existed at the time and fulfill their role with great merit. The only difference between this film and the latest films of the saga is, in fact, this technical issue, given the huge advance that, in a few decades, the techniques and special effects achieved. The soundtrack was again in charge of John Williams, which continues the excellent work started in the first film of the saga. In fact, the first main theme of the chords of the saga became one of the songs that instinctively comes to mind of people when they think of film music, the same way as the "March of Darth Vader" has become one of most songs instinctively associated with the image of any movie villain. The point of greatest merit of this movie is the script. It is a deeper script, more psychological and intense than the script of the first film, and this contributed decisively to the success of it, and the franchise itself. Oscar winner for Best Sound, is one of the most popular films of the saga in the present day.


                
