The second installment of the original Star Wars trilogy benefits from coming from a time when there were very few films that could be called that. If it was made and released now it would be lost in a sea of big budget battles of good and evil aimed at making big money for a week or two and then disappearing.Thankfully it's from a time when it became one of the biggest films of the year or even the decade and it went on to inspire what the film industry is today. Without Star Wars and its army of nerds leading the way, there is no Marvel attempt to take over films and no comic-con and you would be looking at a very different world.This film has great moment and legendary quotes or misquotes and of course it has its flaws but what blockbuster doesn't and in the end it is a Star Wars film so it's worth watching.Featured on Episode 69 of The Emerald Reprobates Podcast.


                
Very good movie,like the way they are acting and playing the roleplay.


                
The Empire Strikes Back is not all that bad and has its moments. Once again a simple film which is easy to follow. I can see why a lot of kids, probably 10-12 year olds or even younger loved theses films as there was nothing like it at the time. It would also appeal to many sections of the public as harder or more intellectual films often divide their audiences. Star Wars is quite simple and never goes over your head which is why many children and many adults as well like it It is quite amusing to note that one of the most quoted lines in movie history is actually incorrect. Darth Vader actually says 'No I am your Father' in reply to Luke protesting otherwise. However so many fans have got this wrong, even in films and shows that reference Star Wars.


                
Star Wars: Episode 5- The Empire Strikes Back (1980): Dir: Irwin Kershner / Cast: Mark Hamill, Carrie Fisher, Harrison Ford, Billy Dee Williams, David Prowse: Blindsiding visual wonder recalling the threat to Rebel forces whom are hiding on the ice planet Hoth. Luke Skywalker is instructed to seek Jedi training from Yoda. An attack by Imperial forces leaves the Rebel base in ruins but Han Solo, Princess Leia and company narrowly escape in the Millennium Falcon. They venture to Cloud City where Lando Calrissian betrays them thus setting a trap for Skywalker. Cliffhanger ending hinders it in standing on its own but director Irwin Kershner explores darker aspects. Mark Hamill returns as Luke who learns endurance, concentration, priorities, friendship, and very hard truths that leave him literally dangling for survival. Harrison Ford as Han learns to put the needs of others ahead of his own particularly when sacrifices arise. Carrie Fisher return as Leia who strengthens her leadership. Billy Dee Williams as Lando realizes his mistakes and hopes correction is possible. David Prowse dons the suit and presents the intimidating presence of Darth Vader who presents those ever famous hard hitting words to Luke. Special effects are just as electrifying with the appearance of Yoda among other creatures and landscapes. The film serves as a follow up to Star Wars with intriguing suspense and imagination. Score: 7 / 10
Empire is an entertaining film and a terrific setup for the finale. The battle and setup at Hoth is entertaining. The exchanges between Han and Lea are entertaining. The droids are quite funny in this one, but don't belittle the drama. The development of Darth Vader and the Empire is vicious and well placed. The end a real cliff hanger and a surprise the first time through.So why not 10 stars? My main complaint of the film is the middle act isn't exciting. Just think for a second about all the fun action in the middle of a new hope compared to Empire. In A New Hope they get on the Falcon, Luke trains in the force, a planet is destroyed, they encounter the death star, they hide from the troops, they save the princess, Obi-Wan fights Vader and dies, they fight off a ton of troops to get back to the falcon and they fight some tie fighters in the air to escape the Death Star. In Empire Strikes back Han, Lea and company try to escape the empire before eventually getting caught. Darth Vader and the empire decide to try to convert Luke, and Luke learns from Yoda before eventually leaving against Yoda's will to save his friends.Sorry Empire, but in comparison, that isn't a lot of excitement especially if you have already seen the film before. How could the middle act have been better you might ask? I say increase the pace of everything, especially Yoda and Luke's first meeting. Maybe Han could have had Chewy and/or Lea firing at the tie fighters and bombers from the gunner position while on the run. There also could have been a space fight with cloud city with Lando saving the Falcon crew at the last moment.All I'm saying is that there's a real excitement void in the middle act of the movie which everyone seems to gloss over. And i think this shortcoming is more than enough to make Empire the worst, rather than the best of the original trilogy. It's still a solid film, but I like Return of the Jedi and A New Hope more. and I'm bewildered by the masses who proclaim Empire to be the best Star Wars movie or one of the best movies ever.
The second "Star Wars" film to be released has non-stop action, but the problem is that there is no compelling plot to make the action interesting. Endless shots of star ships gliding through space soon become tedious. The last third of the movie does generate some interest but it's too little, too late to save this from being more than a mediocre entry in the series. The other problem is that it just stops abruptly, relying too much on the sequel to clean up the loose ends. The dialog is amateurish and there is too much emphasis on special effects. Yoda is cute but Chewbacca and R2-D2 become increasingly annoying with the silly noises they make.


                
In my opinion, The Empire Strikes Back is Star Wars at its best and is a groundbreaking movie and a near perfect sequel. It is very enjoyable to watch but is also incredibly overrated. The Empire Strikes is no where near perfection and definitely not the best film ever made like many people said. Although, I do agree that this is George Lucas Masterpiece. 7.4/10


                
"Star Wars" is the kind of franchise that just won't be topped. No matter how much stronger the quality, there never will be a franchise that will gain so much international appreciation due to the fact that "Star Wars" did something not even the great George Lucas thought possible. He created an international sensation that is still being hyped and built upon to this day. After the rebels have been brutally overpowered by the Empire on their newly established base, Luke Skywalker takes advanced Jedi training with Master Yoda, while his friends are pursued by Darth Vader as part of his plan to capture Luke. This fictional world of planets and space creatures is still capturing the hearts of millions of people around the world. What George Lucas and his director Irvin Kershner do is strengthen an already good film (the first film in the saga, "A New Hope") and continue a story without ruining the first or making it for the sake of money. It's a truly epic tale that to this day brings a smile on our faces due to the cutting-edge brilliance of a truly unique mind.


                
The Empire Strikes Back is often viewed as one of the greatest films of all time, just like its predecessor, and even better than Star Wars, but I personally prefer the first one because the action is much better. The cinematography is not really impressive, which makes the action hard to see.Enough about the bad action, the final face off between Darth Vader and Luke Skywalker is one of the best confrontations I have seen in an action movie, not because of the action, but because of the dialogue and because of the two sides and the motivations behind the fight. It's pretty cool.The story is also not as fleshed out as the first one, even though it did introduce my personal favourite character Yoda as well as Billy Dee Williams as Lando Calrissian, who is also pretty cool. The only thing done better than the first one in this film is the plot twist, when Darth Vader says that he is his dad, which while I wasn't expecting it, I wasn't really blown away by it, I just thought that it was fitting.The creativeness is still there, with the team meeting all new different and imaginative aliens and robots. I already talked about Yoda, but we also see Emperor Palpatine for the first time, even if it is for just one scene.Overall, The Empire Strikes Back, is not as exciting, clever or creative as Star Wars, but it's still engaging enough in its own right to count as very entertaining cinema.The Empire Strikes Back: 7.4/10
For my rather lukewarm reaction to the original Star Wars, I was told that I should see The Empire Strikes Back before writing off the series. And it's certainly an improvement. I like it. One of the best films of all time? No. I don't think this sequel has made the series any more intelligent, well-written or well-acted. But it has amplified everything that the first movie did to 11. Better effects, better costumes, better pacing, some interesting air battles, the addition of the legendary Yoda and the iconic revelation about Darth Vader and Luke. Building off the first film, I did feel a little more invested in the characters than before. Overall, a good entertaining fantasy film.


                
Empire Strikes Back is widely called the best Star Wars film (to date) and it is clear to see why.It certainly contains lots of the iconic moments from the series and all the best lines. Hamill, Fisher and Ford all have eased into their lead roles and there is enough action for them all to be involved, even if after the first act they don't spend much time together.Whereas 'A New Hope' had a sluggish start this second film in the original trilogy opens with action and never really lets up after that. There are great fight scenes and technical effects that more than make up for the moments where it all gets a bit sci-fi jargon heavy.Is this the best Star Wars film, the one for future films to beat? Possibly.


                
Well, well. Not bad at all this film. I thought that Empire Strikes Back was a good motion picture and an improvement over A New Hope which I completely disliked. What's good about Empire Strikes Back is that it is more involving than its predecessor, it is fresh, dark, sinister, emotional and unpredictable in an original and great way but what comes as a particularly interesting subplot in this film is the daring, slick, ironic, manipulative, show-off and comedic dialog shared between Han Solo and Princess Leia. We witness awesome moments whenever it is only the two of them talking together alone in what looks like a romance moment between the two of them. And also the good thing is that the romance and dialogs between them is not over-the-top as some people might expect from a part romance film. And Harrison Ford is impeccably well cast as Han Solo in this movie, both in his acting and his looks and he is ultimately an exceptionally interesting character. And Darth Vader he isn't bad either. He is perfect as a villain: he is obsessed to catch the rebels that won a victory over his Galactic Empire three years earlier and he also punishes his commanders that involuntarily fail him in his attempt to catch the rebels by strangling them by the use of the Force. And he is also beautifully voiced by James Earl Jones though to be honest his small accent bothered me a bit and it harmed his beautiful and haunting voice as Darth Vader a bit. Actually, I think I will not consider it as a flaw as a matter of fact because of his beautiful and haunting voice and I think that his beautiful and haunting voice is enough to undo the flaw. Well done on all that. And last but not least...the sound. The sound was absolutely fantastic in this movie and it arguably deserved the Academy Award for Best Sound which it won. One thing I think should have been improved in this Star Wars movie would have been to dig deeper into the idea of the Force. My rating for Empire Strikes Back is 7.2/10
The cinematography is stark and bare. It's fun watching it because its complexity begins within its characters. Say what you will, this film is very light-hearted and not complex at all as the different characters struggle against a system that has perpetuated too many falsehoods. The story is nothing special, but exceptional performances from most of the cast go a long way. I thought this was cute and not bad at all. Filled with charm, innocence and drama. The blend of strong acting, a strong story and some inventive camera-work earns this outer space vehicle a rating of 7/10. It was well-received at its American premiere.


                
Star Wars I really liked the movie and it was really exciting and cool I really like movies


                
Very well done film with some great directing, likeable characters, and the most famous plot twist in cinema. Only problems were that some of the acting wasn't very good and while as said, likeable, the characters could have some more development. I would say that I recommend this film if everyone in the history of the universe hadn't already watched it


                
A fun, slow, action-packed sequel that makes fans fall in love with the Star Wars saga again. This was a very good, and perfectly made film if you compare it to other films that were released around its time. The movie was one of the most loved Star Wars films ever... but I can't really agree on that. As I mentioned before it was kind of slow, but still surprisingly enjoyable.


                
In terms of action and adventure, "Empire Strikes Back" is a rousing success. There are enough space flights, phaser blasts, and lightsaber wielding to satisfy the visual effects junkies. The only thing missing, however, is that "sense of something epic" inherent in its original predecessor.In "Episode V", as it has come to be known, the rebels are still being pursued by the Empire, this time on the ice planet Hot. The first half of the film focuses on those battles, primarily featuring Han Solo (Harrison Ford) and Princess Leia (Carrie Fisher). A new character in Lando Calrissian (Billy Dee Williams) is also introduced, though his loyalties are very much in question. The second half deals more with Luke Skywalker's (Mark Hamill) beginning steps to becoming a Jedi. After the death (in Part IV) of Obi-Wan Kenobi, Luke goes to continue his training with Yoda, an enigmatic little green character seemingly older than time itself. The film's climax brings forth the long-awaited meeting of Luke and Darth Vader (voice of James Earl Jones), as well as a startling (if now clichéd) revelation that sets the stage for the final chapter.Though a good movie in its own right, I always felt as if this one lagged behind the original in certain key areas. A recent watching confirmed this. I think the "trouble" stems from the fact that "Empire" is much more of an action film than a drama. Whereas "New Hope" was so incredibly genre-diverse, "Empire" takes that same cast of characters and instead relies a bit too much on laser blasts and space maneuvers. It doesn't help that certain scenes (inside the "asteroid"; Lando's scenes) just feel a little draggy...like filler.Overall, though, this is still a very watchable film that keeps the main storyline pushing forward. For special effects or action/adventure buffs, this one will stand out. For others, it may fall just a tick behind the original.


                
I'm continuing to watch all the Star Wars movies in preparation for "The Force Awakens". I've made it up to "Episode V: The Empire Strikes Back". This is the one that I always think I'm going to love, and then don't. Maybe that's because I think things are going to happen in it that actually evidently happen in "Return of the Jedi" (Palpatine makes no appearance in "Empire", despite his being...the Emperor). Maybe it's because I find Yoda to be less endearing in this movie than I did when I was five years old. Who knows.Whatever the case, I'm giving "Empire" 7/10 stars. Yes, it does continue on the story of "A New Hope" relatively seamlessly. Yes, the characters are iconic, and yes it is a fun movie overall. Yes, Luke and Vader have a memorable showdown with a memorable line. But it just wasn't as enjoyable for me as "A New Hope". The story seemed to bend and sway a bit (Luke's visit to Dagobah, for example. The dream sequence encounter with Vader also is a little weak).A long story short, I like this movie, but not enough to give it an 8 or above. Good movie. Fun. But not one of my faves.


                
Back in 1977 I really enjoyed the first film in the franchise, but the hype was so enormous when this came out I decided to avoid it for a bit. I finally caught up with it in 1997 by which time Time had sadly caught up with it too and wreaked its usual damage. Then it was a case of Roll Over Harryhausen, tell Jim Henson the news.Story has imaginative intergalactic politics and battles amidst a plethora of gormless soap and stereotypes. To a kid it would be marvellous stuff to watch and as an adult to revel in through rose-tinted glasses, but coming at it as an adult I see it through the Empire's, sorry, Emperor's New Clothes and in the Altogether. It's relentlessly inventive but not in my top 1000 films of all time. Favourite bits: Luke yakking to Kermit about the Force; the flying city where expense or common sense is no object; the love affair between the Princess and the Scoundrel; the remarkably obvious pay-off, hyped at the time as something groundbreaking.The first cut is nearly always the deepest - long live the brash first film, this sequel is entertaining and nonsensical, an eminent time-passer. The first was a monument to Luck, the second a monument to Hype; I love fantasy movies of all eras and genres but mainly those not surrounded by heaps of hype swallowed by millions of people, it's a real barrier to my complete enjoyment of anything. This is a watchable movie but only a must-watch movie to see for what digital cgi cartoonery has done to the movies, and to us. Modern cgi is usually cold and soulless but usually not jerky and laughable, cgi has spoilt us all and there's no going back. However, now to watch Jason & The Argonauts and curse Roger Rabbit.


                
A fun movie to watch when you're bored or just want to have a Star Wars marathon! It's really cool because my band class gets to play some pieces from it! A bit gory for littler kids, but fun for ages 7 and up to see how "old" movies were. :) I'm personally a huge fan of Star Wars, and a total nerd about it! It has that bittersweet ending in which it leaves you hanging, but then you can go and see the next one to see what happens! And a great music selection all through the entire movie. Good actors and actresses for the age too! Also great for the people who saw it when it was in the theatres, because it can bring back good memories. Watch it!


                
I have to admit, I never read the novel this is based on. But I'm guessing the people who don't like the movie at all (which is fine), either haven't read the book or don't like the book. I'm saying this, because what you are getting here, is very close to adult films. Something people in Germany (censors that is), do not have a problem with (the movie is rated 16+).I can only guess the movie will be NC-17 (if they rate it) in America. There are explicit images of male genitalia, a lot bare breasts (though mostly of our main female lead). With all that said, I went into the movie with the impression I wouldn't like it at all.


                
"The Empire Strikes Back" clearly has the feel of the middle episode of a trilogy. The beginning carries on from the original "Star Wars" film; although the Death Star has been destroyed, the Empire remains strong and the evil Darth Vader continues to hunt down the rebels on their base on the icy planet of Hoth. There is no really definite ending; the film might just as well have ended with the words, familiar from old Saturday morning serials, "To Be Continued"- which of course it was in "Return of the Jedi". In between, the mix is much the same as it was in the first "Star Wars"- a science-fiction adventure incorporating elements of other film genres, notably the war film but also the western, the oriental martial arts film, sword-and-sorcery type fantasy and the Robin Hood type of mediaeval adventure, all topped off with a helping of mystical religion.All the major characters from the original film make a return in this one; Obi-Wan Kenobi was killed off in a duel with Darth Vader, but returns here as a ghost. The main developments in the story are a growing romance between Han Solo and Leia and a startling revelation about Luke's origins. (I won't say what that is). In addition to Luke, Leia, Han and the rest there are two new characters, Lando Calrissian, an old but not necessarily reliable friend of Han Solo, and Yoda. Yoda is a senior member of the Jedi Knights, the mysterious brotherhood to which Obi-Wan also belonged, and the Jedi Master to whom Luke is sent to undertake training with a view to initiation into the order. The scenes between Luke and Yoda strengthen the semi-religious tone already apparent in the first film; the philosophy of the Jedi, as expounded by Yoda, seems to have much in common with Far Eastern religions such as Zen Buddhism. Given the seriousness with which these scenes were obviously intended to be treated, it struck me as unfortunate that Yoda was not a human being but rather a strange alien creature looking like a wizened garden gnome with outsize ears. It was difficult to take seriously anything said by such a bizarre-looking character, especially as Yoda, despite his supposed immense wisdom, seemed incapable of mastering the rules of English syntax, coming up with odd sentences such as "This one a long time have I watched".There is some good acting, particularly from Harrison Ford as Han Solo, a character who undergoes considerable development from the cynic of the first film to a man prepared to take on responsibilities and take risks for what he believes in. It is perhaps a pity that Alec Guinness's role here is rather limited, as he was easily the best actor in the original film. I am not one of those who regard the original "Star Wars" trilogy as great cinematic masterpieces, but there is plenty to enjoy in them if you do not take them too seriously and regard them simply as entertaining science-fiction adventures. This is as true of "The Empire Strikes Back" as it is of its predecessor. 7/10
The Empire Strikes Back, Star Wars - Episode V, is often hailed as the best of the films. This rests on that it is the least action driven of the 6 films and instead relies on story and dialogue. Yet it is definitely not a s good as Star Wars or Return of the Jedi. It looks likes it will be the most mature work. But it suffers from lacking th e freshness of Star Wars and doesn't the sense of conclusion that Return of the Jedi has. Like Revenge of the Jedi its pessimistic tone gives the impression that this is th more mature serious work.The plot of the film doesn't develop the story. Its simply the Empire hunting down the rebels. Missing Empire the Strikes Back doesn't affect the understanding of the story of the 3 films. Its positives are the relationship between Han Solo and Leia and the famous scenes between Luke Skywalker and Darth Vader. Worst of all are some unbelievably bad puppets posing as monsters


                
It really does seem that over time some movies do tend to take on an aura that is not worthy of them. The fact that the Empire Strikes back has gained such a following is evidence to this. The film has holes in its story the size of its budget and many of the roles are painfully one dimensional. If this movie was released today it would receive the same rubbishing that the two newer installments received and it would be well deserved.


                
Another Lucas masterpiece. This film is just a little bit weaker than the first, or perhaps the impact of some of the SFX was lessened by the fact that they were pretty much the same as the Episode IV. While they were novel in the first film, they were expected in this film. Still, a great film. This entire series is destined to become "Classic", et al. I think that people went into this film with high expectations and were not disappointed. I wasn't, not really - it's a great film. Still, as I said, just a LITTLE bit less great than the first one.


                
