After being abruptly evicted from his Death Star digs, Darth Vader seeks out the young rebel warrior responsible, Luke Skywalker. He has plans for the boy. Skywalker, meanwhile, leaves his friends in the middle of an Imperial invasion for a crash course in Jedi Knighthood amid a desolate swampworld with only a faultfinding green gnome for company. Can Luke complete his training before Darth reels him in?Well, no, actually. That's not the only way this middle installment of the "Star Wars" trilogy leaves things on a decidedly more discordant note than the previous, joyous "Star Wars." People call this the darkest of the original three films because it is, but "Empire" is the only one with an adult orientation. The characters are deepened, and our investment in them from the first film challenged by events that leave them exposed to the sort of cruelties we wrongly assumed them safe from.George Lucas deserves major praise for putting such a film together, using his well-earned profits from the first film. In essence, he was literally giving the fans back some dividends for their box office proceeds. He also took chances in terms of leaving them less happy this time, knowing the emotional payoff would have to come a film later."Empire Strikes Back" is thus a richer film than "Star Wars" emotionally, and in other ways, too. Instead of confining most of the action to the desert planet Tatoonie, the action bounces around from an ice planet to a swamp planet to the most marvelous creation of all, a city hovering high in the clouds of a gas giant, where the action culminates.Lucas adds some interesting new characters, particularly Yoda, the swamp creature Luke goes to for help, who articulates much of the philosophy and provides much of the fun in this film as voiced by Frank Oz, the guy behind (or under) Miss Piggy and later, a talented director in his own right.There's also Billy Dee Williams as Lando Calrissian, the operator of Cloud City who provides much of the needed moral shading in the film as the stars from the previous movie are all full-blown heroes now. Williams has fun schmoozing up Leia and trying to find his feet as his slick machinations leave him in ever-hotter water.The best performance in this film is Mark Hamill's as Luke. Hamill had to work harder here than he did in "Star Wars," sharing all his big scenes with a Muppet and a guy with a bucket on his head. But Hamill finds the essence of a character more interesting than the naive farmboy we saw in the first film, playing Luke as confused, fearful, impetuous, and flawed in a way that makes him more likable, rather than less so. How Hamill never hit it big after his great work here is an injustice on par with Cleavon Little's lack of work after "Blazing Saddles."What else about this is great? The score by John Williams, introducing the recognizable "Imperial March" theme music as well as some rousing material during the final confrontation between Luke and Darth. The interaction between Vader and his subordinates is chokingly funny, in a way that only adds to the suspense and dread. The opening battle around the ice planet is marvelously intense, especially as witnessed from the cockpits of Rebel fighters taking on thickly-armored Imperial walkers.The returning cast except for Hamill doesn't seem as sharp this time, especially Carrie Fisher's Princess Leia, so charming in "Star Wars," gaunt and miserable here. Much of the whole middle section of the film is draggy and woolly, like the various silly ways the Millennium Falcon escapes Imperial pursuit and the scene in the "cave" that goes on much longer than it should. Even Luke's scenes with Yoda become slow and tedious with multiple viewings.The enthusiasm that makes "Empire Strikes Back" so beloved today is understandable. It turned "Star Wars" from a great film into an enjoyable franchise. But it doesn't really have the same stand-alone quality "Star Wars" has, needing both that earlier film and the later "Return Of The Jedi" to make it as great as it is.


                
**Warning! Spoiler Information Inside!**After Star Wars (1977) changed film history , the movie of the year was given to Woody Allen for Annie Hall (1977). Go Figure. Undaunted ,by the clear resistance to change Hollywood insiders posed , George Lucas pushed forward and released The Empire Strikes Back (1980).After the swift destruction of the Death Star , the Empire is in full pursuit ,after discovering the rebels new base the fight is on. Our hero,Luke Skywalker is now an essential component to the rebellion , however he remains unaware how key he is to his movement. Much is at stake as Skywalker (Mark Hamill),faces the ultimate evil in Darth Vader and learns the horrible truth.Fantastic direction (Irvin Kershner) and dramatic writing are further enhanced by the increased acting chops of returner Harrison Ford (Han Solo), and support from newcomers Billy Dee Williams (Lando Calrissian)and Kenneth Colley (Capt./Adm. Piett). It goes with out much statement that the effects are top notch. The flow is sheer perfection ,the framing paced at speeds appropriate for almost every scenario. There are a few obvious goofs but they hardly detract from the heavy engrossment the storyline causes the willing viewer.Of the six (more to come) that have been released , I rate Empire as the franchises top entry , almost flawless as film , almost. The Empire Strikes back was also the first film I ever saw.Worth watching. Over and Over.Four Stars(of 5.)
Star Wars: Episode V - The Empire Strikes Back (1980)Star Wars is one of the best series
Definitively not like A new hope. The empire strikes is a good entertaining film. The action sequences are a lot better, we don't see something as stupid as the lightsaber fight between Darth Vader and Obi Wan. The fights are slow but intense. The stuff that happens on the film actually seems important, not like the boring stuff of A new hope. The empire strikes back creates some genuine tension on the plot. Characters are better now. They were good on A new hope, but only because they were fun. On here, we see the more of the characters, and the movie makes the viewers sympathize with them. The characters aren't profound by any means, but they're interesting. And here, i can forgive that Darth Vader is boring, because the movie adds some plot twists at the end that actually points to something interesting in the next movie. Is a classic, definitively not a masterpiece, but is the perfect entertainment movie.


                
Very first review of Star Wars V, better I'm watched TV cause I'm beautiful experience, Luke get lost hand by Darth Vader also but can, I'm not cool better so, trying so nothing can make on TV, Okay? So very awesome!


                
Compared to the prequel A New Hope(1977), this movie has lesser action I felt, but some intense drama which still make it good entertainment. Some of the best scenes here involve the Yoda & Luke Skywalker and those between the latter & Darth Vader towards the end of the movie. There's some good action for sure but not as much as you'd have expected or hoped from a Star Wars movie. Not that I mind because I liked a lot of the conversation between the characters especially what Yoda says about the Force & how to use it to Luke Skywalker and when Darth Vader spills the beans on who he really is to Luke. Those scenes which had some emotional or spiritual touch to it almost gave me goosebumps. The performances are good especially from Mark Hamill as Luke. The only flaw I could think of here are some of the visual effects which stumbled a bit at places but still impressive enough.Verdict: a very watchable entertainer & sequel to the first Star Wars movie.


                
Eu vi o filme só que não lembro, acho que dormi :) só sei que é BOM DI MAIS!


                
The Empire Strikes Back is the best film in the original Star Wars trilogy. It has all the great qualities that the original Star Wars has: great effects (at the time of its release), appealing characters, and lots of spellbinding action. It also has eliminated some of the problems that plagued the first: the storyline is tighter, and goes much deeper into character development. The performances are terrific, especially by Harrison Ford as Han Solo, and Billy Dee Williams as Lando Calrissian. George Lucas has also remembered to include a spellbinding battle sequence with the snowspeeder sequence near the beginning of the film. The conclusion, with a lightsaber duel between Darth Vader and Luke Skywalker, is truly one of the most suspenseful and dramatic scenes in the entire series. This is a truly wondrous film, and serves as a constant reminder that just because a movie is expensive and a blockbuster doesn't mean that it has to be shallow and two dimensional. This film will undoubtedly entertain viewers of all ages from start to finish.


                
Again, the magic of Star Wars will not be forgotten. This is one of those films you just have to see in your life. And some of the most memorable lines in movie history are in here, so I would strongly reccommend for movie freaks.8/10


                
This review contains spoilers.The Empire Strikes Back is the sequel to 1977's A New Hope. The Empire Strikes Back is the second Star Wars movie released and follows the same cast of characters from Star Wars: Episode IV - A New Hope. Luke Skywalker has destroyed the Death Star and joined the Rebel, Alliance. Alongside Han Solo and Princess Leia, the three continue their adventure. Luke Skywalker seeks out an old Jedi master. Meanwhile the Empire retaliates against the Rebellion.The Empire Strikes Back is the perfect sequel. This second chapter to the original trilogy has so much to offer to its viewers. The story, characters, and world are continued well here. The story's climax is among the best. It reveals much about every character and makes the journey worthwhile.Mark Hamill plays Luke Skywalker incredibly well. He has a good acting range that is utilized well in this movie. His character goes through an impressive arc from escaping Hoth to learning from Yoda to the final duel with Lord Vader. Luke's character arc is impressive and Mark Hamill does a good job reflecting.The rest of the characters do get good arcs in this movie. Every characters' arc converges onto the cloud city of Bespin. Han Solo is played well by Harrison Ford and he continues as the reluctant smuggler. Carrie Fisher plays Princess Leia as the Rebel Alliance is threatened. Viewers that enjoyed watching Lord Vader will enjoy that he returns here.I highly recommend Star Wars: Episode V - The Empire Strikes Back. This movie is one of the best sequels across movie history.Four stars out of four stars.
Nice movie nice graphiCS 
anazing sound effects 
screen play is nice 
cast is over prited


                
GOOD ACTION AND MOVIE...... THIS MOVIE WORTH TO WATCH.... I WAIT FOR NEXT SERIES
After Luke's and Leia's arrival the resistance gains strength, especially after the demise of the death star by Luke Skywalker. Darth Vader and the first Order do not take much time to find for the resistance who are by then placed in a cold planet called Hoth. 
This film has interesting elements like the Lightsaber fight between Darth Vader and Luke; the secret romance of Leia and Han Solo that is expressed in the end, etc. A balancing counterpart of the earlier part this shows First Order on the higher side while resistance tries to gain through Luke as the last hope. Luke find his way to Dagobah where he has interesting meet with Master Yoda who begins his training but that does not complete due to the his call on saving his friends Leia and Han. Luke manages to escape after a breathtaking fight as Leia helps with his rescue.
The turns are twisted as Luke's training is incomplete and the Jedi have not returned; First order gain strength and Vader has turned invincible. All eyes are on Luke who is thought is bring new life to the Jedi.
Star Wars instantly became en grained in popular culture when it first premiered. I could imagine the anticipation moviegoers had when the first sequel was released. Sequels rarely match or surpass the originals, but THE EMPIRE STRIKES BACK is considered the greatest sequels for good reason. Instead of rehashing the plot elements and formula from the first, it builds upon it, with more suspense and unexpected twists. Granted, in this case it was part of a lengthily saga that called for more than one movie to tell the entire story.Of the films from the original trilogy, RETURN OF THE JEDI has always been my personal favorite, but this one has a more compelling story with danger, excitement, solid character development, and the unexpected twists that would leave audiences anticipating more in the next installment.Luke's introduction to and training under Yoda has many iconic scenes and dialog. I was always amused when a swamp monster attempted to eat R2-D2 and then spit him out ("Luckily you don't taste very good"). Harrison Ford's performance as the cynical Han Solo is excellent as always. The romance that builds between him and Leia was entertaining. The best sequences were at the end, when Lando unwillingly sets up our heroes at the cloud city for Darth Vader. I like how C3PO is the first to become aware of it before the others do as well as the audience. I especially thought Lando's revelation to Leia and Han about Vader setting up a trap for Luke was well delivered. Luke's battle with Vader was epic and terrifying along with an iconic and frequently parodied revelation. His timely rescue by Leia and Landa foreshadowed another revelation for the following film.I can see why this has been a favorite among Star Wars fans. What makes this one especially strong is that it ends in a cliffhanger. I can also imagine audiences anticipating the next film to see what happened next.
Many people think that 'The Empire Strikes Back' is the best of the original three, but I still vote the original higher. Still, for a film without a real beginning, middle, or end, this one is darn good.Frank Oz' puppetry really reached an apex in the early 1980s, with films like 'Dark Crystal' and 'Empire.' No wonder Yoda made the cover of Time magazine (as Star Wars did several times). The original Yoda is much more whimsical and playful than the 'earlier' Yoda of Episodes I-III. He toys with Luke while dispensing vaguely Confucian wisdom. The facial articulation is very good, and there is a certain palpable reality in physical special effects and good puppetry that the later digital Yoda just did not quite reach; besides the fact that Oz was obviously instructed by Lucas to keep it more serious.Then there is the Oedipal turn the story takes: "Luke, I am your father." I was actually surprised in 1980 when I saw this, and over the years I have gone from judging it corny to a masterstroke. It's probably both. For those who saw Star Wars pre-1980, it's clear that this was not the original plan. Interestingly, George Lucas has done some cleaning up of older movies to conform to the later canon (all but cutting a Luke-Leia kiss in the original that was just not quite brotherly-sisterly enough), but left a lot of it alone, like Obi Wan providing minimal explanation for his 'subterfuge' in the original Star Wars movie. Like in a good Charles Dickens novel, everyone turns out to be related to everyone or have met the person who did the thing who helped the other who...Other than Yoda and that revelation, the story that takes Luke from ice planet Hoth to be trained by Yoda and finally confront his Dark Side in the form of his father for the first time, does not have too many exciting turns or characters. Calrissian was planted in it for political correctness as a Han Solo scoundrel duplicate (I'm grateful though because Billie Dee was a pretty good scoundrel). Han literally gets frozen while Lando takes over for a while, as though there's not room for two of them.Still, I have to give it an 8. It is skillfully crafted for a middle piece, and Lucas really honed his special effects magic some more since the first installment. It's as enjoyable to see now as in the 80s, and its lower density special effects are almost prophetic of what is to come again: special effects that serve the film, not the other way around.
TESB is widely regarded as one of the best sequels of all time. A film that put the original in its place and some even say, brought it to shame. Like its predecessor I saw this in its original cut on VHS when I was 5 and I fell in love with the series.The plot is that Luke goes to Dagobah after hearing a message from Obi-Wan Kenobi to train from his old master, Yoda. Han, Chewbacca, Leia and threepio try to escape the Empire after they invaded a rebel base on Hoth and they find their way to Bespin with the intention of repairing the Millennium Falcon because Han is a friend of the owner of Cloud City.Now the acting is actually amazing. Fischer and Hamil actually pull off decent portrayals of Leia and Luke. Harrison Ford, Frank Oz and James Earl Jones...no comment. I have to put in a good word for Clive Revill who played The Emperor. I prefer his portrayal to McDiarmid's.I also love the humor. This is the only Star Wars title to add in humor with the exception of Revenge Of The Sith and that is what makes them the best two of the series, for me. They don't take themselves too seriously.As far as the visual effects go, they are still believable. I can still see the Empire ships and say "okay, I can buy that those are real." Overall this is a great entry in the series and is well worth a watch for any Star Wars fan.


                
I thought this movie was great, especially the opening battle on Hoth. Acting was great as expected and pace throughout the movie was excellent.Overall, the movie seemed dark and ominous. The revelation about Vader wasn't a surprise, as it is hard to avoid the "I am your father" lines after being alive for more than a few years. This probably would have been more exciting if I didn't know. Despite this, it was still good.Special effects were decent, considering the age of this film, and if released today, I would still be accepting of the visuals.The ending was a good setup for the next film. Though this was a good film, I still liked Return of the Jedi more.
I'll admit to not being one of the "cool" people (as in cool nerds) who like this installment of Star Wars better than the first because it's darker and takes itself more seriously. Escapist movies such as Star Wars and Raiders shouldn't take themselves too seriously, and it hurts Empire a bit..but just a bit. This is still a fun ride. That said, it does take Empire a lot longer to get out of the gate than the the first one did. After a long slow buildup, there's that great battle scene on the ice planet Hoth (where we first see the Imperial walkers). After getting driven from Hoth, two stories emerge: While Han Solo, Princess Leia, C3PO and Chewbacca are hiding from Darth Vader in an asteroid field, Luke Skywalker(with R2D2) is off on this rat hole of a planet in the Degaba system to learn about the Force (he gets a vision from Obi Wan early in the movie telling him to go there). This brings us to a character beloved by a majority of Star Wars fans yet reviled by me. I'm of course talking about the sanctimonious muppet (later CGI image) Yoda. Despite the fact that I found his character so annoying, the detail with regard to Yoda's facial expressions (his eyes in particular) was amazing back in a time long before CGI. Luke starts to learn about the Force (in what must be a crash course when you compare it to the "prequels"), but leaves when he sees visions of his friends in trouble, and despite Yoda's admonishments, goes to help them. This is where Luke starts getting irritating. He knows Vader is setting a trap for him, yet lets his emotions totally get the best of him and goes anyway. Makes you wonder if you want to leave the future of the galaxy in the hands of someone this flaky.Luke isn't quite as much fun as he was in the first one, but the other characters make up for it. The back and forth between Han and Leia is even funnier than in the previous movie. In fact, this movie is Solo's finest hour (good thing, because the subsequent carbon freeze he went through apparently softened his brain). If you wanted to take the essence of everything I love about Solo and bottle it, it would come down to two words: I know. Speaking of which, the love story between Han and Leia (which culminated in those two words) was handled just right..the movie didn't dwell on it, though the sexual tension was evident in the way the two of them sniped at each other early on.Darth Vader was his bad self..even more in this movie than the first one (and even less patient with fools, as a couple of imperial officers found out the hard way). The fight between Luke and Vader in the 2nd half was where the movie started to degenerate into taking itself too seriously. Star Wars doesn't do as well when it gets too dramatic. The visuals are great though.Rounding out rest of the characters, Billy Dee Williams is fine as Han's old pirate buddy Lando, though his character and Solo's were pretty similar. Then there was the single most over-hyped character in Star Wars, Boba Fett (I think he had all of two lines). C3PO and R2D2 were great, but they were separated for much of this movie..they work better together. Chewbacca's best moment was early in the movie when he was laughing at Solo after Leia insulted him..It bugged me for a long time that this movie didn't really end..that it left you hanging for three years until the next one came out (as in leaving Han Solo in carbon freeze). I finally got past that, realizing that in a sense it does "end"..our heroes live to fight another day, but only after taking a serious beating for most of the movie. Though I didn't like it as much as the first, Empire was still a worthy effort. 8.5
After the classic Star Wars (as it was originally called in 1977) he knew that there would be a chance of a sequel that could outmatch it,but the Empire Strikes Back did just that with skill and the intensity of the suspense that was put into the audience and even the greatest turn of events in movie history ever,just the plot of this film put me onto the edge of my seat for most of the film. I still imagine putting myself in the action at the Battle of Hoth and meeting the cool and lovable Yoda that many even non star wars fans have come to adore and just the intensity when Luke fought Darth Vader and found out he was his father changed the way I looked at films made me want more and I still find this better than the first and will ever praise this film.
By far, the best of the Star Wars saga! The film surpassed Star Wars fans' expectations in 1980. It surpassed my expectations, too. The classic scene that includes Luke Skywalker battling Darth Vader. But he is clearly no match for Vader. Vader forces Luke to believe that he is his father, "No, I am your father. Join me, and we can rule the galaxy together as father and son!" James Earl Jones fits the voice of Darth Vader very well. Mark Hamill fits the role of Skywalker very well, also. The Empire Strikes Back has a lot more Darth Vader scenes than Star Wars did. It featured a lot more action including more light-saber fights.


                
Darth Vader beats Luke and everything seems to work for the Empire in its quest to destroy the rebels.  Prehaps the best of the whole trilogy. Definitely worth the praise.  Special effects are amazing and even the script works.  Yoda jedi master is introduced and the puppet is the most endearing character in the whole trilogy.


                
Even better than the first one, this movie is fun! Better special effects and bigger adventures and to top it all: the mother of all soap opera plots!(And I bet EVERYONE knows what I'm talking about) Unlike the first movie, this one is not a stand-alone movie and it connects directly to the third (or should I say sixth?) and final part. You still get the feeling of a complete story and it's f-u-n. Lucas is a genius. Great characters, great worlds of wonder... Wow. Oh, and make sure you watch the special edition! Just buy the special edition trilogy.


                
Of the Star Wars franchise, this film is the best directed, has the best cinematography, and has the best score.  Irvin Kershner has been noted on not seeing "eye-to-eye" on some directorial decisions with George Lucas. From what I understand, George likes (at least in 1979) to keep camera direction simple and did not like to set up complex camera shots.  Irvin uses the moving camera very well and very subtly.  The cinematography is also beautiful.  My favorite sequence of all the SW films is the final lightsaber dual.  This is so well directed and lit with the contrasting blues and oranges intermixed that it really comes to life.  The score is one of John William's best.  Here you have so many themes.  My favorite is Vader's theme embedded within the asteroid sequence.  What I don't like about the film is the climax resolution of the film.  R2-D2 makes a minor adjustment, just in the nick of time and saves the ship.  The only thing lamer is ending the ending to the Phantom Menace.


                
"The Empire Strikes Back" belongs to that rare breed of sequels being better than their hailed forerunners. There is more suspense than in "Star Wars" (1977), there are deeper developed characters than in "Star Wars" and it is better written (Lawrence Kasdan and Leigh Brackett no less!) than "Star Wars". After all, and especially after that computer animated waste of anyone´s time called, among other things, "The Phantom Menace" (1999), the suspicion that George Lucas might have invented the Star-Wars-Universe but isn´t its major artistic force is rooted in evidence.


                
