Ran is a second-rate retelling of the Lear story, so the flaws in the plot are easiest to explain with reference to King Lear. These are some of the important differences: the subplot is dropped; Goneril and Regan are turned into effete men; an injured and vengeful daughter-in-law is introduced; the Lear-figure (Hidetora) is a warlord rather than a king; the mad Lear scene is weakened to insignificance; the sons try to kill old Hidetora by having a few thousand men fire at him as he sits in a castle; and the additional character of Tsurumaru, a boy who was blinded by Hidetora at some point in his murderous career, is introduced.Hidetora is a smaller man than Lear; he has the stubbornness without the nobility. His abdication is also a lot sillier. Lear errs by trusting that people will treat him decently: Hidetora errs by supposing that they will forget that they hate him. This is also much more implausible. After all, there is nothing monstrous or unnatural about the daughter-in-law's attitude towards Hidetora; she just wants her back, and with reason. This diminishes her, and in spite of Kurosawa's attempt to make her a sex maniac, she is not as large or as interesting as Goneril/Regan.Unlike Lear, Ran does not give us a sense of the insignificance of Man in nature. The "majestic" (read pompous) scenery shots don't make us feel that Man in general is helpless—these are no giants to be dwarfed by Nature, just a murderer and an injured woman and several wimps.The strong stoical undertone of Lear is lost for obvious reasons. Samurai cannot be stoics; they are people who are trained to kill themselves whenever the going gets inglorious. It is amusing but not profound that Hidetora cannot find a dagger to kill himself with when the need arises.So what's left of Lear? Only this: People in the world are evil. If you hurt them they'll hurt you when they can. You should be good even if you suffer (like the blind boy), because general goodness and suffering are the only way to avoid family feuds and make the world a better place. Which is all very edifying, but also very trite.It must also be noted that because of the lingering, ponderous, "epic" pacing of this film, it goes on for twice as long as it should. What to expect: 160 minutes of intense tedium as this misshapen hulk of a film drags itself laboriously towards its predictable close.Watching Ran is like running for your life for 2 hours and 40 minutes, but with none of the excitement.
Shakespeare's Lear is not my favourite play, largely because of its length and overkill (the subplot and main plot; the repetitions; the Sturm und Drang). It is equally difficult to stage vibrantly. But, put it in Japanese, add in an extra 30 minutes (for measure), and you have a spectacular film that manages to disengage its audience. More than that, it is strangely alienating and makes the original play more appealing and palatable. It's a great pity the storm and drama didn't wipe them out earlier - a far better, though less 'artistic' and certainly less pretentious (and less uneven) option would be to watch 1000 Acres and compare this to Olivier's King Lear....  Tedious.


                
Possibly the worst movie ever made. This film somehow makes an interesting concept like feuding samurai warlords horribly boring and slightly stupid. The minimal low quality actions scenes, coupled with wasted scenes that forcibly emphasize one of the character's insanity, added to the poor acting and that horribly annoying jester character , makes RAN a complete piece of crap. Why this movie receives the blind praise it does is something I will never understand. How can a movie this bad be considered one of Kurosawa's best? The only reason I could understand someone liking this movie even a little bit would be if he/she were a die-hard Kurosawa fan. And even then, this travesty should beconsidered beneath some of his better works like Yojimbo.


                
OK people, how on the earth can you call this movie as fantastic or the one of the best movie of Kurosawa? how could you even stand to watch it for almost 3 hours? seriously, stop attributing meanings to the poor and overly boring scenes! the actors are so poor, most of the mis-en-scene are extremely poor, especially in the beginning scene!sometimes you don't even realize who is talking because you are extremely distanced to the scene. it is the worst Shakespearean movie ever! get a life and start watching worthy movies! you guys wouldn't even watch a glimpse of it if you see it on the TV or any other place!and admit that it is one of the worst movie ever!


                
alongside Kubrick. this great story was wasted on Kuro's pointless direction, bad performances, horrible action, and was completely untrue to samurai, its disgraceful. First of all why did some of the samurai have guns? samurai didn't use guns, its against their honor, something Akira knows nothing about, just like Seven Samurai, the worst movie ever made, worse then this pile of bull. Its also disgraceful to Shakespeare's great story, something deserving of a much better film. This movie was made in 1985 so why is Akira stuck in 1950, at least thats what it looked and felt like, it had no meaning, no point, and it was boring, almost as much as 2001. 0 out of a 10 for this and Akira.


                
