Akira Kurosawa's 1985, Ran, is based one of Shakespeare's greatest works, King's Lear. The Film proudly stands along with his other classic such as Seven Samurai, Yojimbo, Roshomon, Sanjuro and the Hidden Fortress. He is a master in the art of filmmaking, no one can film an epic battle scene quite like Kurosawa. This is recognized as the most expensive film ever made by Akira Kurosawa, it was at that time, Japan's most expensive film ever. Being at the age of 75, he still showed us, he's one of the best in the business.This movie is about an aging lord, head of the Ichimonji family, decides to retire and to pass the power to Taro, the eldest of his three sons. He will however have to banish Saburo, the youngest one, who dared to speak the truth to him. Soon, the former lord is chased away from the castles of his sons and becomes mad when he understands that one of his sons is trying to kill him. The three brothers are fighting for control of the Kingdom, as their lust for power grows every day. Four armies are facing each other on the prairie. Lord Ichimonji's former peaceful kingdom is nothing but a distant memory.Akira Kurosawa redefines what an epic film is, with astonishing story telling, entirely believable characters and real life battle scenes without the use of Special effects/CGI. He retells the story of King Lear in his own way and no one would recognize that it was actually a adaptation beforehand. But just like Shakespeare, there is humor, irony, death and not a happy ending. Everyone who played a part in the production of this film, deserves some kind of recognition. The acting is pretty much excellent and certainly believable.10/10 Kurosawa is a Genius


                
Throughout his career Kurosawa strove to achieve what he called "real cinema", proclaiming that "in all [his] films, there's [only] three or four minutes" of such quality. Many would argue that he was his greatest critic. For if not in "Seven Samurai", then definitely in "Ikiru" and if not in "High and Low", then definitely in "Rashomon" he must have achieved this plateau of greatness. Well, if not in any of his other films, then definitely in "Ran" Kurosawa finally came to the apex of cinematic artistry. With the both lyrical and grandiose tone of its craft, its beautifully spare imagery, its haunting score by Toru Takemitsu, and its lead Tatsuya Nakadai's masterful understated performance, "Ran" is perhaps the most fully realized epic ever made.The tale, which is an adaptation of Shakespeare's "King Lear", begins as Lord Hidetora Ichimonji and his court are out hunting. During a break in the hunt, Hidetora proclaims his adbication from the hight seat of the Great Lord and bestows his lands unto his three sons, dividing them up equally. He declares his oldest to be his successor in power. When his youngest son and one of his faithful nobles, express their concerns on this idea, Hidetora foolishly banishes them both, mistaking their advice as insolence. With this opening scene, the peaces are aligned and soon 'chaos' as the film is aptly named will break out throughout the land. From here, we see the downfall of Hidetora and all those who surround him. The film retains all the themes of the original play, but also thanks to Kurosawa's own input addresses a slew of even more varied ideas. Like Shakespeare, Kurosawa is greatly interested in the responsibility of the leader and the hypocrisies and ironies of an autocratic system. The most obvious though not the central theme in the whole film is war, and Kurosawa explores this theme to its full extent throughout the film. In perhaps the most grandiose battle scene every filmed, he demonstrates the destructive consequences and the paradoxical beauty of conflict.Here, Kurosawa implements the camera with masterful skill not once employing the editing/photography tricks and gimmicks so often seen in films (even the good ones) today. This director has an awareness of the past and the history of film, but also the creative spontaneity of a true genius. In "Ran", he focuses on the more methodically simple yet artistically complex montage of Eisenstein, and on the strict compositions of Ozu. He employs the most basic and yet most artistic of techniques. Each shot is planned to precision, and each cut is made for a purpose. The coreagraphy and blocking of each scene is simple and powerful, and Kurosawa allows the actors to play out these scenes without the intrusion of the camera or the editor. Thus, the director prevents the style from eclipsing the already powerful material he has to work with. Simply put, "Ran" is a masterpiece that flows and develops like an opera, from its forebodingly peaceful ouverture to its bloody Shakespearean heart until its final, quietly subdued, and sorrowful denouement.


                
Based on Shakespeare's King Lear, this film follows the story of the aging warlord Hidetora who, in an attempt to restore peace, divides his kingdom between his three sons - Taro, Jiro, and Saburo - and retires from his duties. However, one of his sons sees this as unwise and is banished by his father, leaving his two brothers in charge of two of the three castles left in their hands. It isn't long before they are overtaken by greed and eventually betray their father, leaving him in the hands of a philosophical jester and a loyal retainer. This betrayal ultimately leads to war, dividing the family and driving Hidetora insane.The remarkable script, which contains many of my favorite lines from any film, still manages to break its way through the confinement of subtitles and reveals itself to be one of the richest Kurosawa ever wrote. He has obviously worked equally hard on the look and feel of the film - the cinematography being excellent (example: the long, continuous shot of Saburo's men charging on horseback across a river).There's also something rather frightening about it that I can't quite put my finger on. The first battle, which is the film's turning point, is the most horrifying, yet strangely beautiful, battles ever filmed. A good effect used is the loss of sound, with only Toru Takemitsu's haunting score to be heard. The entire battle lasts less than ten minutes and there is no uplifting or bombastic music to be heard, but in my opinion, it's Ran's finest scene, and thus the finest scene ever.What Kurosawa managed to get rather than give though was excellent performances from his actors, none more brilliant than Tatsuya Nakadai's Hidetora, Mieko Harada as Lady Kaede (a woman similar to Lady Macbeth but with a different hidden agenda), and the strangely-named Peter as Kyoami.


                
I would agree with Ebert's review on a point, that Akira Kurosawa, legendary director of such samurai classics as Seven Samurai, Yojimbo, Hidden Fortress, and Kagemusha, as well as human dramas like Rashomon, The Lower Depths, and Red Beard, could really best direct this film in his old age. There's something about his version of the doomed King Lear of Shakespeare, his Lord Hidetora Ichimonji that could be truly captured by someone in old age. Not to say that directors can't make great films when they're young, or in middle age, about a man in the dark days of the golden years (About Schmidt, Tokyo Story, Bob Le Flambeur, and Kurosawa's own Ikiru come to mind). But it's clear that Kurosawa must've seen or felt or understood at least an element of Hidetora's character, something that goes beyond tragedy that is stuck with all who are mortal. At one point when Hidetora is in a wandering, dazed state he says "I am lost", to which his companion/caretaker Kyoami responds "Such is the human condition." Was Kurosawa lost as an artist and filmmaker as he tried to get his epic (which at the time of it's filming was the most expensive Japan had seen, and got some extra backing from outside European backers) off the page and onto celluloid? Hard to say, but the end result displays that even in his later days he could create a work so wonderful, so sad, so brutal, and so human that it will remain timeless. If Kurosawa deserves praise for look of the film, the pacing, the editing, every single painstakingly storyboarded (painted) shot, and his direction with the two battle sequences as well as with the quieter, more compelling scenes with the actors, the man who plays Hidetora deserves some as well (like any production of King Lear, including Godard's wild treatise with Burgess Meredith in the lead role, the actor is as important as the writer). Tatsuya Nakadai, who had roles in past Kurosawa films as a young man in Yojimbo (the gunslinger) and Sanjuro (the opponent), is awe-inspiring. Early in the film, after a mind-shattering dream, his character decides to split up his kingdom unto his three sons (Jiro, Saburo, and getting the first castle and all control, Taro), he still feels in control, and has the look of a Lord with just the right level of stubbornness and, unfortunately, naivety. Then, as everything he owns crumbles before him, there is one scene that struck me as remarkable, and then for the rest of the film I couldn't take my eyes off of Nakadai whenever he was on screen. It involves the first battle sequence, in which one of his son's comes to take over a castle, and killing all of Hidetora's men. Look at Nakadai in the scene where he's sitting down stone-faced amid the chaos going on outside, and then as he somehow manages to walk out, the fellow soldiers making way for him. He then sees one of his sons, the betrayer, and he doesn't say a word- he's already decided that his son Taro has gone too far with his position, as he rules over his domain and scares the peasants right out of the picture- and he simply walks away, as his family continues to crumble under corruption of the mind and heart.It's a sequence like that though, where the great Lord makes such a radical change, where Kurosawa and Nakadai have some of their greatest time ever on a screen. As the filmmaker treats the battle, up to a point, like a feudal-Japanese version of a Eisenstein battle (no talk, no sound effects, just the eerie, sorrowful score here applied by Toru Takemitsu) with devastation and visceral nature taken to a poetic, thoughtful level, the actor's eyes and body language are, well, indescribable almost. And if Nakadai gives the finest male performance of the film, credit is equally due to the pivotal female character, Lady Kaede (Mieko Harada), who is like a Lady Macbeth taken to the next level. This is a character that's seen Lord Ichimonji destroy his castle when she was young, and now that she has her son(s) right in the palm of her hand, she'll have her revenge in guise of ego-feeding. I may not be able to recommend Ran on one level, despite it being on the painter's equivalent of a splendorous, seething portrait of royalty. Kurosawa takes his time telling the story, and to some it might even feel longer than his epic Seven Samurai. This is a work heavy on emotional nuance, on how the characters (in particular Hidetora) look unto their surroundings, how the presence of destruction and war and slayings are traumatic as opposed to being 'cool' in a stylistic way. If you're looking for a slam-bang action thriller look, elsewhere. But if you're looking for a mature film about life, death, loss, and the bonds that are kept within families, the mind, and how we accept and give forgiveness (a blind character named Lord Tsurumaru is stunning from a certain point of view), this is it. As well for the Shakespeare fan it's an absolute must-see, and it may even turn some onto Shakespeare's classic due to the fact that this film, much like Throne of Blood, contains none of the language style used in the source.


                
'Ran' is the Japanese word for chaos, riot, dissension. Akira Kurosawa's masterpiece is indeed a feast of destruction and perdition, charged with symbols and powerful in pictures like it is found very rarely in today's cinema.The dusky story is based on Shakespeare's 'King Lear'. In the film a Japanese warlord celebrates his own downfall. Kurosawa devised this with a radical film language which works with certain imageries of colors, rapid cut sequences and a sophisticated sound design. When the colorful flags of the different armies get intermixed in a battle, when the peacefully quiet wind (which carries the soundtrack) swells to a raving storm or when long wide shots suddenly segue into shots of details that follow hot on each other's heels then you realize Kurosawa's incredible style which deeply influenced the cinema worldwide.The drawings of the characters are equally terrific. Hidetora's jester is for a certain reason always at the side of the warlord. Their relationship alters as the film continues: Jester and warlord change their roles which makes it hard to distinguish both. Just as the sky turns from blue to grey with dark clouds, the violent past of Hidetora is catching up the aging lord. His trail of murder and predation is not forgotten, the brutally conquered land still carries the old scarves of war and exploitation which now burst out again.The viewer can take this monumental work as a warning to the destructive power of war, which is even decades later at present and beset those who seed the violence.


                
Ran is probably cinema's greatest rendition of a Shakespearean Epic, ironically coming from an oriental film-maker. Adapted by Kurosawa from Shakespeare's King Lear, Ran undoubtedly features amongst the best works of the master auteur. It captures with sheer vividness and surreal resplendence, the true essence of human struggle for survival, highlighting the cruelties associated with life. Ran is strictly indicative of the sole consistency of life i.e. change, an attribute that not only makes the humans vulnerable but also gives them the hope to rise after a fall. The story focuses on a senile warlord, who owing to his senescence is rapidly losing his strength and his ferocious grandeur that he had earned through years of relentless savagery and ruthless slaughter, ergo he renounces to his three sons, hoping them to establish a sort of a triumvirate with the eldest son having a slight edge. His two elder sons accept the proposal with rapturous glee, but his youngest son seems bemused and questions the wits of the patriarch for taking the untimely decision. Though arrantly annoyed by his son's audacious defiance, he tries to console him, only to find him inconsolable. Deeply hurt by his son's impertinence and censure, he reluctantly banishes him and enthrones the two elder sons. The rest is rather worth a watch than a read, for there is nothing that can better the sumptuous elegance of Ran. The brilliantly captured scenes are breathtaking to say the least, especially the war scene that depicts fate casting the final blow to the ruthless reign of the warlord. The brutality and the bloodshed depicted in the very scene can make even a cold-blooded appear jittery. Ran portrays the poetic justice in such a relentless and abominable fashion that one can't help but sympathize with the narcissistic warlord, who spent his life arrogating and annihilating the innocent souls. The plaintive score gives the movie a much desired tone, a mood that not only supports its melancholic backdrop, but also immensely adds to its poignant beauty. The final scene featuring the blind boy, deeply clutched by his haplessness and gross solitude, though doesn't feature an utterance of even a single syllable, the playback of the mystical flute makes the scene haunting as well as mesmerising and worth a thousand words. Ran is a classic example of Kurosawa's brilliance and perhaps a consummation of his apotheosis. A must watch for eclectic viewers and admirers of pristine cinema. Highly recommended: 10/10.


                
In another lengthy samurai epic, Akira Kurosawa approaches the boundaries between family members and the damaging affects of one of his rather common themes - reckless ambition. This is very clearly a Kurosawa film, a respectable trait that is most clear in the cinematography, in which Kurosawa uses many extensive shots with little to no camera movement, as well as the common natural setting, characterized by the far-reaching landscapes of sweeping hillsides. Ran has a fascinating plot about an aging King who considers passing on his empire to his three sons. Lord Hidetora is well into his 70s (maybe Kurosawa saw part of himself in this character?), and he addresses the fact that he cannot go on ruling forever, despite the fact that he fought for his empire for over 50 years. His youngest son disagrees with his proposition of passing on leadership yet maintaining much of his control, yet Hidetora nonetheless divides his kingdom into three parts to his sons, hoping that they will remain allies. As an incentive, he demonstrates with arrows that a single one can be broken easily, but three arrows together cannot be broken as easily. The three sons, Taro, Jiro, and Saburo do not agree with Hidetora's philosophy and, as new leaders of their respective portions of Lord Hidetora's kingdom, they soon begin to fight each other for full leadership. Hidetora is attacked by his own sons and cast out of the kingdom, left to wander hopelessly from castle to castle with no one but his goofy jester at his side, who stays with the Lord entirely out of duty to him. One of Hidetora's three sons eventually returns and tries to patch up their damaged relationship, but before they can do that, he gets killed and Hidetora is left alone again, and the empire that he worked for during most of his life is left in ruins. As is also common in Kurosawa's films, there are a lot of interesting and significant characters in the film that play a substantial role in the story. When we first meet Lady Kaede, the woman who was married to Taro but then forced her way into marriage with his younger brother Jiro (the new Lord) upon Taro's death, she is holding a knife to Lord Jiro, threatening him with blackmail if he does not accept her as his wife. The first thing that makes her interesting is that her objective in marrying Jiro is to ensure herself a comfortable life, and so she can avoid fading into obscurity as the widow of a past Lord. Her blackmail threat has a lot of damaging potential for Jiro, and he accepts her as his wife. From the very start of her role in the film, her ultimate goal was to bring about the downfall of the kingdom in order to avenge her family who had been killed when Lord Hidetora was in power. This is not expected or even hinted at previously in the film, and it gives her character much more depth.There is some great irony in Ran that occurs after Lord Hidetora is banished and is left wandering the endless plains. He and his jester come across a run-down wooden shack at the foot of a hillside, and they approach it, asking for help and shelter. The occupant, after explaining that his home is too poor to offer any shelter, turns out to be a man who, as a boy, had had his eyes gouged out under the orders of Lord Hidetora in exchange for sparing his life. Once the jester and Hidetora are inside, the man explains that he will offer hospitality in the only way that Hidetora left him able, he will play them music on his flute. In this scene, Hidetora is confronted with the terrible suffering which he once imposed, and it is horribly ironic that he is forced to take shelter from someone that he once devastatingly mutilated without a second thought. In Ran, as was also the case in Kagemusha, which is a very similar film in time period and content, Kurosawa again employs a subtler style of directing. Again, he focuses more on the story than on cinematic trickery, and with spectacular results. The extensive use of the motionless camera is stunningly effective, but he also uses it in a different way here. Ran opens with a series of stationary shots of a group of horses standing majestically with their riders on the top of a flowing hillside. Virtually the exact same image is shown from a fairly wide variety of different angles and distances, indicating the vastness of the plains and the power that these characters hold (or will soon hold) over them. Again, a musical score is entirely absent throughout the vast majority of the film, and the same lengthy scenes are employed to a large extent to communicate the story of the film. An example of one of these exceedingly long takes can be seen early in the film when Lord Hidetora first announces his what he intends to do with the leadership of his kingdom. The ending of Ran is definitely realistic, for many reasons. There are no myths perpetuated by it; close family members do not always stand together, even the noblest intentions are not always realized, and no one lives happily ever after. Ran is the story of a man in a position of power who makes a trusting decision that backfires devastatingly, and the ensuing madness is not altered to make way for a happy ending. It seems that Kurosawa was trying to capture the militarily charged atmosphere that is present in times of war, and the things mentioned above are some of the many efforts he made to make it all as real as possible, even at the expense of the audience's emotions.
Thankee kindly.Kurosawa, while a great director, isn't somebody whose films I blindly endorse.However, Ran takes the cake. It easily makes my personal top five films any time I think about it.The imagery is absolutely stunning, and the dialogue is quite clever. The battle scenes are suitably horrific, and the humor (and yes, there is humor) is subtle enough not to get in the way.All told, one of the greatest films it's been my privilege to see. I watched it to get the nightmare that was Cold Mountain out of my head, as proof that long movies can actually be epic, as opposed to boring, trite, and predictable.


                
At the core of this movie there is a long running philosophical question. Certain characters continually question what is happening around them, and through these questions, the themes of the movie are forthcoming. The most obvious theme is that of war. Here, once again, Kurosawa reminds us that modern warfare is not a place of honour or duels, but massed attacks on faceless enemies, shooting each other from a distance. I will discuss the battle scenes later in this review; they help us examine the chaos that is again consistent throughout the film. It seems that no one in this movie has any control over the events that are transpiring; not even the ultimate manipulator Mieko Harada as Lady Kaede has true control. This lack of control seems to mirror the idea put forward by the only character who is continually able to tell the truth without ramification. Shinnosuke Ikehata (credited here as Peter) is the fool who says 'Are there no gods... no Buddha? If you exist, hear me. You are mischievous and cruel! Are you so bored up there you must crush us like ants? Is it such fun to see men weep?' Even if god exists then the only pleasure he enjoys is watching mankind destroy itself in the chaotic mess that is war. The final scenes see chaos erupt, as through the good natured actions of one man, 4 armies are dragged into a bloody battle. Which leads us to the idea of futility and death. The pointlessness of life is summed up once again by the fool. 'Man is born crying. When he has cried enough, he dies.' Death comes to us all, yet it is far bleaker than that. If there is a god then they allow everyone to suffer. Even a noble character, like Saburo, dies an ignoble and futile death. Everyone within this movie is both hunter and hunted. It is a bleak world indeed.Then we have morality. There are very few 'good' characters here, but there are three exceptions to this. Saburo, Lord Hidetora's third and youngest son, who because of his love and loyalty to his father is unable to not speak out at the foolishness he sees around him, which leads to his banishment. Tango, a loyal servant to Lord Hidetora who is banished with Saburo, but through love for his lord disguises himself so as to stay near him. Finally there is Kyoami, the fool. He again is loyal to his Lord, however, he voices ideas of leaving his side numerous times, but again his sense of duty and even affection keep him with his master.The movie itself is near perfect. Stylistically it is almost like watching a play. Both the staging and the style of acting are clearly very influenced by Japanese Noh theatre, with the slow and deliberate style of acting used, and the mask-like appearance of age notable in the make up of Nakadai as the seventy year old Hiderota. Every shot looks like a masterpiece, perfectly framed. Kurosawa trained as an artist, indeed he painted the storyboard for every shot in the film. The framing is perfect and in most senses the camera does not move at all, or if it does, it is simply to keep the perfection of the shot intact. Kurosawa was a master film maker, this is clear throughout. His confidence with film is breathtaking: only a director totally sure in his craft would dare leave the long, motionless pauses at the end of almost every scene, punctuating what has just happened and allowing the audience to grasp the full implication of the actions taking place.Kurosawa is, of course, well known for his ability to direct action, and this movie recreates war in a way few others have ever managed to do. There are two great battles here, one in the middle and one during the end. The final battle is perfectly staged, riveting, and speaks volumes of the futility that the lust and pride of Jiro Masatoras, Hiderotas second son (played by Jinpachi Nezu) has led to. But for me it is the first battle that is the one of the greatest moments in cinema. Due to council given by a traitor, Lord Hidetora has led his household, which includes 30 warriors, to the castle of the outcast Saburo. It is a trap, and Taro Takatora (Akira Terao), his first son and Jiro strike. What follows is horrific. This is the purist language of movie, and a thing of true genius. On the battlefield, even in the world of the Samurai, there is no honour, no real glory, only ugliness and death.It is interesting to note that seeing someone actually kill another person in this movie is rare. Considering the acclaim Kurosawa has garnered for the sword fighting sequences in so many of his movies it is interesting to note that not once do you see a sword kill another person on screen. Indeed, there are only two times we really witness one person attacking and killing another, other than mutual suicide. The first is entirely shown at a massive distance, the figures barely distinguishable, and the second, despite being amazingly gory, does not actually show the death itself on camera.Yet with all of this emphasis on framing, shot, symbolism and colour, Kurosawa manages to bring to the screen some of the greatest performances I think I have ever witnessed. I have to cut short my praise of what is a faultless cast and talk about Mieko Harada giving perhaps the finest performance in the movie. Driven by anger and vengeance she becomes something other than human, she is some kind of succubus, a temptress, a fox-spirit. Harada is at all times compelling, her every movement one of cold perfection and as we hear her silk robes rustling as she glides along the wooden floors we see before us an unforgettable creation of pure evil.
Usually, I don't write comments of movies that have too many reviews. But this one is so good, that I decided to break this rule. Ran is an adaptation of King's Lear, a story from William Shakespeare , very tragic and full of treasons.Lord Hidetora Ichimonji, already old, decides to pass his powers and leadership for his older son,Taro,leading the other two as rulers of the other two castles. Saburo is the only son who says that is not happy with that decision,speaking against his father. This one,being fooled by flattery of the two older sons,decides to banish Saburo of his lands.After this, what comes is a series of perfidiousness of his older sons,and even his daughter in law, lady Kaede,who wants to revenge her family,since they were the true owners of the castle, and were killed by Hidetora.Hidetora becomes mad, and totally exiled from his lands. And he discovers that his son Saburo, was the only one who really was loyal to him.There are many messages in this movie;one of the them,clearly is that not all the compliments are honest, and they can have bad intentions behind. Sometimes,someone near you can look insolent,but is only being honest. It's better a horrible true, than a fake lie,although not all the people are prepared to listen to the true. Not to mention that sometimes, you think that the person who is going to help you,really doesn't care about you,(like Hidetora's older sons) and you find all the help you need, in people you expect to not even be concerned with you. (like Saburo,the exiled son, and even Tsurumaru, who has lost everything he had, including his eyes because of Hidetora, and even on this way, he helps the old man with shelter.)Kurosawa also shows a vision about the mankind: We only search for war and sadness, instead of happiness and peace. We, humans, alone,are destroying ourselves.
This film has to be seen. It is profound. It is stunning. It is a work of genius. I love the look of Kurosawa's black and white film. They have so much texture and tone. They have so much depth and character. I just recently watched "Rashomon." That is a very beautiful film. He is able to use color equally as effective. Every color is perfectly arranged. Like a painter, he composes each scene, each frame with tender affection. I doubt you can find a better looking film. The ending of the film is the most cynical, the most depressing, the most emotive of any film I have ever seen. It has stayed with me ever since I first saw it. Kurosawa, near the end of his career, has ostensibly lost all faith in human kind. There is no goodness. There is no decency. There is no hope. All that is left is meaningless suffering. That last few images are the perfect images of desolation. This is an excellent film.


                
Kurosawa had fallen out of favour by this time in his career. Ran had been meticulously storyboarded by the director himself, painting colours and conceptualising the masterpiece in his mind years and years before he finally got the funding for what was the most expensive Japanese film at the time. The third and last of his Shakespeares, Ran tells the story of the old King Lear figure Hidetora. But there is a key difference; Shakespeare never delved into the details of the old king's past conquests and rulings, but here Hidetora is painted as a warlike persona, brutal and ruthless in his day. Fast forward years, and the ageing warlord cannot even commit seppuku with the katana he so once viciously brandished. The opening shots are almost garish in their use of colour. We do not expect the three heralded sons to be kitted out in the bright primaries of red, yellow and blue. We get wide shots of the clear blue sky, of endless grassy hills from all directions of the four riders as they look each way. Kurosawa's penchant for waiting for the perfect weather conditions pays off, because after banishment the clouds suddenly come out, and the grass is dull in the billowing wind. When Jiro's crimson army arrives to face Saburo, a cloud envelops the plain, and again when his envoy rides across the plain, bringing with him a false message of truce and an ominous shadow alongside. In 1985, hundreds of extras wait for that ten second shot. And in that harrowing and massive scale clash at the castle, the foreshadowed storm finally enters the film and serenades the massacre. It is a magnificent battle scene, with many things happening. Kurosawa chose to construct the entire third castle against a muddy hill and places his soldiers against the grimy backdrop, intensifying the colours emblazoned onto their uniform which signal their allegiance. His multi-cam coverage is never more evident here; placing cameras inside the battle itself and cutting judiciously to reveal horror after horror; a corpse being trampled by galloping horse, a solider struggling amongst the lifeless bodies of his comrades, another clutching his dismembered limb, and that magnificent shot of a crazy Hidetora, stumbling into the midst of the battlefield, while red and yellow sides watch him intently and the remains of a great castle burn from above. The cameras seldom dolly in Ran; they tilt and pan to reveal the action from a objective, omniscient view. There are sparse use of close-ups. As Ebert says, we are like gods, witnessing these atrocities of unfathomable nature. The Western orchestration punctuates Takemitsu's Eastern score; Kurosawa's divergence from tradition makes it all the more horrifying. Hidetora's ornate costume changes into rags, and his face becomes ghostly in his anguish and madness, deep gashes and burned eyes, the Noh influence stylising his mask-like Shiwajo as the weary old man wandering and contemplating his sins. Harada's Lady Kaede is another character of Noh influence. Observe how precise and elegantly she shuffles into the room, uses pointed questions to direct Kurogane to murder for her, before shutting him out. She drifts down onto the ground cross-legged, silent but so evidently displaying her sexual hold over Jiro. She explodes in emotion; the insane cackles as she seduces Jiro, closing each shoji one by one, and in that final moment where she confesses her vengeance and true motive. How long has she held Hidetora's atrocities in her mind? Kurosawa visualises her end in a sudden release of anger and bloodlust; no gore, but a painterly splash of blood on the back wall. A stark and powerful image. Shakespeare's play is perhaps not as focused as Ran is, with its multiple story lines and scattered soliloquies. Kurosawa's screen adaptation conjures images of sheer scale and horror like no theatre stage could. In that final scene, a blind Tsurumaru wanders and drops the image of Buddha into irrecoverable ruins. The gods have abandoned all sympathy. The camera paints a picture he will never see; a tiny helpless figure dead centre in a desolate, hellish world near sunset. Weren't we hunting boar in the idyllic bright hills just moments ago? How finite power is, and how even swifter seized power is lost.
The combination of excellent cinema and Kurosawa isn't anything new. In Ran (chaos), he paints his own vision of one of Shakespeare's finest works, 'King Lear'. 'Ran' looks more like an oil painting rather than 'water coloured'. While in 'water' paintings, the colour's are fading, in oil, the colours have a stronger presence signifying their message. He uses various colours to tone the depth of his characters and the relationship between them, to present the mood of the setting and to tell his story. With very brilliantly sophisticated sound effects he brings a raw feel while effectively using the background score in parts. Using his artistic technique, he pays close attention to detail in almost every scene (e.g. the wind, the makeup) without worrying about limiting his final piece to a usual 1.5 hour movie or whether the pace is fast or slow. Of course there must have been some editing but everything in the final piece flows beautifully, revealing a story of love, honour, betrayal, misunderstanding, lust, murder, jealousy, manipulation, greed, madness, redemption, forgiveness and destruction.Tatsuya Nakadai breathes Lord Hidetora Ichimonji. He had starred in many of Kurosawa's films and in 'Ran' he is absolutely a stunner. This is more than an example of great acting because he made me completely forget that I was looking at an actor. Another noteworthy performance is Mieko Harada's as the venomous Lady Kaede. She displays the power of her manipulation and evil intent through her body language while her words are secondary.Immense additional credit must also be given to Kurosawa for skilfully mingling a Shakespearean tragedy into a traditional Japanese historical epic. Clearly he'd done his research well and put a lot of hard work into his painting. The background is signified with much of the Japanese cultures and religious reference.I won't give much of a synopsis as you'll find them in other comments and those who've read King Lear may have an idea. All I'll say that this movie is for those who appreciate real cinema. It is not what others will call 'everyone's cup of tea'. It does make you reflect to the real world how one's expression can be misinterpreted, how life itself is not a happy ending, how dangerous trusting the wrong person can be and how important it is to trust the right person (even a family member), how greed can eat up a person, how the consequences of our actions dictate whether the mistake we made is significant or trivial and how naïve we all are.


                
Ran was unlike any other film I had ever seen. It has Kurosawa's stamp of awesomeness of course but visually it just blew me away. This has to be one of the most beautifully shot movies I've ever seen. The costumes, the castle and of course all of the locations are amazing. I was literally speechless for a few hours after having seen the movie; it completely changed (or at least refreshed) the way I look at the world. I think one of Kurosawa's strengths is that as incredibly talented as he is, his modesty always comes across as well; his films are never pretentious.Perhaps the only possible flaw I felt the movie had was that it only used music sparingly. I thought the music that was used was great (especially one surreal sequence which had solely music and images, no sound effects) but I wonder why more music wasn't used to add depth to some of the slower scenes. Maybe the lack of music is ultimately more effective, perhaps it enhances the dreamlike reflective quality of the movie, I can't say for sure.I don't have anything to say about the story really; I haven't read King Lear and narratives are a relatively weak point for me with movies. I tend to find the visual and musical aspects more accessible with dialogue and story more difficult to truly appreciate. I certainly found the story in Ran very engaging and thought provoking but what makes the movie for me is Kurosawa's masterful direction and also the way he makes the movie personal. Even though I didn't completely follow the movie at all times, several parts were very affecting nevertheless and it was clear that the movie meant a lot to its creator.Ran also has an epic grandeur to it; it was the most expensive Japanese film made up to its time and apparently Kurosawa spent about 10 years painting (!) "storyboards" for the movie. I think it shows in the movie, you really feel like so much work and consideration went into every second of it.Anyway, the way I see it, Ran is unlike any other film ever made. In terms of capturing beauty on a grand (and yet humble) scale, it is unparalleled (in my puny amount of experience). If I were a pretentious film snob (which I hope I'm not, at least, not yet) then I might say that "if you haven't seen Ran, you haven't experienced cinema". That would be a fairly accurate description of what it felt like for me.


                
By the end of his life, Akira Kurasawa was losing his sight. However, like Beethoven when he was going deaf created beautiful music, Kurasawa created beautiful cinematic imagery.Such is the case with "Ran," Kurasawa's version of King Lear with a samurai spin. The use of colors is absolutely magnificent.Lord Hidetora Ichimonji (Tatsuya Nakadai)wants to spend his remaining days in peace and comfort and gives his three sons his kingdom, hoping to be welcomed as a guest. Even though his 2 older sons tell him everything he wants to hear, his youngest displeases him by telling him that he's making a mistake, that his 2 brothers would say anything to get what they want from him. Angry and hurt, he banishes his younger son and gives his kingdom to the 2 remaining sons.And this is where things go to hell.Lord Hidetora realizes that everything that his youngest son told him was true: His older sons not only treat him with an appalling lack of respect, but they conspire to take everything from him. This drives Hidetora to madness and sets off a chain of events in which Hidetora's past and present collide, leading to war between those involved.The scene in which Hidetora, slipping into madness as his kingdom is taken from him, flames surrounding him, is incredibly haunting.The battle scenes are so incredible, that you can't take your eyes from the screen, even to blink.For those who haven't seen any of Kurasawa's films, or haven't gotten into Shakespeare, then this is the film to start with. Even after over 20 years, the film has not lost any of its impact. Highly recommended.
Ten years in the making, Akira Kurosawa's Ran took it's toll on director Akira Kurosawa. Following a highly successful career in the 1950's and 60's, Kurosawa fell out of favour with modern audiences and producers due to his traditional film-making styles and topics. Japan had experienced it's own New Wave, where directors used innovative techniques to look forward, rather than looking back. Eventually backed by Sidney Lumet, Kurosawa developed his labour of love, based on Shakespeare's King Lear, and made Kagemusha (1980) - a 'warm-up' for Ran - while developing the project. He storyboarded every scene with beautiful artwork, ensured that every costume was made by hand, and even built a castle to torch it down for the movie. On top of this, his wife passed away during filming (Kurosawa took only one day off work to mourn), and by the film's completion, Kurosawa was almost completely blind.Such dedication and rigorous planning doesn't always work out, but Ran is Kurosawa's final masterpiece. The term 'epic' is thrown around far too often these days, but if one film could really be labelled as epic, it is Ran. Epic in scale, length and scope, it's a complex, exciting and bloody movie, capturing the tragedy of Shakespeare's play, and invigorating with it's Machiavellian intrigue. The ageing warlord Hidetora Ichimonji (Tatsuya Nakadai) decides to pass his throne to his eldest son Taro (Akira Terao) so he can spend his remaining years in peace. To his other sons, Jiro (Jinpachi Nezu) and the youngest Saburo (Daisuke Ryu), he leaves two large castles. Saburu objects, calling the decision folly and foreseeing instability, and is banished by his father for his loyalty.Before Taro's backside has warmed his new throne, his wife Lady Kaede (Mieko Harada) is whispering doubts into his ear. With Hidetora still residing in the castle, Lady Kaede tells Taro that his crown is hollow and his men will never earn his respect until his father is removed. After Hidetora kills one of Jiro's men who was about to kill his fool Kyoami (Funeral Parade of Roses' (1964) Pita), Jiro banishes his father, who then seeks refuge with Jiro. But Jiro has plans of his own, and seeing Taro as a weak leader, pretends to side with Taro in preparation for a future betrayal, and also sends Hidetora packing. With nowhere to turn, the broken and increasingly senile old man wanders to the ruins of a castle he conquered in his warmongering days. But when Saburo hears of his brothers' betrayal and Lady Kaede's scheming, war begins to brew.Kurosawa's precise planning pays off, as Ran is a gorgeous canvas of colours and scenery, to the extent that any scene could be paused, printed and hung on the wall as a piece of art. The costumes, a sumptuous blend of red's and yellow's, bring the battle scenes to life. Bodies litter the ground, streaming with bright red blood that give the movie a grim and apocalyptic feel, and when juxtaposed with Hidetora's mental decline, makes it feel like the world is literally crumbling around him. The acting is surprisingly subtle and subdued, especially when compared to Kurosawa's earlier works. Nakadai is outstanding as the lost old man, though he is helped by some impressive make-up, but the film belongs to Harada, whose ruthless conniving truly embodies Shakespeare's text. Quite simply one of the finest films ever made.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com


                
Akira Kurosawa directed a truly epic movie in every sense. An amazing adaptation of Shakespeares play King Lear, it shows the fall of a great warlord Hidetora Ichimonji and the destruction of his family. Greed and power consume many of the characters including two of his children. The Great Warlord in his attempt to step down, attempted to give his power to his eldest son and live out the rest of his life with his children. His youngest son Sabaro didn't agree with this and didn't trust his brothers ability to be loyal. The Warlord picks the children who are more willing to show there affection and his downfall starts there.Although slow and drawn out in many scenes Kurosawa does an amazing job showing the size of the battles. The choice to have no music during the Castle raid brought me closer to the battle. Hidetora losing his mind in the tower, and being subject to the barrage of arrows and bullets was one of the most captivating scenes i've ever watched. My favorite character Hidetora's nurse, constantly told the truth. Despite the circumstances he continued to express his feelings and not only added humor when needed, but also only spoke the truth about what was happening in the movie. The blend of epic battles and amazing character depth makes this a truly great movie.
Of all Shakespeare's plays, none excels King Lear. Whilst Hamlet is the true masterpiece of language and poetry, Lear has a true human story unlike anything else in the Bard's writings. And here is the only film adaptation to do this great work justice, a Japanese film by master director Akira Kurosawa. This is the pinnacle of Kurosawa's career. It is a work that directly captures the tragedy of Shakespeare, and is final proof that Kurosawa was unequaled when it came to blending Eastern and Western styles. The story of Lear is transmuted into the story of Lord Ichimonji, who foolishly draws his flattering sons near him, whilst banishing the only one to speak the truth. What ensues is the chaos (Ran) of war, as a clan that Ichimonji built out of blood and death erupts in a power struggle. Ichimonji is the perfect version of Lear, considered by most Shakespearian actors as the hardest and most noteworthy role to play. Here are preserved all the classic elements: the loyalty of the third son (Saburo/Cordelia) in the face of insurmountable treachery, the crazy old man (Ichimonji/Lear) and the wise fool that follows him. Other elements are added, such as the Lady Macbeth like Lady Kaede, whose hatred fuels the ravages of war, the gentle Lady Sue and her blind brother Tsurumaru, both victims of Ichimonji's former wrath. In this film, Kurosawa gives birth to the brilliant vision that is worthy of King Lear. Its imagery is unmatched, and certain scenes, such as the Siege of the First Castle, are remarkable for their savagery, poetry, and tragedy. The final Battle of the Four Armies is unsurpassed in film. For people familiar with the techniques of Sun-tzu, this offers a fascinating glimpse of his strategy in action, with much more depth and planning than the bloodfests in Braveheart or Gladiator. And though the Seven Samurai is still his greatest work, Ran stands as Kurosawa's most complete masterpiece, an epic, a tragedy, and a truly masterful film that shows the vicious circle of destruction that arises out of war and ambition.
There it was. My second viewing of Ran, and the one which made me acknowledge just how much of an auteur Akira Kurosawa was. I have seen numerous films from the director and literally all of them are essential viewing, yet one of those particular essentials is undoubtedly the director's concluding, 1985 epic. Set on the foundations of William Shakespeare's King Lear and produced on a <U+0096>remarkably large by Japanese standards at the time- $12 million budget, Ran draws corresponding angles between ancient Japanese history and the classic literacy theme of tyranny.Kurosawa's inspiration for the picture is as follows; "when I read that three arrows together are invincible, that's not true. I started doubting, and that's when I started thinking: the house was prosperous and the sons were courageous. What if this fascinating man had bad sons?" Those words describe the general premise of Ran, not just the beginning idea, but the focal-point. Also, the King Lear insight was something which fascinated Kurosawa, as he had always wanted to create a past for the characters in his version of the tale (something he similarly did with Throne of Blood).Beginning with an extended scene set against the expansive and luscious background of Mount Aso -during the historic period of Feudal Japan- and ending in full-scale war. This contrast depicts how easily broken a "peace" can be, and the escalating tension slowly builds until the land's ageing Great Lord flees his own land to avoid his children's bitter quarrelling. Almost all the characters in the film are after some sort of power; the Lord recognises the yearning his own family have to take the land from him and expresses his disgust towards their selfishness, gluttony, deceptiveness and disrespectful nature. Yet the youngest son observes the evil taking place and attempts to rescue his father from the wrath of his deceitful brothers. Keep in mind; this is based on a Shakespearian tale, so tragedy is always inevitable.Ever since its release, Ran has garnered practically 100% unanimous praise and is often denounced as a modern masterpiece, along with the previous and far less polished work, Kagemusha (Kurosawa called it "a dress rehearsal for Ran"). There is something about the to-be classic which <U+0096>for me personally- offers more satisfaction than any other picture by the Japanese auteur. Many would argue that the film is not as entertaining as Kurosawa's '50s and '60s outings, such as Yojimbo and Seven Samurai, but I would disagree, as much as I adore such classics. In retrospect, nearly every finished Kurosawa product was and continues to remain a great film, if not a masterpiece. Only a collected minority of directors have ever held such unmatched stability.The symbolic use of individually coloured clothing accentuates the emotions of each character; primary colours, yellow, red, blue and white are worn by the principal characters at the start of the piece. Heavy weight is pressed on conveying four predominant and reoccurring themes; turmoil, age, nihilism and warfare. The violence obviously existed throughout the Lord's reign, as an increased inner thirst (predominantly from his children) for control had been looming over the elderly Lord each day he grew older. Kurosawa is said to of intentionally made the chaos displayed a metaphor for an apocalypse of modern nuclear warfare. Well, it sure works.More than anything else, Kurosawa proved his ability to craft films which were in touch with contemporary cinema, but still included all the elements which develop a classic. Without hesitation I would cite Ran as the film which employs the finest use of long-shot cinematography. This is a mere sampling of my feelings towards the technicalities, let alone the film as a whole. Eruptions of unqualified chaos have never been so intoxicating.


                
Born in 1910 Japan, Akira Kurosawa first studied painting before moving into film in the late 1930s. A well-known director in Japan throughout the 1940s, his 1950 production of RASHOMON launched him to international acclaim--and throughout the remainder of his long career he was widely acknowledged as among the world's greatest film directors, the creator of such films as THE SEVEN SAMURAI, THRONE OF BLOOD, and YOJIMBO. Released in 1985, RAN would be among his final films and is generally felt to be among his finest.Kurosawa often borrowed plot lines from Western literature, and with RAN--the Japanese word translates loosely as chaos--he lifted the basic story from William Shakespeare's KING LEAR. In Kurosawa's retelling, the Lord Hidetora Ichimonji (Tatsuya Nakadai) divides his kingdom between three sons: Taro (Akira Terao), Jiro (Jinpachi Nezu) and Saburo (Daisuke Ryu). When youngest son Saburo upbraids his father for foolishness, Hidetora banishes him--only to find Taro and Jiro turning against him just as Saburo predicted. Kurosawa shapes the Shakespearean story to 16th Century Japan, so it would be easy to belabor comparison with the original; at the same time, however, it is worth pointing out that he actually captures the story more effectively than any western filmmaker has to date.As in many Kurosawa films, RAN alternates moments of great stillness with rapacious action, enclosed spaces with wide vistas. In stillness, the film focuses upon its actors and their intrigues--perhaps most notably the perfidious Lady Kaede, a truly dark character frighteningly realized by actress Mieko Harada. Indeed, all the cast is remarkably fine. But the great centerpiece, and the great performance, of the film is Tatsuya Nakadai's Lord Hidetora, whose mixture of good intention and folly leads first to humiliation and then to madness. Perhaps the single most stunning moment of the film occurs when Hidetora, betrayed by his sons, walks down the tower steps of the third castle following a vicious battle. It is difficult to imagine many actors who could perform such a scene; it is equally difficult to imagine many directors who could stage it.Few directors are able to convey the sense of chaos, destruction, and fear with which Kurosawa endows battle scenes, and RAN is no exception. There are several, and the battle of the third castle (in which Hidetora is bested by sons Taro and Jiro) is easily among the finest battle sequences of Kurosawa's career. Presented without any sound except a simple, eloquent music score, flash-cutting between different groups in the struggle, the result is a unique mixture of beauty and horror--and in my opinion unequaled by any other film I've seen.It should be noted that RAN, unlike RASHOMON, THRONE OF BLOOD, YOJIMBO and many other Kurosawa films, is in color. I have long been used to the remarkable shading of Kurosawa's black and white films, and I missed it--but only for a moment. Kurosawa proves no less adept in color than in black and white, and RAN's use of color is remarkable. For this reason I particularly recommend the Criterion Collection edition of the film over any other; it is very fine. But regardless of the particular version, this is a film which must be seen by any one who appreciates Asian or world cinema, truly a masterwork by a great master.GFT, Amazon Reviewer


                
"Ran" is Akira Kurosawa's film which takes the story of Shakespeare's "King Lear" and adapts it to be set in feudal Japan. The story begins with Lord Hidetora Ichimonji proposing to leave his kingdom to his three sons. The film appears in superb vivid colors and has majestic shots of fields and castles. Tôru Takemitsu's score also adds to the grandeur of this film.The performances of the film are also memorable. Tatsuya Nakadai is effective at showing the decline of Hidetora Ichimonji and making him a sympathetic figure despite his checkered past. The three Ichimonji sons are also well-portrayed and seeing the rivalries of these three strong characters is impressive. Also of note is Mieko Harada's performance as Lady Kaede, who is unnerving to the last. Shinnosuke Ikehata also plays the role of Shakespearean fool well and the supporting performances are commendable.The film is effective at developing its characters and story without seeming slow-paced. To punctuate the character and story development, the film has some battle scenes. These are well-staged and shot on an epic scale. In particular there is a siege and a major battle which are unforgettable. "Ran" momentously recreates the tragedy of "King Lear" with adept characterizations, exquisite color and grand scale conflict.


                
This is an amazing film, the last masterpiece of one of the greatest directors of the 20th century. Kurosawa was a master of cross-cultural fusion, he started by doing very Japanese music that were re-made by the Western creators, then he took some of the great writers and playwrights themes and gave them a Japanese adaptation. 'Ran' (Chaos) is a perfect blend of the Shakespearean 'King Lear' with the Japanese samurai legends. It is both classical and Japanese, it is universal.The film is of a visual beauty and complexity that words can hardly describe. Action scenes, costumes and the color palette are worked finely to the latest detail. The text has poetical beauty and moral strength and tells a world about wisdom and insanity, getting old and loving one's children, about death, love and treason, and above all about human madness. This is a creation not to be missed.


                
Meiko Harada's performance is one of cinema's great female acts.


                
Great soundtrack, great acting and great direction. Although it has a lot of missing scenes but it still great


                
Film Review: "Ran" (1985)Direcotor Akira Kurosawa (1910-1998) conquers the classic written by William Shakespeare (1564-1616) as another tragedy of "King Lear" firstly published and put to the stage in 1605, when translation into medieval feudalism-indulging Japan makes a motion picture classic in visual-striking production and costume design by Emi Wada to fulfill the story of Warlord Hidetora Ichimonji, performed by actor Tatsuya Nakadai, whose character leaves behind a kingdom with a fully-equipped military army in sword, spear and flags-of-property showing to his three incapable-to-rule sons throwing a region of inceptional tranquility and elegance into chaos, while the eldering warlord retreats in going mad at rural hide-out countryside location in amazingly-received impressionistic make-up-effects in favors for director Kurosawa, who shows impeccable as expressionistic genius in fulfilling a cinematic masterpiece in chamber-play as open-range war-scenarios after 160 minutes to a just blitz personalized feeling of mine to watch the film all over again.Copyright 2018 Cinemajsty Entertainments LLC


                
