Review in one sentence: This movie has zero energy. What follows is my fragmented, chronological lambasting of this "masterpiece." The characters are cardboard cutouts with very little in terms of actual development. The opening scene begins with an argument between Hidetora and his three sons. It's almost like it assumes retroactive character maturity that was never established to begin with. It would have been nice to see some color in terms of personality, with each of these three key players given some screen time before the big fallout. In the seemingly endless line of miscalculations made on the part of our favorite "masterful" filmmaker, Akira Kurosawa ("AK") decides to provide *his* kind of "color" <U+0096> vague one-liners. The "pranks" of the third son are referenced, but we get no actual development of his character (he does have one good moment later on). As for the other two sons, we don't even get AK's fuzzy caricatures. This viewer was left wholly indifferent by all of these sons, and their opaque motivations didn't help matters.Even worse is the portrayal of the vitally important fifth character. In AK's infinite stupidity, he chooses to have the key puppetmaster (Lady Kaede) simply state that her father and brothers were murdered by Hidetora and that her mother committed suicide. There is ample opportunity for a flashback (or a lengthy opening historical segment) that actually fleshes out her character while allowing the viewer to experience her sorrows directly, but AK simply settles for dull monologue by a one-dimensional personality. At one point (early in the film), she's sitting down and simply states that she's happy to be living in her old residence again. It's an utterly robotic, emotionless, tedious series of statements that are boring as hell. Only AK could portray vengeance in a manner this dull.We get the first battle and see a bunch of generic guys killing each other with no reason to care who actually wins. Some women that we don't know kill themselves along the way. There are some decent visuals though. Not bad, but not exactly scintillating.After the battle we get some of the vintage overacting that shows up in most of AK's films. Hidetora goes crazy and frolics in the grasslands. When his two buddies show up to comfort him, he stares into space, opens his mouth as wide as a Pez dispenser, and has a hissy fit while his jester runs around singing. It's a total disaster of dramaticism. But that's not all. Hidetora's buddies carry him to some random shack, only to learn that the resident just so happens to be a dude that got his eyes gauged out by Hidetora years ago. Impractical coincidence alert! So what does this blind dude do to the man who handicapped him for life? Does he curse him? Does he lunge at him with a knife? No. He plays a sad flute song. Hidetora then promptly throws *himself* through a wall. Such a "masterful" filmmaker, AK is.We go back to Lady Kaede, who magically goes from stoic carelessness to knife-wielding lunatic in 5 seconds flat, then takes another turn to hysterical crocodile tears only a few minutes later. Hey AK, that flashback would have been REALLY helpful. And do you know what else would have been helpful? A little relationship development between Kaede and the two sons to help the viewer in understanding exactly why these powerful men are wrapped around her little finger. You did have 160 minutes to use here. Why not use them properly for a change? Over 90 minutes in and we finally get a well-written moment when a stone fox-head is returned to Lady Kaede. Then again, even a broken clock is right twice a day. Of course, AK immediately follows this brief success with another laughable attempt at manipulation. The blind dude and his sister (who has become a target for assassination) are escorted to safety. His sister spots an old castle and tells him about it. He asks where it is. Now, any thoughtful sister would give her blind brother some idea of where this castle is. Perhaps she could take his hand and point it in the right direction. Unfortunately, this is one of those "masterful" Akira Kurosawa movies, so she simply blurts out "Over there!" The blind dude turns to the right, turns to the left, and asks "Where?" Some sad music accompanies this hopelessly incompetent scene where AK so blatantly reminds the viewer that <U+0096> yes <U+0096> the blind dude is, in fact, BLIND! Good ole AK wanted the viewer to feel sorry for the blind dude, so he constructs this ridiculous scene to pile it on. I laughed. The direction here is so terribly amateurish that only fanboys could possibly deny AK's clumsy incompetence.Hidetora gets amnesia and babbles senselessly. Stuff like, "Who am I?" and "I'm lost." "Such is the human condition", replies the jester. Give me a break. In a truly hilarious moment, the jester tells Hidetora to simply jump off a cliff if he's so disturbed about everything. Hidetora promptly jumps off a cliff. I laughed. Later on, Hidetora suddenly remembers that he has three sons. I'm serious.We get the final battle, which is pathetic. First of all, the blue samurai army somehow gets their hands on some semi-automatic rifles. What on earth are semi-automatic rifles doing in this period piece? Next, the editing is atrocious. The sequence is so badly cut up that one wonders if a young Paul Greengrass was hired as the action director. Third, the battle strategies suck. The red army rides around in circles while the blue army shoots them down. Not good.AK finishes things off with his patented overdramaticism. Hidetora even goes so far as to say <U+0096> out loud, no less <U+0096> "Things are getting dark." Wow. Just wow.
This movie came as a big disappointment to me. I really adore Japanese culture and history and I am a big fan of Asian cinema. I was looking forward to see a film that is considered as a masterpiece by many and has risen to world wide fame.I was surprised to see so many flaws in this film that I don't even know where to start. First of all, the movie is far too long and lacks of fluidity. The story is extremely predictable and develops no tension at all. The script is very poor and unoriginal. It steals several ideas from many other theatre plays and movies. One always feels that one has seen the same story elsewhere before and in a much better way. The beginning is overlong and should have been shortened. The middle part with the scenes in the field and the destroyed castle include many lengths. The ending is not well told and finishes too abruptly on the other side.The battle scenes are a complete fail. We see a shot of soldiers shooting in a forest. In the next shot, we see five soldiers yelling and falling from the horses to die on the ground. Repeat the two shots five times and this is what the battle scenes of this movie are like. There is no action, no aesthetic and no emotion in those scenes. It rather looks like a chess game than a true battle.The dialogues are amongst the poorest ones I have ever witnessed in cinema and I have seen thousand of movies. They are extremely wooden and sometimes so ridiculous that I had to laugh out hard. The scenes including the arrogant, philosophical and schizophrenic fool are annoying. When the old lord gets insane and just always says the same couple of sentences throughout the second half of the movie and shares many scenes with the fool, the whole thing looks like a parody in form of an old fashioned theatre play for kids. Some intellectual people will now talk about the irony that the fool always tells the truth and switches roles with his master and that the poor old man saved the fool and that this action started all the intrigues but this is no excuse for so many poor and repetitive dialogues.The characters are not credible. The movie tries to include many hints at traditional Japanese culture but these elements are exaggerated and don't seem authentic at all to me. The role of the fool that insults everybody around him but stays extremely faithful to his old master once he has gone insane is ridiculous. A man that shows this kind of disrespect would have been executed in traditional Japan. A woman like Lady Kaede would have never been so successful with her predictable intrigues. Any credible husband or brother-in-law would have given an order to execute her. The fact that Lady Sue could easily escape from the castle and go to her brother is not credible at all even if she got help. One would have followed and killed her and the traitor that refuses to obey his master and its sister-in-law would have been executed, too. It also seems strange to me that the lord's adviser finally kills Lady Kaede without getting the order by his superior while the lord stands next to him and doesn't react. I'm not an expert of Japanese history but from what I have seen from other movies, read from several books, known from history lessons and heard from Japanese that I could meet, many of these scenes don't seem realistic to me at all if I think about the severe code of honour of this country.After so many negative aspects, let's mention some positive things. Even though the characters aren't credible and the dialogues are wooden, it's not the mistake by the actors but by the writer and director. The acting itself is well executed and should be praised. It's the only thing that kept me watching this flick until the end. To give you an example, the interpretation of Lady Kaede or the annoying fool are well done from an objective point of view.At the time of its creation, this movie was Japan's most expensive production ever. Akira Korusawa was a big name and he got some good connections. You can see this by the inclusion of many supportive actors, excellent settings and especially many valuable costumes that are created with much detail. The film is quite colourful and beautiful to watch. Only the camera cuts are stiff and some potential is wasted there.Concerning the story, even though the whole thing is predictable, some of the intrigues are still well done. After a weak start and before a weaker second half of the movie, we have around forty-five minutes or so that are really entertaining and have some plot development. This is the strongest part of the movie.In the end, there are some positive points to mention but the weaker ones are in majority. It's definitely not the mistake of the costume makers, the actors or the light and sound engineers that do an almost flawless job. It's the fault of the poor writers and the headless director. Shame on you, Mister Akira Korusawa. Even a big name can't save this film that must be considered as a failure at the highest level. It's not the worst thing I have seen but still below average. I definitely don't recommend this movie to anybody apart of fans of gorgeous costumes and old fashioned theatre plays.


                
I watched this movie a couple of days ago and, despite its credits given by critics, I must admit not liking it at all. The script is indeed potent, but the way it's materialized fails much behind the director's goals. First of all, this had to be a dramatic movie, while it's actually not. Drama is realized through superficial means and honestly convinces no one. It rather depends on costumes, declamations, stereotypic behavior and forces of nature to achieve something which had to be achieved through EXPRESSIVE ACTING alone. The story drags and the empty space is filled by artsy artifice. All characters are one dimensional and badly acted. Some may argue overacting is a respectable Japanese fashion, but I still don't like it, because it forbids someone to immerse into the plot. The only interesting (and realistic) character is Lady Kaede, also the only one enjoying a respectable performance.The first battle scene is outright ridiculous. Blood has orange colors (!), dead heroes stack one against another in a "dramatic" mass of arrows and bullets. Everyone dies except, of course, our main character, bound to have a more dignifying fate and miraculously surviving masses of stray bullets. If the movie ended there, having the main character avoid capture by committing seppuku, or even fearing taking his own life and letting bullets do the work, I would have found the movie enjoyable. But the movie goes on much more into a totally contrived and predictable direction. The end was exactly as I had expected.
