I am not certain, but I think Ran was Akira Kurosawa's last big feature. Visually, It might be his most distinctive. Being in color opens a lot of doors to cinematography, and makes it easier to see how much artistic creativity went into the sets and costumes. There is something else distinctive about Ran. It is his slowest picture. You need extreme patience to make it through this very long movie, and you also need to understand the context of the story.Ran is Kurosawa's retelling of Shakespeare's King Lear, which many scholars say is his most difficult tragedy. The premise is identical, revolving around an old monarch who is ruined by the corruption of his sons, after he gives them power and authority. (In King Lear, they were daughters, not sons, of course.) Ran starts and ends strongly, but the problem comes down to a huge, plodding middle section. This part of the film will really test your attention span. Kurosawa deliberately makes sure that nothing happens, because he wants to evoke one single emotion...isolation. He places his principal character (and a couple of others) in the middle of nowhere, with no story progression, music, or major dialog. There are perhaps one (or even two) too many similarly grim scenes.The battles scenes are the biggest in Kurosawa's forty year body of work. Not only do they feature swords and spears but guns, cannons, and a cast of thousands. The interesting thing about those scenes is that Kurosawa, doesn't intend them to be rousing or exciting. Instead, there is a strange emotional feeling generated. The most memorable part of Ran is the very last sequence, which is visually brilliant and really disturbing. He makes a metaphor about the frailty of humanity by showing a blind man in a very particular place.Ran will leave you thinking long and hard. I have not seen a film like it and I don't think I ever will. It is not my favorite Kurosawa, but it is very much worth watching.


                
I absolutely love the films of Akira Kurasawa and have seen most of them. And, for some reason, this is not among my favorites although it is one of his highest rated films on IMDb. Perhaps I'm just being too picky, but I think MAYBE its popularity is because it was made somewhat recently and some of his older (and I think more interesting) films are sometime forgotten. After all, MOST of the IMDb reviewers are old enough that they could have seen this film on the big screen, while very few could have seen his earlier films in all their glory. The other reason why I think it's a little overrated is that his version of Macbeth (Throne of Blood) is the best retelling of Shakespeare and so Ran, despite it being wonderful, pales if you see them one after another (like I did). And finally, the characters and their interactions are just sterile--with little understanding or life to the them.So what DOES this film have going for it? Well, the word is SPECTACLE. Like KAGAMUSHA (which came out around the same time), it had a big budget and glorious locations. It is simply a gorgeous film to see. Some watch Kurosawa for the spectacle, I tend to look more at the characterizations which are really secondary in this film.Give me a film like Kurosawa's IKARU or SCANDAL over a film like this.


                
Based on King Lear everyone has said, maybe deliberately missing out the references to actual Japanese feudalism and in part to Toyotomi Hideyoshi.Not a bad movie but certainly not a 10 out of ten. Seven Samurai captured the audience a lot better with the linking to characters and the overall 'personal' plot. This movie considering it was made around 30 years later has a lot to answer for in terms of general acting and effects. Das Boot is older for example and is streets ahead in terms of cinematography and audience enthralment.Seven out of ten. Max.


                
If you know even the smallest bit of information about film making you will have heard of Akira Kurosawa. To call him a film director is somewhat mistaken as his movie making reflects his writing and cinematography as well.His influences on the film making world are great as well as happily being able to be inspired by many different sources. When Steven Spielberg, George Lucas and Francis Ford Coppola admire you enough to have a quick whip around with the hat to raise enough money so you can make a film, the term legend is not strong enough.He has made 16th century Japan his most popular subject both because this period represents the height of purely Japanese culture (becoming unique from Chinese culture and only just beginning to encounter western culture) and because it was a time of great conflict.Ran is based on a range of different sources. Those who think this is a Japanese version of Shakespeares "King Lear" are sadly mistaken. Yes, throne of blood was a remake of "Macbeth" but this movie uses a number of different inspirations. Yes, there is King Lear in there and that story is the main guide for Ran, but with many different developments. The primary inspiration for the story is from a real Samuri who split his empire between his 3 sons. Only in reality the 3 sons ruled happily and this story the opposite happens. He also manages to integrate elements of traditional Japanese No theater into the mix. He did this with throne of blood, but here it is seamless.The story starts with with the old war lord leading a hunting party. Afterwards he seems to fall asleep. My view is that he is not really asleep but dead and what we see later is his Ghost. He has a dream and when he "wakes up" he decides to split his kingdom between his sons.Then things go wrong. The sons fight each other and him. He is a man condemned to a hell where he sees the empire he has built ruined by the hate and betrayal of his life.A great epic tragedy. Perhaps many people will watch this movie after reading reviews wondering why people seem to think this movie is so great. Kurosawa is one of the most innovative film makers of all time. If you are interested in film making then his movies are a must. But those who complain that he never had enough main stream exposure, get over it. Americans took his innovations, slicked them up for a mass audience.Watch it, enjoy it, feel moved, analyze it, probably fail to get all the ideas, then watch it again. It is probably a little bit long and spends too much time on the ex-warlord going mad scenes and the ending is a bit of a fizzer.....(hmmm.......I can here the angry cry of a thousand angry film school students)....but it is still the work of one of the greatest geniuses in film making.And don't forget to watch the DVD comments, but seriously I don't think they really understand Kurosawa's real genius (for example, he tends to film the people listening rather than those talking, why, the talking is merely giving information, it is the reaction of the listener that is the most important).


                
Consistently excellent throughout I was beginning to wonder if it ever ended.  Needless to say, Ran is wonderfully simple tale of distrust and coercion among brothers. Philosophically filmed with the most attention upon the landscape and sky, it makes you think that we are all just insignificant pawns in a much larger and vicious world.  Can anyone ever be trusted when we all have so many mysteries left to uncover?


                
a peerless cinematic/visual experience. i can name very few films that have even a couple of scenes to compare; lawrence of arabia does, but the list is tiny. and this film just keeps them coming and coming.my reason for a seven is that the film is a failure as Shakespeare. being sadly monolingual i cannot speak to the stunning beauty that other languages probably offer when crafted in the right hands, and maybe the Japanese language version of this sings as sweetly as william does in English... toward the end when the fool rails against the gods i heard my wife mutter: 'as flies to wanton boys are we to the gods; they kill us for sport.' now that hits an English speaker full on. the fools rant, though meant to express the same thought is comparatively empty.this brings me to another reviewer's point: Shakespeare's very language evokes the images needed to bring life to the ideas right inside your mind with a sort of 'uhuh!' flash. he pours into your ear his gold and the empty stage comes alive. kurosawa is trying to do this with the images foremost. they are beautiful beyond words. it is stunning. but it isn't Shakespeare. we have the ideas like vanity and treachery, we have the wonderful visuals framing them, and we have the actors coming across in maxed-out melodrama mode. This is not madness, not a soul seething with demons. it is histrionic flailing.i think perhaps the Japanese cultural approach to the very idea of madness is not accessible to us in our usual western terms. it may be that an appearance of high melodrama is as close as we can come on this issue. the cultures simply don't see the same thing when they look. the film makes me glad bette davis never did Shakespeare.sorry, kurosawa fans, i love him, too, but this one misses as badly on the verbal level as it transcends on the visual.
Kurosawa's movie "Ran" basically follows plot that Shakespere's tragedy "King Lear" did. It's kind of Japanese version of "King Lear." Even though it is based on "King Lear" story, this movie approaches me very Japanese style. What I mean is, it follows buddism and rewards in accordance with deeds in our life by showing chaotic battles and betrayal.By watching this movie, it reminds me 'What comes around, what goes around.' Once you betray someone, you would be betrayed. In this movie battle scenes are splendid. I think Kurosawa shooted very unique way that shows well by using wide camera angle that capture both armies. In this movie, Hidetora's make up is too much overdone and I guess it's because influence of Japanese traditional play called "Kabuki" Development of movie takes long time form scene to the other scene, so it can be a little bit bored to watch but it's interesting to see how it does reflect our life.


                
. . . with somewhat less scintillating results than the first time, *Throne of Blood* from the late Fifties. Of course, some of this has to do with the obvious fact that "Macbeth" is just more amenable to cinema than "King Lear": the former play is much briefer, more to the point, and has more visual possibilities. "Lear" also contains reams of philosophical commentary on Man's place in the cosmos which, I fear, gets lost in translation to any other language, let alone Japanese. I'll expand on that a little later.But first, praise is due. If the poetic meat of "Lear" necessarily must be excised from the milieu of 16th-century war-torn Japan, one can still admire Kurosawa for brilliantly adapting the play's plot and characters to their new setting. Obviously, the tired old king of ancient Britain morphs easily into a tired old samurai overlord (Tatsuya Nakadai as "Hidetora"). But instead of the three daughters, we get three sons. As in Shakespeare, the elder two are bad, the younger good: the former use language to hide their true natures from the king; the latter's inability to use language to SHOW his true, good nature causes his precipitate banishment from Hidetora's dominions. The good son is accompanied in banishment by loyal samurai Tongo, the equivalent to Kent. The wife of the eldest son, Lady Kaeda (Meiko Harada in the greatest female role in all of Kurosawa), is nominally this movie's version of evil Edmund, but in actuality she is Edmund, Goneril, and Regan all rolled into one silk kimono. Indeed, the "bad" sons seem unable to commit the vilest crimes without Kaeda's prodding. One scene that demonstrates Kaeda's nastiness with absolutely brilliant economy shows her sobbing on the floor, trying to soften up second son Jiro into marrying her after the eldest son Taro -- her former husband -- has been treacherously killed in battle. With Jiro's back turned, she viciously squashes a moth on the floor without the least interruption in her performance.Minor roles are also transposed: the old samurai has in his service the Japanese equivalent of a court jester, who, as in Shakespeare's play, serves the somewhat tiring function of continually pointing out what a mistake the ruler has made by abdicating and then dividing the kingdom. The good characters Gloucester and Edgar are sort of mixed and matched interchangeably with a brother and sister tag-team of woe: the brother, blinded, is a hermit living in squalor, and the sister is a frightened mouse having fully retreated into Shindo Buddhism. Both of these characters are the damaged results of Hidetora's warlike past, their misfortunes entirely due to their father having been Hidetora's enemy.And this elemental difference in Hidetora's and Lear's back-story is what finally trips up *Ran*, in my judgment. Artists are always attempting to re-write Shakespeare; all fail, even the greatest artists like Akira Kurosawa. Lear was "more sinned against than sinning"; Hidetora is basically getting his comeuppance for past brutalities. This is perhaps a suitable enough alteration for Eastern sensibilities: a movie that invokes the Great Buddha is bound to find dramatic justice in an old man suffering the retribution of all of his bad karma. But this idea just isn't as bold as Shakespeare's. Lear pays the price for his foibles twenty-fold, and his sad story is really but a small item in a world of chaotic violence in which maliciousness is the one certainty. Life just isn't fair, and karma has nothing to do with it, either way. Kurosawa, despite depicting all manner of barbarities in this film, clearly couldn't stomach Shakespeare's nihilistic vision of the world. In *Ran*, Tongo reprimands the jester for getting angry at the gods, going on to say, "The gods weep for us"; in "King Lear", the gods are simply absent. I think Kurosawa lost his nerve. I also think that the Lady Kaeda could have done without the tiresome "motivation" for her actions. Unalloyed evil was good enough for Goneril and Regan, and, for that matter, Asaji, the Lady Macbeth-figure in Kurosawa's own *Throne of Blood*. Giving Kaeda a revenge motive deprives her of no small amount of force.Of course, the latter quibble can be considered more than adequately compensated for by such scenes as when she requests a henchman to salt the head of the Lady Sue after cutting it off, so that it would keep better in the heat for presentation. And, of course, any other deficiencies *Ran* might have can be relegated to nitpicking when one considers the great siege of the Third Castle in the middle of the film -- the crowning glory of Kurosawa's epic mode. Horrific carnage mounts over a mournful, Mahlerian score (which changes suddenly and explosively into ambient sound when Taro gets shot), finally culminating in one of cinema's greatest moments: a $1.5 million set going up in flames while Nakadai as Hidetora, denied seppuku and now finally mad, parts two armies like some awesome ghost, trudging his way toward oblivion. If Hidetora is sadly denied Lear's articulation, Kurosawa gives him some of the most brilliant visual presentation that a great artist can conjure. As such, comparisons between the actual director (seventy-five during the film's making) and his subject seem notoriously wrongheaded. Kurosawa hadn't abdicated any throne. Not yet.7 stars out of 10.
Needless to say that the mere fact that this movie is directed by Kurasawa gives this movie five stars. Yet, I was really hoping for an intelligent twist in this story.... a great battle tactics, unfortunately that wasn't the case. The story simply deals with a tyrant dictator who raged war against many people, perhaps some were innocent,and now it is his time to pay back. The acting is good.... yet less impressive that other Kurasawa movies. I just couldn't love, hate or admire any of the characters. The camera tells the story in a beautiful way but sometimes it is just too far away to tell who is who.... one can only know by the color code if the banner! The battle scenes were magnificent, and even though too short lived, were the most interesting part of the movie. Overall, It is still worth the 2hrs and 40 min. Yet this movie doesn't stand out as the old ones did.


                
Kurosawa, the master of cinema, provides a truly epic retelling of King Lear in "Samurai format". Kurosawa has a taste for Shakespeare, retelling much of his works in his films.The spectacle is overwhelming, with long, drawn-out battles with flowing, colorful flags and lots of blood. The battles rage a little too long for my liking, and take the story away. The film is very long and tends to drag, with some of the dialogue adding to the plodding pace.The story revolves around a warlord and his sons who vie for power, resulting in much bloodshed and strife. There is a jester who adds comic relief, and his wild antics are quite the bizarre contrast to the otherwise serious tone of the film.Kurosawa fans should watch this, but alone it is not the most impressive story, even as a retelling of Shakespeare. Lots of epic battles though.


                
This film is probably one of the best International films that I have seen. To see these grown men try to be independent and yet have respect for their father. But this filmed showed that the saying "blood is thicker than water" isn't always true. A woman was able to turn brothers against each other and allow the greed to end all of their lives. In this film nature had a dramatic role and added life to it. It was beautiful to see the bright colors and the beautiful scenery of the grasslands and green hills. Also enjoyed how the director foreshadows upcoming events, such as the scene of the sky with the moving clouds. Another great scene that was tragic but somewhat comical is when Lord Hidetora Ichimonjiis tries to kill himself during the castle attack scene and ever attempt goes unaccomplished. He sees a sword, picks it up, and to his surprise it doesn't have a blade. Another scene is when numerous arrows are being shot into the castle, and every single on of them misses Lord Hidetora Ichimonjiis. But Lord Hidetora Ichimonjiis appearance, the pale face and white hair gave the film the kabuki theater affect. Very good film, highly recommend.


                
One thing that really stayed with me after watching this film was the "colorfulness" of the movie. Just in general, everything was so colorful; seems as though, the director, Kurosawa, concentrated a lot while he was filming the movie. The expression of the blood was very interesting; it seemed very fake (compared to the movies nowadays), but it still had a great effect to the audience with the bright red color. He also used the color to almost distinguish the sons in the movies; yellow, red, and blue. While watching, I thought Kurosawa expressed himself in couple different characters; one would be Hidetora, who is so majestic in the beginning in the movie but eventually referred as an old senile fool who can't even take care of himself. It seems as though he represented his career throughout the years, and how he must have felt throughout the years. Especially, when he expressed how pathetic Heditora felt when he couldn't even kill himself; just as how he tried to commit suicide but he fails. This film was a representation, from my point of view, of his career, as well as his life before he produced the film.
