"He who knows others is wise. He who knows himself is enlightened." - Tao Te Ching"Ran" begins with a gorgeous sequence, director Akira Kurosawa treating us to several shots of soldiers on horseback, perched like gargoyles on a series of grassy hills. We assume these men are guarding the borders of some ancient Japanese kingdom, but it turns out they're running security escort for King Hidetora, an elderly warlord who is out hunting with his three sons.The film then quickly becomes a loose retelling of Shakespeare's "King Lear", Hidetora announcing his retirement and then proceeding to divide his kingdom equally between his three sons. In true Shakespearean fashion, Hidetora then stands back and watches with sadness as his spawn squabble and wage war, each interested in acquiring more power and respect than the other.But "Ran" is not simply a three-way battle between sons. One of the things that becomes apparent with repeated viewings are the subtle power plays being made behind the family. For example, rival warlords form alliances with the three brothers in an attempt to instigate battles between them, and the wife of one brother, Lady Kaede, moves like a serpent, constantly plotting against the King and his sons.Initially we sympathises with King Hidetora. After all, the poor guy loses his family and is forced to watch helplessly as his empire crumbles! But gradually we learn more and more about Hidetora's past; Kurosawa reveals that Hidetora was himself once a ruthless warlord who destroyed kingdoms and killed thousands. By the film's end we've thus witnessed a grand cycle being reset. Hidetora built his empire through violence and bloodshed and lost it likewise, one ruthless King essentially falling whilst another rises to take his place.So "Ran", which means "chaos" in Japanese, is less about King Hidetora's personal tragedy than it is about human tragedy on a much larger, more cosmic scale. Observe how Kurosawa uses various distancing techniques (he frequently cuts away to shots of cloud filled skies) in an attempt to convey the feeling that we are watching these characters and their petty squabbles from the heavens. With shades of Jancso ("The Red and White") and Kubrick ("Paths of Glory", the sublime "Lyndon"), Kurosawa's camera grants us the vantage point of enlightened Gods.Interestngly, "Ran's" aesthetic style is completely different to much of Kurosawa's early work. Kurosawa's pace is slow, his camera rarely moves, close-up shots are rare, the film's acting is stylized and mannered (drawing from Japanese Noh theatre, though perhaps also Brecht?) and characters are held at a distance. Most find this grating - none of the ingratiating of say, a David Lean epic - but this is a more mature, deeper and less imitable Kurosawa. Whilst his earlier features have been imitated to death, perhaps to the point where they have lost some of their power, "Ran" remains sublime.Gone also are the usual Kurosawan moral platitudes. There is little preaching here, and few of the trite moral lessons and dips into sentimentality that mar many of Kurosawa's early films. Indeed, it seems that Kurosawa only matured into a "serious" artist in the years leading up to and after his failed suicide attempt. He achieved a sort of gerotranscendence with his later films, shifting to a more transcendent vision of the world. These films thus have a very holistic view of time and space, life and death, moving away from ego-centricism to a more cosmic world-view. Perhaps such an artistic shift was spurred on by Kurosawa's own existential crisis in the early 70s.King Hidetora himself achieves gerotranscendence after a failed suicide. It is then that he stumbles upon a blind man who was once the victim of his past savagery. Forced to directly confront his past, his self image no longer based on illusions of heroism and glory, Hidetora promptly becomes a tormented spirit. Kurosawa has him wear a white face mask from this point onwards, tearing across the landscape like a ghost."Ran" ends with a powerful sequence. An army marches in the foreground whilst, far in the distance, a blind man walks dangerously close to a cliff's edge, tentatively tapping away at the earth with his walking cane. The man's walking cane then hits open air, he stumbles slightly and the film abruptly ends. Kurosawa's point is clear: humanity is blind, perpetually on the verge of tumbling down some dark abyss. But note too how the blind man is elevated, far above the army down below. He may risk falling, but he, unlike most in the film, has begun his long climb back toward virtue. "Ran" is packed with similar, cleanly drawn "metaphors", though at times Kurosawa's dialogue is ridiculously direct. Entire sequences of the film spell out Kurosawa's themes, character dialogue signposting the director's moral messages at every turn. It's all at times very hokey (subtler in Japanese?).Needless to say, Kurosawa's compositions and use of colour are dazzling. At times the film seems like a series of landscape paintings and the master's soundtrack is also fairly experimental.Note to younger viewers, preconceptions in tow: there are no "cool" samurai battles here, only a melancholic battle sequence which Kurosawa shoots without sound. Such sequences are nightmarish rather than gratuitous, Kurosawa balking at the horror that other directors salivate over. "Ran's" stylized acting also takes some getting used to, requiring several viewings to fully absorb the film's various character motivations, traits, names, nuances and faces. One character, a copy of the court jester in "King Lear", is particularly annoying until we properly tune in to his role. Like Shakespeare's jester, he exists outside the story, designed to comment on man's follies.9.5/10 - Despite some heavy-handed dialogue, this is arguably Kurosawa's best film, and one which rewards (or gets richer with) repeat viewings, something few films genuinely do.
One of Kurosawa's best, "Ran" is a story set on samurai era Japan that touches on different subjects, as for example family, power, revenge or betrayal, delivering a powerful movie that will stay for a long time with the viewer.Old Lord Hidetora Ichimonji is getting old and, when a couple of lords come to ask for his third son to marry one of the lord's daughters, Hidetora decides it is time to retire. He will divide his territories between his three sons and retire, even though he will keep his title and some power. The youngest, Saburo is against this decision, but the older two brothers are really happy with their father's decision and promise to take care of him. Saburo is sent away, stripped from all of his possessions and Hidetora starts his new life.What follows is a story of hate, betrayal, desire, corruption... You know, the stuff of great stories. The two older brothers start to plot against each other and against their father, the wife of the older brother too, Saburo just seems to worry about his father... There are a lot of threads but Kurosawa does an amazing job in threading them and keep the plot advancing while making things more and more interesting. The plot is full of nice twists and touches, and the characters are well rounded, their behavior and decisions well justified and presented. Kurosawa was a great director, and every frame of this movie is a clear example of his touch. Everything is really great, from the music to the palette of color, and even the use of the scenery is also top notch.Totally worth seeing, "Ran" is a movie about the dangers of power. Any kind of.


                
Akira Kurosawa returns to Shakespeare in this loose adaptation of King Lear that also incorporates elements from the legends of the daimyo Mori Motonari. Or perhaps it would be more accurate to say that those two sources are eerily similar. An aging warlord (Tatsuya Nakadai) that has decided to retire and hand over the three great castles he has conquered during his bloody reign to his three sons, with the oldest named his successor and the head of the great house. But almost immediately the sons begin arguing among one another and soon the warlord finds himself dethroned and wandering the battlefields of the war his sons are waging.Quite like with his previous Shakespeare adaptation, Throne of Blood, Kurosawa delves deep into man's corruptibility and the taint of power in this film. Many of his films are at least somewhat heroic in nature and tone. Whereas the protagonist of this film, the warlord, is anything but. We learn throughout the course of the film that his life is a long tale of conquest, beaten down enemies, blood, fire and destruction. Yet Kurosawa achieves the very hard task of making him sympathetic despite all that. He obviously loves his sons and his anguish at seeing his life's work torn down in a matter of days is real and jarring.Perhaps it could even be said that his character is reflected in his sons. There's the oldest, the one with the power, pride and possessions, but who is brought low by those closest to him and stands on feet of clay. There's the schemer, the one willing to commit atrocities to get what he wants. And there's the youngest, who's the most driven by the love he has for his family, but who's also the one with the most difficulties in surviving the war-torn realm they live in.The film is also massive in scope, budget and length. Its themes are deep, its running time is closer to three hours and its story is a humongous five act monstrosity. It was also the most expensive Japanese film ever made back then and the money is definitely on the screen. Hundreds of soldiers at once on display, all of them decked in armour. Entire castles built and then destroyed. Lavish costumes, ruins and locations. I don't think I've seen a movie with this much handcraft on the screen since The Lord of the Rings trilogy. And this predates those films by almost two decades.Yet the film is always gripping, always interesting and endlessly fascinating. It's called one of Kurosawa's finest, and yeah, I can see why.


                
Gorgeous photography and some great acting help this Japanese version of 'King Lear'.  The only real problem is that it starts off interesting, has an incredible battle scene and then comes to a screeching halt.  It stays that way for about an hour before it picks up for another battle scene at the end.  This movie could easily have been edited--it's way too long (160 minutes).  Still, as I said, the photography was beautiful and I was lucky enough to see a brand-new print at a revival theatre--this film would really suffer on TV.  Good movie, but too long.


                
Warlord Hidetora Ichimonji is haunted. He divides his kingdom among his three sons; Taro, Jiro, and Saburo. The oldest Taro is given the First Castle to lead the younger brothers. The youngest Saburo objects and he is banished. Another lord Fujimaki takes him in and offers his daughter for marriage. Taro's wife Lady Kaede lost her blood family to Hidetora's ruthless conquest and plots to destroy the family from within. Taro and Jiro force Hidetora from power driving him to madness.Legendary director Akira Kurosawa delivers a big production of mass battles and epic drama. It's one of the grandest samurai epics. It is wonderfully beautiful. The acting is big. It is visually stunning.


                
The story follows the period when an old warlord decides to find peace by giving space to younger blood. Hidetora decides to divide the kingdom in three parts to his songs. A castle for a son. Two older boys are satisfied with the decision to inherit a part of kingdom. But the younger son argues with the wisdom of a such of decision. The first thought for him was how reckless and shameless is the boy. But how much time will pass until we see an ambitious brother that want the whole kingdom? What can a wrong decision cause?A very interesting story. I think it can be a great lesson for many people, how excessive ambition, thoughtlessness and war for power can cause fatality.I've seen some of Kurosawa films in black and white, but this time I was surprised with his cinematographic work. Every visual detail was perfect. Costumes, places, colors, castles are incredible. Every single detail is made with dedication. I liked so much that he didn't use music a lot, especially during the war part. I felt like I was into the war with Hidetora. The war scene was epic.Acting was great too. The Hidetora actor was so great playing madness.
An elderly lord abdicates to his three sons, and the two corrupt ones turn against him.Is this Kurosawa's masterpiece? One would think the title of masterpiece ought to go to "Seven Samurai" or "Rashomon", and they are probably right. But an argument can be made for "Ran". The blend of traditional Japanese storytelling with Shakespeare? The years Kurosawa put into this, story-boarding every detail? And those hundreds of colorful, handmade costumes? Certainly this deserves recognition.If nothing else, we can probably say this is Kurosawa's finest film in color. He may have been more influential in the 1960s, but this does not mean he ever stopped making great films.


                
Kurosawa uses color to define his characters; Taro Ichimonji (yellow) can be thought of as the cowardly son of Lord Hidetora. When Hidetora's personal guard begin to sing songs that make fun of Taro, Taro is quick to expel his father and his men lest Taro seem weak as the new king. Jiro (red) is the scheming son, always looking for a way to gain power and an excuse for bloodshed. Saburo (blue) is the sincere son, caring deeply for his father and the only son of his that is pure. And then there is the Great Lord himself, Lord Hidetora (white). When all colors are combined, white is produced. Hidetora is the combination of his sons. He was ruthless like Jiro, burning peoples homes and slaughtering those who stood before him. He was cowardly like Taro, afraid to lose face in front of the other warlords, so much as to banish his son Saburo for speaking up against him while two other warlords were present. And he becomes sincere like Saburo, asking the son he banished for his forgiveness and love.If you enjoy samurai films (and I know you all do) the Kurosawa's "Ran" is a must see.
Okay, the story by Akira Kurosawa, Hideo Oguni and Masato Ide is only part of the beauty of this movie.The real creator/maker of RAN is Akira Kurosawa. The colors, the composition, the imagery, the symbolism and the movement are all choreographed to touch our hearts, minds and imaginations. And they all come together this way because of director, Kurosawa.This is one of the most breathtakingly visual films that I have ever seen. I'm not sure TV sets ill do it justice, with all of the color and contrast controls.The movie deals with classic plot devices like greed, power, loyalty and love. To be sure, it was adapted (so I've read) from William Shakespeare's KING LEAR. If so, then it was a brilliant adaptation, because, even just visually, the story works.I would highly recommend this movie.


                
For Akira Kurosawa, without a doubt one of the greatest directors of all time, Ran marks the last great movie he ever made despite its shortcomings. It is hard to find fault with such a great director; one who has explored the very realistic nature of human living with classics such as Rashomon, Seven Samurai, Hidden Fortress, Yojimbo, and Red Beard. Here, he continues his love for Shakespeare by adapting King Lear to the samurai age as he shows an elder lord abdicate the throne to his eldest son only to watch it be tossed around amidst bloody and violent interactions.As with his other period pieces, Kurosawa pays attention to the little details and they all pay off and enhance the watching experience. Every scene is visually delicious from the remarkable sets and locations to the epic and colorful costumes and props. Kurosawa was also a master at filming action scenes and Ran is no exception. They battle scenes are rather graphic for Kurosawa but stunning nonetheless. Although this one didn't entice me as much as his earlier work, perhaps due to its slow-moving pacing and some rather complex motifs, this is still a very strong piece of work from the greatest of all Eastern directors and further shows that Akira Kurosawa is a director to be recognized and honored for all time.


                
Given that Akira Kurosawa's sight had deteriorated so much by the time he made this movie, it's astonishing what a beautiful film Ran turned out to be. Filmed nigh on entirely in long shots, every single frame looks like a celebrated painter's masterpiece come to life, each one bursting with colour. From such examples as the hill top debate which begins the film, where 16th Century Japanese royalty sit in brightly coloured robes before the sweeping green mountains or the sight of colour-coordinated Samurai armies ransacking a fortress in a silent, apocalyptic battle, right up to the achingly sad final shot before the credits, every second of Ran is a beauty to behold. That isn't to say it's a film that'll concern only those interested in poetic visual statements however, because it is also one of the director's best works and a landmark moment in Eastern cinema.Basically an updating of Shakespeare's King Lear, the film sees the elderly Lord Hidetora Ichimonji deciding to hand over the reins of power to his three sons. His eldest, Taro, becomes the new Lord, while his younger sons Jiro and Saburo are each granted a province of their own to rule over. Saburo however protests, believing it to be a foolish decision that will split the clan and Hidetora banishes his third son. It isn't long however until Taro and Jiro's ambitions of power lead them to betray their father and the nation begins to fall apart, spurred on by Taro's manipulating wife lady Kaede.Kurosawa thus blends Shakespearean tragedy with a sweeping historical epic about the loss and gain of power. At the centre of it all is a remarkable acting presence in the shape of Tatsuya Nakadai as the displaced elderly Samurai. At the beginning of the film he is a man of stubborn pride, but as his world crumbles and his people die, he soon finds himself with nowhere else to go. The emotional turbulence of being betrayed by his own flesh and blood drives him to his limits, but nevertheless he still refuses to contact Saburo because his warrior principles will not allow him. As a man in his twilight years, lost in the world, there is definitely some element of Kurosawa himself up there on screen, the director having been near the end of his career with his health failing and his wife having tragically passed away during shooting. Hidetora isn't a perfect ruler but as evidence of his cruelty and oppression during his reign mount up, he remains a sympathetic character, questioning his past decisions and what exactly it is he has achieved in his lifetime. He is the pillar that holds the film together and no mistake.He is aided by some impressive performances all round. Daisuke Ryo's impetuous, outspoken but loyal Saburo is a highpoint of course even if his screen time is limited, spending the majority of the storyline in exile. Jinpachi Nezu's Jiro is another remarkable presence, equally proud and stubborn as his father but beset by insecurities and mistrust. The two that really standout however are Hisashi Igawa and Masayuki Yui as Jiro's General Kurogane and Saburo's Lieutenant Tango respectively. Kurogane is loyal soldier but he is a bit more complex than average because he knows that his master is a flawed and weak man, yet remains by his side to the bitter end. Tango on the other hand is an adviser who gets banished alongside Saburo, but who returns in the hour of need and goes through hell and high water to return his lord to safety.Sad to say though that not every character feels truly grounded in reality as Mieko Harada's Lady Kaede is the film's weak link (and the reason I'm not giving it a nine). Her performance is spot on as Kaede is a cold, calculating woman with vengeance on her mind at the best of times, but there are one or two moments in the script where the writing isn't particularly strong. During one pivotal scene towards the middle, she comes dangerously close to parody, verging from one dramatic emotional outburst to another, ranting, screaming and licking blood from a knife wound.Mercifully though, that is the only bad thing about this movie and fans of historical epics would do well to check it out. The battle scene that forms the centrepiece is absolutely breathtaking, with legions of Samurai warriors storming a castle in total silence. There are no sound effects, no speech, just the sad musical overture for the majority of the fighting, until a particularly important gun shot rings out and we are plunged right into the maelstrom. Bodies are filled with arrows, blood drips everywhere and hundreds of warriors are slaughtered in spectacular fashion. It may be a glorious sight to behold, but it is the closest thing a historical epic has got to showing that war is hell, no matter what period of human history it is set in.The more blood thirsty among us may then be disappointed by the second clash towards the end, a far more unremarkable skirmish that promised to be incredible after several scenes of armies manoeuvring in anticipation but even so, Ran is unquestionably a masterpiece. It gets into the heads of men who hold tremendous power and puts all their complexities and failings under a microscope for the world to see. Like a watercolour painting that moves, it is beautiful to watch time and time again.


                
Director Akira Kurosawa does an interesting take on William Shakespeare's "King Lear", shifting the setting into feudal era Japan. The story follows war lord Hidetora who attempts to divide his land up between his three sons Saburo, Taro and Jiro while slowly slipping into insanity. However, Taro's wife attempts to destroy the family in order to take control, resulting in the peaceful countryside descending into bloody chaos. Ran then reveals it's party piece- a visually stunning yet haunting battles between two of the brothers, while Hidetora sinks even further into madness. Through a blend of tragedy, action and suspense, Kurosawa has created a masterpiece which is deservedly a classic epic. Ran will appeal to those fond of the works by Shakespeare or film fanatics in general. Suspense and action make this film an absolute must-see.
I think it is so interesting how throughout this whole movie people thought there were making their own decisions, when in actuality they were being manipulated. The father was manipulated and betrayed by his own men, or should I say man; when his adviser told him to go to one of the castles, but when he got to the castle there was a trap and there was a battle, or more like a slaughter. The outcome of that was the father loosing his whole following of men and soldiers. While the other brother and the king of that particular castle got killed. which only left two brothers, but by the end of the movie there was only one of the brothers left, who was going to die anyway. And by far the best manipulator was the older brothers new wife, who was fueling his lust for more power, with her lust for revenge.


                
Director Akira Kurosawa takes Shakespeare's "King Lear" and sets it in feudal Japan.What I love about Kurosawa films is true about "Ran" as well: he was capable of making popcorn entertainments that were infused with an art-house intellectualism. He made thinking man's action movies. "Ran" is right up there with some of his best work, but to me it falls short of what remains my favorite Kurosawa film, "Seven Samurai," and even as his Shakespeare adaptations go, I was more wowed by "Throne of Blood," his visceral re-telling of "Macbeth." Incidentally, "Ran" brought Kurosawa his only Academy Award nomination for Best Director, and as it has done with so many tremendous film artists, the Academy had to admit that they'd botched things and handed him an honorary award as a consolation prize a few years later.Grade: A-


                
Ran is the most melancholy epic ever made. Knowing the context in which it was made only adds to that sense, but is hardly indispensable. It is the last classic Japanese samurai epic of the 20th century, and the last great film by a filmmaker who overshadowed most of his contemporaries.Adapting Shakespeare's King Lear to Medieval Japan and changing daughters to sons, Ran opens with an aging warlord (Kurosawa regular Tatsuya Nakadai) dividing his power among his sons, only to watch them sulk away. Intending to spend his twilight years visiting each in turn, he instead witnesses the slow disintegration of everything he has created and a vicious fraternal war.The 70s were a very rough time for Kurosawa, with the debacle of his first color and independent picture, attempted suicide and very slow rehabilitation. In this time he made only the Russian Dersu Ouzala, a fine film, but one that stands apart from his other work. He also devised the story of Ran, an impossible-to-finance behemoth of a picture at a time when Japanese filmmaking was evolving towards smaller, nimbler, and safer ventures. As the prospect of ever making Ran grew ever fainter, he set his sights on a smaller film to serve as a dress-rehearsal of sorts: Kagemusha. It took foreign financing, courtesy of his first generation of successful fans - George Lucas and Francis Coppola - to get that made, to great international acclaim. It also helped Kurosawa rebuild his confidence and throw himself at Ran with countless paintings and years of preparation behind him.If you've never seen anything by Kurosawa, or, worse yet, if you've only seen his earlier masterpieces Seven Samurai and Yojimbo, Ran might cause a bit of a shock at first. Those other films were the work of a master in his prime, confident, playful and extremely dynamic. Ran is a much more static, fatalistic an poised film, the product not just of a decade of storyboarding, but of a grim sense of doom born from Kurosawa's experience and the play he chose as his inspiration. That said, never has the cruel indifference of fate been so artfully depicted on a screen.The battle scenes are few, but haunting in their grim relentlessness. With his endless flows of colorful, authentically-armored soldiers, Kurosawa paints war scenes that manage to be both incredibly convincing and otherworldly at the same time. It conveys a sense of being a ghost, forced to witness the last hours of a dying world, something no other film has managed before or since. You will marvel at the mastery on display, but your enjoyment will depend on whether you can overcome the near-crushing pessimism on display. I struggled with that at the very end, and consequently cannot rate this as highly as his other films I mentioned. Nevertheless, Ran deserves deserves every bit of praise thrown at it.Watch it and decide for yourself.


                
It takes a lot to destroy or damage a Shakespearean tale and of course Kurosawa would not ever do such a thing. He has the midas touch. His version of a story of betrayal and lust for film is a sight for the eyes, but also deeply critical of the human condition. Kurosawa had to go West for funding, but the result s scary and splendid.


                
I find myself in the same quandary with Akira Kurosawa's movies as I do with Hitchcock. I find some of them great and others just so-so, even if they're heralded by the professional critics. Having just watched Yimou Zhang's "Curse of the Golden Flower", I was pretty well conditioned for another film about Orientals in a dysfunctional family attempting to take each other out. The disconnect I have here is why all of a sudden the three brothers would have turned on each other without their father, Lord Hidetora Ichimonji (Tatsuya Nakadai), having an inkling that they were so mercenary and self serving. I'm also put off by the histrionics and aping aspect of some of the principals. As an example, the facial contortions of Hidetora reminded me of John Belushi doing his eye squints as the Samurai character on 'Saturday Night Live'. Somehow it takes away from the seriousness of the character, as when Hidetora jumps off the cliff and winds up none the worse for wear in the valley below.Maybe it's just the frame of mind I was in when I watched this film. I didn't have a total appreciation of "The Seven Samurai" until a second viewing, so that might be the case here as well. But with so many movies and so little time, it will probably be a while before I get back to this one.
Ran is one of the most incredible movies I've seen visually and technically the film is flawless, photography is spectacular, the script is good, the film is over, the pace is okay, I particularly was not bored, a few more people can stay, the battle scenes are great, even for the time, the cast is very good, and all the actors are great, especially Tatsuya Nakadai as Hidetora Ichimonji, the makeup that uses it is excellent, the direction of the master Akira Kurosawa is amazing, he does great things with the camera, the film has some good dialogues, other more boring already, Ran is a great movie with a great cast, an excellent photo, visually spectacular and a great direction of Kurosawa. Note 8.5


                
Epic drama.Set in Japan in the 16th century (or so), an elderly warlord retires, handing over his empire to his three sons. However, he vastly underestimates how the new-found power will corrupt them, or cause them to turn on each other...and him...Directed by famed Japanese director Akira Kurasawa (Seven Samurai, Rashomon, Yojimbo), this is a grand, sweeping tale of family betrayal and lust for power. Based on Shakespeare's King Lear but even if you weren't familiar with that work, you can spot the Shakespearean aspects - the family feud, the Machiavellian power plays, the plots and counter-plots, the tragic twists, often from seemingly arbitrary events.Not perfect though. The story could have been tighter - there are a few sub-plots which don't really add anything to the story and just prolong it unnecessarily. Some plot developments aren't explained very well either. And I could have done without the irritating court jester (more like court cynic) character...


                
"Ran" is an action movie in which we watch an old lord who decides to step aside to make room for the younger blood of his three sons, Taro, Jiro and Saburo. His only wish is to be like a guest in his own castles for his final years. The older brothers support their father's decision but the younger one does not and he attempts to warn him not to take this decision because it will not be as good as he thinks not only for the future of the kingdom but also for the future of the family.I liked this movie because of the plot which I found brilliant and of course the direction of this movie which made by Akira Kurosawa was simply outstanding for one more time. I also liked this movie because of the messages that wants to pass and because this movie wants to has an impact to the audience after they watching of it. About the interpretations it has to be mentioned the interpretation of Tatsuya Nakadai who played as Lord Hidetora Ichimonji and he was really good at it, equally good was the interpretation of Daisuke Ryû who played as Saburo Naotora Ichimonji, and also Akira Terao's who played as Taro Takatora Ichimonji.Lastly I have to say that "Ran" is a masterpiece movie and it really worth everybody to watch it, it has much of suspense and action and of course war and all of that are being combined really good with drama. I also believe that this movie makes you understand better many things such as how you have to think and be careful for the future and of your decisions about it. How you have to think for the future and how the decisions that you take will influence it and many other things.


                
Akira Kurosawa is one of the greatest filmmakers ever and his last epic film Ran is often considered one of his best, an adaptation of King Lear. Ran is a visually striking, thematic epic that Kurosawa's fan will love. Ran is glorious to look at, having fantastic colours, costumes and cinematography of the Japanese plains and mountains. The characters are rich, major and minor as well defined and have a role to play with their character dynamic. Tatsuya Nakadai as Hidetora is a character who goes through the ringer as he descends into madness, face all his sins when he rose to power and goes into a mental and physical void as he ends up in a wasteland. The battle of Third Castle was a terrific sequence as a small force are in a last stand against massive army attacks, using arrows and muskets. It was beautifully shot battle, showing the scale of the army and showing the carriage as Hidetora's mind cracks.A theme of power corrupts as Hidetora seek power as his sons want to have complete control of the land. All the characters have their own agendas and the only ones who are loyal to Hidetora are the ones he rejected. All the characters in the power struggle are all trying to play one against the other.Kurosawa direction is superb, a great looking film and he allowed scenes to play out in long takes, allowing the drama to play out and adds to the theatrical nature of the acting and story. Kurosawa even uses the weather to great effect to enhance the emotion and turmoil the characters and world suffers, much like Rashomon and Throne of Blood.Ran is typical Kurosawa.


                
From Oscar nominated director Akira Kurosawa (Ikiru, Dersu Uzala), this Japanese film in the book of 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die was one I had heard the title of plenty of times and was really looking forward to watching. Basically the story is a reworking of the William Shakespeare tragedy King Lear, and it begins with the Great Lord Hidetora Ichimonji (Tatsuya Nakadai) stepping aside as leader of his people and giving control of the empire to his three sons Taro Takatora (Akira Terao), Jiro Masatora (Jinpachi Nezu) and Saburo Naotora (Daisuke Ryû). The three songs are all have youth on their side to rule the kingdom, the eldest Taro is given the prestigious First Castle, while Jiro and Saburo settle for Second and Third Castles, and the Lord only wishes to be an honoured guest in these three castles for the continuing years of his life. The two older sons make their father happy, but the youngest may want to cause arguments by warning his father that the uniting of the three brothers to have control will not remain united after some time. Enraged by this the father banishes the young son for pointing out this potential danger, however the warning does come to pass when the oldest son plots with his remaining brother to take everything from their father. With all this going on a war is declared and battles are fought, the formerly powerful Lord Ichimonji is stripped of his former glory to the point where he may die, murders are committed within the closest family and friends, and in the end is only a bad ending for the particular characters. Also starring Mieko Harada as Lady Kaede, Hisashi Igawa as Shuri Kurogane, Masayuki Yui as Tango Hirayama and Yoshiko Miyazaki as Lady Sue. The story was just about easy to understand, I admit the first half an hour or so was the most interesting, but the rest had some interesting moments, the costumes were absolutely deserving of an award, and the battle sequences are great to watch, although I drifted in tiny moments I know overall it is a great epic drama. It won the Oscar for Best Costume Design, and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration and Best Cinematography, it won the BAFTAs for Best Foreign Language Film and Best Make Up Artist, and it was nominated for Best Cinematography, Best Costume Design, Best Production Design and Best Adapted Screenplay, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Foreign Film. Very good!
With a passion. You know why? It broke my heart. Broke it into a million pieces, over and over and over again.I haven't read King Lear, so I cannot comment on whether this is related to the play or not. It is, however, a tragedy of monumentally saddening proportions.The movie details the turns Hidetora's life takes, after he cedes the throne to his sons and watches them turn his world into ash. The movie details the man's fall, starting out slowly and gathering momentum as it goes along. This movie does not seek to make anyone happy, not its viewers, and certainly not its characters. They are led through war, betrayal, suicide and immense amounts of pain. And they come out broken and tortured.Hidetora is tormented by all the wars he has instigated and all the suffering he has caused. Those who he has burnt in his pursuit of power all bear their scars openly, some through hate and others through sorrow. His sons are constantly plotting against him and each other, driven by greed and women. Their advisors are helpless to watch as their lords fall into ruin, taking them with.And the innocent all fall in the wake of the strong.I will not watch this movie again. Dealing with pain is not my forte.


                
Ran succeeds as one of Akira Kurosawa's legendary epics. This film is an artistic masterpiece of such beauty and grandeur, that it can put one in an immense state of awe and wonder. I'm not always one for epic scale films like this, but in the context of a master of storytelling like Kurosawa, I loved it. Ran is an almost three hour tale of political unrest in a kingdom of feudal Japan. When the patriarch of the Ichimonji family, Lord Hidetora Ichimonji, decides he wants to live out his remaining years in peace and ease, he hands over power of the kingdom to his three sons. In the vibrant opening sequence of the movie, Lord Hidetora announces this to his sons are receives mixed reactions from them. Two of the sons flatter their father and accept his request happily. The youngest of the three sons has an entirely different reaction, telling his father of the mistake he is making and how the kingdom will crumble if the powers are to be divided like this. Furious at his sons accusations, Hidetora banishes his youngest son, leaving the two older sons to rule the kingdom. However, shortly after this exchanging of power, the youngest son's grave warnings become reality, and the two older sons conspire against their father to strip everything of him, including his title as The Great Lord. From here, war ensues in an elaborate tale of greed and deceit, as political turmoil leads to some of the grandest scenes ever imagined in this gigantic scale epic.Kurosawa's career began all the way back in the 1940's, so obviously the bulk of his film career consists of black and white films. Ran, however, was shot in color, and it is some of the brightest most eccentric color I have ever seen. The film opens in the beautiful rolling hills of Japan. The grass gleams a rich green, and the sky a vibrant blue. It's the kind of beautiful landscape that would bring a tear to the more transcendentalist eye. In this opening scene we are introduced to the main characters of this film. Lord Hidetora is dressed in a pure white kimono and his three sons each wear different colored kimonos that are all equally vivid. Jiro, the violent and unpredictable one, wears a blood red kimono. Taro, the slightly less unpredictable but more naive one, wears a glowing yellow kimono. And Saburo, the fair, peaceful, yet also truthful one, wears a soft blue kimono. These colors remain consistent throughout the film as Ran prides itself in color symbolism, using it as it's most important motif throughout the entire film. The opening scene sets the stage for the pacing and style of this film. What the characters say in this scene is obvious foreshadowing for what events will take place in the movie, what the characters simply wear is an almost bigger foreshadowing of how they will each play out and develop over the grand scale of this film.Ran continues to reinforce its use of color to heighten the visual experience of this film. By the end, it's hard to decipher whether you have just watched a painting within a film, or a film within a painting. Either way, this film is a work of art not only in cinematic context, but in the context of the painters medium as well. Kurosawa is known for his ability to set up a beautifully choreographed shot for every frame of this films, but with the added use of color in Ran it gives the film credence in multiple artistic mediums. Every shot could be reconstructed into a beautiful and vibrant painting Kurosawa did something genius here, and it might display a directors greatest transition from black and white to color in the history of cinema. It's somewhat sad to see how this added level of symbolism has seemed to dwindle away now that color has become the norm. The use of color in filmmaking has switched gears, when we now have directors shooting their films in black and white for artistic effect and color for something more normal.The greatness of Ran doesn't end at its visuals though. There is a fantastic narrative within these vivid and colorful vistas. It is a very slow paced film that dwells on certain scenes for a very long time, yet never overbearingly long. The story itself is fairly complex, as would be expected from such a grand scheme of a picture, yet as long as you stay with it, it is an incredible story with a great deal of subtext and underlying themes that serve to give it an even greater purpose as a revolutionary film. With any epic film like this you'd expect it to cover a lot of proverbial and existential ground and it certainly does. We see everything from the themes of close family bonds and loyalties, to the traumatic effects of war on the human mind and soul. Ran is a dramatic tragedy of lost innocence and peace. It is a harrowing look at the destruction of family and kingdom. Yet, despite these bleak themes, it still manages to be a stunningly beautiful film. This beauty serves to drive home the emotional impact of the film, engraving some very gripping images into your mind.Ran is a story told on such an unimaginably epic scale. It's complex narrative is not for everyone, yet if you put your mind towards understanding the emotion and symbolism of this film, it becomes something so much more than your average tale, even by Akira Kurosawa's standards. The film is rich both in story and visual artistry, and the two elements blend together so splendidly. This film is immaculate and is filled with such subtle emotional nuance. It is a sweepingly beautiful painting that tells its story in an unforgettable way. Ran is a timeless classic that stands out as one of Akira Kurosawa's best.


                
The DVD, put out by Wellspring, as The Masterworks Edition, actually offers some different features than the later two disk The Criterion Collection of the DVD. Both DVDs offer enhanced versions of the film. The Wellspring DVD still has some dirt and splotchiness, although the colors are well restored. And unlike Criterion, Wellspring uses gold subtitles, which are easier to read than the white subtitles Criterion uses. The DVD I saw has production notes, the film in a 1.85:1 aspect ratio, a restoration demonstration, and two film trailers. The chief difference lies in the commentaries. The Criterion version has only one commentary by film historian Stephen Prince, and has a documentary on Kurosawa called AK, by French filmmaker Chris Marker, as well as Toho Studios It Is Wonderful To Create series of documentaries on Kurosawa. By contrast, Wellspring has no featurettes, but a second film commentary, by film producer Peter Grilli. Grilli's commentary is flat and uninvolving, filled with sweeping generalities about film, in general, and this one specifically,; as well delivering few specifics on Ran, much less individual scenes and moments- either within the diegetic reality, or in the making of the film. It is also punctuated by several minutes long periods of silences. It begs the question of why was this person hired to do the commentary? The second commentary is also by Stephen Prince, and it is reportedly similar, but not exactly the same, as the later commentary he did for Criterion. Prince is a very hit and miss commentarian. This offering is one of his better ones. While he always trends to over-prepare and come across as bland and reading notes, this commentary is quite scene specific, and Prince seems to have loosened up a bit.Overall, the screenplay by Kurosawa, Masato Ide, and Hideo Oguni is a good one, although, as mentioned before, a better fleshing out of the characters was needed. The cinematography by Asakazu Nakai, Takao Saito, Masaharu Ueda shows that good scenery alone does not make for great cinematography. One need only look at films like Sean Penn's Into The Wild or Walter Salles' The Motorcycle Diaries to see that beautiful mountainscapes do not equal great art. Kurosawa's men, by contrast, show how framing and flattening out imagery with telephoto lenses can render reality into a sort of Japanese flat art depiction of the world. This also illustrates the superfluity and flat out wrongheadedness of most critical writing on the use of certain types of cameras or lenses to get certain effects, in this film and in general. Why? Because the flattening of images (such as in the openings ceremonial scenes in the mountains, or in certain interior ceremonial shots, especially when the frame is crowded) is not important for how it is achieved, but for what it imparts to the viewer. In these cases, the flattening of images into an almost Classical Oriental illustration makes the objects and characters in the frame seem to be closer to each other (sometimes almost on top of each other) than they really are in the internal reality of the film's narrative, which, in turn, makes the scenes seem and feel almost claustrophobic. This, then, makes the viewer feel what the characters do emotionally, as they are uneased by the internal circumstances and crowding, just as the viewer is by the external composition on screen. Thus, viewers understand the aggression on screen viscerally, cued by what amounts to a subliminal visual testosterone (think of the effect crowding has on male interactions at sporting events, or in cases of road rage). That these effects are achieved via a certain lens or camera technique are, again, far less important than what they impart into the viewer. That so few critics understand this about art, in general, and cinema, in particular, is typical of just why so much art and criticism is so bad, repetitive, and dependent upon the seeking out of artistic intent, rather than artistic effect. Why? Because intent is rather a simplistic declaration, whereas effect is a multifarious cogitation. There are also several jumpcuts in the film that depict emotional fragility of characters and moments. These all work well, and are employed so well that one often does not notice them, except subliminally, or upon rewatch. The score by Tôru Takemitsu has an otherworldly feel that really meshes beautifully with the images. It also is obviously influenced- at least emotionally- by Jerry Goldsmith's landmark score for The Planet Of The Apes.Oftentimes, when an artist has been as consistently great as Kurosawa was, his bar is set so high in expectation of ineffably great things that when one gets merely demonstrably terrific stuff from him, well, it seems wanting, although from lesser lights it would be praised sky high. Ran is a film that falls just shy of Kurosawa's greatest works, but stands leagues above the vast majority of the films we all watch. If that praise seems faint, then catch it when it falls onto you.
