I decided to watch this trilogy with a completely open mind to see what the fuss was all about. I was rather embarrassed by the fact that I had never seen any of these movies which were heralded as great cinematic classics. Instead of the masterpiece I was promised however , I was left with a great mediocrity. The characters were barely 2 dimensional , the plot was riddled with holes and horribly rushed and the dialogue was cheesy . Episode V was perhaps the least painful to watch but still isn't close to being good. I don't know if it's a case of a movie aging very badly but I can't for the life of me understand the allure of it. To each their own , I guess.


                
When I watched this movie as a kid I loved it. However now that I've gotten older I'm realizing that it's a pretty bad movie. The movie is mainly a bunch of drama and pointless scenarios. I know that back in the 80's violence on t.v. wasn't really the normal thing, but it seriously lacks. LOL Luke Skywalker plays one of the most idiotic heroes i've ever come across. He's such an idiot in this movie that it's pretty annoying and chalkboard scratching. Luke listens to obi-won and goes to the secluded planet to find master Yoda. That seems to be the last time in this movie Luke really listens to anyone. Yoda tries to teach Luke and all he does is complain and moan and not listen to anything Yoda says. Then Luke gets a vision of his friends in pain and he suddenly has to leave, even though both Yoda and Obi-won tell him he risks losing everything. He still defy's the only Jedi master left alive and his own mentor to do what?......not save anyone and get his hand chopped off....idiot. Then he gets rescued. I swear if Luke was my pupil I would have knocked him upside the head a few times. George Lucas could have come up with something better than that tragedy. Overall its an o.k. film filled with an idiot hero Jedi. The only clever person of the bunch seems to be Han solo. Watch it, its a classic.....but soon to be a dead one that nobody will care to watch anymore because its dull, boring, and idiotic. George Lucas is all hype now from people who love light sabers and the force. His old films are nothing but duds now.
The 17th best film of all time?  Maybe if you're 13.  This is a nice little adventure story, and quite frankly, if you think this is a great film, your nerd is showing.It's good, but I'm giving it a 3 just to balance out all the idiots, and there's 24,000 of them, that gave it a 10.  Get a life, people, or at least a girlfriend.It's actually more like a 6 or 7.George Lucas makes nice action figures.


                
I grew up a massive fan of Star Wars. I've seen every movie dozens of times and I will forever be a fan.....of the memories.Unfortunately, the original triology has aged like milk. This movie, along with the other two, will always be a cherished memory for me, but I can't in good conscience bring myself to still consider this a good film. The dialogue, graphics (yes, I know), and narrative just don't stand the test of time.As much as it pains me to say it, the original trilogy is outdated.


                
