I saw The Empire Strikes Back (TESB) when I was 13 or 14, and I didn't like it back then. I've seen it many times since, and in my later views I really wanted to like it, but I ended up disliking it even more. The first sign of silliness in my eyes was the snow-speeders equipped with harpoons and towing cables. Why should anyone install a harpoon to a flying machine? It turns out to topple AT-ATs. But how did they know they'd fight against walking moto-quadrupeds? Well, they didn't. It dawned on me that that was nothing more than lazy storytelling. Create the outcome first (tackle walking machines), invent how to generate it (using cables) later. And do it again, this time with Luke.Why did Luke flee the cave into the cold snow storm instead of killing the wampa? Because he had to come to the brink of death. And why is that? Because just before passing out he needs to see Obi-Wan's ghost. And what's it doing there? Obi-Wan's spirit is there to tell Luke where to find Yoda. Sorry but this is nonsense. First, the flow of the story is backwards, because at the time Luke leaves the cave, he has no reason to do so; he should have killed the wampa and stayed inside. Second, this part of the story must be about setting our main character in motion. Luke needs a motivation to pursue his Jedi training. One may argue that this must be the natural outcome of the first film. But still, Mr Lucas owes the viewer a decent sequence showing how Luke discovers where Yoda lives. The way Luke is informed of Dagobah in TESB is simply bad storytelling.That also leads to a hollow first act. The action in there has nothing to do with Luke's storyline. The Battle of Hoth is completely pointless. The first act must be all about sending Luke to Dagobah. Luke will go there anyway with or without this useless battle. But instead of watching Luke discover Yoda and Dagobah, we have to watch some silly battle.As a consequence, we have a first act disjointed from the rest of the film. The action is isolated from, and not related to, the further events. You can start watching the film 35 minutes into it, when Luke gives R2 the coordinates of the Dagobah system. There's nothing that makes sense before, explaining why Luke wants to finish his training, or how he knows where to go. For further study, compare this to how the story unfolds in A New Hope.Things don't go well in the second act either. The story forks, and I have the feeling that Mr Lucas didn't know what to do with Han Solo and Leia, and decided to hide them inside the stomach of a giant space eel. Luke in Dagobah scenes don't fare better. Luke is a pilot and is supposed to be top physical form. Why all the physical training? And it contradicts with what Yoda says: luminous beings are we, not this crude matter. Actually the problem is deeper. Jedi training is obviously not well thought of. It may look impressive on paper, with stream of consciousness and the like, but all we see on screen is a guy running with a backpack full of rocks, or trying to levitate things around him.The film is sort of alright 75 minutes into it, after Yoda moves Luke's X-wing out of the swamp. But not enough to make it more than 4 stars out of 10. Don't forget that some of the things the fans pan in Return of the Jedi and in the prequels are present in TESB some way, though not as pronounced as in the prequels. I have to come back to that but the first act of The Empire Strikes Back is a disaster. I've tried to make objective points anyone could check for themselves, you like this film or not. If you think that TESB is flawless, please think twice.
Star Wars - Episode V, The Empire Strikes Back, rather suffers from 'middle child' syndrome.  Being the second of the original trilogy it has neither the fresh appeal of originality that marked its predecessor, nor is it required to reach any conclusions.  The result is a film with decidedly minimalist plot development.  The Empire is still hunting down the Rebel Alliance, Luke Skywalker is still training to be a Jedi knight, and. . . . .. . . . . well, that's pretty much it.  Instead of a solid storyline, the viewer is treated to 122 minutes of cobbled-together battle sequences (although watch for the impressive Imperial walker troop carriers, which resemble out-sized armoured elephants). The characters however, have developed considerably since the first film - it's nice to see loyal Chewbacca show a sense of humour.  The sexual tension between Princess Leia and Han Solo is palpable. . . . . . . . . . until they kiss (which looks about as exciting as snogging a shoe).  In a clever twist, Yoda the Jedi Master is not a Hercules-type warrior, but a wizened green dwarf; the characterisation would have worked even better had he not had a voice a-la-Sesame Street. In the Special Edition of Episode IV, A New Hope, there is an obvious and uncomfortable chasm between those scenes which have been unaltered since they were shot in 1977 and those that were digitally re-mastered and altered 20 years later.  Fortunately the same is not the case in Episode V.  But why was it necessary to darken the picture contrast so drastically? For fanatics The Empire Strikes Back is of course an integral component of the Star Wars dynasty.  Viewers with a more casual interest in the story could probably get away with skipping this installment altogether.


                
This may contain spoilers.It has amazed me for 25 years or so that people consider Empire to be the best of the Star Wars movies. For me, it was perhaps the biggest disappointment of my youth. I will never forget walking out of the theatre in 1980 and remarking to my best friend: "we waited 3 years for THAT?!?!?"So what's so wrong with Empire? I could go on at length, but essentially it boils down to 3 major problems. (1) Yoda. Yoda is the single most annoying character in the Star Wars trilogy (yes, that does include the awful Jar Jar Binks), and after a weak start on Hoth, the entire movie goes down the toilet when Yoda appears on screen. Yoda looks like a puppet (big surprise -- he IS a puppet), and sounds like every other Frank Oz character; I kept waiting for him to say "Whacka Whacka" like Fozzie Bear (I love Fozzie, in case you're wondering). The entire sequence on Yoda's home turf, which is crucial to the movie, just plain doesn't work. It doesn't look otherworldly, it just looks like a poorly lit set. (2) Lando. If we place Jar Jar as the 2nd most annoying character, then Lando is clearly a very close #3. Billy Dee Williams may be a decent actor, but you'd certainly never know it from watching this ham-fisted performance. I have difficulty believing Lando is a living entity, much less a swashbuckling former-pirate. (3) The movie has no ending; it just sort-of stops and leaves you wondering why it wasn't better. I expected, I don't know, some sort of interesting plot resolution, not just a shot of the characters looking out the window. And, yes, I know "Luke, I am your father" was supposed to be the climax. Be honest, is there ANYBODY out there who didn't see this one coming at least an hour before it happens? I was only 14 when I saw the movie, and my reaction was "yeah, no kidding." Other low points: the wretched "ice monster" effect, the hand-puppet asteroid monster, nearly all of the acting (these are the characters we loved in Star Wars?), and especially the directing. High Points: well, the effects are mostly amazing, particularly the asteroid sequence (other than the hand puppet). The music is great too.I have tried for years to like this movie, convinced that I need to get over my disappointment as a teenager. It never works.
There's no review necessary from my part and I will make this short, sweet and simple. Empire Strikes Back is so far THE best one in my opinion. That is all.


                
A good live COMIC BOOK SCI-FI film as opposed to a good film.  Lots of special effects, costumes, aliens, sophomoric dialog and cardboard acting. Great, daring film in its time.  Great film for sci-fi lovers who will watch anything sci-fi because it had a tremendous budget and didn't skimp on production values.Boring to a mature viewer who enjoys other genres as well as sci-fi. Overly violent, illogically sequenced; this is the weak link in the Star Wars saga.


                
Quite like this one. Good director, even better script doctors. Annoying robots have their uses as comic beats, kept mercifully to a minimum.Still: remake it in line with the others.


                
