I know why you're reading this. You're smart, you have great taste, a passion for cinema, and you see CK near the top of every 'Great Movie' list ever compiled. So with great anticipation you borrow a DVD copy and sit down for a real treat, and... you can't get through the first half hour. You fall asleep.Surprised, you think, 'It must be me, maybe I'm tired,' so a month later, you try again. But you don't even get as far as before, and wake up drooling out the corner of your mouth as a bloated Orson Welles, with really bad age make-up, groans 'Rosebud, Rosebud'. It doesn't make sense. You're perplexed. You've watched other films on the lists... Casablanca made you stand up and cheer, cry, laugh, feel connected to all humanity. You even adore films on the list that some might consider oblique, like 8 1/2, which you reckon reinvented cinema language, weaving in and out of memory, dreams, psyche, reality, putting the human spirit up on the screen, making you cheer, laugh, and feel connected to all humanity. So why does CK leave you so cold? You wonder, 'What's wrong with me? Am I stupid or something?'Your borrowed DVD copy gathers dust (notice how the lender never asks for it back?), taunting your unquiet mind: "You must watch me: I'm the greatest film of all time!" But you shudder at the thought. Life's too short and, after all, there's more engaging things to do - like scraping plaque off the dog's teeth.Years pass. Finally, you can take it no longer. You think, 'To be a serious film lover I MUST watch Citizen Kane! Maybe I was too immature before - yes, that must be it!' So you gird your loins and sit - awake! - through the whole thing. The whole turgid, ponderous, dull, vacuous, plodding, dank catastrophe. It's even worse than you feared. An emotionally and intellectually empty story. Your average six year old can invent a more complex, engaging tale.Genuinely puzzled, you ask people who name it as one of the greatest films of all time why they like it, and with barely concealed superiority that phoneys are wont to adopt, they wax lyrical talk about the haunting mystery of the final words, "Rosebud, rosebud". You notice there's no feeling behind what they say. They also talk a great deal about Gregg Toland's cinematography, with liberal references to "deep focus", and you appreciate this, you really do, the cinematography was damned fine, best thing about the movie. That shot which started outside the window then tracked back into the room was really cool. But you just don't believe a movie is made great by cinematography alone. In all your inquiries, you never once hear the following phrase, spoken from the heart: "God, I love that film".So here you find yourself, reading IMDb comments.Well, let me tell you this: There's Nothing Wrong With You! You Are Right! It's Overrated Flashy Unintelligent Rubbish!One day, perhaps (one can but dream), the coolest, greatest, most admired film being in the world will point out the bleeding obvious nakedness of this bloated Emperor, and the assorted film critics, film studies teachers, and others who need to be told what to think by an authority figure, shall squirm, and CK shall drop off the lists once and for all. Until that great day, don't be afraid to speak the truth.


                
I have tried to watch this movie 3 times.  Each time I promise myself that I will watch it through to see all the facinating camera angles and light shading.  I want to see the last ten minutes of the film and be awed and amazed as I realize that Rosebud is something extraordinary.  I want to recognize Mr. Wells' genius, daring, and inventivness.  I want to feel the passion, emptiness, and all the other powerful emotions that the actors and "unique" cinematography portray in this movie.I have not been able to make it yet.  This is the single most boring hard to watch movie that I have ever tried to watch.  I can usually watch about any movie at least once, but not this one.I don't need exciting special effects, car chases, shoot outs, or sex scenes to keep me interested.  I just need the movie to be interesting. This film is not interesting to me.  I love history and I watch many older movies and I appreciate most of them for what they are, and in the time frame that they were made.  But this one is just very hard to watch. If you have to have a college professor,(who himself has had to read a book about it to understand it) explain a movie to you so that you can appreciate it, then I'm sorry folks but then it just "ain't good".I have enjoyed thousands of movies, and I have disliked many also, but very few have I never been able to finish watching and this is one of them.


                
I watched Citizen Kane because it was a classic and everybody said it was one of those movies you have to see. I'll tell you a secret. You don't have to see it. It uses a very cheep device to provide suspense if you want to call it that, we are waiting to find out what Kane meant by his final word on his deathbed: "rosebud." The plot is thin tedious and the end was about the most anticlimactic a movie ending could be. I think it was summed up best in an episode of the TV series Family Guy, when Peter Griffin says, "It was his sled from when he was a kid. There I just saved you from two long, boob-less hours." I wish I had seen that episode before I watched the movie.
Yet another movie that people pretend to like just to be like sheep and follow everybody else. The story is terrible and boring. I honestly nearly swallowed my tongue and died when i saw this was in the top 30 movies of all time. Some of the movies it is rated above is just ridiculous. People need to start making their own minds up instead of following others. The Dark Knight was a great movie, but come on people, do you really think its the 3rd best movie of all time. Thats another example of people rating it highly based on other peoples views. Its got nothing on The Shawshank Redemption. I wish they could sometimes re-release movies and erase their history, so everyone can have a blank slate and see what it really gets.


                
I was reading the list of the top movies one evening on the AFI, and I saw this movie was #1 American Film. So I decided I would rent it and I saw it today. I was expecting to be blown away and this would be the best movie I would ever see. Well was I in for a surprise.This movie is by far one of the worst films I have ever seen in my life. The worst would have to be Zigfield Follies but this comes pretty close. I do like and enjoy classic films. I don't care if a movie is in B&W either. But this movie is just dated, and I don't see what the hype is about. This movie is just 100% overrated. I am someone who can sit through movies but this one I got bored of.I thought maybe it was because I got interrupted in the beginning of the film, and maybe it would get better later on. Well it just kept dragging. So I got to basically the last 36min of the film and had to just turn it off. So a few hours later I figured I would try to watch it again, but I couldn't even watch 5min. I just went to the last 10min of the movie and was disappointed.All I can say is watch this movie at your own risk, and I hope you enjoy it more then me. Seeing the reviews on here I feel good I am not the only person who didn't enjoy it.


                
After being bored out of my skull, I decided to go to the DVD store to rent out some classic movies. I thoroughly enjoyed Jaws, Rear Window, and Casablanca. But when it came to this movie, which was praised by critics, I was asleep because Orson Welles let me down with his acting. Also, the movie didn't know when to stop, and for some reason just seemed to go on and on and on and on, not to mention how pointless the ending was. Number one film of all time nothing. The Godfather, The Shawshank Redemption, Casablanca, Star Wars Episode V, all exceed this film, in every single way possible. This film just didn't move me like it moved the critics, who are insane to have even given it an A grade because it was pathetic. 4/10


                
I watch movies constantly, an i rarely see movies that i have troubles watching all the way through. For one of my classes at school, i needed to watch afi's top 10 movies. This movie was ranked at number one and I have no idea why. This movie was so boring I had to watch it several times because i kept falling asleep and missing certain parts. Fine, it was clever having Rosebud, and the importance of youth, but i felt that this is an example of a movie, that could be told in about 5 minutes, rather than stretching it out into one of the longest and most boring movies that i have ever seen. Now, i was also shocked at the acting. i generally find that acting supports a relatively weak script, however in this movie's case, i felt that the relatively weak script was supporting the awful acting. i personally was not very impressed with the acting strictly because the reactions felt very forced and everything was very overdone. all in all i was not impressed at all with this film, regardless of past ratings.


                
Peter Griffin of the Family Guy said it best "It was his sled. It was his sled from when he was a kid. There, I just saved you two long boobless hours". Kane was about the only movie I have never been able to finish, maybe I'll try again some day. I can think of many better ways to spend 2 hours like watching the "Godfather" or "Shawshank". I just could not relate to the story. It is about a tycoon who becomes a recluse, it sounds like a good story but it was so long and drawn out I fell asleep and had to stop watching. I was disappointed mainly because the first time AFI came out with the top 100 movies of all time I wanted to see the best of the best. Many of the top 100 films I had seen, many more I hadn't (seen) and a few of the ones I hadn't seen were films in AFI's top ten. "Casablanca" is good I can see that, it is not in my top ten but its good. The "Godfather" is a masterpiece but for all the talk about the "Kane" I was extremely disappointed.
OK,i'm certain i'm in the minority here,but whatever.i did not like Citizen Kane.first off,i didn't think it was profound at all.i also didn't think the look of the film was that great.many people say it has a great visual style,but i disagree completely.how this movie is number one all time on some lists is beyond me.to say this movie was a drag is understating things.there was and is too much hype for this movie.so it's directed by and stars Orson Welles.even worse is Welles is widely regarded as a genius as a result.big hairy deal.i was bored out of my skull.considering this movie is considered sacred and any negative comment is blasphemy,i'm glad nobody knows where i live,otherwise i fear i may be hunted down and killed.not too many people are likely to pay attention to this comment,but i don't care.this is how i feel about Citizen Kane.maybe i'm a complete idiot,or maybe i'm just missing something.either way,this movie rates a 3/10 at best.


                
I don't need a lot of action and car chases in order to like a movie. I just need a good script and good acting. This movie had neither. For those who don't know the premise a group of reporters try to find the meaning of a millionaire's last word..Rosebud. It's a good premise, but executed horribly. All of the characters and the actors playing them are dull and unrealistic. The dialogue is boring, and sometimes even laughably bad ("Let's all go to the window"). The cinematography is simple and dull, and the plot is incredibly predictable. Those who like this movie need some explaining to do. All I've heard from them is "you're an idiot if you don't like this movie." Is the only reason these people enjoy Citizen Kane because they're snobs who are too good for quality cinema? I challenge these people to find one redeemable quality of this atrocious film. Then I might reconsider my position.


                
All the pseuds say it; all the polls of the "greatest films ever made" say it: this is the greatest film ever made. Orson Welles, in between mouthfuls, shows his genius once again.But things are never quite what they seem.Take all that brouhaha about "The War of the Worlds." All those people thinking that the Martians had really landed. Or did they? I have heard this play twice, and I have to say that I cannot see anybody being taken in by a radio play that is not particularly good. Indeed when you dig up the contemporary newspapers, you can see a distinct absence of named people; and the articles smack of having been written before the broadcast even went out. At the time, the Mercury Theatre was being threatened with the termination of their radio series: they were that bad! What better to keep them on the air than the biggest load of hype in entertainment history. It is reckoned by some historians that not a single person headed for the hills as a result of this radio programme.But surely Orson Welles answered his critics in "Citizen Kane." Didn't he?Well if taking the story of Hearst, blackening the reputation of Marion Davies, and pinching unusual camera angles from other directors, like Michael Curtiz, is genius, then Orson Welles is a genius and "Citizen Kane" is indeed the greatest film ever known.It just goes to show that if people go around shilling Orson Welles as a genius, the pseuds will be stupid enough to believe it.But don't take my word for it. See The Adventures of Robin Hood, which predates Citizen Kane. There you will see all the unusual angles you will wish to see. Curtiz even has a couple of shots taken from the fireplace, the difference between Kane and Robin Hood is that in Robin Hood, the fire is lit. Also in Robin Hood you will see moving camera shots a-plenty, especially in the opening scene in the great hall at Nottingham Castle, which means that the often repeated statement that Orson Welles invented moving camera shots in Citizen Kane is utter drivel. I will repeat it just in case the pseuds miss it yet again: Citizen Kane is NOT the first film to use moving camera shots and Orson Welles did NOT invent this technique.If you want to call Michael Curtiz a genius, I have no problem with that. He certainly has more right to that appellation than has Orson Welles.But I can be wrong. And I have been proved wrong. I once said to a friend of mine: "Is it just me, or is Citizen Kane the most overrated film ever made?"He replied: "You are wrong. Citizen Kane is a great film. whenever it is shown on television, I never sleep better."As someone who has fallen asleep in front of Citizen Kane myself, I just had to admit that I was wrong.And all those people who stayed at home instead of going to the cinema, making Citizen Kane a box-office flop. They were wrong, too. Or were they?


                
OK here it goes..... I've been using this great site for many years reviewing, searching, and occasionally reading reviews. Never have I left a comment on movies before, but after watching this movie it seems I had no choice. I got this movie as a gift, being I'm sort of a "movie buff" the person got it for me cause it was said to be one of the greatest movies ever. My first attempt, I fell asleep, perhaps due to a long and hectic day. My second attempt, I was in the mood for a great classic/drama and gave it another chance. Now I'm not going to go into all the fancy terms critics use to evaluate movies, or scripts, screens, acting....but this movie, is by far, the most boring movie I have ever seen in my life. Its just that simple. Boring. In 1941....perhaps a classic, but today....BORING.


                
After learning that this is rated "the best movie of all time" in many surveys, I decided to watch it. I am confused who voted this the best movie, this movie is a nightmare. It is very boring and the story is so ordinary. It took me three days to finish watching it, after going to sleep the first two days. I kept at it expecting something interesting might happen, but nothing happens right till the end. Even the ending, which is supposed to reveal something enlightening, is very lame. Watching birds and squirrels is more interesting than watching this movie. Save your time and energy, avoid this movie, unless you want some frustration in your life.


                
The AFI's top 100 movies of all time doesn't have many movies that I disagree with, but I don't know of a more boring movie than Citizen Kane. I realize that some of the cinematography is considered "revolutionary", but it was incredibly boring. I wouldn't rank it in the top 1,000 movies and probably not even in the top 10,000 movies if I've actually seen that many movies, but it would take a while to count how many movies I've actually seen. If there's any silver lining to this tediously boring movie, it's that certain scenes from the movie that have been spoofed more than once on the Simpsons with which they did an excellent job. It was then, and only then that I was glad I had seen it.


                
Let me start of by saying that I understand that this movie was important when it was released, and that it had great influence, and I respect it for that. I found it extremely dull though, I can't believe people claim this is the best movie ever made. It sure isn't. I would probably have fallen asleep if it had not been for the hope that it would come up with something of interest before ending. I might as well have fallen asleep though, cause not much happened. I watch a lot of movies, and I don't mind artsy or unsual ones, like El Topo, Breaking The Waves, Santa Sangre, Satyricon etc. Citizen Kane completly failed to interest me though, and even though it's far from the worst movie I have ever seen, I would not even dream of calling it the best.


                
First of all let me state I love old movies, black and white, Bogart, movies from the 40's war movies, westerns etc. I heard about this movie for years and everyone RAVED about it. I thought I've got to see it. So I rented it and watched, and watched and watched and waited for the moment of greatness which never came. The more I watched the worse it got. I thought there must be something terribly wrong with ME. I couldn't finish it. It was so bad I couldn't take it anymore. I didn't understand why didn't I like it. It had to be my fault. Then I read the review of one of the earlier posters and she said what I felt but was afraid to say. The movie was awful. It was beyond bad. It was the worst movie ever filmed in all of history and I can safely say there will never be one worse. The only reason I gave it one star is I couldn't give it zero. If the military wants to use this film as a substitute for water boarding I promise you they will get everything they want to know from a terrorist simply by strapping them into a chair and making them watch this film. One time will do it. Make them watch it twice and THAT would be inhumane and unspeakable torture.


                
This movie is voted one of the best movies of all time by critics and i just don't understand why. The only good part of this movie was the great cinematography but that alone cant make a movie great. Every other aspect of the movie was boring. The actors were awful and the characters they played were even worse, i couldn't identify with any of them. The worst part of this movie was with out a doubt the plot, this movie was told mostly in flashbacks and could not hold my interest.This film also just went on and on and was way overdone.Overall this movie was visually pleasing but every other aspect of it just made this movie unbearable to watch.


                
I was forced to watch this movie when I took Literature and History of Film in high school. Our class was generally excited, thinking this is one of the classic movies of all time, "this should be good" I thought. I actually can't believe that this movie sucks this much. The storyline is boring, everything about this movie makes me want to hurt myself. I do not comprehend this movie being anywhere near the top 100 movies of all time, of all the movies our class watched, this was hands down the worst. Nothing we watched ever came close, this movie makes you want to die. If you want to make someone fall asleep almost instantly, put this movie on and it's a guaranteed rem cycle. I wouldn't watch this movie again if I got paid. I had offered 50 dollars to any of my family members who wanted to see if they could watch the movie in length without sleeping, none of the 3 have succeeded. If anyone you know says "Hey Jack, come over and let us watch Citizen Kane" you should break any ties to that person immediately and reconsider who you let into your life. For entertainment value, this movie scores a flat zero. I would rather chew both of my arms off to the shoulder blade than watch this movie again.


                
My wife and I bought this movie a few years ago, kept saying "We gotta watch Citizen Kane one of these days" -- so this weekend, got out the drinks, sat down to watch this highly rated flick, hoping it would be as good as they say.I have a friend who works for one of the Hearst grandchildren, so I thought "this will make a good conversation piece, to compare notes so to speak" -- well here's what happened.We started on Saturday evening, after the first 20 minutes or so, we started checking the DVD player asking "how much more of this movie is there" -- and every time we checked the remaining time, we both groaned. I paused the movie a few times to stretch, to clear my head, to prepare for the torture again, sat down and pushed the play button.We finally gave up at about 1/2 through. So the next morning, that would be Sunday, we thought we could finish the movie, which we did, checking the "time left" several times until the end of the movie and the explanation of the opening word.After this extraordinary boring movie, we took out the 2nd DVD to see the real explanation, which was far more interesting than the movie, and about 1/2 the length. And the explanation of Rosebud was clarified in the 2nd DVD, or at least a believable explanation was provided.I have only posted one other review on this service, about an equally boring but current movie. I have seen many great movies, and the reviews of the great movies are helpful, but how Citizen Kane is thought to be a great movie tells us all something about movie critics. They like to support the artsy and boring movies that everyone else hates, and pan the movies that the crowds love. I think they do this to demonstrate that they are independent thinkers, but what it proves is that most movie reviews can be ignored, good or bad, since they bear little resemblance to the actual joy one might get from watching the movie under review.Watch this with no expectations of enjoyment, but watch it just so you can ask a "real" movie goer that loves it to explain "What did you like about the movie, I mean, really, what? And please, focus on the story line and the acting, was any of it good?" I didn't think so.


                
I always see this movie in those lists, you know the ones "Top 10 movies ever". For the life of me I can not understand why so many people think this movie is fantastic.My friend was studying this movie for her Bachelors degree and I agreed to sit down and watch it with her so that she had another opinion. It is now the standard by which my friends and I rate movies. Instead of 1 to 10 it is now "Citizen Kane" to "Lord of the Rings".I suspect that some people who claim to like this movie do so because they want to appear intelligent for understanding the importance of Rosebud.


                
I hate this film. I really do. Its currently number #21 in the top #250. I remember when it use to be like #3 or #4.Its obvious that people born after the war have started watching it. I think we can thus all agree that the show is completely crap. I call it a show because it doesn't remind me of a film really. More of a show.The plot is based on a single word. Rosebud. Once you learn the meaning of "Rosebud" you spoil the film for yourself because the plot of the film is working out what a rosebud is. Its obviously not the bud of a rose; but it might be. Thats the question this thought provoking film raises to the intelligent viewer.Thats the intended magic of the film; is it or isn't it an actual rosebud. Or is it something else; say an important prop to the main character. Doesn't that sound like a fantastic idea for a film? NOT More like a bad idea for an episode of on a unpopular TV show. The academy had it right ignoring this film. Critics letting time be a positive judge on this film is a 65 year old mistake I am correcting in this review.If you have not seen this film consider yourself lucky. Don't watch it. Unless you want to see over-hyped and overpraised personified. Because thats what this junk is. Its crap really. To like it is to jump on a bandwagon and be stupid. I don't know who the first guy to praise it was but people been jumping on that band wagon ever since and it makes me sick. This film is awful junk.


                
Citizen Kane has always been regarded as a great movie and even makes the IMDB's top 250 list. But friends, from the viewpoint of this twentysomething, Citizen Kane is a long, drawn-out, torturous film. Perhaps it's because I'm from a generation where 100 million USD budgets are commonplace for any "epic," but CK lacks what makes a good movie for me. The "new" editing and filming techniques Orson Welles used were fairly uninteresting, his story was mildly entertaining at best, and all the focus on "Rosebud" was simply ridiculous. The scene where Kane says Rosebud moves fast and is edited jaggedly, yet the whole film revolves on it for people. I find that curious.So beware of all the hoopla for Citizen Kane, I find it misplaced. It is a relic of the motion picture industry and should be stocked away accordingly.


                
Why did I call Citizen Kane the Worst Movie Ever? Because it seems that almost every movie you check out on IMDb has some pathetic moron posting some variation of that vapid, insipid comment. This iconic, classic movie did not yet have such a post, so I figured I should fill the void. Hey, SOMEBODY has to.How do I know that it's the Worst Movie Ever? Because I have seen every single movie that has ever been made! And yes, Citizen Kane is worse than even Zombie Bimbos From Mars. At least Zombie Bimbos was kind of fun and didn't take itself seriously. But Citizen Kane is... (drum roll please)... PRETENTIOUS."Pretentious" is a hipster term used by jackasses who don't like a movie, but don't want to be bothered with explaining their reasons for not liking it. "Oh, it was, like, boring and stupid. It was also PRETENTIOUS. Uh, and it was also RANDOM."So... my rating of '1' might actually bring the overall score for this movie down by about 0.0001 point! But I got to be the jackass who dissed one of the finest American movies of all time!
While I admire what they had to go through to get this movie produced, only the stupidly intellectual could call this a great film. Ask yourself: do you really care to find out what happens to Kane? Do you ever identify with the character? Like him? Root for him? Or are you just all caught up in the amazing camera acrobatics? All those people who voted 10, have they ever actually WATCHED the film or are they just doing what their teachers told them to do? I have to wonder. Try watching it at 11pm and see if you're still awake by midnight.


                
No this is fare from the best movie ever. I like most that are entertaining. This is BIO movie. And they tend to have no entertainment value at all. This is BIO pick about a man who rain a news paper. About good thing came to him when he was young. And how bad things came to him when he got old. And how he died saying rosebud. Find got the amazing mystery of why he said it. That is if you care boring. Citizen boring that is what they could have called it. I personally do not care why he said rosebud. I could tell you why but I do not like spoilers. All thou I am basically telling you not to see this boring crap. Well save big thrills for people who want to find out. This is one of very fellow movies I have been that looks like a horror movie made in those day but is not a horror movie. The horror movies in those days were great. But there were some boring crap made and this is one of them. Overrated boring crap at that. Good acting. But what a boring movie.


                
