Yes, this title is a classic and we can all agree that it has been critically acclaimed by many to be a masterpiece. This movie pops up in so many lists of the greatest movies of all time that watching it at least once in your lifetime becomes a must. So I prepared myself for at the least a good movie. Is it a good movie? Well, yes and no.See, it depends on why you are watching movies in the first place and where you derive pleasure from. For me watching movies is a way of entertainment and enjoyment, I want to have fun, I want to laugh, I want to cry, I want to think, I want to be engaged, I want to guess what is going to happen, I want characters that I can relate to and be attached to. Now all those things don't mean that I want MINDLESS fun,I do prefer intelligent plot with great characters and development but I want the movie to incorporate entertainment value as well. Citizen Kane was a character study, it was like an assignment for my university where I had to critically evaluate the title to get a good grade.Yes, cinematography was amazing and to think it was a movie from 1941 it is just jaw dropping. Yes, the character of Kane was complex and it was a good character study. Yes, the symbolic nature of "Rosebud" and what it represents was brilliantly done, especially when we see that Kane's romantic life with his women was screwed up. But all those things are meaningless to me when I don't enjoy the movie and I am ready to die from boredom. I literally forced myself to not fall asleep, all the time I was thinking "There must be something wrong with me, this is the greatest film of all time. Get your sh*t together, wake up and pay attention. This is awesome, right?". At some points I even thought that I must be stupid for not liking this film, but if people choose to name me stupid I don't care, at least I am honest with my feelings. What matters is that I consider myself to be fairly intelligent and I didn't see the appeal of this movie unless you are watching this for critical purposes.Now why this movie is in the top 250 and is considered a classic? That's probably because of the technical aspects of the movie and in this sense it might be a masterpiece, but I just can't see people enjoying this so much to have it so highly rated because of the entertainment factor.
I'm sorry for saying this but, in my opinion there are much better films. And for people who think this is just The Best, please don't just go off talking about how wrong i am or how i don't know anything. I'm not saying it was bad, cause i did enjoy it, I'm just stating that I've seen much better films. MUCH better films, like Chinatown and The Shawshank Redemption. But in my opinion, picking the best film of all time is difficult but i think it could've gone to a better film.I mean, i frankly didn't like Orson Welles. At all. He was just extremely annoying at parts, and i know that the character wasn't meant to be the greatest guy in the world, or a good guy at all, but listening to Orson Welles and also knowing he directed it gave me a bit of a headache. I mean whats the point of giving his film "Greatest Film of All Time" if he doesn't even appreciate the film industry. To me, its just mocking other better films and directors. Thus, i change my mind, i don't really like Citizen Kane. AT ALL.


                
It is virtually impossible to come across a 10 Best Films List from any "serious" critic or film institution that does not have Citizen Kane ensconced in the Number 1 slot. I have literally heard film historians who insist that if you don't like this film, then you don't like films. Well, I happen to love films and I do not especially like Citizen Kane and, refreshingly, I see from many of the comments there are legions of people that also do not appear to like this film much either. Much of the aggrandizement stems from the high esteem that the film industry and critics held auteur Orson Welles and the empathy they had for Welles in the obstacles that he faced in making this film. Yet while one can appreciate the single-minded ferocity an artist can have in bringing forth a vision – one must also admit that many times the end product of that vision is not a masterpiece. Welles' melodrama, which is a thinly veiled depiction of the life of legendary power broker William Randolph Hearst, put him on the wrong side of the publishing magnate, who did not like having his life be the subject of a film and set forth the dogs of war to try to hamper Welles. Many critics gathered around Welles and starting inventing superlatives to describe the end result as an antidote. At the time, this picture caused quite the controversy and became a cause célèbre. Unfortunately, decades after the death of Hearst, when many new film watchers barely know who he was, the film must be judged on its own merits and not the controversy it caused in its day, and that is where the film falls apart.The film opens with the death of its central character, the obscenely wealthy Charles Foster Kane (played by Welles) and his whispered dying word of "Rosebud". A group of journalists go on the hunt to figure out the meaning of what or who is "Rosebud", and we get to see Kane's life unfold in retrospect based on the investigations of journalist Joseph Cotton. "Rosebud" is the film's central mystery, but it is basically a McGuffin. People going into the film familiar with the answer will find the proceedings utterly pointless. Those unfamiliar with the identity of "Rosebud" may be less charitable once they realize that they have been gamed into hanging on for something so trivial. In fact, it is almost laughable as to how slight the storyline ends up being.Welles depicts everything on screen at arm's length. There is no character to draw the viewer into the events that unfold or to win sympathy. They are all just ciphers moving in and out of the frames. Emotionally, the film is positively glacial. The acting, even by Welles himself, is outrageously stiff. Events befall the central character and have minimal impact and thus the viewer has absolutely no reason to be impressed by them. Fans of the film drone on and on about "shots" and camera effects as though great film's succeed on those merits at the expense of story, acting, style and substance. Welles, the director, overuses the canard of mammoth Gothic sets that dwarf his characters to emphasize their purported loneliness or disenfranchisement. This may have been impressive at the time, but now it merely seems a ploy to compensate for the tepid dialog and stale performances. Anyone who truly wants to give director James Cameron grief about his dialog really needs to go back and listen to Citizen Kane with an unbiased ear. Additionally, the much lauded darkness of the film and trick camera shots that earned Welles praise for his cinematic decisions become far less impressive when one realizes that Welles directed and photographed ALL of his films in this fashion, whether it was warranted (Journey Into Fear) or not (The Magnificent Ambersons). It was simply his directorial style and he offered no other alternatives in his career because it was all he knew how to do. Unlike other films of the era which are still impressive, even if we don't like their point of view (Gone With the Wind comes to mind), it is difficult to even understand how Citizen Kane rated as a great film in its day. Its central character remains aloof and the grand secret of Rosebud leaves most viewers I know shrugging their shoulders, if not lamenting the loss of time it took to find out about it. The revelation, rather than arousing sympathy or understanding for Kane, fails to make him any more accessible and, like the camera work, ends up coming off as a last-minute gimmick to try to make Kane the man seem more human than we have witnessed in compensation for the lack of development during the course of the film due to the weaknesses of the writing and acting.And finally, for those film historians/critics who are still thumping their chests 70 years after the fact as to how the Oscar voters gave the Best Picture to How Green Was My Valley over Citizen Kane, the answer is quite obvious to someone watching the films with fresh eyes. HGWMV may have its share of downbeat moments and may not be "perfection", but it contains in its running time more emotion, character development and solid storytelling than Citizen Kane is able to muster on its best day. It is far and away the more accessible film for viewers emotionally - then and now.
I rate "Citizen Kane" 4/10 and that too just for the ONLY 3 best things about this Movie - Cinematography, Acting & the suspense about 'Rosebud'.After understanding "Citizen Kane"'s high acclaim & its status as one of the finest movie ever made, I was very curious to see this Film. I was definitely disappointed by far end. Indeed its boring especially in first half & has some very inconsistent characterization & scripting. Many things remain unexplained.The Philosophical strength I feel could have been understood by very less number of people because of its inconsistent characterization & many loose ends.Its a story about Charles Kane who becomes heir to huge wealth when he was a child. Kane when grows up, instead of investing in Gold Mines or getting professional consultancies for his investments, intends to run a Newspaper company & starts endowing his wealth in it. Here is where Kane is shown as a Non-greedy, humble & wise person who aims to reach his readers with the best & truthful News, which he & his team can. But at the same time we learn later, that he is self-centered some times. He spends his wealth in a monumental palace known as Xanadu & disregards the aspirations of his wife. At one point he is shown wise, ambitious & a person who plan things & achieves success. On other side we see that nothing works good for him as he keeps failing in later part of his life. Not because of just some ill-fate, but because of some motivation & intelligence aspects which he was capable to do at some points but never attempts to do. Its a major contradiction in his characterization.We learn that Charles Kane was just a Tycoon because of his wealth which he inherited. Whereas he was absolutely incapable of monumenting or expanding his empire. His approach to get involve in politics was for betterment of people & not for any status benefits. Just when he met Susan Alexander (a small time singer), everything after that turns wrong. He marries her & things turn worst. He looses the election, incurs huge losses in Newspaper business & finally we see him settled down in his Xanadu living his last days. After Susan leaves him, Charles die with his last words "Rosebud".One thing is sure, We are never allowed to get into the character of Kane. Whoever saw this movie, cannot tell what kind of person was Charles Kane. This I feel is a definite Script error for Characterisation. Orson Welles instead spent much of his ideas & efforts in Art Direction & Cinematography. But that does not solve purpose. We are talking about movies, which means entertainment. Where is the Substance? Where is the intensity & drama & understanding of the characters ? We know that he runs a Newspaper Company. The Scenes concerning only shows how Kane counts his number of readers & how he throws party. What about his involvement & personal approaches which boosted his business ? What Speciality does Kane have ?? There is no answer to this. No Salient Features about Newspaper Company is shown !! The First half is boring, but the second half gains some intensity. We slightly get gripped with it. The second half, when Kane's bad fate begins to overcome his life. Kane tries high to captivate success for his new love. He builds Opera for her but she was not skilled enough to hold the audience's applaud. She fails. But that failure was of Kane. His decisions never fruitified. He keeps failing. Things go wrong & one his best friend who worked for the Newspaper, too leaves him.But characterization.... still a problem. While watching the movie we get discomfort that Hey Man ... somewhere something is lacking !!! The Story just donot land up in right corner. There is no emotional bond created with the audience. We do not feel any relishment while watching the friendships & love relationships which Kane tries to maintain with various other characters. Although Charles Kanes emotions are tried to be reflected but we feel that it must've became a struggle for Orson Welles.I cannot land up in a right corner about this Movie. Of course it is Overrated, but narrating some good points & bad points are necessary.Plus Points : 1. Cinematography : In word is Excellent. 2. Kane's Psychological behavior : His Ego during break off with his Friend Leland / His belief & Self-Satisfaction for his Performing Wife, Susan. 3. Acting : I feel Orson Welles' Act as Citizen Kane is one of the finest amongst any classic movies.4. The Suspense about Rosebud : It absolutely justifies the Psychological realization of the dying Charles Kane.5. An innovative Non-Linear Story telling which probably was influential attribute during those days. 6. And the Best Scene of the Movie : The Night of the Opera - No words to describe it.Bad Points : 1. Inconsistent Characterisation of Charles Kane 2. Weak briefing about the Working Pattern / Sources of Revenue & Team Work of the Newspaper Company 3. Boring first half 4. Very Bad Performance by Dorothy as Susan Kane 4. Xanadu scenes which were over directed & the reasoning of Charles Kane's decision to live in Xanadu which was not shown 5. Some pathetic scenes like Jigsaw Puzzle 6. Lengthy 7. Poor dialogs etc. etc. & many other bad points.Finally, Citizen Kane MAY BE a story about a Person who is like any common man. His incapability for being a Tycoon & governing Monetary interests formed his down-to-earth personality which also becomes the reason for his failure like how Orson Welles failed in this over - directed project now an overrated classic !


                
Citizen Kane is about the life of a notorious media mogul. Based on the life of an actual person, this film takes us through his life as he finds love, power,etc. Considered as one of the best motion pictures of all time and granted the tittle of technically brilliant.To me this film was bad. It might have been brilliant in terms of art, direction and on a technical level but, all of those aspects make a movie great? The answer is no. I think most people pretend to like this film just because is supposed to be great. Don't get me wrong, I think I can appreciate its achievement in the aspects I mentioned above, but the merits of this self-indulgent film end there. It was really boring, the plot was just average and the acting was terrible. I really hated Kane's wife. Comingore was a lousy actress, her accent was bad and all the emphasis she put when her character asked questions was like torture.As I said before, this movie is so self-indulgent that it almost feels like Welles knew beforehand all the praise he would receive in the future. What I can't believe is that this film is often compared to Casablanca (Well, compete would be more accurate) when people talk about classics. That was a great movie and there's no way this film can compete with it.I don't recommend this title to anyone, unless you claim to be a film lover. In that case you should see it just because it is "the best movie of all times". You will judge if that is correct or not after you saw it.


                
CITIZEN KANE pioneered some innovative technical practices we take for granted today, and it proved a worth vehicle for introducing some very fine actors & actresses to Hollywood. Ray Collins, Agnes Moorhead, Joseph Cotton and Orson Wells all made big impressions later on in their careers, but this film is just too boring and you don't care about the characters. First issue: boredom...CK is not boring because of the age in which it was produced - Gone with The Wind, Double Indemnity, Mrs Miniver, Casablanca, The Postman Always Rings Twice, The Big Sleep all belong to this era and still hold almost every movie fan's attention from start to finish, even after repeated screenings. Perhaps CK is warning us against the evils of materialism, which is laudable. Kane has millions and spends compulsively until it doesn't interest him anymore. He acquires one fantastic woman, battles with her, then finds another. Wife #2 is a hotcha-girl and seems none too bright, but she's just ignorant and her character-development is the one truly interesting thing about the entire film as her gathering sophistication reveals an intelligent and finally independent woman. But, little else interests me very long. We're told about his wonderful, massive house and don't get to see much of it. Kane never seems to have much fun and I don't care why he doesn't. The odd, stark shots of theatres, libraries, offices, etc. bored me stiff the first time I saw the movie and are still just a bunch of stuff to plod through the next time I watch it. Second issue: Why don't I care?? We're treated to that "Rosebud" remark early on, but I can never find myself caring about it. So what if it's the sled he had as a little boy. The movie doesn't make me care about Kane either as adult OR child. Mr. Bernstein is a likable kiss-ass, he admits, and he's mildly interesting. Jed Leland goes to one of Susan Kane's operatic performances, gets bored with mediocrity and is too cowardly to finish a bad review, gets drunk, gets fired. Hoh-hum. Mean old Mr. Thatcher is a little interesting, and his final scene with Kane is a humorous island in a sea of mediocrity: Thatcher and Kane should be good, old friends - - they even finish each others' sentences, but they're old enemies and always will be. Then everybody gets old and/or dies. So what? God willing, that's what'll happen to most of us. This movie shows us that, as time goes by, the once young and lively become old and slow...then the Kane's life is over and there's a half-hearted search for Rosebud and nobody ever discovers the origin of Kane's dying remark. Big deal.
There's no doubting the technical brilliance of Citizen Kane. The set-design, cinematography and special effects hold up to this day. But it is, much like CF Kane, vacuous.I remember seeing Citizen Kane for the first-time several years ago. At this point my love of movies was nurturing and had heard about the superlatives pointing in Citizen Kane's direction. I saw about 1 hour and turned it off.Last year, I became inquisitive again about Citizen Kane and resolutely watched it all the way through. I just about managed it.Movies are about entertainment. No amount of technical ingenuity can gloss over a weak script, dull supporting characters and, most of all, a lead character so bereft of appeal. Read positive reviews about Citizen Kane and you'll probably see whole paragraphs taken up with how technically superior it is.But this isn't what movies are about is it? Should non-critics really appreciate the techniques employed in this film and casually ignore what lack of entertainment they have witnessed?Citizen Kane is to film-makers what a video of a Batista operation is for heart surgeons - very informative, but are really not easy viewing for those outside the profession.


                
I watched this film expecting something great. After all, it is regularly labelled as the best film ever made. Well, it's not even close. I find it strange how so many people are scared to go against the grain and say it how it is. This film is an overlong snore-fest with no interesting characters. It's the story of one man's life. But his life isn't interesting at any point and certain scenes drag on. There is nothing to keep the viewer gripped to the story. OK, there are a few nice camera techniques, but wake up folks! Literally. Because many of you will fall asleep during this garbage. How this film is so popular is utterly baffling. It stresses the reality that people are sheep. Tell 'em it's good and they believe it.As for the cast, there are a couple of really grating characters – second wife "Susan" as played by Dorothy Comingore and Everett Sloane who plays Mr Bernstein - what horrible whining, shouty voices.I sat through this film but it gave me very little in terms of entertainment. Time for the charity shop.


                
Citizen Kane is a great film—the greatest of all time. Not by a long shot. It's a fantastical "boy's handbook" on how to obtain power and influence people with an attendant cautionary voice preaching throughout that such a road often leads to an end of the line tragedy: a soulless, emotional void and the regret of love lost. The reductive moral in operation here being, guess what?! "Money isn't everything." The grand mystery of Kane's one word deathbed utterance of "Rosebud," is the great man's heart-rending memory of a sled he cherished during his poor rural boyhood. The characters in this film are nothing more than paper cut-out stereotypes: the driven entrepreneur and policy maker, the blue blood, society wife, the low class blonde floozy. Joseph Cotton as Jedediah Leland, Kane's long time friend/nemesis, is the stand in for Kane's unrealized alter ego and conscience. A maudlin Victorian sentimentality keynotes the entire saga.The storyline purportedly is based on the life of William Randolph Hearst and plot elements can certainly be linked to Hearst. Hearst reportedly reviled Welles' pictorialization of him as public and private man. It has recently come to light that Hearst's wrath had a much more tantalizing and intimate genesis. "Rosebud," some sources claim was Heart's affectionate reference to the genitalia of his longtime mistress, Marion Davies and this appellation was known only to Hollywood insiders and Hearst and Davies alone. Welles had the audacity to undress this secret before the world and Hearst was furious at Welles' prank. "Rosebud," over time has indeed become an esoteric buzzword. Welles, it can be said, was a man with a determined vision, one that would not be contradicted or subject to compromise or concession. While this tenacity served him admirably, gifting him with a cinematic eye that enabled him to engender his films with creative lighting and camera angles, his talent for storytelling was compromised by an antique, naive worldview so blatant here in Citizen Kane. Orson Welles was a much better actor than filmmaker as his performances in "The Third Man," "The Stranger," and "Touch of Evil" bears out. Orson Welles' greatest creation was the legend of his own genius.
and missed the point(s) of this film. I think I saw it back in 1986 in film class...and presumably fell asleep (no offense Orsy, that was the beauty of film class). Then I saw it again in a hip, small, theater in my "I love films (not "movies")" phase back in 2001 and pretended to get it. Saw it again a few years ago in what I now realize is the best of situations; hungover, reclined, and full of delivery pizza. That time, I almost enjoyed it since I expected absolutely nothing and it delivered.As much as I want to be a part of the cinema elite and understand this film's importance and beauty and style and intrigue and intellect and symbolism; I have come to realize it just ain't gonna happen. So, I have resigned myself to believing that movies that I can and will continue to watch over and over again (such as "Goodfella's", "Planes, Trains and..", "Shawshank", "48 Hours", "Trading Places", "Godfather", "A Fish Called Wanda", "High Fidelity", "Fast Times @ RHS", "Caddyshack", "Office Space", "Groundhog's Day", "Kingpin" (only because of Bill Murray), "Rushmore", "Seven", "Swingers" and "Spinal Tap") shall heretofore (usage?) be this movie watcher's "classics".


                
Since hearing Woody Allen say that he has not written or directed anything as good as Citizen Kane, I decided to rent the movie. I have also heard that CK is one of the greatest movies of all time if not the greatest. However, after watching it I'm shocked to find that I was not as moved or touched or enlightened as I thought I'd be. I was expecting more of a deep emotional movie that would leave me with a feeling of wow such as Schindler's list. I feel that Woody Allen has written good stuff that has more general human relating qualities than CK. Although 1941 is before my time and there may be some elements in the movie that are beyond me it was definitely not the greatest movie of all time!


                
I'm in the minority, I know, but I found this movie to be utterly boring and hard to follow. Maybe it's my predisposition against old movies in general, but I wanted so bad to like this (after all, so many have given it high marks for cinematic excellence).Sorry, Mr. Wells. But I couldn't follow your vision.


                
Citizen Kane is the most overrated movie in cinema history, with the possible exception of Battleship Potempkin.CK is a movie about a millionaire, and Americans are fascinated by money, so it's really no surprise that they'd be fascinated by this film.  However, make the lead character an encyclopedia salesman, without a fancy house or a newspaper and I think the fascination would quickly dissapear, as people start to see him and the film for what both really are: an utter bore.Kane is insipidly shallow, as the identity of "Rosebud" plainly shows.  But, far from being an effective satire of expose of upper class society, the film is puddle deep.  It also fails to get the audience interested in the paper-thin characters, or snoozer of a plot.You might be surprised that a film so mediocre would be rated so highly, until you took a look at what passes for Oscar material, or what gets voted to the top here.  People have no taste or clue.  So it's really no surprise at all.


                
I think it is less than coincidental that Rosebud is an anagram for "bored us". From the beginning with its 12 minute plus faux newsreel screamed in an annoying voice, till its trite ending this film bored me. Though much of the cinematography was exceptional, the story, the acting, and even the makeup (check out the horrid goop plastered on his face near the end of the film) were all mediocre. If you are looking for entertaining classic cinema of the 40's, do yourself a favor, look elsewhere!


                
Maybe it's because I've seen the film a million times repeated in a later generation of films or maybe it just isn't everything it's cracked up to be. Four times I've failed to watch the film to completion and it just hasn't grabbed me... Not the lingering classic everyone assumes - I dont get it - believe me I am a huge fan of classics but I simply dont get it with this one...???


                
Another dull film, built around a second rate artist. I wonder whether Kenneth Branagh built his Harry Potter, 'Gilderoy Lockheart' performance around Orson Welles in this movie. Arrogant, incompetent, hammy, self-fancying ... yes that's Welles. Lighting which would be embarassing in an 11-year olds' school play, dialogue which George Lucas would have found cheesy and a badly mixed musical soundtrack.If you care what happens after 30 minutes, you must be involved in the illegal drugs business, because no one else does.A dreary film from a pompous "actor".


                
Citizen Kane laid, in 1941, the visual foundations of movies as we know them today, with groundbreaking shots, travellings and other matte paintings, as well as the flashback based non linear storytelling structure which has been used over and over since then, and this technical and innovative aspect is probably why this movie is considered by a lot of critics and institutions "the best of all time".Because if you think about the content, this is far from a masterpiece. The script is a long, disjointed and ultimately little interesting retrospective of Charles Kane life, where even the "Rosebud" plot turns out to be a letdown.If a remake, similar in every way, of Citizen Kane was made today, it would be considered average at best, which shows well that the historical context and the movie being some sort of pioneer influences the judgements a lot, at least more than the inherent quality of the film and its script in particular.


                
If you consider just the content, then all this movie does is make the following point: Charles Foster Kane wanted to be big and important to all American people, however he had nothing to give, he just had a lot of money. I should rather say that the movie hammers this point home, since the above point is stated explicitly by Kane's best friend and by his second wife (and probably one other person, I didn't want to take the time to check). Just in case you wouldn't get the message.This movie is in my opinion crude and simplistic. We are dragged through the life of Kane at high speed. The movie doesn't flow naturally, there is no real development. It feels like nothing happens, you just get a single idea pushed down your throat. Throughout the movie there is the same atmosphere of doom and of emptiness. Even as a young man Kane is not an idealist. None of the characters is given any depth, there is no one you can identify yourself with or sympathise with.The only quality of the movie lies in the camera work, the tricks with the lighting and the music. This should make it interesting for movie directors and people interested in the technical side of film making. I suppose it's is interesting to see how Welles manages to create a certain atmosphere in this way, but since it is always the same atmosphere, this is in my opinion rather limited.I cannot possibly understand why this is considered the best movie ever made. The only (unsatisfactory) possible explanation I could come up with was: a) The average person is far more visual than me, or easier satisfied with single impressions, b) People like to parrot the "experts".


                
As you sit in your office, room or coffee shop, as you read this excellent review, you could quiet easily walk out the front door, and stop any passerby and ask them a simple question 'what is the greatest film of all time?' Some would say the Godfather, others would say Casablanca, but the majority would point to Citizen Kane. Is there a joke the world gets that I don't? Is there a massive party that I simply didn't get an invasion too? Because I can understand the 'some' and the 'others'- but I although I would rather point their attentions to Chinatown or Manhattan for title of greatest ever. But I'll let them off just this once. But the overwhelming inclusion of Citizen Kane on lists of the greatest films of all, is frankly ludicrous and a complete and utter head scratcher! Such was the extent of the head scratching I almost bore a hole into my skull. For me Citizen Kane is no more of the greatest film of all time, as much as you could say Zack Effron is great actor. Citizen Kane is simply the most over hyped film in the history of the universe. Orson Welles produces, writes, directs in this picture as well as playing the title character Charles Foster Kane. A newspaper tycoon who dies almost at the start of the film, and through the eyes of reporters, Kane's life is slowly unravelled before our eyes via an anti- chronological narrative. Driven by the desires to discover the significance and meaning behind 'Rosebud', the one word Kane utters on his death bed. Don't get me wrong. Citizen Kane on a purely technical endeavour is absolutely superb. With the effective use of innovative angles and stunning manipulation of deep focus lenses too represent the various viewpoints of Citizen Kane on a visual plane is absolutely staggering and ingenious. But despite this people seem to forget that film making is the art of storytelling. I repeat film making is the art of STORYTELLING. True it relies heavily on aesthetics and visuals representation of conveying of said story, but story is still the main event of any film. Narrative is substance and A list stardom whereas the visuals are merely the supporting act. Although I have to credit Welles on his heavy handed involvement in the film, but I feel the film would have reached greatest heights in my eyes, if he were to have relinquished some of the roles to people of greater experience, because don't forget the fact that Orson Welles was merely 25 at the time (Looks like need to get a move on). A fact I believe that might have been the bases of the reasoning behind the decision by American Film Institute (AFI) to place Citizen Kane at number one on their list of 100 greatest American films of all time. Which is insane, just because he was young doesn't mean he should receive any preferential treatment. Just because a kid in primary school makes a finger painting, doesn't mean is should stand in an art gallery next to a painting by Picasso. But if Citizen Kane were to still remain on the list of 100 greatest, long after I'm gone. I'm adamant it will be of no heroics on Welles part and the story behind Citizen Kane, but more from the hard work of the likes of Gregg Toland (cinematographer) and Robert Wise (Editor) and there technical achievements, that have acted as magicians and tricked the whole world into believing that Citizen Kane is the greatest film of all time – Dynamo and David Blaine takes some notes, that's what I call real magic!


                
I'll never understand the praise that this film gets. I can understand the photography was innovative and at times quite stunning for the time period, but other than that I cannot find a way to love this movie. "Rosebud" is perhaps what keeps the audience to stick around through this boring 2 hour movie. The acting is mediocre at best, and the characters are largely flat and lacking a certain depth, emotionally. From the beginning of the film, I could tell where it is going, and I would have a much better time respecting this movie and it's somewhat interesting story if it was at least an hour shorter. That way the cinematography could be appreciated, and the meat of the story told, without putting people to sleep.


                
Citizen Kane is one of the most overrated movies of all time. I admit my skepticism is biased but i have good cause; To begin i would point out that this movies is utterly boring and since the point of a movie is to entertain this movie fails. Don't get me wrong, i enjoy some pretty "boring" films such as Stalker, but this movie truly offers me nothing entertaining. Although Citizen Kane is meant to be an insightful look into a mans life, it really isn't. All dialog is witty and sharp in a way completely lacks any human emotion. The way in which Kane's life is examined is done so in such a disconnected way that no sense of meaning can be taken from it. All in all it is a very vague, long, and boring movie presented in a way that reminds me of old time radio broadcasting where a blunt story is relayed through a series of even more blunt sound effects only in this instance blunt images are used.Why is it rated so good then? The true reason is that Citizen Kane was a stepping stone in cinematography and special effects. Considering this aspect i can understand why it may have been revolutionary at the time; But in the modern day, it seems like nothing special.


                
It was a good movie. For many years I avoided this movie because all my life it was touted by "elite" movie critics as the best movie ever made. I finally saw it in January 2006. In its original uncut form. It was a pretty darn good movie. However I thought that the screenplay and acting, especially by Orsen Welles, was rather stiff, formulaic, and contrived. I think that the only reason it received high acclaim was the fact that it was very controversial at the time, was not a hit at the box office, and was generally not liked by the general populace. Remember the context of the time in which it was filmed. World war II was in its infancy. People were just not in the mood to see this kind of autocratic genre, particularly the opulence of Xanadu. People just were not in the mood for this type of movie. There was one movie, however, that the people were looking for that was very relevant at the time, family oriented and emotional. To the credit of the Academy, this other movie (go ahead look it up) won the Oscar for best movie in 1941, beating Citizen Kane. It also won other Oscars. If Citizen had been produced in the 60s, I would have rated it higher than 4, but I believe it has been vastly overrated. Gold standard, not hardly.


                
I saw this movie for the hype--"best movie ever"! Or so say a bunch of dusty ol' critics. Perhaps this movie was much better in its time, but today it is just boring and slow going. Watch it if you're interested in seeing a piece of history, but don't expect too much *entertainment*.


                
Okay, this movie is one of those that makes feel stupid for not being in the unison voice of liking it, and at the same time wondering how the heck can this movie land a top spot of great movie lists. The technicalities do support it's status as one of the greats, pioneering those never before seen shots or sequences like the first and last shots, the use of peculiar angles of the cameras, decent effort at age make up, and the use of non linear back and forth story flow styling. But I do agree with those voices that say that the story is entire empty, it does not offer you anything. For me, it's better even the one in The Wolf of Wall Street of even The Great Gatsby, for extreme comparisons. I now have a suspicion that this movie's story is the one to blame as a subliminal campaign that downgrade the moral of the American people due to focusing on the notion that it's okay to get divorced twice as long as you're rich or the sort.


                
