Acting and CGI was great, even the story was great too.But the HUGE, HUGE, HUGEEEE plot holes killed it for me, making the film unbearable to watch.*spoilers*1. Why did Logan not kill the Dr, the clone, and Donald Pierce while they were laying defenseless and half dead at the farm?2. Why did the black farmer attempt to kill Logan after killing the shaved clone Logan? Logan was clearly standing in a non-aggressive manner and even let himself get shot without saying a word???3. How did Charles Xaivier not detect that the Logan clone was not a mutant or not human? His power is to read minds and detect life... How didn't he realize a robot has just walked into the room and sense he was about to be killed???4. The year is 2029 and the army has not developed the technology to capture kids safely? Hell even a net gun or taser would have worked better than tackling the kids? WTF. They even had harpoon guns that do not kill and they didn't use them on the kids, instead they just chase them through the forrest...5. In the final scenes the children take turns using their power on Donald Pierce (just to make a cool montage), while Logan and Laura battle to death with the clone??6. The children are trained to kill and have no fear, yet they run away (from no one) while letting Logan fight the clone alone? They were 20 to 1 and they decide that it's time to run?7. Even though they were so pressed for time and had no time to save Logan, they make the time to have a burial for him? Also what the hell is with the cross they made? Were they taught religion while in killing school? Seems legit.SO yeah these points infuriated me.. Feel free to comment and rebuttal my points as I am keen to find out how nobody else is seeing these loopholes...
The movie started off well, with Prof X jailed and drugged in a DIY hideout maintained by Wolvie and Caliban. Pierce is a great villain, but there's no payoff with his abilities or menace. He's simply the foreman for the evil corporation that is growing test tube mutants and hunting them down. Besides having one robotic hand, him or his Reavers don't really have any glaring cybernetic advantages. It would have been interesting to see different types of cyborg Reavers as in the comics, but in this movie, they are simply claw fodder.Once the introduction of Wolvie's clone begins, the movie goes downhill. We know nothing as to how or why this clone suddenly appears. Why wouldn't there be clones of all the X-Men at this point? Wasn't it already proved in the most awful of its series, Terminator Genisys, that Arnold vs Younger Arnold is not that captivating? Why would it work in this movie? Why not make Pierce a more capable and challenging villain?Once the Prof is whacked, as well as the kind family that sheltered them, I really began to lose interest. What's the point of heroes if they can't protect the good and innocent? The ending made no sense. At the beginning, Lara takes on 20+ Reavers on her own. After being reunited with 10+ other powerful, trained killer mutant kids, they are running away and being captured by the same number of Reavers? It makes NO SENSE. I'm CONVINCED that the movie critic industry is PAID or compensated in some way by the studios to produce positive reviews to DUPE, bait and switch audiences all for $$$ because this movie is currently 77 on Metacritic when it should be a 37. Good violence, poor writing, sloppy ending is what you really get.Its truly sad that a Wolverine movie has yet to be made well. Will never watch another movie by Mangold ever again. Learned my lesson. Save your $ and wait til this streams. Trust me, you'll thank me later. This is also part of the reason why IMDb shut down their message boards. Not to silence the haters, but to silence the voices of critical yet honest reviewers that ultimately hurts the $ of the movie industry.
If you want to find intelligent people who are actually capable of reviewing a movie, then you have those here who have voted miserably for this movie The movie is full of errors and the story line is extremely predictable Following are some of the issues I found 1) Majority of the movie is cliché, you have a failing superhero, his ailing mentor and a young prodigy in a journey to save the young one. The mentor is taken out by the villain, makes the superhero very angry who in the end sacrifices himself, killing the villain and the young one goes free into an unclear future. Any person should be able to predict the ending of the movie after just watching 10 minutes of the start and here are people comparing this with the Dark Knight!!!! Unbelievable!!!! 2) The prey seems to be running after the predator in the movie. The kids with superpowers are already trained as shown in the movie. They are not poor scared souls, they are lethal, mentally and physically. You can see glimpses of that during the end, when they kill off the mercenaries ruthlessly. With their unique powers combined, its a surprise they were even once contained in a facility. Sometimes you can see the kinds wimping and crying and few moments later they freeze someone off or electrocute someone without remorse. 3) Logan witnesses a group of drones towards the end which makes him realize that the kids are in danger. Why on earth would a dozen surveillance drones move around in a bunch? Shouldn't they be spread out to do their job better or was their job to get noticed by wolverine 4) X-24 was shot by an adamantium bullet in the end which blew half his head off. When wolverine was shot by that bullet in X Men Origins he only lost his memory, another inconsistency. 5) Professor X knew well that they had a vicious mercenary group hell bent after them. Why on Earth would he then suggest that they spend the night at the Munsons'? That's the most stupid thing to do. Oh yes now I get it why, its so that the mutant wolverine can be introduced in the movie and it was the perfect time for him to die. Killed by someone who he thought was Logan, that's sure to get a lot of sympathy right there. 6)Logan clearly knows that they are supposed to keep a low profile, in spite of that he picks up a fight with the Reavers 7) The producers had this project nicely figured out. Kill Wolverine, kill professor X, earn a lot of sympathy and thereby earn a lot of money. Also keep a bunch of mutant kids alive so that in case they fall short of lunch money, well you know what they will be working on. There are scores of mistakes with the story line but I do not wish to waste any more of my time so my advice for those who haven't watched this movie yet, don't.
Warning Warning Warning Warning The review contains spoilers!!!!! The review contains spoilers!!!!! The review contains spoilers!!!!! The review contains spoilers!!!!!-------------------- This review contains spoilers RIGHT FROM THE BEGINNING --------- ---A completely morbid and joyless film. Grim and hopeless to the point to depravity! The ignominious death fashioned for Charles Xavier is unworthy -- given the legacy of this character. Equally distasteful are the not so subtle suggestions that this film or its characters are comparable to Shane. This self-service association is entirely unearned and borders on heresy. You could have done so much better with a modicum of imagination and heart. When I saw the coming attractions it left me feeling miserable. I though "Who would possible want to see such a grim and hopeless film?". As an owner of copies of the previous two films and most X-men movies, I went to see it anyway. I left the theater feeling even worse than I did after viewing the coming attractions.The rating of 3 out of 10 rather than 2 out of 10 is for the visceral depiction of the effects of Professor X's 'brainstorm' That part was very well doneAside from that, thanks for nothing guys. Eat soup and cough!
I created an IMDb account solely for the purpose of reviewing this movie and to give it a more honest and accurate rating. It says it has an 8.5 rating, but really it should be more like a 1 or 1.5, seriously. What happened to people? Is this really the standard for a good movie nowadays? I will spare you the suffering of going into great detail about every little flaw in this movie. With that said, here are some of the reasons why this movie sucks:1. No explanation of the events that have transpired to get to this point. Logan has apparently decided to become a limo driver to make money so that he and Charles can go live on a boat somewhere in the middle of the ocean? Really? And what happened to the other mutants? Supposedly there was some kind of "event" that I guess killed off all the mutants and also stopped them from breeding more mutants. It's hard to say because the movie makes no attempt to clue you in on what has happened.2. No plot. Besides being lost from the very beginning, nothing really happens throughout the entire movie to progress the story. Logan just drives this little girl and Charles cross country while being chased by some random bad guys who eventually catch up with them -- there's a fight -- more driving -- they get caught again -- rinse and repeat.3. Who is this Wolverine clone? Where did he come from? how was he made? what is he doing here? Want answers? You get none. He's just there.4. Both Charles and Logan die in the most anticlimactic and meaningless ways.The positives:1. Hugh Jackman
Mindbogglingly bad film. I can't believe there are so many people saying lyrical things about it. Is this really what substitutes a good film in the year 2017? Come on.The story is just so stupid and totally full of holes, right from the get go. Scene 1: Logan is sleeping it off in his fancy limo when he is woken by some Latino guys that are trying to steal his rims. The car is jacked up and we clearly see them loosening the nuts of one of the tires. Logan slashes them up, removes the jack and then drives off real fast. Eh... what about that loose tire? And so on, stupidity after stupidity, through the whole film!There are people praising the characters. The characters, really? A bunch of morons completely and frustratingly unable to communicate with each other, unable to make any logical or reasonable decisions, and so utterly predictable. Charles constantly (more or less subtly) telling Logan that he is a stupid and unloved oaf, is that like peoples idea of cinematic tension between characters, showing profound depths of humanity? Seriously, tripe.And the action... I mean honestly, after like the 10th goon has had his eyes poked out by Logan or mini-girly-Spanish-I-can-suddenly-speak- English-where-the-h**l-did-I-learn-that-Logan it's not really that fascinating. Oh look, the spikes can come out through this side of the skull too, whey! Yes, a lot of people do get killed, slashed, maimed, decapitated, etc. in this film, but that does not make it great. Not by a long shot.There is seriously nothing great about this film. So just avoid it. Or watch it and waste a couple of hours of your life like I did of mine.
This is highly overrated. This is nowhere near as good as critics say it is. 1 star for the little girl.The X-MEN series has always been filled with continuity errors. The first 3 movies were pretty consistent. Then there were prequels telling stories that contradict the old trilogy. Hey! Remember Mystique? She is said to be of the same age with Charles Xavier in the prequels, whereas in the old trilogy, well...Also, the franchise has never been consistent in style. Most of the previous X-MEN movies are PG-13, quite typical for Marvel movies. This time it is R. However, there is not much difference, only more blood but not by much.The story does not make sense here and there. For example, had they shot the enemy instead of keeping him alive and attempting to dump him in the middle of nowhere, they could have avoided a lot of trouble later on. The Wolverine died saving a bunch of little mutant shitheads nobody cares about, who later on stood over his tomb, exchanging weird glances and as Laura quoted from an old movie, they seemed to be thinking, "What the F..K is she babbling about?" Clearly they haven't seen the old movie. Not to mention that the whole "Save Laura" Operation was based on a nurse who read lots of comic books. Who wrote the books?The movie educates us: 1. Never let the enemy off easily. 2. Never trust the comic books.
I am a fan of the X-Men movies. They are all fun and exciting to watch. They are also beautiful to see. This is not true for Logan. Sadly.The movie isn't fun, the surroundings are sad. The same for the characters. To see beloved heroes turn into decadent sad characters is awful.They do die has heroes. But very broken ones.Other characters are poorly written.And I got the felling, at the end, that the "bad guys" were stronger, even if the mutant children got away. With the death of Logan, they run away into the woods, scared. No teacher left behind to guide them and teach them to manage their abilities and hopefully save the world.No. They are left alone in a dark world. Their hero was a drunken sad Logan, that didn't taught anything positive.Sad, sad, sad. And ugly.
This movie takes place in an alternate universe, where somebody (probably Apocalypse) has unleashed a terrible radiation on planet Earth, turning all of its inhabitants into total morons and losers. So, if you're interested in seeing your favorite X-Men heroes totally humiliate themselves and literally act like they are mentally retarded, then go ahead and watch this movie.You will see the incredible X-Men reduced to swearing, bickering, tantrum-throwing teenagers, shopping in an indoor mall, then sitting around in their hotel room and watching crappy reruns on TV. No joke, that all really happens in this movie.As usual, it hurts me very deeply to see my favorite childhood heroes utterly humiliated and destroyed by Hollywood. The underlying message of this movie seems to be that the Age of Heroes is dead. There is no beauty left in the world, no hope, no shining intelligent ideas or dreams. That has all been replaced by shallow, empty scriptwriters and greedy, ruthless movie producers. So watch this movie and say goodbye to your childhood heroes on more time, because (as usual in these terrible X-Men movies) they all die.
Warning: This review may contain opinions that qualify as spoilers. Rewind to the year 2000 when X-Men finally arrives on the big screen. Logan is a wild animal fighting in a cage for money with no memory of his past. Angry and disgusted with who and what he is he just wants revenge on the world. Enter Professor Xavier and the X-Men. Wolverine finds people who accept him, even like him oddly enough, and someone in the form of Jean Grey in whom he could maybe even find love. Armed with a new found purpose and backed by a family that believes in him Logan changes from a dangerous animal to an invincible super hero worthy of legend.Fast forward to 2017. Logan is a shadow of his former self as is Professor X. There are no more heroes in America. Corporations can do whatever they want. Good people who still believe in heroes or are heroes themselves just by raising a good family with American values will become casualties. There is no stopping an automated future. Your heroes are NOT invincible. Do not look to the next generation for hope. This was not a superhero movie but a dystopian pipe dream.I would have been happier seeing gun toting thugs lined up on either side of Wolverine and 2 hours of him perforating their skulls one at a time. Much more entertaining and save a ton of money on useless writing staff. Could even CGI the whole thing, box office smash.Do not be surprised when Hollywood kills off a few of the Avengers next.


                
SpoilerI don't even know where to start. The amount of plot holes is just crazy. The fact that the all the people writing and directing this know nothing of Marvel's world is amazing. of all the excuses for a world without mutants they went with... I won't even tell you. In the end why did none of the kids help Logan? A whole crew of "weapons" not one did anything to help. Just weak, so very very weak. To whomever said this was Xmen's Dark Knight. Shame on you. Shame. Shame. Shame. If you are looking for a summary. Logan is an uber driver, he has to take his clone to North Dakota while avoiding his Clone and people who make clones. Corn Syrup is bad for you, and kills mutants. Oh and Hugh Jackman can finally move on with his life.


                
I'm so sorry that I went to see this movie, I liked the other x-men movies , but this one was absolutely awful. Who wrote this script was absolutely crazy. The script makes no sense. How the hell all the mutants were extincted? And how so, just 3 mutants were left (professor , wolverine and the fuk white face) There's no explanation about how it's possible that wolverine to be poisoned by the Adamantium. I can't even find the desire to write about this awful movie ! There's no point , they just killed the x-men. Shame on you !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!


                
This movie is depressing and riddled with plot holes and contradictions with generally accepted lore. I didn't realize that this movie is based off of a different range of comics that depict this darker, older bunch of characters and apparently it relates to that range quite well. However most viewers aren't comic connoisseurs and will have their knowledge from the previous movies, the comics and cartoons they were watching as a child and anything that the movie itself would present during its showing. Logan, however, does very little to explain the background of the setting or the characters. The actors do a great job of acting but it's lost on the viewer when you have no idea why things are happening in the movie. If the writers of this movie were focusing on a non standard lore path they should have made damn sure the viewer was more comfortable with the new, and contradicting, environment they're presented with and not assume we've read or even appreciated the alternative story line. There are so many wtf moments when things don't gel in this movie that I can't recommend this to anyone.


                
I can't get that time back. Somehow Wolverine is now old and dying. And has the ambition to run away on a boat. Enter bad guys and new mutants, lots of violence and ..... I kept waiting for something to happen. But it didn't. I kept hoping that they wouldn't do the next expected thing, but they did. Don't waste your time on this one. You can't get the time back.
This is the perfect movie treat for fans of the Wolverine character as portrayed by Hugh Jackman in films. Period. I won't argue with that. And you can tell as much by just checking the titles of the "Five Stars!" reviews here at IMDb. Yep, it's exactly what this movie is. And by the way I am not a "fan" of the Wolverine comic books, I happen to like a few of them from the 80s. So I don't go to the cinema expecting to see a comic book I already have in my shelves. So what did I find in this film? A boring, unoriginal and unimaginative movie, willing to satisfy the appetites of fans left open in prior attempts of the franchise, full of moronic routines I won't bother to list. The occasional comedy moments are jokes based around the walking disability of a character, so expect the laughs to border the derogatory. And the choreographed "over the top" slashing violence quickly becomes dull and repetitive. Plus... there is also a lot of violence dispensed to kids, and by kids. Kids are shot, stabbed and kicked -a lot. And in turn the same kids stab back, slash back, electrify and decapitate. Which is creepy if you ask me, as for this alone the film merits to be a horror movie -which it ain't. Last, lots of people are saying the story is based in a comic book series titled OLD MAN LOGAN. OK, please don't. Because in this film (do I need to say... SPOILERS AHEAD?) Wolverine, now Logan, works as a limo driver to make money and buy anti seizure medication for Prof. X and hopes to make enough dough to buy a boat and go live in the middle of the ocean with same Prof. X. Do you find any resemblance in that with the comic book series? I guess not. The only thing in common with OLD MAN LOGAN is that Logan is OLD. End of similarities. Yeah, just skip it I guess.
As usual with all previous X-men movies i approach to this one with big anticipation, which didn't let me down with previous ones... But with Logan? The movie is one big agony for spectators, as also for the characters playing their agonistic, pathetic roles... Poor plot, no explanation how happened that once mighty Wolverine becomes old, injured, with almost no (or progressive lower) self healing ability, alcoholic... with his final pathetic wish to get on the boat and retreat from the rest of the world, with (even older and more sick) once great head of all mutants Charles Xavier, which also becomes pathetic... And, what happened with other co-Wolverine and Xavier X-men from the past??? Forget about it... Not a word about them... like they never exist...One thing disturbed me particularly; the brutal violence, presented so intense, with so messy-bloody scenes which never seen before in previous movies... Disappointing, that otherwise brilliant Hugh Jackman and Patrick Stewart accepted the roles in such bad script...
Notice the positive reviews of this and every other XMen/Wolverine  movie. They all claim "masterpiece", "the best superhero movie  eveeeeeeeeeeeer", and "this is how you make a superhero movie".  The positive reviews are canned, scripted, generated by publicists.  This movie wants to be Terminator. It even uses similar music as the  perfect killing machine stalks a little girl protected by the imperfect  killing machine.  Like other Boreverine movies, this one takes away Wolverine's healing  because the writers don't know how to handle it. The Wolverine from the  comic books is weakened and supposedly humanized. But what's left is a  Wolverine bereft of what makes him super and bereft of all emotion.  Can we get a superhero movie that's about a hero?


                
Who wrote this stuff? it's god awful. The blood and gore don't bother me,but the stupid predictable,idiotic decisions do. No person would ever take those decisions. I have not read these comic that this "new" old wussifed Logan/wolverine is based on,but based on this movie,I haven't really missed out on anything.If you take out the mutant element of this movie,it's your average generic slow burner drama ,with a hint of action.Long dragged out dialogue,with no real purpose. Half spoken sentences.And of course the anti hero, who makes all the wrong decisions that makes a B movie. 4-5 times Logan could have easily killed the main antagonist, and just ended the whole pursuit and killing of innocent.But every time he runs away instead,just so you can have the final show down.And even than he fights like a girl I was actually hoping someone would just put him out of his misery


                
Lets jump right in, shall we? X-Men style. Claws out, SNIKT!Speaking of which... in this poorly edited flick, we have two Mutants that saved the world, the very universe, and everything in between time and time again, yet everyone acts like they are in cheesy Jean- Claude Van Damme road-movie.Our main protagonist, everyone's favorite claw-wielding Mutant gets the clichéd-has-been-hero treatment. Awesome? Not really because the whole thing unfolds every bit as lame as you could imagine.This creatively bankrupt paint-by-numbers production stretches the 5'3" Wolverine to 6'3". Invisible stilts anyone? Hollywood's version of Wolverine in "Logan" doesn't have much in common with the Marvel comics character, besides sharing the same name.The pathetic ending, after the clichéd showdown with the doppelganger really had me scratching my head. This definitely isn't the Wolverine from the comics. Instead it's Hollywoods pale rip off for monetary gain.The only ray of light here was Patrick Stewart's solid performance, who always delivers in his roles.Ever since the seventies Stan Lee wanted to see his superheroes make a living in Hollywood, but ultimately by doing so Marvel sacrificed all integrity and identity.To all longtime X-Men Comic fans, do yourself a favor stay away from this awful bastardization. It's devoid of any creative substance or even a hint of brilliance.


                
Spoiler alert. I don't hold back. Stop reading now if you don't want me to ruin everything. I hated this movie, I'm doing you a favor if you decide not to see it.This is a horribly dark and graphically violent movie with children. It has no taste or balance. The has few coherent parts outside of the fight scenes, and they are way over the top bloody, and the children cannot act.If you want your super hero movies to have more gore that a horror slasher film then this movie is for you. But if you think scene after scene of a small girl and Logan decapitating and dismembering people sounds like a bad way to spend 90 minutes then skip this movie, even if you are a huge fan of the movie version of the wolverine character.The hopelessness of this movie and darkness is also pointless. Everyone dies except the kids. (The kids just get shot and hit and then show their poor acting skills. But I don't blame the kids. I am sure the director is responsible for everything on the screen.) But back to the hopelessness - the good family they meet - all dead. Because Logan starts playing the role of thinking like someone in a horror film. Example: We have had an army chasing us the entire film, but instead of staying on the move, let's bed down with this nice defenseless family. Just stupid and predictable that later they are all violently dead. There are tons more decisions like this in the film. Ones that are stupid for the point of letting something graphically violent happen later. Just stupid horror movie plot gimmicks.And oh my gosh... talk about a movie dragging out telling you something you already know. You get that the girl is somehow his daughter from the time her claws come out. But then they take the next 15 minutes of the movie acting like you don't get it. Let's have an iPhone movie about it.... in two parts after letting the battery run out... but with the second part saying nothing new. Let's have conversations about it. All that give you little or no more information than you already have. Let's have Logan go from being confused and angry to being, let's see, how about just confused and angry still. It seemed like they were covering the same weak plot points over and over in case the audience had fallen asleep because no one had been stabbed through the skull in the last 10 minutes.I laughed out loud at the scene where the mute girl started talking. It is like the writers said, "Oh crap, we have killed everyone else, what is Logan going to do for dialogue? OK, let's have her talk, but wait. She was raised in Mexico. So she needs to talk Spanish. But wait, our actress doesn't speak Spanish. We will just have her move her mouth real fast and throw Spanish words in during post. No one will know. And then later we will have her speak bilingual, but not too much." So they take the point in the movie where a speaking girl would normally go mute (after watching several people she liked get violently killed), and they make that the point in the movie where this girl gets to start talking. It is like no one making the movie had ever met a kid. And they do throw Spanish words into a rapidly moving mouth like no one will notice. Again, it was laughably bad. This movie is a complete mess. Those praising it had to have seen a different movie. Or they are just horror movie fans and finally got to see their Wolverine in one. And I know I know, the comics are dark. But it is a different thing to take a small child actor and put her in this kind of movie. It is child abuse. A small girl like that does not need to see or experience this type of violence. And everyone of those kids will be watching this movie. And it encourages small children to watch this movie when small kids are in it, and it involves characters from other movies they have seen.Horrible violence in something like Hacksaw Ridge is appropriate. That movie meant something. Violence in 13 Hours means something. Horrible violence in a poorly written comic book movie filled with children is just abuse... to us and the children.
I am absolutely stunned that this film has received so much positive feedback online; when I couldn't be more disappointed! It's by far the worst Marvel film we have seen to date. The story line was incredibly weak – I personal believe it was written by a 12-year-old child – and the movie itself, is set during another random messed up future time line, which completely falls out of sync with the rest of the X-Men (or Marvel) films we have seen to-date. Once again, this movie failed to capture (or portray) Wolverine's character properly. The closest we've seen so far is: The Wolverine (2013). However, my biggest criticism is: I am so sick to death of seeing Wolverine fight at a disadvantage. It's like he has a permanent piece of Kryptonite rammed so far up his ass, he is incapable of fighting properly. In the first Wolverine film (X-Men Origins: Wolverine), we were forced to watch him fight with the indignity of bone claws; I wasn't very happy when Marvel added bone claws to Wolverine's mutation in 1994, when in the previous 20 years, his claws were always the result of the Weapon X project. Not some bizarre, gross mutation. However, since it was an Origin story, I can bring myself to overlook this. In the second film (The Wolverine), his powers were suppressed by Viper (or that machine attached to his heart), and in this film (Logan), we were forced to watch him: as a tired, broken down, old man. It's so disappointing<U+0085> You might notice, when we watch all the other Marvel superheros on screen, they're all fighting at full strength (or in their prime); not at 10 or 20 percent of their working capacity. I want to see Wolverine completely cut lose! Is that too much to ask!! In the Avengers (or in the Captain America films), we see Captain America seriously kick ass, he is awesome, and so are all the Avengers. Even Spiderman and Ant-man kicked ass in the last Avengers film. We have never seen Wolverine shown in that light before. Half the time Wolverine is getting his ass kicked by random no bodies, and there is never a mission impossible factor involved. I cannot believe Disney don't get that<U+0085> God, it's pathetic!! I think we could have seen Wolverine fight at his best if he joined the Avengers, and I would have loved to seen Hugh Jackman join the team. He probably would have stolen the spotlight though.I am also getting a bit sick and tired of seeing Marvel (or Disney now) releasing a X-Men film with no concept of who the X-Men are, what the series is all about, and what the characters are all capable of. In the first X-Men movie for example, Mystique and Rogue are mortal enemies, when in the comic book series, Mystique is actually Rogues adopted mother, so they would never harm one another, and their relationship is critical to the Rogues eventual story. In X2 and X-Men 3, Jean was given the power of the Phoenix Force, when the Phoenix's abilities were never part of her natural mutation. In X-Men 3, Professor X and Juggernaut weren't even step brothers, and in the final X-Men film: Apocalypse, Mystique and Nightcrawler were roughly the same age, when Mystique is Nightcrawlers biological mother, and there are errors or inconsistencies like this throughout the entire X-Men (film) series. With this film for example, Laura has the exact same mutation (or powers) as Wolverine; that isn't how mutations work, identical powers aren't passed from father to son. I can provide 1000 examples on this point but I won't. God!! Does anyone actually read the comic books over there at Disney?! Just imagine tuning into a random episode of Game of Thrones and none of the Lannisters are related, the Tyrion Lannister (the Imp) is a Giant (and is as dump as a box of hair) and Winterfell is in the South rather than the North, which is completely being run by the White Walkers under the blistering sun. You would think: if Hollywood was going to make a movie based on Games of Thrones, they could at least get these facts right – or is that asking too much? Apparently so<U+0085> I feel that's what the X-Men (film) series has become now. I feel it's become nothing more than a jumbled mess of random crap, and we're supposed to praise Marvel (or Disney) for their work. This movie was nothing more than another messed up alternate future, where mutates have largely been wiped out. So in the next X-Men film, are we going to see another time traveler go back in time and fixes thing because Marvel (or Disney) are incapable of producing a decent X-Men film. That's going to get, real old real fast. Whoever wrote this film has no concept of who Wolverine is or what the X-Men is all about! They came close in X- Men: First Class, X- Men: Days of Future Past and The Wolverine. I know these movies have inconsistencies compared to the comics but at least they came close to capturing what the X-Men is all about. However, this movie (Logan) was a complete mess, and only encourages me NOT to see anymore X-Men films at the movies! And, I won't be ever again! The X-Men has so much potential on the big screen but Disney seems determine to screw it all up! You know, get your sh*t together people, we deserve much better<U+0085>
If you've ever wanted to watch a little girl roll a severed human head over a dusty parking lot, go see "Logan." "Logan" is a violent, gory, hateful, ugly, senseless and charmless movie. Hugh Jackman stars as Wolverine, aka Logan, a man with retractable claws in his hands. He connects with Laura, a mutant like himself. The girl is trying to escape from mistreatment in Mexico to a safe house in Canada called "Eden." She is being pursued by a bad guy, a white man with – you guessed it – a Southern accent. And I bet you already know the bad guy's name – it's Donald. Donald chasing a Mexican girl who must escape to safety in Canada – I know what you are thinking. This is an artistically and intellectually ambitious film that will deliver more than clichés. Abandon all such hope anyone who buys a ticket for this splatter mess. In fact why not just stay home and watch terrorist videos on YouTube? Hugh Jackman may as well not even have appeared in this bloated, exploitative, anti-human mess. The film is just one long hyperviolent chase scene. Donald catches up with Logan and Laura, and there is a lengthy fight involving decapitations, dismemberment, and graphic impalement of various body parts. You see Logan's blades puncturing faces and skulls. When the director feels that the fight scene has gone on long enough, Logan and Laura make a temporary escape. Donald regroups, lather, rinse, repeat. There are a couple of gratuitous Christophobic images. One of the bad guys has a Christian cross tattooed on his arm. The arm is removed from his body. In another scene, a cross is repurposed into an X, for X- Men.
This movie was pointless, hopeless and completely miserable from beginning to the end. All of the X men are dead, mutants are extinct and we watch the final sad moments of our favorite characters lives, Charles and Logan, before we watch them die. Thank you for killing this world completely, my favorite fantasy and they choked it! I seriously feel like a part of me has died. I wish they had stopped after last one and let us keep our fantasy.
I wanted to like this movie but the longer it went, the more I disliked it. I can only think how much better this movie would have been if Marvel had made it and done the story right. The good is that the acting is very good and Hugh Jackman and Patrick Stewart deliver great performances as you would expect from them. Stephen Merchant was great as Caliban. Dafne Keen was the true find as she did an outstanding job as Laura (X-23). Not speaking for most of the film means she had to rely on facial expression and looks and she did them with a lot of skill. Whether it was her or just great direction, the point is that she executes her role wonderfully. She has very expressive eyes and at times reminded me of a very young Sandra Bullock. I hope she has a long career. The bad is the typical problem when Marvel isn't making the movie. Apparently the desire is to make superhero movies where the superheros detest their powers and stay far away from lame things like costumes (ie what fan like). So of course there are no costumes in this and there is a lot of complaining about having fantastic powers and everyone seems to determined use kung fu rather than actually use those powers. At several points, it seemed that someone in Hollywood got an idea and insisted that it be included (hey let's involve border crossings, hey we need to say something about big corporations, hey let's complain about self-driving cars, etc. etc.) which all just muddle the story and add nothing in my opinion. Although his acting was as good as always, I found Prof. X a distraction in the movie and was disappointed with his storyline. Others may disagree. This movie is rated R. There are some bloody scenes but there are a lot of F-Bombs. Despite the rating, we had a 9 year old Wolverine fan sitting behind us constantly asking his parent what this or that means. With Wolverine being such a child-friendly character in comics and cartoons, making an R rated version was a pretty bad idea since a lot of kids are going to want to see it and give their parents plenty to have to explain. Deadpool could do it since Deadpool is not that common with kids. In fact, the best part of the movie was the preview (kind of preview) for the upcoming Deadpool sequel. This was the 3rd movie I have seen recently in the theaters where the audience was disruptive. Talking, cell phones, etc. (one guy even taking a phone call during the film!) made it a bad experience. I love seeing movies in a theater but if people cannot learn that when in a theater they are NOT in their own den watching Netflix, I will have to seriously rethink it. Ticket prices keep going up and up and highly disruptive customers (forget poor films) make a good explanation for why people are staying away from theaters.


                
This is without doubt, the saddest Marvel release EVER!!! Who ever wrote this should be taken out and shot at dawn and all the money they were paid should be put into a charity fund for the homeless(more to the point to fund poor writers who could have run rings around the untalented butt clowns that wrote this travesty of biblical proportions).The previous X-men films have all been top notch, high quality efforts that have not only been faithful to the comics that made them possible but have been well written with super acting and masterful story telling.This mess of a film has ruined so much of what I liked about the original X-Men films that this fan is not going to spend money going to see any more X-men films at the movies. I'm that upset about this rubbish.The most important thing about Super Hero style movies is that people like this fan, go to see HEROES WIN AND SAVE THE DAY. I'm sorry if a few unmentionables can't handle that or find the concept trite or boring etc, but the world needs Super heroes, not super loosers.The only saving grace of this film was the young troupe of new mutants(genetically engineered mutants). Sadly as I hope your getting the idea, the whole concept ruins the ideas that came before and more to the point Wolverine(I'm not going to call this character by the name that belongs to this terrible movie ever again), totally destroys the place of his origin. Zip, NADA, nothing left folks, so this whole story is a complete pile of badly written 'what if' at best.Don't let this be the first (and last) X-Men film you ever see. Skip this one and enjoy the glorious other movies that Marvel has put out. This movie was so bad, they didn't even have a snippet clip at the end of the movie(even Marvel must have realised it would be wasting it's time doing so with this one, because most of the people in the cinema I saw it in, walked out as soon as the credits started rolling and all I heard where numerous comments about how bad they found the movie).So no spoilers to give on this one fellow movie fans because the entire movie is a spoiler. A spoiler for some of the greatest super hero movies ever made and should be avoided like the plague.


                
