I just finished watching Logan and--oh my God--what a dismal, dreary, dreadful and dumb bit of cinematic nihilism that was. Brutally and graphically and disturbingly violent too.All those tremendous adventures the X-Men had in years past? All the times they defeated evil villains? The camaraderie, the sense of family--of a home for misfit mutant kids? The risks and victories and sacrifices? Yeah, it was all ultimately meaningless.I can understand if they felt they needed to kill off the old X-Men but they did so in such a way as to make every previous X-Men movie and story appear to have been a foolish exercise in futility. A miserable and lonely future awaits, addled and alcoholic, only to be relieved by violent death. Yay.This could have been an uplifting homage to the ideal of what the X-Men were. But Hugh & Patrick & Co. apparently decided they would rather go out with a sad whimper instead of a celebratory bang.
The film moves slowly with a poor story line. I almost fell asleep  twice and really do not understand the high scores for a film that  really does not deliver. As I use IMDb as a guide for viewing a film,  this is the first time I have been totally misled by the rating. I  think it is a good thing that the character of Logan has been killed  off, as it will save people like me, wasting time watching such a  totally over rated film.
James Mangold wrote and directed Logan things became depressing quickly and set the tone for the rest of the movie. This film should be titled kill kill and die. Or "Sick Wolverine" I find it hard to believe so many liked this movie, or worse thought it was great.I don't care for sick wolverine, it makes no sense the adamantium was poisoning him, and I think it was the genetic stuff in foods, that made the mutants unable to reproduce, and also for them to die of some ailment. Wolverines healing power fought it but was losing. But really this is not a good story and ruined the movie for me, I would rather see a normal wolverine one last time than to see this travesty. And if they are going to kill him then so be it, but I don't really like that either. When a actor is saying one more time, they tend to think O lets kill him off then. I don't like that,The girl Laura was the best thing in the movie, was his DNA daughter, and she looked like fameke Jansen who played jean so they could have said she had DNA from jean too. played superbly by the young Dafne Keen. She never speaks thru half the movie, so does it all with looks etc. And they could have ended it with Logan going to Canada with his new daughter, and the other kids, and starting a school like Xavier did in past. That would have been a better ending that this crap.Basically everyone in movie dies, except few of the kids, and cant remember if any of the bad guys survived, like the geneticist? Even the family that helped them all died, kill kill kill, not a happy movie at all, just the opposite, very dark and depressing movie with a few light moments that were quickly squashed by something bad.I did really like the character growth between Logan and the girl, which might be one of the main highlights of the movie's story for me.I would only watch this again to see the Laura scenes, but it is so depressing I don't know if I ever will want to watch this again.The main villains of the film are very one-dimensional; at times, the film almost goes deep into their motivations, but abruptly interrupts itself in lieu of more awesome fight scenes. Basically you have a bunch of guys with guns, but they don't use the guns or do so rarely. The main bad guy just seemed not bad, like a robot doing a job. The geneticist was a little better but seemed to come out of nowhere in middle of movie, and was kind of corny.I gave it a 2 of 10 and I have always liked wolverine and the actor playing the part. The writing and story was awful except for Logan's daughter, take that and write a better story, and it could have been a great movie.Aside from Laura, this story really sucked, the worst of all the wolverine movies.It was R rated so they could show graphic violence and I like that, but combined with the depressing story makes it harder to watch.So Logan winds up buried in some woods, and Prof X buried some unmarked grave too, and everyone says yeah it was great and fitting ending for these 2 characters lol.O and having Prof X be sick like he was sort of ruined having him in the movie too, and not good to remember him by. I guess I am just an oddball for not liking it, or people who don't like it probably don't want to take the time to come here and do a review, just the fanboys that loved it.
This is Disney, folks. If they can squeeze a dollar out of it Wolverine will be back. Either they get Hugh or they will reboot. Wanna bet?


                
The movie was quite depressing. Logan and Charles have aged, and are not doing well. They are hiding out and keeping Charles drugged so he won't hurt anyone.I just didn't like the violence for the sake of violence in the movie. Most of the super hero movies were rated PG-13, now we have another one that is rated R. There one flash of brief nudity, so we could have that added to the rating of the movie, that did nothing to add to the plot of the movie.The movie seemed to go out of its way to kill anything that brought a moment of pleasure to heroes of the story.They don't give Laura's age in the movie, but the actress is 11 years old. Having her kill people over and over and throwing a severed head to the leader of the villains is just going a bit overboard.


                
I don't understand what's the fuss about this film.If one tries hard enough he might get some hint of motifs such as good against bad, slavery against freedom, and other Darwinian motives, but this is presented so poorly that it turns off any will to try.Pure rubbish is an understatement.I kept on going only due to the high rank and recommendations, but this is a total waste of time.Maybe I am the stupid one, but this movie is so dumb that I had to force myself 3 days watching it.Stupidity and boredom at it's finest.
I'm sorry, but Logan was a huge letdown for me as an "x-men" movie. The plot was close to the most lacking I've ever seen. Not enough explanation anywhere. The fact that the movie was close to two and a half hours with no explanation actually made parts painful to watch. Everything is "mysteriously" unanswered and even from someone who's usually not bothered by violence, there's a very unnecessary amount ( trust me the origins wolverine is like you're in a kindergarten class playing with dinosaurs compared to it ). The only two characters from previous movies ( Logan and Charles) had hardly any lines, and most were ambiguous at best, or just a lot of random swearing. As someone who loves the X-Men movie franchise, I would urge you to stray away from this production.


                
Although I shout "Make mine Marvel!" at the beginning of these movies and love most of them I cannot recommend Logan. The best part of this movie was the casting and great performances by Hugh Jackman, Patrick Stewart and newcomer Dafne Keen.However, if you are looking for a dark movie about the mistreatment of children strongly prefer the horror film "The Girl With All the Gifts" which has a stronger story, unique science fiction elements and includes social commentary.Logan is a gritty, thriller in which our anti-hero feels a lot like just another Jack Bauer, Ethan Hunt, Jason Bourne with a plot that feels like we're watching a grim, drug-addled, violent downer of a drama i.e. Traffic, Training Day, Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas — not a comic book superhero.To the marketers credit, this was as advertised — "Logan" not Wolverine with a Johnny Cash/Kurt Cobain soundtrack. Point taken.Indeed, I left the theater feeling hurt. Logan was no fun.


                
first off, i wanna ask is how the hell can you compare this depressing nihilistic, destructive horror film to the dark knight.....or ANY superhero film? superheros were meant to inspire good and hope...this film only destroyed those elements it completely baffles me how this destructive gore fest is being called ''the best superhero film of all time''. as for the dark knight trilogy-batman inspired people....even the criminals....logan starts off depressing and ends depressing. logan provided the perfect chance to restore the xmen and complete charels's dream by saving this dark, depressing world-yet, they chose to kill logan-and leave children trained to be weapons with no guidance, no hope to be anything more than weapons....this film spits on every xmen film before it, it spits on the xmen and the superhero gen as a whole and frankly, from what i've read-if it wasn't as graphic as it was- not very many people would've bothered....hell, one person here pretty much said this film would be nothing without the r rating! i saw the potential it had....but completely disregarded all that just to make a depressing, destructive, gore fest-frankly, i feel the r rating is what ruined this film. logan never liked killing in the past films- he would always try to avoid killing-here, he'll go out of his way to do so in the most graphic ways, logan is supposedly remorseful for the lives he's taken....yet, he kills more in this film-so i can't believe this, he also have a little girl who looks up to him.....and he continues killing! i can recall i quote from days of the future: I was your most helpless student, and you unlocked my mind. You showed me what I was, you showed me what I can be-so, in conclusion-he should've killed even less and he should've lived. so, i gives this film 2 stars-1 for the acting, another for the potential it had to be a masterpiece. i also wanna say that even though most say they can't relate to laura-i can, however. it's also worth mentioning logan has been a very influential character-taught me to never give up. another lesson completely overlooked is: just because someone stumbles and loses their path, doesn't mean they're lost forever. but, a quote that that should've been the theme here is: why do we fall? So we can learn to pick ourselves up! i also wanna say that the fact Laura is mute mostly is understandable-think about the crap she went through-would YOU be very social? one other thing i wanna address is statements regarding the children......of course they're gonna gonna be afraid.....they're abused children!


                
Am I the only one who is disturbed by the image of a little girl violently stabbing grown men and chopping them to pieces???Also the sheer stupidity of the bad guys makes this movie very hard to watch. Apparently highly trained mercenaries don't care about their own life at all, and will do the stupidest things. Like walking straight into an 11 year old killing machine with adamantium claws. **SPOILER ALERT** The bad guys have their own secret weapon. But heck why use the secret weapon when you can first sacrifice 50 highly trained men, right?Further, the time line of the movie is somewhere in the future. But the future looks exactly like the '90s. Where are the cool gadgets, flying cars, high tech weapons, crazy outfits and funky haircuts? Remember how much fun the Back to the Future movies were? The future they show here is not creative at all, and simply boring. Finally, a deus ex machina to save the day. Really?? Conclusion: depressing movie, nothing to laugh about, bunch of mercenaries getting chopped up to provide at least some entertainment. Two stars for the acting skills of the little girl.
I can't believe any one gave this movie good reviews its no wonder why Stan was not in this movie, seemed like Hugh's heart was not in it giving a so so performance his expressions where like yea I'm here but I'm tired of this character, and Patrick seemed like a wash out like he has been drinking to much Strongbow. I thought no one could out do Batman vs Superman for the worst comic book movie but it looks like Logan did.


                
Very dark, very grim. Has been compared to Children of Men, which I thought was a much better movie. This makes all previous X-Men movies irrelevant.


                
As others have said, the performances by Hugh Jackman and Patrick Stewart are very strong and the film evokes a powerful dark mood. If it were therefore not the sequel to many previous more upbeat movies, this movie would have worked very well as a standalone drama.Because it is part of long-running franchise, however, it comes across as painfully incongruous with previous X-Men movies. At the outset of the movie, we see that Logan has descended once again into misery, so all of the gains made in "The Wolverine" are lost. Once again also, mutants are on the edge of extinction, so all gains made in "Days Of Future Past" are lost (and less than 10 years later, to add to the bewilderment). Basically, it looks like some writer liked the idea of rebooting the mutant doomsday concept of DOFP and taking it in a bleaker direction.I'm sorry, but while excellent acting is something I like in a movie, a good story is at least as important, and to make a good story, you can't render previous entries in the franchise completely pointless. The fact that this happens in the final Wolverine outing, with no opportunity to recover is, of course, all the more heartbreaking. I was surprised when DOFP managed a decent recovery from the mistakes made by X-Men:Last Stand, but not as surprised as I was to see those same mistakes repeated here!


                
I honestly did not watch the whole movie. However, every time I went back to the channel, which was about four times or so, the same thing was happening. Running away from the same men. Fighting them off. At the end Logan dies. I wonder whose idea it was to make this? In my opinion, if you want to become a legion in movies, you always have to be the hero. For example, John Wayne, Clint Eastwood, Paul Newman, etc. To me, it was the worst way to go away from a series. Why would this be done so differently from the rest? It has shown me how classless all of you people who put this together are. Tell me, did your children see it? Were all of you proud that they could see it? Have all of you fallen down so far from normalcy, you can't see how far you have gone. I have no desire to see the whole move, so I won't.


                
No suspense. Acting is OK. But the story was ridiculous: Wolverine helps a Mexican girl cross a border. Wolverine fighting climate change might have been a more entertaining storyline.And at the end Wolverine just takes a lot of drugs goes into a rage and kills all the bad guys. Who didn't see something like that coming.Wolverine kill moves were kind of cool in this movie, but doing that same claw through the face move in slow motion over and over gets pretty boring after a while. Its always some cliché bad guy, too. If Wolverine would do the claw through the face move on random "climate deniers", that could be entertaining.And I don't understand how crossing the border into Canada is going to help these mutant children. As if a multi-billion dollar organization of super evil bad guys rampantly killing all over the USA can't get the papers to go to Canada? And I'm pretty sure those kids crossing the border didn't get any papers either.


                
This movie contained so much gore it warranted an "X" rating. I love horror movies, and this is one. It should be titled "Freddy Kruger Goes Paternal"! To me, this is a Slasher flick and not for everyone. With respect to X-Men, this was not. Logan was a mass murderer with an offspring with similar values. If you watch it as a slasher, horror movie you may enjoy it. As an X-Men movie, do not bother. It is not family oriented !
But it still sucked like a Liberal. Finally a Disney movie without the usual jokes and one liners but still it wasn't good. Just boring. When is the reboot so all the liberal kids could attack and go watch it?


                
I was really ready to see this movie but after I saw that it was rated R, I waited until it came out on DVD. Glad I didn't pay to go see it at the theater. While Hugh Jackman and Patrick Stewart are amazing actors I was so turned off by how they portrayed their characters in this final movie. The whole movie lacked any kind of flow from any of the previous movies. We are dropped off sometime in the future where mutants are all but gone. Professor X is cursing every other word as is Logan. Now in the previous movies, Wolverine does slash and kill people, but in this movie he goes straight for the face and brain, etc. I believe that for the lack of a plot, they fill in the gaps with swearing and blood. This may appeal to some people but it's not entertainment as far as I'm concerned. Secondly, a few gaps in Logan's predicament. Where did he get his metal claws back from? In the previous movie (Wolverine) they are cut off and he has to use his bone claws. Also, his healing factor has withstood being ripped apart by Jean Grey, aka Phoenix, and a nuclear explosion and now his adamantium metal is poisoning him? So much for his uncharted healing factor. All in all, I won't be adding this to my collection.
People complain about the plot holes...that's not really the problem.The problem is that things are thrown at the viewer out of nowhere and threads are left dangling. It takes place in the future...fine, but there is little explanation as to why and how things have come about and where some of the characters came from.Particularly X23. Why, why, why, why, why, why? We'd like to know...but that's either a movie for another time or they just didn't think we'd care enough to wonder about her.Next time, we'd like to know a bit more. It's not too much to ask.Or better yet, stop for a while. Refresh. Drop the X-Men, you have more to work with, X-Force, X-Factor, New Mutants, Excalibur, to name a few.Let the X-Men rest and either pick up something you can do fresh without a reboot, or just let the licenses revert, because honestly, it's starting to really hurt to watch and you're starting to tick the fans off.At this point it feels, especially with "Apocalypse," that they are just making movies to keep the licenses. "The Last Stand" was awful, true, but the franchise was brilliantly rebooted with "First Class." They took the time to address continuity issues, they took the time to respect the concerns that the fans of the franchise had about the reboots and even tied up some of it in "Days of Future Past."With "Apocalypse" they threw away everything they worked so hard to preserve in both the original franchise and the reboot. "Logan" does much the same thing, it takes a once respected timeline and throws it all away, leaving just a movie, a stand alone song that doesn't fit in with the rest of the Franchise album.They aren't trying to protect the franchise any longer, they are just turning out movies with complete disregard over how they fit in with the established story.


                
I still dont undertand why I put myself into this 2 hours of misery. Plot is very plain and dumb. The girl is soo annoying i almost left watching it. And unbeatable immortal wolverine... dies? Wow
I don't understand how this film is receiving such great reviews. The story-line is depressing and predictable. As always, I enjoy seeing both Jackman and Stewart as they are both amazing actors. The movie though? Worst of all the X-Men movies (even worse than the 3rd one from the original trilogy which is saying something). The violence was so over-the-top it was actually distracting. Some aspects were left completely unexplained (like the writers simply expected the viewers to 'know' - i.e. what was wrong with Xavier's mind, who the Reavers are and 'why' they have 1 metal hand, why there are no mutants left). The kid was fine when she wasn't speaking but then she wouldn't shut up so she became very irritating. Her 'attachment' to Logan really made no sense at all since she had just met him (and now she's crying over his body saying 'daddy'? Really?). Maybe I just didn't like it because they kill off everyone I liked. The best part of the movie was the 3 minute 'teaser' at the beginning for Deadpool.
Really..??? U wanna make fans sympathetic towards superheros now????? Thats New And to my surprise, its actually working, Many people are liking it. Take my favorite "SuperHero", Make him so powerless that normal humans look more powerful than him. Even kids can whoop his dash.What was the point IF WE CAN MAKE HIM LOOK AMAZING EVEN WHEN HES AN ANIMAL HE GOTTA DIE A DOGS DEATH, Isn't THAT AMAZING, Don't THINK SOAnd the funniest part of all, what makes this movie just perfect, IN THE END, THE VILLAIN IS KILLED BY LITTLE GIRL, THAN LOGAN HIMSELF, Shouldn't they name this movie "LAURA" after her than "LOGAN", She gets to win the fight, when logan is almost dead I am Sorry to all those who have rated movie good, I guess we find this superhero so amazing, Hugh Jackman so terrific, that we even enjoy watching his crucifixion, watching him in pain, makes us emotional and sympathetic. Really..??? U wanna make fans sympathetic towards superheros ????? I am sorry my fellow fans of him, I don't agree he deserves sympathy, He doesn't deserves this kinda death, Let him be a SuperHero, Don't ruin the his character just for earning money. Watch some Meryl Streep movie if u wanna emotional movie, even they are better than this dying crap.The makers request your Feedback:....."Kindly rate which heroes u like in ascending order? so that we can make movies, showing them old and parenthetic" Entire movie you just feel like, rather Kill him already, than make him this Miserable, and you wait to see some life left in him, but hes nothing like before, At least GIVE HIM A CLEAN DEATH, FOR GRUESOME 2HRS 20 MIN, YOU SEE HIM IN PAIN, SUFFERING LIKE A DYING ANIMAL. SUPERHERO MUCH ??? OLD MAN LOGAN, whats next??? MARVEL is gonna show every superhero, old and dying, crucify each of its ""superhero"". I WOULD HAVE GIVEN 10 STARS IF THEY WOULD DONE THIS TO DANIAL CREG CHARACTER, "OLD MAN JAMES BOND DYING" RATHER THAN HUGH JACKMAN SUFFERING AND TORTURED IN "LOGAN".
I went into this thinking it would be about Logan. But it's really about a super powerful little girl. For unexplained reasons, she appears to be a sociopath. She has no emotional reactions to people close to her dying, which is something one would expect from a kid. Not to mention, someone that's supposed to be on the side of good. Moreover, I personally just can't take kids seriously as super hero's, even if they have special powers. It goes against too many of my preconceptions about kids.If I had known that this would really about a super hero little girl, I wouldn't have watched this.Also, seeing Logan get weaker is sad, in a way that I didn't enjoy. I loved that guy when he was more powerful.I gave this movie 2 stars rather than 1, because some of the fighting scenes is kind of cool, in a visual sense.
I was expecting this movie for months and it really was a huge disappointment. Too much violence, little information, depressing future and really slow story. The director should not change, he completely destroyed the series, I saw all of them but I will not see another one from now on (if they make one since they killed everyone). I expected a 4,9 IMDb rating not above 8! I don't know what other fans want to see but this movie was the worst xmen movie I have ever seen. To xmen fans: Don't see it, it will destroy the series. To non xmen fans: Don't see it, only violence scenes without any story.
There are plenty of superhero characters that are being humanized beyond belief, but wolverine was one of my favorite super hero. The cinematography and the performance given by Hugh Jackman is stellar, it's just that the storyline is not suited for what The Wolverine stands for: Kick Ass and after he finishes kicking ass he walks away without a scratch smoking a cigar. Why was his body dying if his cells could regenerate faster than the cells that were being destroyed. Like i have said holes in the story in order to create a more human character. We get to see ourselves everyday i for one don't one to see The Wolverine death. I think that would have been a better title: Wolverine's Death :D and The Rise of Deadpool
