I'm frankly astonished by all the positive reviews, especially those comparing this to "The Dark knight". The films tone leans towards edgy rather than dark in my opinion with profuse use of unnecessary cursing making it feel like an 18 year old was hired to spice up the dull plodding nature of each scene. Moments felt like the Coen brothers "No country for old men" was lifted whole sale and stitched onto the plot of "Children of men" with a smattering of "Xmen 2". Not necessarily the worst idea ever, but the execution just leads to a painful and cringe worthy experience. Many moments I found my hands raised in disbelief as mutants forgot they had powers. Antagonists failed to use even a percent of their brain when attacking their non Wolverine targets ("YOU HAVE GUNS SHOOT THEM" was a message I found on my lips at multiple points in the film). Some scenes were so drawn out if the film hadn't been two and a half hours long I'd think they were playing for time (see: Logan exiting a car, sighting a mountain, seeing a girl, falling over, being winched up a cliff, 15 minutes of information being conveyed extraordinarily slowly (that we already knew and had been told before) the full scene took 20 minutes to end with nothing new being learnt, nothing interesting happening and the plot exactly were it left off). Bad acting is present throughout with the exception of Patrick Stewart and Eriq La Salle. Please do not let Dafne Keen star in any more films until she has been taught finesse and timing. Pacing, CGI (the fence scene is especially noticeable), script and attempts at political finger pointing all hinder this film greatly. The films greatest crime though, the ending. Someone explain to me what a territorial border has to offer against PMC with seemingly limitless funds?
Of all the X-Men, X-Men Origin and X-Men prequel movies, this movie is the worst, and separate from that - it is a bad movie, standing alone. Unlike the effective - in (X-Men director) Brian Singer's paraphrased words "I would want my favorite comic book universe, if made into a movie, to be taken seriously" - other X-Men movies, this movie is filled with gratuitous violence, bizarre levels of cursing and a one-dimensional villain. I can't even remember the villain's name, that is how forgettable he was. Unlike Magneto or Colonel Striker, who were instantly memorable. We are told the movie takes place in the year 2029, but that makes no sense, since they keep repeating there have been no new mutants born in 25 years. Since 2004. But Prof. X's school was - I quote - taking place in the "not too distant future" - and was filled with kids in all the prior movies!!! Which were clearly taking place during, before and after 25 years ago, by any clear judgment. It made no sense. We were informed that Prof. X and Logan were among the last alive, that all the other X-Men from the newly resurrected Jean Grey to Scott. But with no explanation, they are all now dead. The entire pantheon of the X-Men, dead, when in the last movie with them - Days Of Future Past - they were all at the top of their game. We never found out what happened to Rogue - who was alive - or Bobby or even flipping Beast! And for some bizarre, entirely inexplicable reason, in this movie the mighty Wolverine is trying to get by ... as a chauffeur. With a chauffeur's permit and everything. IMPLAUSIBLE, MUCH? This movie is riddled with plot holes like Swiss cheese!!! The movie has a double tragic death ending unbefitting the glory of these excellent characters. What a shame!!!
The film repeated the following scenes:1. Logan and the prof berating each other 2. Angry armed dudes in black cars appear 3. Logan cuts them downRinse and repeat. Just the surroundings changes, hideout scene, hotel scene, family scene...Soooo boring.The enemy was so dumb. They kept going close after seeing their buddies chopped down even though they had big guns that had range...
Die hard X-men fans might love this movie just because it's about Wolverine, but frankly, it's not a very good movie. The acting was good but the plot was long, disjointed, thin, & boring. There was a lot of unexplained history &/or reasons for certain characters. I found myself thinking too hard about the plot holes & was never fully immersed in the story. Sad we wasted money on it and that's two hours out of my live I'll never get back.


                
Tonight will be the 3rd time I've tried to watch this film. Never got beyond 30 minutes. It's dull, predictable, there's nothing to like about the protagonist, he's boring and depressing. It's needlessly violent, the script puts you to sleep. Oh well, 3rd time lucky..


                
We have been putting off watching tis for a while.. The kids did not seem interested but we eventually ran out of things to watch so this was next.
Had we read some of negative reviews we might have been prepared.. However, I had seen a few claiming this was great.. should have known better.From the start you are hit in the face that every Xman movie that has gone before. including some set in the future are all wiped clean and count for nothing.All mutants are gone and only wolverine and charges (and presumly a few others) are left. All was for nothing.. quick silver might as well have let them all burn in the explosion at the school.In this crap vision of the future we run into the plot from Dark Angel (you can add Stranger Things into the mix).. without Jessica Alba. The mutant kids have again broken out of Manticore and one of them was built from Logans DNS.Max.. I mean Laura is total bad ass and can taken on dozens of armed men.. except at the end when her and your entire band of escaped mutants can't take on anyone. The whole films is dreary and depressive. Jackman and Stewart ham it up as best they can.. but by the end we are left wondering why bother. They could so easily have thrown in a happy ending which would have justified the previous 2 hours.. but no.. the kids run over the border to Canada to an uncertain future with no one to guide them.
Many before said that this movie lacks emotions - I go one step further: it's completely empty. There is no story. There is no background, no emotions, no mutants, and, for the worst, no logic.All you get are a few decently stunt, quite gory fight scene, and that's it. Whoever rated this movie above 5, please go and see some real films.


                
This movie is ridiculous. Effects reminds me a horror movie with a small financial injection. It's even worse looking from history perspective, it's a big misery how he got sick, why, on what purpose grew up those little freaks and how did they even got Logan's DNA.I am really disappointed about this crap....


                
The movie is a train-wreck from beginning to end. There's hardly a plot in the movie. In fact, here's the story line in one tweet-sized sentence:Wolverine escorts a mutant little girl from Mexico to Canada and everyone dies on the way, including himself. Since there's no story line, I will point out a few non senses: 1) There's no explanation why Wolverine, Prof. X and Caliban are hiding in the desert. Where are all the other mutants? Suddenly there's no one else.2) Prof. X was a wealthy man how did they end up with nothing.3) Prof. X is supposed to be the greatest brain in the world, thus he should be able to control his own "brain" diseases. 4) The most ridiculous part is the depiction of "future". The only futuristic thing in the whole movie is the self- driving/autonomous highway trucks. However, in the movie they are road-killers, bashing everything on their way. The trucks just run wild at max speed ignoring traffic. I am amazed that there was no quality control on terrible ideas whatsoever. Seriously, they had no one reviewing the sketches before shooting it?5) A wolverine Clone pops out of nowhere, and without any explanation. The comics might explain but the director should have kept in mind this is a stand alone movie.6) Everyone dies. Literally, everyone (except the kids, but that's because children death is hardly accepted by any audiences).7) Non trained nurses are responsible for freeing the mutants from a super high security facility.8) The nurse wants to take the kids to "eden", just because she saw in a comic book. The kids actually go there and meet in the coordinates given in the comics. Meaning that, someone wrote the comics for that. But who? Who needs an explanation? Anyway, at this point I though the plot was a cheap rip-off from the series Heroes. 9) All the mutant kids have super powers and they seemed pretty well combat-trained. How a bunch of dudes with guns are able to capture them again and again?10) Finally, the "bad" corporation that are hunting the mutant kids, are exploding, shooting and killing everyone on their way. It is ridiculous to think that once they reach the border limits with Canada they would accept defeat: "Oh man, the kids crossed the border, there's nothing we can do, they won"
This movie is really over hyped and overrated. It is depressing and boring and has no real plot. I think it is overrated for two reasons--1) because it is rated R and 2) because it tried to be a "different" type of superhero movie by making the story a Western. Unfortunately, this film, much like that other overrated R-rated X- Men movie, Deadpool, goes overboard with the freedom of the less restrictive rating by loading itself with f-bombs and gory violence. I don't know why Hugh Jackman and Patrick Stewart agreed to the mediocre script that turns their once heroic characters into pathetic has beens. Logan is now a suicidal drunk and Charles is a decrepit, insane old man. Both men die pointless and violent deaths. The X-Men are decimated and everything they accomplished in the other movies was all for nothing. Logan has to get his female clone to Canada. The clone is a child who loves to dismember and behead grown men. Just really gruesome stuff. There is not hope or joy in this movie at all. The character of Caliban is just there as a plot device so Donald Pierce can use him to track Logan and his creepy clone. And, lastly, the villains are really lackluster and a huge disappointment. The Reavers, X-24, and Dr. Zander Rice are all bland and forgettable villains--some of the worst I have ever seen in any X-Men movie. Zander Rice is particularly awful, being nothing more that a generic mad scientist villain. Just a sad way to close the final chapter on the X-Men--a dark future where all the characters we've loved are doomed.
So boring, and sad, and hopelessly dull.Where was wolverine? Long time ago, my biggest gripe with Jackmans wolverine was that he had to wear that black leather xmen outfit, yellow spandex would have been better, but now, this is beyond tight leather and bad puns.I always enjoyed a good Logan story, mostly because of all the mystery still surrounding him, but what this did was just sidestep all that interesting lore and go with the virus make regenerating bad, now sad, gonna die bla bla bla save the little girl!Nah, just nah!


                
I couldn't agree less with the positive reviews. This is not a realistic movie instead of a superhero movie (if you don't like superhero movies/movies based on comics - why watch X-Men/Wolverine at all? If you are so into "realistic" violence, go watch Hostel and other such abominations), this movie is just wrong. There is a reason that Mad Max movies are Mad Max movies and X-Men movies are X-Men movies and that Mad Max fans like Mad Max movies and X-Men fans like X-Men movies, and there may be an overlap between these two groups but I honestly doubt that these people understand the movies then since both series have a very different angle. And if you are into obscene, decadent, depraved madness and violence, feel happy to watch the disgusting Mad Max stuff and fry your brain. If you are into cool, creative, entertaining, positive, smart action and fun, you were being served right with the X-Men movies so far. This last Wolverine movie being a disappointing exception, reveling in blood and madness, without any coolness (and I do not mean / mind that Logan is older and weaker, that's absolutely fine with me) but dirt and vulgarity instead. The stupid girl doesn't make it any better, and the ending - well, actually, after watching this torture-like installment, I do not even mind the ending anymore this much, since if this are the sequels we could have expected, I prefer it to end. Would have never thought I would ever say this: not a good/worthy ending, but at least an end. If this is what people want to see, and if this is how the so far interesting X-Men series is meant to end, I can only confirm once more that people are crazy, primitive and all together completely different from me. I don't need such a vulgar display of brutality, neither do I enjoy it or give it a high rating. TWD is over since it lost its focus and Wolverine can now be buried, too, in any respect.
I don't understand why this movie got so much praise and positive reviews...Is it the fact that it's aimed for more mature audience? or that's it's hard core R rated? or maybe because it tries so hard to go into the drama genre instead of action? Whichever it is I found this movie extremely slow,boring and depressing. The Wolverine/Logan character which was so lively and likable in previous x men movies is an old grumpy limited super hero in this one which never smiles,hates the world and just waiting to die...All the other characters surrounding him in this movie are not much better - Mean,depressed and full of hate and anger. The action scenes as little as they are were well made and it was nice to finally see Wolverine slicing people in an R rated movie filled with authentic blood and gore...other then this there's not much positive to say about this movie - Weak script,slow pace and very very depressing.


                
When you think of Marvel and X-men, what comes to your mind is entertainment and action. However, in this film its main focus is more about being sentimental. While the action, the acting and the connection of the characters is the best from this film, it is the way that the characters are written which makes it disappointing.The plot is that Logan/Wolverine (played by Hugh Jackman) goes on a journey reluctantly to help a mutant girl named Laura (who is Wolverine's daughter), to find her other mutant friends who are chased by a group composed of cyborg enforces called, "The Reavers" along with their cyborg leader named, Donald Pierce (played by Robert Holbrook).Now the plot sounds simple and entertaining but it is the mishandling of the X-men hero characters that ruins the plot along with its message about the elderly people and its questionable conclusion. First of all, Logan/Wolverine is shown to be a drunken X-men character who works as a chauffeur while suffering a disease that is making him weak because of the adamantium that was fused to his bones. We are never told how he ended up in this situation but you just have to accept it. Also, Professor Xavier (played by Patrick Stewart) still has his power of telepathy but because he is old, he suffers from seizures and cannot recognize Wolverine unless he takes his medicine although Xavier does state that he is aware of his telepathic power.Now unlike the comic, "The Reavers" have no interest in destroying the X-men mutant but rather a group of mutant children who have superpowers but have escaped (Note: In this film, the mutant children want to cross the border from Mexico to the U.S. for a new opportunity of life). Inadvertently, Wolverine is caught in the middle of the chase. The first conflict that I had is that during the film, Wolverine, Professor Xavier and Laura are given a shelter by a kind family called, the Munsons. Despite the family's good deed and kindness, the Munsons are slaughtered by X-24 (a clone of Wolverine who works for the antagonists) who is sent to capture Laura. At this point it shows you that being good and kind means death according to the message of this film (Logan). To add insult to injury, Professor Xavier, the world's most powerful telepath is easily killed by X-24 because he is old and old people suck (based on the message that this film, Logan, is giving). After Wolverine escapes with Laura and they find the mutant children, "The Reavers" along with X-24 arrive but they are defeated by the mutant children and Wolverine. During the fight against X-24, Wolverine is brutally impaled onto a tree stump. Luckily Wolverine survives his injury, and knowing that the mutant children have no guidance of what is good and justice while also being aware that the mutant children were only taught to destroy humanity, he decides to take them under his guide were he establishes a private school like Xavier for the mutant children<U+0085>yeah that doesn't happen.Instead after being impaled onto a tree stump, Wolverine dies from his wounds because well, he is old and old people suck (based on the message of this film). The children bury him and continue their journey as the credits roll but there is one problem<U+0085> THIS MUTANT CHILDREN ARE GOING TO END UP JUST LIKE THE REAVERS! With no guidance of what is right and justice, and with only the teachings that they were taught which is to destroy humanity, this mutant kids will actually become a new villainous group on the Marvel world of this film. Special criticism is also given to the fact that there is not the traditional Marvel post-credits scene and Stan Lee does not make a cameo appearance. In conclusion, this 2017 film, "Logan," gives the feeling that its director James Mangold (who also directed the 2013 film, Wolverine), its writers and its producers, hate life, they hate the Marvel heroes (Wolverine and Professor Xavier) and they have no respect for the elderly people as they see them as useless without taking note that the elderly people have a greater knowledge and that the youth can learn from them. The whole film just mocks Wolverine and Professor Xavier for being too old and it does not take note of their achievements as a hero or the great power and knowledge that they poses. Instead The message of this film is that no matter what accomplishments you've done in the past and no matter if you have done the right thing or if you are a hero, it is pointless because that was in the past. As a result, it means that since you are old, you suck and are no longer needed according to this film's message. If you are a fan of X-men, Marvel and Wolverine, then this movie is highly not recommendable for you. But if you like Soap opera and you are a fan of Hugh Jackman, then this film is for you.
First off, I am not saying I hated it because this is Hugh Jackman final film or the fact they ended it for wolverine. It was how they did it. The entire film is a road trip where they never make the final destination and give each remaining mutant a poor send off and have a group of lab born children run off into the sunset. There were times that I lost interest because of the travel involved, he is dying the entire film from who knows what, then the fact they cloned him was retarded. They needed him and Charles to end up in the sunset and close out the series. Instead they had him killed in action? Stupid.Origins was the best.
This is the most depressing disappointing super hero movie in my life. I am wondering why this movie have high rating. What a waste of time to watch this movie. I never wrote review before this. After watching this movie, yeah i think i have to write one.First of all, this is super hero movie, Logan refers to wolverine from X-men. Not some sad drama movie such as The Notebook. He is superhero, he is wild animal. And yet now he is not too super, not too heroic, not too wild. Only his temper remaining.Second, i watched it couple of minutes, i thought yeah OK maybe the plot is twisted or they wanted to make new level of story. But the longer you watch, the longer you ll feel depressed. Until half the movie, i started to skip minutes by minutes. Because its boring. Not to mention depressing. Why would you make depressing plot with death ending in superhero movie?Third, as you can see the hero is dying, but from the beginning you already can see that his soul has already died. No more amazing wild beast. You only can see desperate dying hotheaded selfish stubborn animal there. The fights are bad too, lack of movement, technique, and anger. Fourth, the children was the only good thing that ever came up, especially Laura. But the relation between Laura and the children with Logan is very depressing too. No compassion between father and child. No good fighting collaboration too. Actually Laura would be better if she is older teenager. Sadistic preteen is not cool. Fifth, This is pathetic ending for wolverine. Why did they do that to professor too? Gave him depressed pathetic sadden story and ending like that? Should i mention again that this is superhero movie? I think they should have changed the title from "Logan" into "Dead of X-Men" or "Dead of Heroes" or "End of Logan" or maybe "Logout". Actually they should make sad drama movie or thriller horror movie. I assume this movie was made by depressed peoples.Sixth, the performance of the actors and actresses are fine. But the story is a failure, the plot is a failure, the fighting technique and performance also failed. I don't even have to discuss the detail to show the failure. Because its so bold, from the big scope u already can see that this movie is so lame.And last, my advice, don't waste your time to watch this movie. This movie is overrated. The good thing is that this movie is the end of story. I had watched a lot of sad depressing movies. But this is just not right.
Usually I don't write Reviews as I think that everybody should get his own impression and not be influenced by somebody else's. But given the huge promotion for this movie as well as the misleading rating and comments here on IMDb, I feel kind of urged to leave this comment in order to warn all the people out there not having seen this mess of a movie yet... Not being a big fan of the whole new Superhero Genre / Franchises, this movie even manages - among with the first "Wolverine" movie, which was quite much terrible - to be the worst in the whole "X-Men Universe" for me.What makes it so bad? The Movie does NOT really have a STORY - or at least not something worth to be called alike. For sure a plot is there. But what exactly is the story? It's about a child that has been given birth to using mutant DNA in order to make them strong soldiers - as they do have emotions and don't obey, they shall be executed and replaced. One girl (DNA- infiltrated with Wolverine genes) flees (helped by a doctor) and goes on fleeing together with Wolverine and Professor Charles Xavier. So in fact this is simply a PURSUIT MOVIE. No side-plots, nothing more to think about - nothing else of interest involved... Out of this tiny story, something huge emerges: BOREDOM. Never has there been such a boring Super Hero movie. Basically nothing happens for more or less 2 hours: Family Talking (which it is not: they are not a family in fact...) seems to be the only driving force for a long time... why it doesn't work:For those calling it the first adult Super Hero movie that is not only about action: GIMME A BREAK. if you know a little about Independent Filmmaking and about stories with depth, "Logan" is a joke. It is totally SUPERFICIAL, the dialogues are not real to life, the emotions are fake Hollywood - it stays what it is: A COMIC MOVIE... So given the ambition to be a deep movie - something meaningful - it is a total FAILURE. It is simply NOT. Period. Go watch e.g. "Perfect World (1993) instead... It's not that I'm a Blockbuster fan only looking for spectacle and action in a movie. But a movie should STAY TRUE TO ITSELF: If it wants to be meaningful and clever, a lot more would be needed than this. On the other hand, on a Super Hero and Action Scale, the movie is an absolute FAILURE as well, as for most of the movie duration there is not a lot happening on screen. There are 2 well-crafted action scenes, however: 1. When Professor Xavier manages to stop time with his mind while Wolverine manages with his last force to kill all the bad guys who want to steal the young mutant (on the other hand, this scene is basically a rip-off of "X-Men Apocalypse" and the scene involving super-fast Quick- silver; thus: nothing new indeed. we have seen it all before...) 2. The scene near the end when they hunt each other through the forest with Wolverine jumping on the enemies running in front of him is quite amazing. All the rest is rather cheap and / or unfunny; a cheap car-chase rip- off of "Mad Max IV" involved before they can escape behind the rolling train... + SPOILER: ... this extremely unsatisfying event, when Professor Xavier (the supposed to be wise guy) accepts the invitation (or rather forces Wolverine to accept) by this nice family who had problems with their truck... How stupid is this??? Obviously they are all killed in the end - but don't worry - no bad conscience involved...^^ Heck, they are on the run...! Xavier should be the rational, old, wise man, shouldn't he?! How bad writing is that? Too bad to be true... This movie is utterly ridiculous... :DAre the 2 mentioned well-crafted action sequences worth your money for the entry fee? Certainly NOT! 7 minutes of enjoyment for 2h 10 of boredom? That's a bad exchange... Thus my advice: Safe your money, stay at home...^^ ...or watch something really worth your money! :)


                
Let me start by saying that I'm keeping myself totally out of the Marvel vs. DC debate. I own every Marvel AND every DC movie ever made (yes, even the old Captain America movies!) and I watch them no matter if they're good or bad. I love superhero movies. And that might be just the thing with this movie - because it doesn't FEEl like a superhero movie. It feels like Mad Max, a huge chase interrupted for a few moments, and then the chase continues, lots of fighting and explosions and gratuitous violence (more than ever before in a Wolverine movie!) but very little character, very little plot and a super-depressing story line that ends up in tragedy. I don't understand the appeal of the new wave of films where heroes have to be portrayed as old and dying people. "Mr Holmes", "Star Wars VII", "Logan" and there's talk of a new Indiana Jones...why not let the heroes remain the heroes they are? They don't get better from being shown as old, bumbling men dying of cancer or Alzheimer's! "Logan" is all the things that some people have wanted from Marvel movies for a while now. Dark, gritty, violent, brutal. But at the same time, it's lost the fun. It's lost the thrill of the superhero. It's lost the heart. I have nothing bad to say about the main . Jackman does a good job playing Logan, and Patrick Stewart finally gets to say "f*ck" as Professor X. The guy playing the villain is so one dimensional, however, that you will lose sight of him when he turns his side. Donald Pierce in the comic was an industrialist and a member of the Hellfire Club. Here, he's a good with a mechanical hand. What a waste. The fight scenes look good. It's nice to see Jackman go full-out berserker rage Wolverine, and X-23 (even though she's a very bad actress) is good at the fighting stuff. All in all, this is quite literally the first time in years, I've walked out of a superhero movie with this conflicted emotions in my head. It's not horrible like Fan4Stic. It's not fun and wild like Doctor Strange. It's not a good story like Civil War. It's just...kind of a dark letdown.But I'll probably still get the Bluray. It will just end up next to Fan4Stic and Electra and Catwoman amongst the ones I just own because I want a complete collection.


                
This movie has nothing to do with X-men besides the names of 2 characters, Logan and the Professor, Charles. There is no humor and it is excessively violent. And it is just plain boring. Logan is aging and keeping the Professor safe. Then some how this woman whose escaped from Mexico with a mutant child that was made by the government finds him and wants him to take the girl , Laura. He doesn't want to but the girl hitches a ride when he visits the Professor and of course he says they must help her.Then the middle of the film is a road trip , where they are getting followed by the bad guys and at this family's farmhouse, they catch up to them and there is a clone of Logan. Just silly. The Professor meets his demise, but the girl has grown on Logan so he takes her to the Canada border where they meet other mutant children. Then of couse, there is a finally battle with the bad guys.FINAL VERDICT: Ruins other x-men films. It is too long and boring, skip it.
As others have mentioned. Very large plot holes. Really wanted to enjoy it but I didn't. Old prof X's acting was great. Typical moaning Brit. Surely the director and co, they need to show these things or screen them first before general release. Does the director think the audience has 2 brain cells? He prob doesn't care after the fat paycheck.


                
I found this movie to be disappointing, boring and confusing. If it's not a superhero movie then don't put superheroes in it. There is barely any action in the movie and the whole second act is dull. Logan takes place in the year 2029, with technology that is barely more advanced than our 2017, there's an evil corporation complete with henchmen and they want to weaponize mutating kids to create killers. What a surprise! For some unexplained reason Canada is a magical land with a magical border that is able to repel bad guys and evil corporations. Maybe they have mutated Mounties guarding them<U+0085> In almost every X-Man movie the technology is always super advanced, with invisible planes, flying robots and holographic simulators, but all that technology seems to have vanished along with all the mutants. After having lived for over a century we finally see Logan is not only is ageing, but also dying. The movie never really explains why he no longer is able to regenerate except for a hint that the adamantium is somehow poisoning him. We also never get a reasonable explanation of what happened in "Westchester" other than that Xavier may have killed everyone with one of his seizures and who now has a mental illness. Wasn't there any signs of Xavier's illness? People with mental illnesses don't just snap from one moment to the next. Couldn't they have given him an injection of some sort like they did in another movie? This movie glossed over twenty years of back stories that wants to make me want to shake my head. Maybe they'll time travel their problems away in a reboot where things aren't so confusing. The plot holes are abundant and so I rate this movie with a capital B for Boring.
As I am reading rest of these "reviews" I have to ask myself, are you people paid off, or what? Because we did not watch the same movie.This movie has nothing you love about Logan. I mean sure, brutality of this film works well for Wolverine, but... that's just R rated ship that is starting to sail.Logan isn't anymore a "man" with sharp comeback that strikes to the bone. You have made, one of the best "broken" superheroes into a clingy, alcoholic (guess I'm OK with that), cowardly man. Now that is what they did to Logan, and to some degree I'm cool with that... I don't love it, but I'm cool.But the plot, my advice to you is to grab onto your chair because you just might fall trough these plot holes. It makes no sense, at all.***Contain Spoilers***Couple of questions that won't leave my head...What has happened to all mutants? Seriously, you get some explanation but it's so stupid you will just ignore it.They are breading mutant soldiers and end up chasing them with nothing but a robotic arm?! And in short sleeves? You could arm them with flip-flops as well.What is that green stuff in a bottle? It just shows up, nothing.What kind of "secured" facility is that in which a nurse can shoot with her cell phone??!?After all this time Logan gets Adamantium poisoning? I had no idea that could even happen. I guess that is a twist?!Why do those kids run away, and not fight at all?When they finally catch them they use some super hand-cuffs that to nothing to their powers? Like normal cuffs but bigger and stronger?!This list goes on, but my anger is leaving me.Anyhow, I think you have sucked out all the fun out of this superhero movie. And do not forget this is a superhero movie!!! I must ask you all when will the time of these hard, slow superhero movies end? If I want something difficult I will watch a proper drama or thriller or something... not a superhero movie. Make them hard to watch sure, but lighten the f*** up a bit. It's supposed to be fun not Schindler's list like.My rating for this move is 3/10.
Incredibly bleak and depressing.I feel for the poor souls who actually had to sit through this painful experience in a movie theater.It felt like they really wanted the the viewers to sympathize with Logan by making us share his agonizing and doomed existence. well it worked. 20 minutes into this thing and i wanted to off myself. Xavier is dying, Logan is dying. everyone around them is dying. all the mutants have vanished (I still don't know why or how) so they're all alone. Now normally if a movie is so depressing you'd expect some serious drama to back it up. well, the first problem is, the film goes out of its way to remind you that 'this can not end well', so there's no hope, and there's no suspense - since we know the main characters are already doomed. yes there are those mutant kids we can root for, but we hardly get to know them, and the little girl is so feral that i didn't care for her either. the 'eleven' girl from 'Stranger Things' (Millie Bobby Brown) plays the same role only x10 times better. The other issue i had with the movie is the lack of 'journey' (character development/progression). the characters just suffer until they die. at the beginning of the film Logan is an angry, withered terminal patient, and Xavier is a dying shell of a man. both characters stay mostly true to that description for the remainder of the film. Hugh Jackson goes out of his way to show us he doesn't give a damn. so much so that it was very difficult for me to believe that he's actually willing to fight for the sake of Laura or the other kids. why doesn't he just kill himself already?Last but not least, the action scenes: those were incredibly repetitive. Logan and Laura slice and dice through a never ending supply of henchmen. an incredibly mind numbing experience. I'm not huge superhero fan. but i got to watch all of the X-men movies and found them to be quite entertaining if nothing else. 'Logan' has nothing to do with any of those. it's a stand-alone requiem for fun.
Good stand alone movie, but cliché as a stand alone movie. Nothing new here as a stand alone movie. I don't believe the writer/director are in touch with the audience for this kind of movie. Superhero movies are about the characters and the characters don't die, they always come back. Good overcomes evil and that is the basis for superhero movies. This is not a superhero movie but an over dramatized look at the burdens of a superhero. So let's get real, people that like these movies want to see a hero exploit his superpowers for good. The don't want to see a superhero whine over and over about how bad it is to be superstrong. Just watch the first Hulk movie and how bad the review were. So much drama. So in this movie, the director throws in a lot of blood and violence I guess because he believes the audience is going to like it. Not really. Deadpool was fun to watch because of the comedy Ryan Reynolds brings to the scene. This movie was depressing from every angle. Just not a good superhero movie. Sad to see the two lead characters retire their roles in a poof of dust rather than go out blazing. Watch as a rental or on Netflix, but don't waste too much time. DC and Marvel universe have outpaced the wolverine saga, with story lines that are fantastic. This is a waste of time in comparison. Hugh Jackman was a great X-Men, but sadly he has failed in the last two solo movies to deliver the kind of epic superhero movie that could have rocked.
As if Marvel felt a dire need to drop their legacy of family friendly superhero movies and jump on the current bandwagon of 'realistic' and gritty movies void of any kind of morality, they went completely overboard with 'Logan', snuffing out even the tiniest ray of hope that might be gleaming on the horizon in this utterly depressing movie which not even the solid acting can save.Without receiving any redeeming background information, we're thrown into some bleak near-future setting where the mutants are now almost extinct and mankind is hunting the last remaining non-government controlled mutants. Logan, for reasons unexplained now a limo driver, is possibly even more dejected and grumpy than ever, and he's lost all sense of hope and purpose. Obviously, something has happened to cause this situation, but this is never adequately explained to the viewer. We are to accept that all he cares about now is collecting money so he can get to some sort of safe haven which is vaguely hinted at but never elaborated upon. But he hasn't just lost all hope and purpose; no, he has wilfully abandoned it and spits in its face, and the viewer is made thoroughly aware of this throughout the film via his unrelentingly callous and self-centered attitude. He's apparently sick and dying,though it was hard to make out exactly why, due to the inarticulate dialogue and the film's annoying habit of not sharing any insight into any of the events that led to the depressing state of affairs the viewer finds their once-heroes in. He's also become an alcoholic,adding to the depressing tone.Superheroes have lost; big pharma and global corporations are in full control. The movie is littered with F-bombs and gruesome gore, which feel totally out of place in a Marvel setting. Ultimate good guy Charles Xavier has become a weak and senile old bed-wetter, who's constantly in need of getting medication lest he destroy the world with his now degrading mind.In such a dreary setting, with Logan extremely reluctantly taking on the job of bringing a little mutant girl, who escaped from a government facility out to create mutant soldiers for their dark purposes, to some sort of safe haven, the washed up superheroes receive a constant battering through chase after chase by anonymous corporate monkeys, who are out to get the mutant girl, with only Narcos' Boyd Holbrook breaking from anonymity with a charismatic performance, even though there is no information on his character at all. He's leading the chase, and that will just have to suffice for the viewer.The corporate monkeys catch up with our ailing heroes at their ramshackle desert hideout, and there we discover that the girl is actually a little Logan with claws on both hands and feet, as she kills, maims and gores scores of corporate military monkeys in full glory for the viewer. No eye, skull, neck, chest or artery is safe from the little girl's fury and all that is lacking from the scene is blood dripping from the camera. They finally manage to escape by means of a clichéd freight train getting inbetween, but have to leave behind the wimpy Caliban, a mutant who has the ability to track other mutants. Even though Logan reads from the medical file that he is somehow the father of the girl, which, fully in line with the movie, remains unexplored, he still treats her like an unwanted appendage, and in fact wants to leave her behind for being too much trouble, but Xavier, who goes in and out of consciousness due to the medication, somehow manages to get Logan to take the girl to her desired destination, a safe haven which Logan discovers is derived from a Marvel comic and therefore non-existent. When along the way Logan, Xavier and the girl and a random family are both forced off the road by container trucks speeding autonomously on the highway, Logan and Xavier help the family and get invited to their home. With Logan and Xavier still being chased, the family where they are staying gets brutally slaughtered by a soulless,corporate Logan clone, whose existence was briefly hinted at earlier. The scene would not have been out of place in a Freddy Krueger or Halloween movie.In a completely offhanded fashion, the Logan clone lethally wounds the bedridden and delirious Xavier, who dies from the wound later on and is buried by Logan in a similarly offhanded fashion. The character who is the backbone of the X-men just fizzles out, and it totally fits the tone of the movie. While we know the corporation is out to eliminate the group of escaped mutant children, when these heavily armed corporate monkeys finally find and surround the children, they inexplicably opt to hold them prisoner. This obviously goes wrong, but not enough for Logan's clone to do battle with and impale Logan on the thick branch of a dead tree. As "Death Wish" Logan finally gets what he wants and lays dying in the final minutes of the movie, he at long last drops his grumpy self-centered attitude which the viewer had to suffer for so long.Like Xavier, he too gets buried unceremoniously in some backwoods area, and as little girl Logan takes out the cross of Logan's grave and places it sideways to create the X of the X-men, the viewer is, despite the morally grey overtone and despondency and uselessness of our heroes, thus nevertheless reminded that God is still very much dead and the superheroes and accompanying philosophy are still His replacement. I'm not sold on a Marvel universe turning ever more gritty and gory and full of f-bombs. The tone of this movie conflicts heavily with the established Marvel Cinematic Universe. Perhaps we can expect a Marvel movie that erases this future, or perhaps the writers expect the viewer to take Big Pharma anti-depressant medication and forget all about it.
