Great Writing: 2 Stars
A gripping and emotional story limited by some frustrating lapses in motive by its lead.Great Production: 2 Stars
A well rounded production. Some poor special effect choices and lack of scope for its cinematography hold back its true potential.


                
The best X-Men film alongside First Class. It felt gritty, it felt real with a sense of dread and hopelessness you don't often see in this comic-book blockbuster adaptations. It should be praised for doing things differently and really pushing the edge with what can or can't be done in the genre. The triangle between Logan, Charles and Laura works as the driving force of the plot, and is very well developed. Logan's character arch is quite pleasant to watch, though obviously predictable. With that said, the acting is clearly masterclass. You can feel the dilemmas, the emotions and feelings that the characters are put through, specially those three. And another thing it does really well is alluding to a previous event - the Charles incident - but never fully explaining it to the audience, leaving you wondering. The action is nothing like you'd expect from a tenthpole - the R rating really makes up for wonders - being quite visceral and impactful. "Logan" probably deserved a better villain, although one could argue that the real villain here is not the typical multinational corporation, but the inner demons of the characters. Demons that prevent them from living albeit normal and somewhat stable life.


                
When I think about superhero movies in general, I just feel sad about how stupid and bold they are. There are lots of incidents, threats and thrills, but in the end, you know what's going to happen. That especially goes for all of the X-Men movies, I just feel pain because of their obvious stupidity.
That's when Logan comes into the place. There is no life ending threat to humanity, there are just Logan and those he loves. I liked how the villain can't be called a proper villain, who is just a younger version of Logan himself. The characters are not hilariously powerful, Logan is old and irritated and his actions are lot less destructive than before. And his greatest villain is himself.
No superhero movie felt so personal, so intimate to me before. The ending is not the end of the world, but Logan dying with his own heart in his hands.
You can't even call it a superhero movie, it is a whole another level.


                
With a bit more depth and dramatic flair then its predecessors, this is perhaps one of the best three or four superhero movies ever made, however it really could've explored those depths a bit further and flushed them out. While, I appreciate the effort, those giving this movie a ten , seem a bit enthusiastic about the overall scope of this film. At the same time, I will find it hard to believe, anyone , could in reality bring The Wolverine more to life then Hugh Jackman did, some actors, seem born to play certain roles. Overall? Worth the Watch!


                
Logan is a film that gives an end to a wonderful character like Wolverin. All characters must have an end to be completed. Congratulation to the producers that knows when it the right time to end a francise.Very good action-drama movie with the girl be a nice surprise.


                
Marvel's 'X-Men' universe has come a long way since its debut on the silver screen back in 2000. 17 years later, audiences get to experience 'Logan,' the final chapter in the franchise as we know it.In 'Logan,' we have a much darker, grittier story in which Logan/Wolverine (Hugh Jackman) is faced with helping a young mutant (Dafne Keen) escape the anti-mutant strongholds of Mexico and the USA to Canada. In this sense, the film should not be considered a traditional superhero story, but instead a violent drama. There is much more of an emphasis on character development and dialogue as opposed to special effects and cheesy one-liners, as we see how the physical and emotional wear-and-tear that Logan has experienced over the years has finally taken its toll on him.In addition to Jackman and Keen, we get to see strong performances from Patrick Stewart reprising his role as the venerable Professor Charles Xavier and Boyd Holbrook as the bounty hunter Pierce. This core cast is enough of a foundation on which to build the rest of the film, and is a better way to create a more meaningful film compared with stretching screen time too thin in previous 'X-Men' offerings.There are also a few themes that are explored through 'Logan,' including perseverance, sacrifice and faith, which elevates the impact that the film has on audiences. Through all of these, it's really the metamorphosis that Logan undergoes as an individual based on the challenges he confronts that really puts an accent mark on the film.While it's bittersweet to see this franchise likely end, 'Logan' is a worthy, respectable finale that does enough to satisfy fans.


                
I was pleasantly Surprised on this movie. What held it for me is that you didn't need all the other marvel comic characters in the film. Story Arc was well produced and adapted to the big screen. As another reviewer mentioned I also wished there would have been more fight sequences between Logan and X-23. I thoroughly enjoyed this film.


                
A darker and more personal take on the X-Men universe, with a strong setting and dystopian atmosphere showing how times have changed. The action scenes are fast paced, bloody and brutal, but the story isn't that great and the supporting cast vary in quality. A moving and fitting ending with great leads who show real human emotion and struggle in strife.


                
With strong support from Patrick Stewart and Dafne Keen, Hugh Jackman successfully pulls off a sensitive portrayal of a declining hero and his somewhat self-imposed alienation, decorated with the usual Marvel studios CGI action sequences. While the CGI sequences were as protracted as they usually are in contemporary pop culture movies, they did not detract from the film's strong emotional content and were more integrated into every level of the story than they are in most comic book adaptations. The Wolverine, Logan, (Jackman) may reach an heretofore unrealized peace with himself and his world through his newfound relationship with a young girl who may be his daughter Laura (Keen). However, Laura is being hunted by the same evil that has hunted Logan throughout most of his life, and his Logan's other real connection to humanity, Charles Xavier (Stewart), needs more help than he can give. The most dangerous mind in the world (Xavier) teamed up with one of the most dangerous men in the world (Logan) might seem like an undefeatable juggernaut, but for many reasons, neither of these superhero legends are what they used to be. As the story unfolds, Logan's powerful defense mechanisms are challenged in ways that have, in previous adventures, been his undoing; aspects of Laura's personality and history leave the value of the central adventure wide-open to question; and Xavier's loss of the ability to control his incredible mental powers threaten to expose everything. It really is not clear what will happen in this film until it actually does. Thoroughly entertaining, well-acted, well-paced and surprisingly touching, Logan is one of the best films I have seen from this genre.


                
Like Clint Eastwood's William Munny in Unforgiven-a trained killer nursing decades of regret and sorrow, with enough juice for one last mission. The dirty little secret few critics dare mention is that James Mangold's last film, The Wolverine, was just as good as Logan, if not better. Mangold proudly wears his influences on his sleeve; a pivotal scene sees Xavier and Laura watching a clip from George Stevens's seminal 1953 film Shane, about another grim gunfighter with a mysterious past. Logan prefers hand-to-hand combat, of course, but aside from that he's quite similar to Alan Ladd's character in that film, a trained killer who fought for the good guys but didn't consider himself one of them.Mangold is an excellent director with a solid, unheralded resume (including the Johnny Cash biopic Walk the Line and the Sylvester Stallone neo-noir Cop Land). But Jackman and Stewart are, quite simply, why Logan works-they're why the film doesn't just feel like a cheap exercise in bloody violence, and why its subversion of typical superhero-movie tropes feels organic (unlike with the X-Men spinoff Deadpool). The actors bring warmth and grouchy humor to the story, barking at each other like the married couple they've become, as they go on a road trip north with their young ward in tow.The story itself is a little all over the place-Logan and company ping-pong from location to location across the country, as the villainous Donald Pierce (Boyd Holbrook), a metal-armed bounty hunter, chases them in search of Laura. A long digression at the house of a friendly family of civilians feels a little forced; the film's bloody climax, involving a sniveling scientist (played to the hilt by Richard E. Grant) and another mysterious enemy, slightly overstays its welcome. No matter-anytime things get too out of hand, Jackman and Stewart are there to tether them back to earth, and at no point does a cosmic portal appear in the sky, or a giant purple supervillain start a monologue about magical gems."Logan" is Jackman's latest, and possibly last, portrayal of Wolverine, the Marvel superhero he has played since 2000. If this is his final run at the role (comic-book characters do have a way of making surprise comebacks, so I'm wary), it's a peculiar milestone worth noting-he's our first superhero actor to officially age out of a role, a testament to the extreme longevity of some of these franchises. Will we get another Logan one day? Quite likely, no matter how foolish a proposition that might be; this is a world with a new Han Solo and a new John McClane, after all. All the more reason to salute Jackman as he rides out into the sunset; that's Logan's chief task, and it succeeds splendidly.


                
Note: I am not a professional film critic. I just want to give my opinions.Super controversial: I don't think this film is a masterpiece. Is it good? Yeah. Best super hero movie ever? No. I don't even think it is the best X-Men film (although it is the best in the Wolverine trilogy). Now first off, the acting is amazing. Veterans Hugh Jackman and Patrick Stewart are fantastic, as is newcomer Dafne Keen. But I find my biggest problem with this film is the weird anti-technology stance it has. Now hear me out, I could be reading way to deep into it. But all the bad guys are technologically advanced with robot arms and a bunch of computer monitors and all that, while the good guys live in tree houses and work on farms and all that. The farm family that we meet in the film is trying to be pretty much killed by a big bad corporation and replace it with a giant factory...thing. And this wouldn't be a problem (ok, that isn't true, that thing tends to annoy me) if this wasn't a X-Men movie. X-Men is all about evolution and how it is a good thing. Change doesn't mean evil. So the underlying themes in this movie really go against that. Also, I think the film tends to drag sometimes. But even I can admit that the movie had me incredibly close to crying (my eyes watered, but no tears came out). So clearly it did something right. And I like how the film is basically like, "Yeah we are sick of superhero movies too". That is pretty cool. Overall, it is a competent and well made movie (one I wouldn't even mind seeing again), just not a masterpiece.Favorite Scene: The ending.B-


                
Logan is a proper continuation of the X-men Franchise .. The most admirable thing is the Acting ,, Hugh Jackman's performance is OUTSTANDING as well as Dafne Keen ( Laura ) .. The story is good and the music is really niceThough , The movie needed some more explanations for some vague incidents like the Westchester's , how or why he became so vulnerable and what happened to Dr.Xavier ( disease or just aging ) .. You can make guesses or just bypass that and go on i know but I think it would be better if they mentioned some details of those things Another thing , I'd have liked to watch the kids fighting more than running at the end of the movie especially as it was stated that they were trained to be killers in special facility where they hadn't left ever ,, I know they're kids but C'mon they do have amazing superpowers , don't they ?! :DOverall , The movie is entertaining and enjoyable really that you can't feel the time but not reaching the level of my high expectations I made when I heard it's the best part of the series Very good but not a masterpiece
This gore-permeated, pathos-riddled final chapter of Hugh Jackman's Wolverine trilogy startles its audience with not one, but two curtain calls of iconic characters in the X-Men franchise, and director James Mangold (whose previous Wolverine vehicle is a styled but ultimately self-defeating oddity) ensures that his R-rated version will do something very different from other CGI-heavy products of Marvel cinema, where emotion vacuum has been repeatedly desensitized in favor of visual bombardment. The scale is relatively small (no metropolitan city is threatened by impending danger), set in 2029 where mutants have been almost extinct (the reasons beyond that are both a woe of Professor X and a progressive measure from dietary intake), a world-weary Logan (Jackman), now moonlights as a limo chauffeur, traveling to-and-fro between USA and Mexico, to take care of a delirious Professor X, aka. Charles Xavier (Stewart), a mumbling nonagenarian and episodically inflicted by seizure and is unable to keep a tight rein on his psionic superpower, can only be tamed by medication, meanwhile the albino mutant Caliban (Merchant, a bug-eyed phantom actually has a golden heart) is Logan's sole help. All Logan wants is to save enough money and buy a boat so that they can live in the sea while the rest of the world stays out of harm's way, because the blast induced from Charles' seizure has already caused disastrous collateral damage to those in the vicinity, but the advent of a Mexican nurse Gabriela (Rodriguez) and her so-called teenager daughter Laura (a commendable debutante Keen) will eventually sabotage his plan. It turns out, Laura is very much like Logan, she is a man- made mutant using Logan's own DNA by Doctor Rice (E. Grant), who takes a vocation to capitalize on mutation to manufacture killing machines, Laura is one of his experiments, but now, along with other mutant children, they are failed guinea pigs needs to be disposed of, since Rice has something much more advanced created. So, reluctantly, Logan embarks on his final adventure to escort Laura (along with Charles) to the meeting place, then with other escapees, to cross the border into Canada, where Eden, a mutant paradise purportedly exists (the metaphor of breaking away from USA today is right on the nose), at the meantime, they are hunted by the Reavers, led by Donald Pierce (Holbrook, manage to pull off a clichéd role with verve and bemusing ambiguity), a huge fan of Wolverine's legend but also ruthlessly committed to his mission, but he is not the biggest problem for the fleeing trio. Incredibly, Mangold thrusts a brilliant human touch into the story arc, not the least is the moving Western nostalgia eliciting from George Steven's SHANE (1953) and that soul-stirring denouement when Logan is again, regretfully, embroils an innocent family into his war; yet keeps the action sequences snappy, utilitarian but uncompromisingly lethal, that introduction set piece of Laura's destructive nature and combatting prowess is such a godsend. Hugh Jackman will be forever beloved for this role, which he has been playing for 17 years, and here he is even more manifestly touching in ramming home Logan's cursed kismet with unrelenting taedium vitae, which is countervailed by Keen's perfect embodiment of innocence and dispassionateness, slowly eroded when a father-daughter bond starts to burgeon, effectively reaches its crescendo in the coda where a sort of patricide passes on the baton to the offspring. Patrick Stewart, meantime, is equally poignant appearing for the last time as the aging Professor X, his valediction is every bit as potent as Logan's. Also worth mentioning that there is also a noir-version of the film, which is entirely in Black-and- White and makes great play of the story's tragic/heroic tone, when all is said and done, LOGAN is another triumph of comic material's R-rated transmutation (after DEADPOOL of course) on the big screen, but in its core, it is an ardently past-honoring action-er doesn't shirk from the grim fate but also sows its seeds of hope with great dexterity, to a point that we won't even begrudge to bid farewell to our favorite screen heroes, distinguished by their superpower but permanently scourged by its distasteful corollaries.


                
Weapon X, one of the most beloved characters that Marvel has brought to cinema screens, has departed, but he has made it in style, with scarlet blood dripping down his defective adamantium claws and leaving a feasible regeneration based on young mutants in the bequest. After insistent and suggestive promises of director James Mangold, which were disclosed while he filmed the notorious movie, "Logan" has finally landed in worldwide cinemas and we have had the opportunity to refute or asseverate whether or not the words of the scholar Marvel-fan were right. In general terms, the utopian western that Mangold has raised is the definitive entry point to out-of-the- ordinary facets in the genre, for the true meaning of adapting works with abidance. This installment will cause us to apply Plato's Allegory of the Cave to UCM in all its splendor, dusting off the glorious, intelligent, capable and above all human superhero movies.Jackman shows us his alter ego drastically unrecognizable: ill, faint and about to collapse. Australian actor gives everything in order to offer a proper last goodbye his professional epithet, he provides it tangible malady and visible fatigue along capacities, his sad gaze captures hopelessness; this man's actions will annoy to ethical heroes world and yes, what Mangold declared has a voracious source: "It's not a superhero movie, it's a film about humans with powers". Hugh offers a properly successor, she is Dafne Keen, newcomer actress who plays Laura, an overfilled with anger and vigor girl, with the potential required to carry upon her shoulder weapon X responsibilities. The dialogs for young actress are quasi-non-existent till the third act of the film, supplementing that phonetic absence by formidable physical skills within magnetic and violent action scenes; she's the precise.Wolverine's last adventure as an irrevocable spaghetti western is unthinkable, a feature-film with a dirty and stylized artistic expression and seemingly devoid of moral characters, rough and badass guys. Here, the action sequences are justified, calculated and incredibly ferocious. Officially, this is the movie adapting Wolvie's pages in form and essence, it doesn't display super bright battles or with light sparks instead of blood, violence has a reason and aftermaths; and although the application is concise, they stir more than Avengers' pompous fights. The signs of summer movie are almost microscopic; the pictures are dry, pessimistic, melancholic and without a doubt, selected components can be compared with "Midnight Special" by Jeff Nichols. All this lack of hope is embellished with a sudden parsimonious pace, aggressive when it has to be, but intelligent in emotions posed. Marco Beltrami's music squeezes every means at its disposal, however, paradoxically, calm and sad melodies excel, they capture the atmosphere of the film.And emotional field matters. Sentimentality is suitable in each character, sensations are plausible and touch even the most disheartened person. It differs from sporadic determinations, incomprehensible twists, every act is motivated by a thought supported by feelings. As it's becoming a road/buddy movie, interpersonal relationships are improving and wins a brilliantly tremendous connection. Each of these mutant beings has a well-crafted conclusion, both expected and completely unpredictable endings. In fact, there's something sad about the movie: this one feels like by far the best Wolvie's story, making us reflect how other adventures would have been without MPAA restrictions. Must "Logan" thank "Deadpool"? It's all in how you look at it, since even though Wade Wilson's feature film has explicit contents, everything tends to the wit, while nuance is different here, and exactly that's what disquieted 20th Century Fox, the change has an abrupt alteration in pace with respect to the preceding film, however, they can breathe easier now, money continues coming in.Unfortunately, "Logan" must not be perfect thanks to the long- standing quandary which Marvel hasn't been able to keep down: antagonists. Year after year, movie after movie, despicable villains have to be as fundamental as setting or leading roles, they are a key piece in the puzzle, nonetheless, "Logan" re-inserted its reluctant hands in the painful ulcer. Perhaps, the screenwriters and director wanted the star trio was the absolute center of attention, embedding in the bad-guy role to Pierce (Boyd Holbrook), who doesn't appear the time requested on the screen, a few Mexican police officers and one or two human demons. Another point which many people have reviled is its "extensive" length, when a film with fascinating components is long? "Logan" says goodbye categorically to Bryan Singer's and Mangold's adaptations and takes delighted Christopher Nolan's "The Dark Knight" trilogy aura thanks to its realistic and pessimistic way, a desolate horizon where the hero isn't super, is a hero facing human issues. The second R-rated Marvel film cements ambitions in the tone, script and performances, portraying fully both the fictional world of the pages as the mortal world, our world which can transmute in the twinkling of an eye, there's a dry and overwhelming realism to our uncertain evolution. A violent, clever and eloquent motion picture; Jackman's final performance gives an unprecedented Wolverine impression so far and offers an open-minded look at the superhero universe, also serves as confirmation that Marvel can get to be as melodramatic and dark as DC films without losing the skills, without losing the touch. A round of applause for Hugh Jackman, who says "never again" to Wolvie's suit, however, economic Hollywood can get it. Thank you for everything and good way. X


                
Hugh Jackman and Patrick Stewart return to their roles as Wolverine and Professor X, respectively, in this film that is almost certainly Jackman's last run as Wolverine and might just be Stewart's last as Professor X as well. And as far as swan songs go, they could not have asked for a better film.It's 2029 and mutants have become an endangered species. No new mutants have been born in years and only a few of the old guard are left. One of the few "lucky" survivors is Logan, who is radically removed from his glory days, being reduced to a suffering husk of his former self. And he has gotten off lightly compared to Charles Xavier, trust me. But then a new mutant enters their lives. A young girl with a power set almost identical to that of Wolverine's.James Mangold is once again directing and he continues to show that he really gets the character. The Wolverine focused on Logan's past and the human behind the adamantium skeleton and the nigh immortality. Logan focuses on the mortality of the character. On the fact that all beings, even one such as Wolverine, must grow old. Must one day, no matter how far into the future, die.In that light I'm almost hesitant to call this movie a superhero film. Because it's such a reconstruction of the genre that it's almost a new thing in and on itself. It borrows heavily from westerns and the rougher side of Americana, while also being a bittersweet love letter to all the previous X-Men films and to all superhero films in general. While also being a brilliant film in its own right.Here's to you Hugh Jackman. Here's to you Patrick Stewart. And here's to you James Mangold. This will not be the last superhero film. But it almost should be.


                
Ever since the first trailer with Johnny Cash's 'Hurt' in the background was released, Logan looked special. From the locale, cinematography, and Hugh Jackman's performance, Logan is a radical departure from what we have seen in previous X-Men films. Part of what I enjoyed about Logan was its smaller scope and more personable nature in relation to its narrative and characters. This is not a film about the action or the 'end of the world' narrative that we are so used to seeing in the genre. When we are first introduced to Logan, he is an alcoholic and devoid of any hope. His healing factor isn't working as well as it once was and the scars from his battles do not fade away like they once used to. Whilst working as a chauffeur during the night, he looks after a now helpless, Professor X in his desolate home. Xavier battles with Alzheimer's disease but also his own powers, which have unwillingly turned him into the most powerful weapon to exist. There is a rather interesting backstory regarding Xavier in the film. The characters are a far cry from previous portrayals. For instance, they are more vulgar as the film is Rated R. It was slightly odd to hear Xavier swear, but the swearing is not for the sake of giving the film its rating, but moreover to relate to its darker, gloomy tone. The introduction of Laura, played by newcomer Dafne Keen, becomes a catalyst in the narrative going forward. From the trailers, it was made clear that she is in fact X-23, a mutant who shares the same genes as Wolverine. Their relationship is beautifully conceived and leads to some great character development. Laura is brutal and feral, yet at the same time rather cute. That's quite a lethal combination! As a character, Laura is hard not to like, through her childish innocence, but also her dark history, which is one aspect of the film that helps give reason to the Rated-R. Another aspect of the film I really enjoyed was its cinematography. Being set in New Mexico gave the film a warm, orange tint in the desert scenes that helped the film to look gorgeous. Aesthetically it helps to make Logan feel like an indie film. The camera work was thoughtful, particularly during the slower scenes, less so in the action. To elaborate, the camera work and slow paced nature of the film allowed me to connect with the characters. The action scenes worked in the sense that they really demonstrated the strength and brutality of the characters. Director James Mangold doesn't hold back and I loved it.Marco Beltrami's score is not overly emphatic but it helps connote the right emotion given the scenes. It too is a departure from the often dramatic scores of many superhero films and is instead more humble and soft. Part of why this film works is because we have seen Wolverine and Xavier's evolution as characters over the past 17 years and as such have an attachment to them. Their acts in this film will shock and surprise you. Hugh Jackman's self-professed final performance as the character is his best yet. He takes the character in directions we have yet to see him, as a father figure for example. Logan is truly a beautiful send off to a character who become a pivotal part of the franchise and its previous success.


                
Well personally, If you are an action fan who wants more action than anything else than this movie may not be for you. This is more about what happens when someone who has prevailed throughout his long youth gets old & lost his touch. The movie pictured those feelings in the best way possible.There is action also but just enough to keep giving it a spark from time to time.All in All, a great movie.....


                
It could had been better with the story line,but they did a pretty okay job with the daughter father relationship!!!Also how she saves her dad from everyone just doesn't make any sense for the fact that the father (wolverine)should always be the alpha and not lay on his back while his daughter fight's the battles for him!


                
Logan (2017): Superpowers are one thing, but no-one said they were immortal. What happens when superheroes get old? Actually, what happens when, like many non-superheroes, they arrive at late middle-age without a partner, in ill health, and with an ageing parent to look after? I have hear rave reviews about Logan and many of them claimed that it is the most emotional superhero movie of all time.Except for Hugh Jackman's terrific portrayal,I never cared about Wolverine but Logan proved me wrong.Even not being a fan,Logan made me teary-eyed at the end ans Yes.. Logan is one of the most emotional superhero movie of all time.Plot: In 2029 the mutant population has shrunken significantly and the X-Men have disbanded. Logan (Hugh Jackman), whose power to self-heal is dwindling, has surrendered himself to alcohol and now earns a living as a chauffeur. He takes care of the ailing old Professor X (Patrick Stewart) whom he keeps hidden away. One day, a female stranger asks Logan to drive a girl named Laura (Dafne Keen) to the Canadian border. At first he refuses, but the Professor has been waiting for a long time for her to appear. Laura possesses an extraordinary fighting prowess and is in many ways like Wolverine. She is pursued by sinister figures working for a powerful corporation; this is because her DNA contains the secret that connects her to Logan.My Review: Logan is more like a survivalist thriller than a superhero film.Who would even dare tho think to make superheroes to fight for their survival?Logan did.Logan is an emphatically cheerless film about the cost of life, and the burden of being a superhero in a world that doesn't deserve them.Part of the reason why Logan manages to be so emotionally effective is because it arrives late in the process for Jackman. The actor has been wearing the claws and percing the flseh out of everyone for 17 years, and he lets those miles show in every haggard look on display in Logan. Jackman full comprehends exactly what Wolverine needs to convey in each Logan scene -- whether its concern or compassion, remorse or berserker rage -- because he has occupied this character's skin for so long. It's second nature, and the decisions he makes along every painstaking step of Logan help ensure the movie's masterful success.The second reason is the chemistry between Logan,Professor X and new entry, Laura.Our tired Logan taking care of ill-Xavier and the relation between them is heartwarming and funny at times too. Laura,who is almost mute for almost 3/4th of the film except for the screaming whenever she fights.All 3 of them has good chemistry between them which made us cry at the sad parts.Logan doesn't follow the superhero blueprint, though that's a check in its favor. There are villains, yes, but the real antagonist staring down Wolverine is time, and fate. Cities aren't blown up and no visual destruction is shown in this movie.It has everything common which is uncommon for superhero film.I was deeply moved by Jackman's soulful, intense and, yes, Oscar-worthy performance, which draws from every appearance as the Wolverine.Jackman wears pain, persecution and baggage in his eyes, and in his sighs. We see him wanting to stamp out hope but unable to go through with it, the actor carving up his character with both weariness and restlessness at once. It is a strong, resonant performance, an appropriately powerful.By his side is the great Patrick Stewart, who gives the most emotionally affecting performance of the entire X-Men franchise as a decrepit, mentally weakened Professor Charles Xavier.Dafne Keen is an absolute showstopper of a child who has all of Logan's powers and more, and none of the restraint its taken him lifetimes to accumulate. and the way this young child relishes the violence -- slicing villains to shreds with wildcat rage and ice-cream-truck glee -- may be this film's most disturbing image.So,Logan is really the most haunting superhero film since The Dark Knight.My rating 8.25/10


                
Logan is a 2017 film based on the Wolverine character from Marvel's X-Men comic book series. Hugh Jackman portrays Logan, an aging and ill version of the character that we all know and love. Professor X is also in the film, once again played by Patrick Stewart, and is displayed as an old, senile shell of his former self, suffering from Alzheimer's disease and/or ALS.The story follows Logan as he tries to gather enough money to essentially retire on a sailboat. Wolverine and Charles Xavier cross paths with a young girl who has been artificially created using Logan's genes. The girl is being pursued as a runaway patent by a corporation, and Xavier insists that they help her. Pushed into helping the child on her adventure, the reluctant Wolverine finds himself once again attempting to fill the role of hero.Moving, exciting, and heart-wrenching at times, Logan is an excellent film. Each actor gives an amazing performance and the story is very well crafted.If there are absolutely any complaints to be made about the film, it would have to be the dialogue in the first several minutes of the film. Sounding as if written by Tarantino, the word f--- appears in every other sentence. Adult language is absolutely fine in a movie, but sometimes it sounds as if it was added later. As if any f---ing person f---ing talks like this. You f--- ing know what the f--- I mean? Also, while an excellent device used to move and elaborate the story, the professionally edited and narrated cell phone video from the nurse is so unrealistic that it pulled me out of the movie for a moment. These are very minor criticisms and do not take away from the movie as a whole.Overall, this film is a must-watch for anyone and will leave all viewers moved, whether they are comic book fans or not.


                
In purely literal terms, Logan is a comic book movie. However, it's a significant departure from the standard comic book movie formula. It does not have a super-powerful threat intent on destroying the city/world/universe. It does not have a gigantic CGI battle sequence. It does not have a contrived romance subplot. It doesn't even depend on the audience having seen some number of previous films to understand the plot or character motivations. And it certainly wasn't made for the standard PG-13 audience. Instead, Logan plays out in way that could perhaps best be described as an extremely intense, violent, and emotional family road trip. And as strange as that may sound, it works almost perfectly.The tone of the film is one of weariness and struggle; from very early on it is made clear that Logan and Professor Xavier are in hiding. The look of the characters and world itself both reflect this tone perfectly; Logan and Xavier both look like they've seen better days. Not long after the film begins, Logan becomes the begrudging guardian to a seemingly mute young girl, Laura, who is being hunted by dangerous people. What follows is a road trip across the country, punctuated by a mix of quiet, heartfelt moments and brutal, unforgiving clashes. The tension of being pursued is a constant driving force giving our characters' actions a sense of purpose, and keeping the audience engaged at all times.If I were to note a flaw with this otherwise very strong story, it would be the abrupt introduction of a large number of characters towards the end of the film. They are mentioned previously, but they aren't really developed beyond the bare minimum. They weren't particularly necessary to the ending, and it is hard to care about them seeing as we barely know them. I couldn't help but find myself thinking that if they were written out of the story it would have been more focused overall.That being said, the three main characters work perfectly together as a strange little family, and they are developed in such a way so as to not alienate viewers who have never seen any of the other X-Men movies. The villains are also threatening and scary throughout while still being completely believable, albeit fairly one-dimensional. The near-future world in which the events take place is also a very grounded and believable one instead of a monolithic comic book fantasy world. References to events in past films are also minimal, though they reward people for following this character through his various past adventures. The ending is incredibly satisfying.Overall, Logan is a highly compelling standalone film that can even entertain crowds that have no interest in comic books or the movies based on them. It is one of the rare comic book movies that transcends being great within the comic book genre to being simply great, period.


                
From the first moment Johnny Cash's mournful voice graced that terrific trailer, there was a sense that Hugh Jackman and director James Mangold were not going to play by the rules anymore. For Jackman, it was his ninth time playing Wolverine, and for Mangold, it is another shot to perfect what he almost achieved in 2013, when he sent Logan to Japan.For both of them however, it was now or never. Jackman's missed no opportunity to tell everyone that this would be his last time playing the Wolverine, the character that defined his career, and would probably continue to define him for the rest of his life. Perhaps it was this pressure to do well, to erase bad memories (hopefully, after this, X-Men Origins will be forgotten), or perhaps it was the freedom afforded to it by the success of Deadpool, but Logan is unlike any superhero film you have seen. Like that Cash song, it is minimalistic, meditative, melancholy, and has nothing to lose anymore. We've seen him go through hell, we've seen him watch on as everyone he loves dies, and all he can do is keep living. All Wolverine can do is keep fighting. But what for?The reason comes in the form of a girl, no older than 10.When we catch up with Logan, grizzled, visibly older, the scars on his body like haunting memories of the past, it is 2029. No mutants have been born in the last 20 years. They've become folktales, legends passed on in comic books, and perhaps even movies. Logan scrapes a living driving a limo near the US-Mexico border. The little money he makes goes into buying medicine for his friend Charles, Professor X. They live in the desert, away from everyone else, together, like they have been for so many years. They're all they have in this world.And then, Laura arrives. She's a lot like him, Charles tells Logan. She's a mutant. The first one to come along in decades. And she's the only hope they have. It is rumoured that thousands of miles away, in North Dakota, there is a safe haven for others like her, like them. That is where they must take her, away from the bad men.They do the only thing they can. In a subtle homage to the first X-Men movie, Logan takes the girl under his wing. They steal a car, grab some snacks, and take to the road.It is said that the superhero movie will soon go the way of the movie Western (not by me, but by better minds, like Spielberg and Lucas), how it has arrived at a saturation point, how the six-shooters and cowboy hats made way for spandex and force fields as they journeyed towards their final destination. For an uncommonly grim film which would much rather contemplate mortality than gleefully demolish a city, the idea of Logan reviving a dying genre – two dying genres – is almost poetic.There is only one way to push this genre forward, to prevent it from becoming obsolete. And that is to deconstruct it, to rip off all the excess CGI, all the capes and cowls, and exhume the essence of what makes these movies so great. Logan does that. And then it does it again.It takes cues from classics like Children of Men, The Wrestler, and even the great video game The Last of Us. It is uncompromising in its brutality and fearless in its reverence of these iconic characters. It's a testament to the power of storytelling, and what creative freedom can produce.Logan's cinematic journey began 17 years ago in a forest. He was making money fighting in cages. A young girl saved him then, she showed him what it was like to have a family, what it felt like to be good. In Logan, it takes another girl to show him who he really is, to remind him that his life was worth something.It is the perfect swansong he could've got.


                
Logan isn't really what I'd call a superhero movie it's more of a neo-western meets a road trip movie meets a family drama and it worked exceptionally. I was not as excited for this movie as much as everyone else, the trailers just weren't truly speaking to me but the final product absolutely did and is one of the most bittersweet movies I've ever viewed. The direction they took the character of Logan in this film was not something I had expected, we've seen him at his absolute lows and his points where he was truly without hope but never like this, we've never seen him suicidal with absolutely nothing left to fight for and it made his arc in the film all the more satisfying. To see him Ben forced back into helping someone one last time but in himself old and weakened state was at times hard to watch but at the same time very captivating knowing that this truly is his last fight. Another character who's direction surprised me with the direction that they took was that of Charles Xavier, to see someone we've seen be a beacon of hope and an inspirational figure as a now weak and frail old man was not what I signed on for when I started watching this movie but i greatly admired what they did here, to see him in a light we've never seen before truly showed us that this film was going to be different. As much as I was excited to see Hugh Jackman play his signature role for the final time I was saddened by the fact I would never see him take up the claws again but Jackman absolutely nailed it one final time. He brought a real harshness, sickly and vulnerable presence to this performance in both a physical and a emotional way, he truly gave one of the greatest performances ever in a comic book movie. The same can be said for Patrick Stewart one gave such a heartbreaking performance that often left me saddened yet captivated by the complete commitment to his final performance as this character. Newcomer Dafne Keen absolutely held her own in this movie in a very physical performance match with her great chemistry with Jackman and Stewart. I've never been an advocate of R-Rated comic book films, or for any film really, I just don't like the idea of needless violence and excessive language being put into a film needlessly but I truly loved how this film used its R-Rating. It made truly apparent that this was different from any of the other films in the franchise, it made it feel much more gritty and real and allowed director James Mangold to take the action to its full extent by fully exploiting the capabilities of the titular characters powers, this film is plenty bloody and violent but is used as a tool to show the reality of the situation for its characters and against all my worries was not something I found to be an unnecessary addition to this film. Like I said this film isn't like other comic book movies, it has a real slowness to it as well as a good heart and grit. Plenty of scenes are devoted to simply interaction among characters and their conversations all of which feel like valuable conclusions and added something to this movie. Is definitely one of the more slow paced films of this franchise but never feels boring or uninteresting as it's full of characters we've come to know and love which makes it feel more valuable knowing that it is there final few hours of screen time. I don't think this is a perfect movie, I did have a few issues with it. For one the villains, I really enjoyed Boyd Holbrook in this movie he was a very charismatic character he wasn't very deep but he had a nice presence to him that made him enjoyable as a character. The same cannot be said for Xander Rice or The Reavers, I found them to be extremely conventional and generic. The Reavers were expendable foot soldiers who only served to see Jackman and Keen in full R-Rated fashion. Rice was a fairly bland character who had iffy motivations and didn't really do anything of consequence on screen. I also found the last act to be a bit mixed, now the last 10 minutes were incredibly, extremely emotionally fulfilling material, but before that felt very rushed, as if the filmmakers had established so many plot lines that they desperately needed to wrap up before the film ended. I didn't particularly care for the new characters they introduced here and felt like a bit an underwhelming addition. While it's not my favourite if the X-Men franchise it is most definitely the most emotionally satisfying and fulfilling. It had a nice heart and message, fantastic action, performances and character arcs that truly wrapped up the character of Wolverine in a masterful fashion that made me realise just how much a cherish the characters of the franchise and how much I'll miss them now that they time is at an end. 8.8/10: A- (Fantastic)
I had to watch this movie three times over as for the first two attempts each time I fell asleep. Not out of boredom or so but just because I was just too tired. And I'm glad I took my time to watch it a third time as Logan is by far the best Wolverine movie made as thus far. Wolverine is one of the most appealing X-Men to watch as he's one of the more "human" ones and one we can relate most with. In Logan you get a more emotional story, with of course alot of action scenes. Those action scenes are worth the detour, especially the ones where Logan fights side by side with the young Dafne Keen. Good job from her as well as she has a major part in this movie, mostly silent but with the right facial expressions. From all the X-Men movies I saw before Logan must be the one I enjoyed the most.


                
I haven't seen many superhero films but found this one a nice surprise. There's plenty of dark themes and 'real' emotions going on which makes the characters much more interesting. The story is not that complicated and not much surprising happens, but with good characters this isn't a big problem. There's loads of action and impressive special effects as expected. A few humorous moments as well to break things up a bit.The only criticisms would be so much orange/blue colour scheme that you begin to wonder what happened to all the other colours. Also the villain is very cliche ('scientist' who wears his white coat *all* the time and has an unexplained English accent...).Definitely worth a watch as a layperson, and it sounds like more dedicated fans were also impressed.


                
