When Logan heard that his comic book would work in a similar way, my expectation was a little more. Later Logan's first trailer ended me. The tone of the trailers, the selected music, the intensity of the emotion was superb. I did not get my eye from X-23 in action scenes. Very good performance. Sir Patrick Stewart, like Hugh Jackman, is the last time to portray the role of the X-Men in the universe. And gave a very good feeling and left the film with more drama.Logan, beyond his superhero films, a fickle old and sick man. He is constantly showing the struggle with himself. Unlike other films, violence and action are not adorned with visual effects, they are given in a very hard and realistic way. These old mutants are trying to save the children to make the world a better place.It's an action that will be an Oscar nominee from Hugh Jackman. Logan, it's a goodbye we cannot forget for a long time. 9/10
Let's cut to the chase, shall we? In every beat, every frame, every moment, LOGAN feels like the Wolverine movie Hugh Jackman has been waiting (and training) for 17 years to make. Set free of a PG rating, this wildly kinetic film has plenty of gore, action and violence pumping through its veins. But what makes this one of the finest superhero movies ever produced is the big, messy, somewhat broken heart beating at its core. Set in a grim near-future where very few mutants remain alive, we meet an unthinkable incarnation of our favourite enclawed superhero: one who's decidedly past his prime. This is not the near-immortal Wolverine we remember, but Logan (Jackman): a broken, far older man who feels the weight of every wound inflicted upon him. His once- formidable body – tattooed with scars that aren't healing as fast or as well as they used to – seems to be failing. It's only his determination to keep the ailing, ageing Professor Charles Xavier (Stewart) safe and alive that never falters. The film's plot kicks into overdrive when Logan's fate becomes entangled with that of Laura (Keen), a close-to-feral young girl who brandishes claws and fury as fierce and lethal as Logan's own. As the unlikely trio go on the run, we see echoes of Logan himself in Laura's terrifying rage and the tentative emotional connection she forges with Xavier. It's one of many smart moves on the part of James Mangold, who does double duty as director and co-writer. Bringing Laura into the picture allows him to explore Logan's trauma, regret and hope through the filter of this pint-sized powerhouse's origin story.In effect, Mangold has placed an intimate family drama squarely at the heart of this ostensible blockbuster film – strip the characters of their superpowers and LOGAN would still pulse with plenty of heartbreak and humanity. Logan keeps dragging himself through the world when one suspects all he wants to do is die. Xavier grapples with his own frailty as his once-sharp mind deteriorates and betrays him, again and again. Laura is a tough, tender mess of contradictions: a victim of horrific abuse but also a warrior in the making. Watching them interact – fighting, screaming, arguing, glaring and, once in a while, forgiving – will elicit laughter and tears (lots of tears), in a way that no other superhero film to date has quire managed.That doesn't mean, however, that LOGAN is an entirely joyless, sombre affair. Far from it. It proves, quite conclusively, that films in this genre can plumb the darkest of psychological depths while finding welcome ways to leaven the misery. (Note: this is something Zack Snyder would do well to learn as he continues to expand DC's largely mirthless cinematic universe.) Mangold threads moments of genuine humour into the proceedings – from casual shoplifting and runaway horses, to an ornery old man who refuses to take his pills. The fast and furious action beats in LOGAN are also quite delightful to witness. The violence that's on full, bloody display is dark and horrible, but somehow fitting for this film in which there really are consequences for battles fought and lost. It's only when you see Logan's claws plunging into flesh, shearing cleanly through meat and bone, that you realise just how neutered and family-friendly his earlier outings were. There's a slow-motion sequence halfway through the film, as Logan struggles to get to an embattled Xavier, that's gritty and beautiful to watch – as thrilling as that scene-stealing Quicksilver moment in X-Men: Days Of Future Past. And it goes without saying that watching Laura gracefully spin and slice her way through oncoming attackers manages to be terribly wrong and wonderfully right at the same time. To be quite frank, none of this would work without the incredible cast, all of them doing award-worthy work that will, sadly, be overlooked because their characters have such silly things as 'powers'. It's truly unsettling to watch Stewart dig beneath his natural gravitas to find the shaken core of a Professor X who's semi-consciously losing grip of his mind – the best and most dangerous mind in the universe. Keen is a revelation. Grabbing this breakout role by the throat and making it very much her own, she somehow manages to convey Laura's childish fragility and overpowering strength, often in the same breath. And, finally, there's Jackman. He's been training for and playing the role that catapulted him to global stardom for 17 years now, and he brings everything he has to this final outing as Logan. He nails Logan's physical tics, of course: from his grizzled and aged demeanour, to his rattling cough and copious drinking. But Jackman also takes delight in unearthing the dark sadness at the heart of this once invincible, now vulnerable man. There is a hope and purity in Logan that doesn't always show through his wisecracks, but it shines brightly and unexpectedly here – often in the film's saddest moments. There are a handful of things about the film don't work quite so well. The main antagonists, played by Richard E. Grant and Boyd Holbrook, are largely forgettable – there's not much that defines them outside their nefarious goals. As many viewers may be turned off by Logan's relentless misery and eye-popping violence as those who welcome it.But this doesn't detract from the fact that LOGAN is a remarkable achievement. It manages to be several things at once: a bruising action film, a tender family drama and an intimate character study, liberally shaken through with comic-book sensibilities and a Western or two. If Jackman really is hanging up his claws for good, there could be no better way to bid farewell to one of Marvel's most enduring and appealing characters.
LOGAN - SPOILER FREE REVIEWAs most of you are aware I have not been a huge fan of the latest X- Men outings, but THIS WAS AWESOME!In a rather bleak entry we see a Post X-Men Logan, something has happened and the mutants no longer exist or there is a few of them out there. Director James Mangold chose to make the film almost colorless with much, much more character development than previous Wolverine and X-Men movies. We see a tired character that no longer belongs in a world that has feared him for over a century.While Hugh Jackman in his last outing as Logan does an amazing job and proves once and for all why NO ONE ELSE can ever be Wolverine, the supporting cast does a superb job as well starting with Sir Patrick Stuart who returns as Charles Xavier, Boyd Holbrook (Netflix's NARCOS) as an astounding and dangerous antagonist and newcomer Dafne Keen who is a rather sweet but incredibly deadly Weapon X-23.The movie is filled with gore and violence, but it does not feel forced at all in such an obscure movie. There is a rather new trend in Comic Book Movies after DEADPOOL, make them as brutal as possible, and while this started in the 90s with THE CROW and BLADE it has gained some track and more R Rated CBM are being developed as we speak.I HIGHLY recommend it.


                
Thank you Deadpool for opening the door to R-rated superhero movies.


                
James Mangold's Logan (8.5/10) About forty seconds into the movie, you confront a bloody Logan who isn't able to stand up while puny thugs decide to assault The Wolverine. And somewhere deep inside you feel a little uncomfortable. Probably because all you have seen Hugh Jackman do in the previous nine installments is watch the healing and indestructive Wolverine fend off anything that weakens him with utmost ease. It all fall aparts in Logan, Wolverine's swansong and an enigmatic crossroad of fear, uncertainty and reality. Wolverine is at his most vulnerable self here and yet far more courageous than all the rest of the X Men movies put together. And this is what makes Logan an extremely compelling watch; the chance and ability to finally empathize with a 'superhero' in a much finer sense and to witness whether they possess the same fortitude once their 'gift' has been taken away from them. Logan, set in 2029, narrates the endeavour of Wolverine, as he drives through the rocky, dusty terrains of El Paso with Laura, a mutant, blessed (with the same powers that he has) who needs to be sent somewhere safe. Along with her is a rugged, dying and somber Charles Xavier who wants to make sure that Logan is true to his word. Donald Pierce (played adequately by Boyd Hollbrook) is a raging current who needs the mutant and spreads considerable blood without any account of collateral damage. The repeated encounters take a toll on Logan's already dying self and even if he doesn't show it, over the course of time, he starts developing a bonding with Laura. He finds within her, the same embodiment of rage that turns people into monsters and sees Laura waging off the inevitable with a silent grace. The relationship which Laura and Logan share has several layers to it and can be interpreted in a much wider canvas. That's for another day. The influence of nineties western classics on the Logan is clear and critical. The homage is directly linked when Charles watches scenes from the 1953 classic Shane, and the lines are repeated again in a final scene. The dust symbolizes the ruins the mutant have brought upon themselves in their ideology of helping mankind marking their own destruction. Patrick Stewart is remarkable as a Xavier who is on the brink of death, set upon the call of epileptic seizures that capsize the lives of anyone near him and there is nothing he could do about it. All Xavier wanted his whole life was to stop people from getting hurt, and in his final moments he cannot stop himself from hurting people. This irony is a powerful strike to the entire genre which relies heavily on willing suspension of disbelief. Everything dies in the end, it's all about the manner in which it is achieved. Mortals, superheroes, they all do. Hugh Jackman could have become a lot of other things, a fine actor, if his brooded look would not have been entirely associated with Wolverine his entire life. And even if he strutted and limped along the way, in Logan he delivers his finest performance. Period. Every scene is a rave emotional experience and comes with a satisfaction of being content if not necessarily happy. He is in pain and so are we, and the audience agrees to be a part of it sailing across in the journey. Logan becomes an imperative movie in changing the face of the superhero genre. The need and allowance of superheroes to be vulnerable and uncertain instead of omnipotent and sarcastic is something I'd been wishing for a while. In Logan, James Mangold manages to capture every element which thrives on the edge of this conflict and the swansong he creates, becomes a painting. It is a magnum opus, a bloody opera and a massacred theatre room with audiences still lying out for view. And yet, it is beautiful.
For decades now, we have been clamoring for a 'Wolverine' film done right. From his first incarnation in Hulk #181 to his own miniseries in comic book form in the 1980's by Frank Miller, to the amazing Saturday Morning Cartoon, and his first appearance in a feature film in 2000 with 'X-Men', which had the song and dance man Hugh Jackman play the iconic character. He was so good at playing Logan/Wolverine, that fans immediately took a liking to him as that character and he went on to play the 'Snikt-y Snikt' character in almost a dozen more films. Besides the 'X-Men' films, Wolverine got his own set of standalone films, which may or may not have been liked by a lot of people for various reasons. Either the story was too silly or the character Wolverine was to PG for fans.If anyone knows the Wolverine character, it's that he's a brutal, violent, hardcore rated R character, which is something we haven't seen in cinema form at least. That is until now with James Mangold's new film 'Logan', which is very much an R-rated movie, complete with blood, ultra-violence, nudity, and vulgar language. It's everything we've always wanted in a Wolverine movie – FINALLY! With the past three X-Men films, we've seen our favorite X-Men characters growing up as it served as the prequel to the 2000 film. 'LOGAN' is set in the year 2029 and the world has changed for the worst, at least for a mutant friends. This is a very bleak, dark, and violent film with some flashes of dark humor. Nobody is doing well in 2029 here, particularly Logan (Hugh Jackman) who has crawled inside a whisky bottle and has never came back out, with the exception of driving a limo for cash around town. He's old, mean, and his body is starting to fail him. When he's not driving or killing people, he takes care of Charles Xavier (Sir Patrick Stewart), who is suffering from seizures and dementia, and who lives in a rusted out, abandoned water tower. Life is not good here for anyone.Meanwhile, a little girl named Laura (Dafne Keen) crosses paths with Logan who seems to have the same abilities as the Wolverine himself. Logan is now charged with the task of transporting this little girl to a safe haven with Charles in tow, as a group of bad guys are after her, led by Dr. Zander Rice (Richard E. Grant). It's a fairly straight forward story and it takes its time setting up these older, dying characters, as well as its new ones. 'LOGAN' doesn't mess about with side tangent plot lines or love interests here. It's balls-to-the-wall, heart breaking action and drama, which is something we've wanted for a long time now with the Wolverine character. The script is written by Scott Frank ('Get Shorty, 'Minority Report') and Michael Green ('Heroes', 'Gotham'), which these two writers have expertly added in a fair dose of emotion into these characters, but never back pedal into past films. It was a breath of fresh air. James Mangold certainly was influenced by some of his favorite old western films, as can be seen in some of camera shots, which are just fantastic.Also, if you ever wanted to see Wolverine go berserk, you'll finally get that here on more than one occasion, complete with some long shots of Wolverine slicing and dicing the bad guys without any cuts. Simply amazing. In the past films, we've seen the characters Professor Xavier and Wolverine rather smart, witty, and put together for the most part. That's not the case here. These two characters are very sick and are not doing well mentally and physically. Jackman and Stewart give award worthy performances here, which might bring a tear or two down your face. It's that good. Newcomer Dafne Keen as Laura was also fantastic and very believable in every second she's on film. 'LOGAN' runs at about 135 minutes, which can seem a bit long, but everything is necessary here and for good reason. 'LOGAN' is the Wolverine film we've always wanted and it deserves some high recognition.
After watching this movie in March 2017, it took me way back and refreshed some memories. The last time i watched a superhero movie as intense, dark and gritty as this one was back in 2012, it was directed by a guy called Christopher Nolan (need not say more).The movie is truly the end of an era. An era of X-Men movies which was spearheaded by the most beloved character in the series, the Wolverine aka Logan.


                
Riveting, Gory, and Well-ActedHugh Jackman gives a terrific performance and works well with Dafne Keen. Their relationship has heart and care for one another. The action sequences are amazing and from the opening scene you can tell this will be a superhero movie that is not going to hold back on its action sequences. I do wish Wolverine and X-23 could have done more fight scenes together and complemented each other in combat, yet the scenes were still entertaining. From the emotional relationship to the plot and character of wolverine this film had my interest most of the time. This is a great superhero film that is not like most where it has the need relate to other superheros or other films, but instead has its own movie that excels. A film that reminds me of The Last of Us game and is truly a heartfelt and entertaining film.4.5/5


                
I missed this film when it was in theaters. That is probably for the best, not that I had any desire to see it then due to the fact my fiancé had just recently passed away. If I had seen it, it probably would have triggered an attack. It still did, but at least I was in my own home so no one could see me break down. Just anything like this makes me remember the love of my life and the tears just pour out and I end up having an attack and have trouble breathing. That being said, this was a very good movie and a nice way to send off Hugh Jackman as Wolverine. Sure, there are things that make me question what has happened to reduce everyone to the state they are in, but when one reads comics, one understands that the story being presented may be sort of an alternate universe story arc, rather than the main one. I say this is the case with this movie, things may not necessarily turn out the way they did in this film, just in this universe things seemed to have gone very badly. It is a way to change up the actor playing Wolverine and get some closure for the X-men films starring him and Patrick Stewart as Professor Xavier.The story has Logan as a limo driver trying to earn enough cash to get a boat so that he and Professor Xavier can escape to the sea. Xavier is having trouble controlling his powers in his old age and Logan watches over him as there are hints that the professor has done something rather bad due to this lack of control. Logan is being assisted by a mutant named Caliban who has the ability to detect other mutants, a power nearly worthless now as mutants have become few and far between. Well, a woman tries to get Logan to help her as she has a young girl with her and some men are tracking both of them. This girl is apparently a mutant with some very familiar powers. Logan escapes with her and Professor Xavier and they must stay one step ahead of the agents determined to capture her. However, there is another familiar face that is unleashed in the agents efforts to recapture the young girl and several other mutant children trying to flee their grasp.I enjoyed the film for the most part, the only problem I had is that I was hoping for someone cooler when they revealed the soulless mutant who had no problem killing. They really did not have anyone new as far as mutants on display as Caliban was the only one I do not think was seen before. I would have liked the reveal to show the new weapon to be Omega Red. Granted, that would have meant a few more special effects I guess so we do not really get anyone new at all on display.So the film was good and the action was plentiful and quite gruesome. I knew there would be a bit more stuff shown because this film was rated R, but I was surprised at how many heads rolled and appendages flying everywhere. From what a few people had said about the film that I know, there really was not much action in the film. Not sure what film they were watching as there was a good deal. So ends Hugh Jackman's Wolverine and he did a good job in the role. I just find the makers starting with Marc Singer really did not do the character true justice as he was a much better fighter than the films portrayed, and his healing ability was not as effective in the comics as depicted in the films either. Basically, he was more apt to dodge in the comics than go head on and he would never have any problems fighting ordinary men and most superheroes could not match his fighting skills. Still, as I said, I just think of it as an alternative universe and it still saddens me to see Jackman depart the role.


                
Half-man, half-beast. A brooding, violent mass of rage who shreds to pieces anyone foolish enough to stand in his way. Isn't that what all of us Marvel fans envision when we hear the name Wolverine?I was a bit disappointed when I saw the trailer for Logan. The fierce anti hero we're familiar with is a shell of his former self. Suffering from pain and drudging through day-to-day life. Far from the short-tempered badass that characterizes Wolverine.I went to view Logan with low expectations and sense of loyalty. After all, Hugh Jackman is nearing 50 years of age. His hard work and determination to give us a final Wolverine performance is admirable (hopefully I can deadlift half the weight he does at his age).The plot is set in 2029, with Logan making a living as an alcoholic limousine chauffeur - while doing his best to look after an ailing Professor X. The tone is dark, gritty and somber. Unsurprisingly, Logan's attempts to hide away from the world is botched when a young girl shows up in his life.The movie starts off depressing and slow, but the pace ramps up quickly. Rage-fueled slashing and hacking? Delivered in spades. The action scenes are extremely violent and gory. The R-rating is well deserved.Hugh Jackman gives his best performance to date. He portrays Wolverine's nuances and inner struggles flawlessly. Dafne Keen, who portrays the young mutant Laura, gives an amazing performance as well (looking forward to her future roles). And Patrick Stewart delivers an exceptional performance as Professor X.Overall, Logan blew away my expectations. As the credits rolled, I felt highly satisfied - and sad that Jackman's role of the character had come to an end. He reveals a vulnerable, humanistic side of Wolverine I'd never imagined - without omitting the ferocious, savage aspects we all know and love.


                
As a comic book reader, I've seen a lot of misleading plot points when screenplays try to merge a lot of material into one original motion picture. Sometimes it's because they down own the full characters rights to make the full adaptation of the original but sometimes its lazy screenwriting in my opinion.In Logan I was very pleased to see a great comic to film merge of a lot of source material without compromising the full marvel (x men) franchise in the meantime. It's done in such a superb matter that you almost don't get the full attention caught with the R rated scenes as they serve a purpose for the story. True to be told, Wolverine is one of the most lethal characters in comic book media that's ussually reprised as a good guy as he should be depicted more as an antihero.Great work for an already intense actor before he was really too old for a character that's supposed to not age at all.


                
Wolverine is finally done right, showing the true berserker slashing through the enemy. The film has a western vibe throughout which is very impressive. X-23 was great for a young actress with not many acting credits, the bloody sequences in the movie really bring us (the fans) what we've wanted to see for years a true take on what Wolverine is thanks to Mangold. Overall I think this is one of the best comic book films ever made and hope to see more like it.


                
The R rating makes a difference, because this character is typically more violent in the comic books. But it's not just that, it's an emotional story with other old characters and newly introduced ones. I've always loved this character and Hugh Jackman was perfect for the role. I really hope they don't recast this character going forward, at least anytime soon.


                
For a comic book movie this is the least comic book movie I have seen, stripping down the CGI we see in most XMen movies and builds up character development, a great story and something very different and new to what we are used to, and the action... Logan does not hold back on the action. Very amazing to watch him not hold back on what Wolverine can do. Definite watch


                
Great, movie is thought out very well and i think Jackman was perfect. I simply cannot bring myself to spoil any key plot moments in this review, as it is just to good, and if you haven't watched it yourself, then you need to, but be sure to bring tissues to wipe up your tears, and be sure not to disturb your neighbours when you yell at the television and punch a great big hole in the wall. For me 9/10


                
Holy Hell! My recurring thought while watching Marvel's latest outing- the unrelenting 'Logan.' I gasped, laughed, shook my head, and gritted my teeth constantly throughout the movie that will go down as one of Marvel's best ever. This is the standalone movie Wolverine has always deserved and boy does it deliver.Imagine a limping, bearded, and farsighted Wolverine as a driver for hire in true Uber fashion. The year is 2029 and mutants are no longer around save Logan aka Wolverine and an old and ailing Charles Xavier whose mind isn't quite what it used to be. They hide out far from society on the American-Mexican border where Logan frequently crosses over for work (I wonder what Trump would say to that. Though a wall wouldn't stop the clawed superhero in either case. I'm sure.) Here, Logan encounters an unusual little girl who he's told needs his help leading them on a bloody and unforgettable journey."What the f***?" are the first words Logan utters in the film rightfully setting the tone for the next 2.15 hours. This is uncensored greatness. It is brutal, unabashedly violent, and generously sprinkled with expletives. It's only Marvel's second R-rated movie after 'Deadpool' and let's just say this isn't the X-Men you remember from your childhood. The movie begins with a clip from Deadpool II but does a complete 180 when the title appears on screen. Unlike Deadpool, Logan isn't trying to make you laugh. It's trying to shock you. In one of the film's finest sequences, I was teetering on the edge of my seat as blood and bones engulfed a rural family home. The shock value and brilliant execution instantly took the movie to new heights. The entire theater audibly gasped.Hugh Jackman is and always will be Logan/Wolverine. He started the journey 17 years ago in 'X- Men' and recently announced that he will hang up the claws after 'Logan'. Having played the character in 8 movies (including a special appearance), Mr Jackman is as good as it gets. His performance especially in this film is sharply nuanced. He grumbles when he has to wear glasses to read and when the claws come out you're in for a real treat. He even hides a hint of a smile when an inebriated bride flashes him from his limo's backseat. Patrick Stewart as Professor X and Dafne Keen as the young Laura are perfect in their parts. But it's undoubtedly Mr. Jackman who walks away with all the glory. Being unrestrained in this movie gives him the opportunity to show us Logan's true character and he doesn't hold back. It's a hell of a ride!James Mangold has written and directed a superhero film unlike any other. You haven't seen anything like it by Marvel. The closest in terms of tone would be DC's 'The Dark Knight' but it's still an uncharacteristically original story. The only downside is it feels a little longer than it should. And it won't appeal to the fainthearted as moments of relief are few are far between. But these aren't real problems. This was a welcome watch and one that any cinema lover will relish. I haven't decided if I liked it more than 'X-Men: Days of Future Past', that might require a re-watch, but it's damn near close.https://stuffiwatchblog.wordpress.com/2017/03/04/logan/
Coming off last year's rather disappointing X-Men: Apocalypse, I really didn't know what to expect from Logan. I was not too impressed by The Wolverine so I was wary of being overly excited. After the initial buzz from the first press screenings, however, my expectations skyrocketed. Fortunately, they were met and surpassed. Logan is a brutal and emotional film that encapsulates everything good about its genre.From the very opening, the the tone is set and you immediately notice just how bloody and brutal it is. Thanks to the film's age restriction, director James Mangold has the full freedom to go as far as the story calls for. There is excessive swearing but it never comes off as forced; it's natural because the situations that these characters are put in are dire. Another thing that fascinated me was that the gore was not gratuitous and was used effectively.As far as the story goes, it takes place in 2029, sometime after all X-men are dead but for Logan, Charles and Caliban. We don't know why and how but we are given pieces of the puzzle throughout the film that we need to put together in order to understand what has gone wrong. Logan is now old and tired of life, offering a service similar to Uber until one they his car is wrecked. I'll leave it at that as the less you know when you go in to see it, the better.Logan never treats the audience as if it is dumb and doesn't spoon-feed us every single thing that is going on. Moreover, the story is so told in such a masterful manner that upon leaving the auditorium, you will have seen a film with a beginning, a middle and an end—something rare these days, especially in the superhero genre. The end of the second act is by far one of the most suspenseful and shocking ones I have seen in a long while. The entire movie is intense and doesn't let you get distracted even for a second; you're glued to the screen.A big contributor to that, apart from the fantastic direction and cinematography, is the acting. Almost everyone gives an exceptional performance (save for Stephen Merchant, who is a hit or miss) but the standouts are, as you might have expected, Hugh Jackman and Patrick Stewart. The former is harrowing as the guilt and tiredness from Logan's long life is taking its toll on him, while Stewart gives an incredibly nuanced performance with exquisite subtlety. Dafne Keen is quite stellar as well, even if she doesn't play the most likable of characters. What she does in her action scenes is commendable.While the film's explored themes have definitely been dealt with before, it has its own spin on them to make them thought-provoking: are corporations too unregulated? Where should a line be drawn? Does good always win or does evil overpower it sometimes? Is immigration a solution to some problems? Do you choose yourself or should you go out of your way to help the others? These and many other questions are asked but you don't always get a straight answer. Rather, you need to make up your own mind about it.It is deeply emotional as well. Even though it is based on a comic-book, it isn't of the type 'let's save the world.' Instead, it's a much smaller, and therefore, a more personal film about dealing with loss and illnesses, moral dilemmas, and explores the line as to when your actions are justifiable and when you've turned into a monster.Not burdened by the task to set up a plethora of sequels and prequels, the director has crafted an impeccable film about what it means to be human and how far we are willing to go for those we care about. Logan doesn't cut away from the horror that one may afflict upon others and effortlessly scrutinises the motivations behind its characters' decisions. Combine that with the brutal but exceptionally executed action scenes and you end up with a film that elevates the superhero genre.


                
After 17 Years debuting in the X-men Franchise, Hugh Jackman exits the role as Wolverine, a troubled loner with a heart of gold and claws of Adamantium. In the future of 2029, Mutants have almost become extinct. Logan, living with a dementia ridden Professor Xavier and a mutant recluse named Caliban, turns his back on mutant kind, instead attempting to make a living as a limousine driver to retire to the ocean. However, Logan's fate is changed when she meets a young girl with mutant powers very similar to his own.The Live Action X-Men franchise has often been accused of being disrespectful to the source material (or rather the more fantastical elements of said source material such as the Dinosaurs in present day of the Savage Land or the space opera adventures of the Starjammers), in an age where Marvel Studios explores space with Guardians of the Galaxy or the microscopic world with Ant-Man. In Logan, that grounded reality works to the benefit of movie. Instead of visual spectacle and technicolor explosions, the action grim, grounded and folded to reality. Unlike other attempts to 'mature' the genre through simple additions of profanity and violence, Logan uses its R rating to tell a more character driven story, showing broken old men at the end of their ropes. After years of a PG-13 rating, the R rating doesn't simply add blood and gore, but a sense of melancholy and bleakness other films of the same genre do not have. Logan has been described as the mainstream Superhero Western, a fair comparison since Superheroes have often been compared to the Western Boom of the 50's while scenes of 1953's Shane plays during a scene. The actors are fully giving it their all in this picture. Hugh Jackman has always had incredible range as an actor, but his turn as Wolverine is the thing that made him a star. It's only with an actor of his caliber and the age of playing the role for so long that you can get a performance of this magnitude with the emotional weight it deserves. Just the same, the usually reserved Patrick Stewart completely subverts his role as the kindly understanding Professor Xavier to a rambling, cynical cranky old man with a form of Alzheimer's. But, Dafne Keen will ultimately come out as the highlight of the film. It's hard to get children actors to put out a role of this magnitude but Keen's Laura manages to be both convincing as a child who's exploring the world for the first time and a violent killer in other scenes.The action set pieces are astounding. The fight choreography is stable, the edits manage to feel coherent and the amount of chopped limbs, be-headings and spilled blood makes for a gory good time.It's unclear where the X-men Franchise can go from here. After the critical disappointment of X-Men: Apocalypse but the financial success of Deadpool, fans have been counting the days when 20th Century Fox will sell the film rights back to Marvel Studios so the Mutants can become part of the Marvel Cinematic Universe. But, for the payoff we received at the end, Logan is worth the 17 years worth of X-Men films (Some Good, Some Bad, Most Mediocre) to see two actors have one last ride in what was some of the iconic roles in Superhero film history.See it!


                
When it was announced that Fox would be making another solo 'Wolverine' movie, I was excited. Then rumours began piling up that it would be based off the popular 'Old Man Logan', the comic community, (myself included) got even more excited. Then the first trailer dropped, and somehow we got even more excited. However, it was now I realized the movie was doomed to disappoint us. We had so much hype built up (by us, not Fox surprisingly) that there was no possible way Logan could ever reach the bar we had set. Well, it didn't reach the bar. It ran by the bar, grabbed it, and pulled the bar (and us) to levels we didn't think it could reach. All while being one of the best superhero movies ever, and not often using superhero powers in the movie (more on that later).Logan follows, well, Logan (duh) at least twenty years after the events of X-Men III The Last Stand and the mutants are mostly wiped out. Logan has grown more bitter and old and is forced to live in the middle of Mexico with Professor Xaiver and a newcomer, Caliban. Eventually he finds that a group has been experimenting with mutants and have a clone of him, Laura (or X-23) now, he finds himself on the road with Laura and the Professor in an attempt to get Laura to her friends so they can be safe. The only problem are the people who want them dead, and that Logan's healing factor is weakening. The movie Has a very simple yet interesting plot, The movie works because of the character dynamic. Logan is forced to face the fact that Laura is technically his daughter and that his family is gone. Professor Xaiver is slowly dying, both of old age and his powers becoming more and more unstable.However, while the plot is simple, there is one scene which really doesn't work. In the original 'Old Man Logan' comic, the X-Men are gone because Logan was tricked into killing everyone. It's a horrific and tragic scene, one which no reader will ever forget. In the movie, it's implied that Charles lost control and caused a telepathic shock wave which killed 98% of all mutants around the world. It's sad, but not nearly as powerful as the scene in 'Old Man Logan'.While that scene does slightly annoy me, the rest of the movie is nearly perfect. The character arcs are amazing, the plots are truly realistic and intense, and when the more emotional moments hit you and hit you hard. When Charles dies, it's a sad scene, but at the end of the movie when Logan dies, you can't not feel emotionally devastated. Not old because Logan dies to save Laura, but because it's also the end of an era (Hugh Jackman's Wolverine roles). The action scenes which are frequent throughout the film are top-notch and awesome to watch, if not a bit brutal, but the writers knew when to have action and when to have calm. Wolverine's "Berserker Rage" may be the greatest scene in the entire X-Men franchise.All the actors in this movie are either returning actors to the franchise or newcomers. But either way, there is not a single bad actor in the entire movie. The special effects are some of the most realistic and well made I've seen in years. I'm also happy that not all movies are going wit the horrible CGI blood route.Overall, Logan may not only be the best X-Men movie to date, but possibly the best superhero movie to date. It stands tall against movies such as Captain America The Winter Solider, or The Dark Knight and succeeds in it's mission despite being potentially hindered by the 'R' rating it has, which not only does it earn, but actually feels like it benefited from having an 'R' rating. If you for some reason haven't seen Logan yet, make sure it's on the top of your list.
17 years ago, a character known and appreciated by many, was brought to life by none other than Hugh Jackman. Yes, we've all seen the goods and bads of the films surrounding Wolverine, but witnessing "Logan" somehow sheds new light on the character. It is a powerful, violent, rough, tough, rugged character send-off that just so happens to be included into the X-Men universe. Director, James Mangold, and his team weren't just focused on telling one final compelling story, but ending an era with grit and heart. Multiple actors can and have portrayed a single superhero, but there can and always will be one Wolverine. Thanks, Hugh. #Logan


                
Since seeing X-Men on the last family holiday I had in 2000,the franchise has always been one that has meant more to me than the other comic-book movies. With the son of my best friend being a comic- books fan and also having the name Logan,it felt like the perfect time to see Wolverine for the last time.The plot-2029:Being one of the few mutants to still be alive,Logan/Wolverine makes money as a limo driver which he uses to get drugs for Professor Charles Xavier seizures. Returning one day to the isolated location that him,Xavier and helper Caliban are hiding in,Logan is told by Xavier that he has made contact with a mutant on the "outside" world. Dismissing Xavier,Logan gets caught up in a deal to take Alkali-Transigen and 11 year old Laura to a place called "Eden." Going to pick them up,Logan finds Transigen dead and soldiers surrounding Laura. As he reveals his claws to protect Laura,Logan discovers a brand new mutant.View on the film:Not saying a single line of dialogue for the first hour of her (film) debut, Dafne Keen gives a remarkable performance as Laura,with Keen clawing at Laura's frustrations and volatile mood swings with an abrasive body language that keeps all on edge. Raising her voice,Keen gives the difficult relationship with Logan a melancholy,which brings out a father/daughter tenderness. Losing 21 pounds for his return to the series,Patrick Stewart gives a great performance as Xavier,whose fragile,dying state Stewart does not allow to rest on pity,by showing that Xavier still has some sparks which opened the school for the X-Men.Playing a role he has done for almost 20 years for the final time, Hugh Jackman gives a superb performance as Logan. Visibly carrying the history of Logan on his shoulders,Jackman gives him a raw fragility, as meeting Laura causes Logan to face his own morality.Working with Jackman for the third time,co-writer/(with Michael Green and a returning to X-Men Scott Frank) director James Mangold & cinematographer John Mathieson continue expand on the action style of The Wolverine with a thrilling,bare-knuckle fury,unleashed with blood darting across the screen and each fight move being delivered with a real thump. Setting it in the future,Mangold and Mathieson draw a Post-Apocalypse,Road Movie landscape,as the dry,dusty colour of the road and a burning red sun cast an end of days atmosphere over the journey.Putting their focus on the trio,the screenplay by Mangold/Frank and Green does keep the "baddies" at a boo-hiss level,but does give them enough snarling menace so that they pose an aggressive threat to Logan. Using the wear and tear of Logan to take the "superhero" sheen off, the writers explore a wonderfully earthy character study,with the dialogue having a grittiness and an unshakeable air of death keeping everything grounded,as the ultimate X-Men reveal themselves.
the movie will get you from the beginning and you'l know that's nothing compare to any superhero movie you've ever watched, the story line it's perfect, the fights scenes was so real ,the actors did a wonderful acts and they didn't use so muck visual effect to made the movie more real plus the scars & vines on Logan body. i can't pass without talking about the end of movie the end it was something remarkable it was so emotional and unbelievable the movie will end and you can't just realize what happen. it's gonna be so hard for marvel to do another wolverine movie in the future after the success of this peace of art. i'am disappointed to hear that's the last movie for Hugh Jack men as Logan and i think it is really the end of the wolverine movies.


                
Logan follows the remaining X-Men in the distant future, where most mutants have long since gone extinct. A young girl comes to their door with a group of threatening people looking for her, thus beginning Logan's attempt to help her escape. As this is Hugh Jackman's last portrayal of Logan AKA Wolverine, it had high stakes. Personally I didn't expect this level of quality from it, considering how most of these big blockbusters tend to go in the direction of lackluster. Logan is a heavy movie. It is fantastically performed by both Hugh Jackman and Patrick Stewart, and the emotion they are able to infuse within the audience is more powerful than anything I've seen in the series thus far. The content itself is hard-hitting, thanks to a fantastic script, and as a whole this proves to be a huge step in an entirely different direction for the franchise. And that's a good thing.The R rating allows the movie to reach this level of heaviness, and with that weight comes some pretty awesome, but brutal, violence. Despite the warnings I received about how brutal the introduction alone was, I still managed to be surprised by it. The movie doesn't hold back, but it doesn't overdo it either. It's just right, and just right is exactly where I wanted it to be. The movie does a fantastic job of building atmosphere. It's dark, it's gritty, and it really feels like the end of the world. And in the context of the movie, I'm pretty sure that was the case. Overall Logan is a fantastic end to an already good series, and proves to be the best of that series, at least in my eyes. It's dark and gritty, but also well-acted, well-written, and never overdone. I can't wait to see this one again when it leaves theaters, and in the end I wouldn't hesitate to recommend this movie.


                
Everything I've ever wanted to see in a super hero movie. James is on the edge. He doesn't care whether he lives or dies anymore, he's just a drunk chauffeur running away from his past. There's no purpose in life for him, he's lost all hope, until he meets Laura. He sees in her his old himself and an opportunity to make up for his mistakes. He won't admit it, but he cares for her and so does Charles. Charles is the closest thing to a father he has, on the inside he is one of the reasons he hasn't given up yet. When they realize they need to protect what they destroyed in order to preserve the future that's when the movie begins. Logan is not all about violence, it's about inspiring the next ones, the next generation. Inspiring our children to be better than we are, so they can teach the same thing to theirs.


                
The third and final Wolverine film following X-Men Origins: Wolverine (2009) and The Wolverine (2013), 'Logan' is the darkest & also THE most brutal X-Men film to date. Director James Mangold & Lead-Star Hugh Jackman returning for one last time as Logan/Wolverine, deliver a superhero film, that's Super in its truest sense. The one's an emotional, gruesome, gritty & powerful film, that holds your attention, despite excessive violence. Faint-Hearts please stay away, but those who relish Hardcore stuff, Grab A Ticket Now!'Logan' Synopsis: In the near future, a weary Logan cares for an ailing Professor X in a hide out on the Mexican border. But Logan's attempts to hide from the world and his legacy are up-ended when a young mutant arrives, being pursued by dark forces.'Logan' explores very less of Wolverine's journey, its all about Logan this time. 'Logan' is a character study of a superhero finally off his prime & facing enemies who are stronger than him. Even his life may end, for someone to whom immorality was certain. And that's exactly why 'Logan' works so hugely. The narrative is about Logan's constant fight to survive as well protect his mentor & a young mutant, who's on the run. The villains are ruthless & Logan's fight against them, is clap-worthy.The Violence is too much though. I'm not complaining here, I mean a superhero with claws so sharp can't be projected with fake juicy blood, but the bloodshed here is rather disturbing. Whenever there is action up on screen, its brutal & unforgiving. The finale, particularly, is no-holds-barred. Don't tell me later I didn't warn you, dear faint-hearts! The biggest triumph of 'Logan' is its emotional connect. Logan & the young mutant girl, share a wonderful relationship here, as does Profresser Xavier. The connect among them, despite all the brutality around, forms 'Logan' in its entirety. I was engrossed & even concerned about Logan & Co. here, I was connected with them & was rooting for them when they fought the evil-heads.Scott Frank, James Mangold & Michael Green's Screenplay is intense & engaging. Its all-out brutality, with strong emotional undercurrents. The Writing, though predictable at times, is thoroughly arresting. Mangold's Direction is excellent. He's handled the film with authority. Cinematography & Editing are very good. Action-Sequences/Stunts are spectacular & pushes the 'R Rating' with force. Art & Costume Design are perfect. Graphics are top-class. Background Score & Make-Up, merit a special mention.Performance-Wise: Hugh Jackman returns as Logan/ Wolverine for one last time & he's in terrific form. Right form his broken body-language, to the aggression he expresses when the claws are out & to the softness he emotes when building a connection with the little girl, Jackman brings fabulous layers to his portrayal. This is the best performance Jackman has delivered being Logan/Wolverine. Sir Patrick Stewart as Charles Xavier/Professor X, is remarkable. The Screen Legend adds tremendous depth to the part & shines in every scene he appears in. Dafne Keen as Laura, is a surprise packet. She's electrifying! Boyd Holbrook as Donald Pierce, is menacing to the core. And is it ironic that the chief villain here is named Donald?? Elizabeth Rodriguez as Gabriella, does well in a brief role. Others lend good support.On the whole, 'Logan' is Brutal & Brilliant! Two Thumbs Up!


                
