I had wanted to see this for years and when it came on TCM last night rated 4 stars I thought "Perfect". Boy, was I disappointed.From the cheesy credits to the excessive length (okay, we get it. The Bad guy is bad and the Ugly guy is ugly.) to the unrealistic shooting (every bullet hits its mark exactly, whether it's one-shot kills, shooting hats off without leaving a mark, or shooting through ropes to prevent hangings), to too much the utterly dislike-able Eli Wallach chewing up the scenery, to the string of unbelievable coincidences (wagon comes by with one guy just alive enough to tell Tuco where $200K in gold is, but 'Blondie' - who was near-dead and some distance away - the specifics), etc. etc.This spaghetti western needed more meat and less sauce. It's probably significant for being significant (e.g. making Eastwood a star) than for its true content.
I was battling weather to give this movie a 4 Â½ or 5, so I gave it the benefit of the doubt. Once you get that high in my books, itâ??s pretty much the same. The movie was amazing and was one of the best western movies I have seen. It runs three hours and although it did feel long, it wasnâ??t a bad thing. I kept on wanting to follow the characterâ??s journey to the end and find out what was going to happen, regardless of how long it took. The acting was great and the soundtrack was phenomenal. It added to the films mood immensely.This film obviously has inspired many modern filmmakers today (Rodriguez, Tarantino, among others) and I had to keep on reminding myself that this film was made in 1966. I either thought it was made with todayâ??s film techniques or some scenes were actually shot during the civil war time period. It really took me back and followed it up with a great story.The actors gave dialog in their native tongues and as a result there is a poor voice over synchronization throughout the movie. I found this slightly distracting at times, but it did not deter me from enjoying the film and Sergio Leoneâ??s great filmmaking brilliance shone through. The sweeping panoramic shots were incredible and appealing throughout the film as well.Although I loved the characters Blondie - The Good, played by Clint Eastwood and Angel Eyes - The Bad, played by Lee Van Cleef; Tuco - The Ugly, played by Eli Wallach had an absolutely great performance and pushed the film to a greater level.


                
The Good the Bad and the Ugly is one of the most overrated movies ever made. It's considered a classic because of Ennio Morricone iconic theme and because it has Clint Eastwood in it. The plot what plot. There is not consistent plot. Only action scenes upon action scenes pieced together to create a three hour long bore fest. I think I would rather take the three hour tour in Gillian's Island and get shipwrecked on a island then watch this turd again. It's as if Sergio Leone who made a masterpiece with Once Upon a Time in the West and another great film in Fistful of Dollars went to his screenwriter and said lets make a film with many showcased action sequences and piece them together with our twenty page screenplay. The result a paper thin, very thin story with no solid characterization or development.The movie is more like the adventures of the man with no name and his annoying nerdy partner Tuco who can't shut the hell up. The pair play one another in con games, shootouts, duels, and other antics. They both happen to fall upon a deserted stage wagon full of dead men where they learn the secret to ones fate of hidden gold. They both end up in a Civil War prison camp, right in the middle of a Civil War battle and other clueless adventures in a story that might have been written by a couple of adolescents. Just one adventure after another that has nothing to do with telling a strong story. This film is like a clumsy, sloppy serial with no motivation by any of the characters involved.The one thing that make Sergio Leone films so great is the style and action. The action sequences in the film are dull and not the least bit engaging. The Civil War battles look way too much like a World War battle. The duels and showdowns that were so thrilling and fun to watch in the previous two films I mentioned are drawn out here in very long and tiresome sequences. Especially the duel climax which is almost laughable which consists of endless and endless shots of eyes, guns, expressions. The whole thing last for a total of 5 minutes and after it ends the viewer like me is not excited, but more relieved that it's over. Any longer I would of fast forwarded it. Other sequences such as showdowns in western towns are mere cartoonish and over the top.Even Leone's style of film-making isn't impressive. There are some shots that amuse me, especially the desert sequence which had artistic look to it. However, because of so many drawn out long boring sequences I really start losing focus on the art of film-making and really don't care anymore about this shot or that shot. That's not the case in Once Upon a Time in the West or Fistful of Dollars.As for the characters in the film. Clint Eastwood's portrayal of the man with no name is no longer mysterious or cool like he was in Fistful of Dollars. I've never seen the second man with no name film. In this film he's more of a spoof. Talks very little, but he's way to silly and not serious enough. As for Elliah Wallach his role of Tuco is way too comic and not the least bit intimating. He's also extremely annoying and he's also ugly. As for Lee Van Cliff his turn as Angel Eyes is the only character that I somewhat enjoyed. He played the part well with his narrow eyes, but he was in far too little of the film.Too sum it all up I'm extremely disappointed at the final result of this film. So many people love it. I don't know why. My theory is that the ones who love it are too dumb to realize why they like it and don't know what a great film is. Once Upon a Time in the West is a great film and so is Fistful of Dollars. I've seen The Good the Bad and the Ugly three times now and every time I watch it I hate more and more. A masterpiece I think not. More like a turdpiece!
Angel Eyes (Lee van Cleef) is a very cool bad guy.  Blondie (Eastwood) seems quietly bemused throughout, as if he knows, as do we, that he will prevail. Tuco (Eli Wallach) is hilarious if one-dimensional (he's greed personified). But what the heck is the deal with that excruciatingly long and pointless Civil War battle excursion?  It made no sense whatsoever. The context of the film had already been established earlier, when Blondie and Tuco are put into a POW camp (and meet up with Angel Eyes -- moving the plot forward), but this scene is worthless.  All of a sudden, any momentum that the film might have had is diffused by this "statement" that war is meaningless.  It is as obvious as an Oliver Stone film, and as off-putting. By the time the film gets back on track, one finds it difficult to care, and the three way showdown between the Good, the Bad, and the Ugly, with its long shifting eyeball shots, plays like a satire on the classical western. If that is the point, then why is the majority of the film up to that point played straight?Other Sergio Leone films are better than this one.
This isn't the worst of the spaghetti films, but it is a terrible films. If you don't know what a spaghetti film is, it means, great exciting music trying to make up for a weak stupid plot, uninteresting, unlikable characters, silly comic book style gunfights, terrible writing, terrible directing, and slow paced boredom. This film isn't a complete bomb because of the efforts of some of the actors. It's no secret that Eastwood wasn't a gifted actor, and he had to be surrounded by superior actors such as Eli Wallach and Lee Van Cleef. Those two, and the supporting cast almost make this bearable. It involves three men. One is good, one is bad, and one is the guy who took your last girlfriend away from you. But which is which? The film literally has to tell you. Eastwood is supposed to be good, but the only two not completely vicious things he does are try to save a handicapped from hanging (so he can take him to be executed again), and offering a dying soldier a puff from his cigar-not trying to stop his bleeding or even give him some pain killer, but to just do a cigarette commercial in the middle of a movie. There's no reason to care about him at all. In fact, the guy who stole your girlfriend comes across as almost sympathetic (almost.) The plot is the three are after a decent amount of gold. The trouble they go through, they could've much easier just stolen that much cash somewhere is. So the plot is ludicrous. The characters are just an example of that era's movie making in which movie makers tried to outdo each other with evil characters. Billed as anti-heroes, they don't come close to filling that role. True anti-heroes are self absorbed, maybe somewhat selfish, probably anti-social, such as in "Hombre", "The Lost Continent", and the Edmond O'Brien version of "DOA". These guys are just vicious punks who you would not want to be your boss, your law enforcement official, your anything. That said, there is some great music, which doesn't match up at all with the mundane events and characters. The shootout scenes are ridiculous, probably comical, and unfortunately they paved the way for a multitude of later movies that copied these inferior techniques. For exciting shootouts you really need to go way back before these movies, or to more modern movies that know better. This cannot be construed in any way as a good movie, much less a classic. You will be bored to tears if you let one of these guys talk you into watching it. These are the same guys who would take you on a snipe hunt.


                
Not the worst western ever made. More like the top of the bottom of the pile. Two-dimensional characters, ridiculous plot, predictable yet implausible scenes. Good for 12 year olds on a Sunday afternoon, but not much else.If you want to get out of the kiddie pool and see an actually good western movie, watch one that was directed by Clint Eastwood, such as Unforgiven or The Outlaw Josey Wales.


                
Unless your idea of a good time is to sit through nearly 3 hours of Eli Wallach mugging & cackling, give it a miss. Eastwood and van Cleef are classy as ever and the scenery is epic. The civil war references add interest. The Morricone motif is unforgettable. But it's twice as long as it should be, with endless scenes that contribute little. And after 30 minutes at most you'll be praying for someone to shoot the Wallach character in the head.


                
