I'm not a fan of westerns, but feel I've shoved myself in a sci fi horror orientated corner of ignorance so am slowly working my way through the IMDb top 250 in an attempt to broaden my horizons (and possibly catch that rare film that blows u away without expecting it) I did REALLY appreciate the level of accomplishment this film expressed. For its time the cinematic atmosphere of comedy, emotion and gritty drama was clearly above average for even now, and the acting skills were brilliant and really added personality.however (and i don't think its cuz I'm a girl) this film just wasn't for me. it was very slowly paced and i didn't manage to follow or care much for the characters stories.that said, i would definitely recommend watching it as its surely one of those films that depends heavily on personal tastes, and judging it as a western just doesn't give it the respect it warrants.


                
There's a meandering nature about "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly" that keeps me from enjoying it as highly as I think I should. It's certainly not as tight as "For a Few Dollars More", and it really tends to drag during the desert torture and the army scenes (which pop up with surprising frequency). Even the final shootout was too much; I just wanted Leone to get on with it. It's "epic" scope just seems to topple in on itself.That said, there's much to like here, and the built-up acclaim over the years is certainly merited. For one, the framing and composition in this film are amazing. Not sure I've seen such effective use of widescreen in another western. Leone knows how to make the western landscapes eye- catching. Each of the film's stars fits his character well (Wallach, especially, who just seems to relish Tuco's streetrat sense of guile). And it's just one double-cross after another, right up until the very end. It's fun from that standpoint. Just overinflated.7/10
Clint Eastwood is good, Lee Van Cleef is bad and Eli Wallach is ugly. Sorry about that, Eli. Eastwood again plays the Man with No Name whom we have already seen in A Fistful of Dollars and For a Few Dollars More. Our hero, this time referred to as Blondie, may be "good" compared to the other two leading characters but having seen the first two films we know he is not the traditional all-American hero. He's not all good, he's more complex than that. There's not much complexity to Angel Eyes, the character played by Van Cleef. This guy is bad to the bone. Meanwhile Wallach threatens to steal the show. He plays Tuco and this is a guy who, in an otherwise very quiet movie, never shuts up. Good, bad and ugly are searching for $200,000 in Confederate gold known to be buried in a cemetery. It's a very simple plot for a very long movie but the time flies by. Director Sergio Leone ratchets up the tension and keeps you on the edge of your seat.The events of this film, unfolding during the Civil War, actually take place prior to the events of the first two films in the Dollars Trilogy. And the war certainly intrudes on the story, causing complications for our characters in their desperate search for that gold. A big war battle scene lends a bit of grandeur that the first two films didn't have. Leone is making a film of much larger scale this time around. But while the war looms over everything this is still a story about our hero and the two companions he would very much like to be rid of. There are great twists and turns as at different times in the movie different members of the trio have the upper hand. Sometimes you're at the top, sometimes you're at the bottom, sometimes you're forced into an unholy alliance with your great adversary. All along the way there is much drama. And along with the drama there is plenty of action too. This is a movie which grabs your attention right at the start and holds it throughout.Blondie is the nominal hero, making Eastwood the nominal star. And, as already established in the prior two films, Eastwood suits the role perfectly. He's the perfect embodiment of the quiet, cunning, not totally heroic hero. Van Cleef played a good guy, more or less, in For a Few Dollars More. This time around he gets to play a total baddie and he sinks his teeth into the role with great relish. Wallach is a little over-the-top but delightfully so. Tuco is a crazed, maniacal character and Wallach pours his heart into his performance. He brings so much energy to the film. Three great actors, three great characters. Leone could hardly go wrong. And the film has so much more to offer. With breathtaking visuals and a truly memorable score the film both looks and sounds spectacular. Story, actors, cinematography, music. This film is the total package. It is certainly the best of the Dollars Trilogy, this is the Man with No Name's greatest adventure. The Good, the Bad and the Ugly is often found on short lists of the greatest films ever made. That kind of acclaim may be overselling things just a touch. But there is no doubt this is a very good film, a thrilling last chapter in the story of one of the most iconic characters to ever grace the screen.


                
The Good......it is one of those "New", groundbreaking, and completely different Movies that was quite influential, broke Taboos, and in the midst of a Decade of change was an announcement from a Director that said..."take this, you Western Movies", and the Western Movies did and never looked back......The Cinematography expanses and lingering affection for landscapes brought the John Ford aesthetic to a new Generation and to a new level of opulence. There are some other Camera Tricks here that are playfully fresh (for 1966) and it was without doubt, Psychedelia before it was fashionable......The Soundtrack that is now an indelible part of Pop Culture and reminds us Today of how different it really was.The Bad......Endless Closeups of squinting eyes. A tendency to elaborate on already elongated Scenes to add to the already established Suspense......The Character Tuco becomes relentlessly obnoxious, overbearing, irritating, and unlikeable immediately and this keeps up for almost 3 Hours. It is an overacted Performance that makes the Movie less engaging......The length seems padded and indulgent.The Ugly......All the Characters, their Personalities and the Makeup. This is truly a Panorama of Ugliness throughout and given its length, a bit too much to bare......There is for your viewing pleasure...flies, filthy Faces (almost always in close up) chewing little cigars and sporting blood, pus, scabs, and other assorted flavors like food being shoveled into salivating mouths with Technicolor glee......Ugly could be a word that would describe this Movie. Another would be overrated.In conclusion......The best Spaghetti Western is from the same Director...Once Upon a Time in the West (1968).


                
I loved it but I didn't, I loved the movie for the touch of old western style but I thought it may have been a bit too slow. It had great adventures and wrapped up beautifully but it may have been a bit too long. Regardless, it was very good to watch this movie and I am glad I did, Clint Eastwood was amazing in his prime!I loved Tuco, played by Eli Wallah, who was just one of those loud mouthed idiots that always talks himself into trouble. You can assume that he was the 'UGLY' in the movie. Tuco was just great for the humor side of the film and that's why I loved him. He was also quite unpredictable, you never know what was going to happen with him.I would recommend it to movie buffs who have a love for movies like I do. People who enjoy browsing the history of movies and how they were made back then, especially as it is an iconic one for its time and considered a classic now!It was a unique movie, Clint Eastwood was like WOW! I now understand why he is such a legend in Hollywood. It is definitely one that will last through the ages as it is a classic due to the storyline, the actors and the camera techniques. One thing that put me off was the music! But that was the usual back in those times.
First up for a spaghetti Western this doesn't appear anywhere near as hackneyed and half-arsed as the label might lead you to believe. In fact the blu-ray I rented looked pretty awesome.The tale of the three titular desperados is long and elaborate. How long? How about 3 hours long. Long enough to have two on screen deaths and a full meal eaten before a line of dialogue is uttered.The Good is Clint Eastwood, a rough n tough cowboy who plays as fair as you play him. He sports a perpetual three day growth and an equally permanent short cigar propped out of the corner of his thin lips.The Bad is Lee Van Cleef, a dodgy soldier on the lookout for a man with one eye, for reasons that I will explain later.The Ugly is the only guy with a name used regularly, Tuco (Eli Wallach). In fact Tuco is pretty much the star of the show, though Good n Bad get their moments.Good, Bad and Ugly are eventually all in pursuit of the same target, stolen gold coins, the whereabouts of which are only known to a one eyed soldier who sports a patch.The greater part of the film plays like those riddles where the farmer must get the chook, the fox and the wheat from one shore to the other without something eating something else, only he can only fit one thing in his boat at a time. The Bad knows the location of the gold, the Good knows not the location but specifics once you get there, and the Ugly is the key to bringing all loose ends together.Each of the grimy trio spend ample time getting to know – and beat the shtuffing out of – each other. They take turns leaving each other for dead and at various times all seem to hold the upper hand, only to have it taken from them.There are loads of close ups highlighting shifty eyes, many slow drawn out scenes including what must be the longest Mexican stand off on history, and I must say the makeup jobs were quite well done. As the film is set in the US civil war era some of the settings are surprisingly intricate and feature a cast of thousands of well costumed extra, further dispelling any notion that I had of a 'spaghetti Western' being a cheap knock-off, and though the length and long periods of inactivity were a little different to my modern day ADD sensibilities I was rarely bored, which in a three hour 45 year old film might be the strongest recommendation I can give.Final Rating – 7.5 / 10. I wish I could explain it better but the circular sounding whistle that forebodes every gun fight (and parody) know to film originated in this film. If you only watch once Western this year – or this decade – you could do a lot worse than this.


                
Likes:Soundtrack
Story
Standoff (probably the longest standoff in cinema history)Dislikes:Three hour runtime. As good as the movie was with the various twists and turns three hours is just too long. I had to watch the movie in segments like a mini-series.


                
The final of the trilogy is considered the best also and with The Good The Bad and the Ugly Sergio Leone's "The man with no name" series comes to a grand closure featuring a stand off that has since become legendary not just among cinema fans but in the general populace the world over. Clint Eastwood, Lee Van Cleef and Eli Wallach are fantastic in their respective, iconic roles and the Mediterranean country-side has seldom looked better. Fantastic pacing, witty dialogues and grand cinematography make this film a must watch for anyone- not just fans of the Western genre.


                
Sergio Leone's THE GOOD, THE BAD, AND THE UGLY is a classic Western film. Clint Eastwood is the Good, aka the Man with No Name, a taciturn wanderer who follows his own sense of justice. His opposite is Angel Eyes (Lee van Cleef), the Bad, a brutal mercenary who kills anyone who stands in the way of making ready cash. The film's comic relief is Tuco (Eli Wallach), the Ugly, a Mexican bandit wanted in several states who ends up inadvertently doing some good turns. At the height of the Civil War, as Union and Confederate armies battle each other in the West, these three men vie for an abandoned cache of gold coins.The film is especially memorable for its pace and cinematography. The opening scene, for example, juxtaposes closeups of anxious faces with vast panoramas of the Western landscape, and 10 minutes passes before a single word is said. It's like Tarkovsky transplanted to a vastly different setting. That's not to say it's all so serious, though. In a sense the film is a "two buddies on the road" movie, with Tuco the wisecracker and Eastwood's character the straight man. It is also a war film, with Leone apparently sparing no expense in presenting a realistic image of hundreds of men charging each other on the battlefield. This is not among the greatest films I've ever seen, but it's very well-made.Because this is a "spaghetti Western", an effort in the genre realized by a joint Italian-Spanish production team with American lead actors, the film has some curious qualities. Because of the use of locals, all the faces of Civil War soldiers are so clearly Italian, even though Italian immigration into the US picked up only later. The Mexican bandit Tuco is played by a Polish Jewish actor from New York, and furthermore Leone mocks the character's Catholicism in a way that Americans of the era would, although the faith would be in no way foreign to his Italian audience.


                
Firstly, this movie is in fact the best Western film ever made. It is amazing but it isn't perfect.After 3 men find out that $200,000 is buried under a gravestone, it leads them to race for it. They encounter many different things along the way including the civil war but eventually, they all meet up by the cemetery which leads to a duel.Most famous trilogies as good as they were, never quite captured the charm of the original. But with Leone's "the man with no name" trilogy, the movies kept on getting better as it continued on.Despite the fact that Clint Eastwood's character is labeled as "The Good", he is not much better than the other 2. It's not quite clear why this movie was titled that but it's open for interpretation.The memorable and haunting score does a great job setting up certain scenes and it feels very "Western" to me too.The characters are introduced excellently as always in the opening. The movie often only shows eye contact and body language to convey their personalities. In fact, not a single word is said in the first 10 minutes.Leone has an environment of "every man for himself" as the characters constantly lie and backstab each other as much as possible.The ending when all 3 characters get in a "Mexican standoff" is one of the tensest scenes in cinema. It slowly builds up by the haunting music and the shots of the 3 men getting slowly closer to their guns ready to draw them at any moment.The only thing that bugged me about this movie is that it took 1 hour and 15 minutes for the film to introduce the inciting incident. So the first act is unnecessarily slow moving but that's the only thing I didn't like about this.This is the best Western out there. It's not perfect but its remarkable shots and filmmaking make it a movie well worth viewing a second time.


                
Clint was on a tear in the 60s with his spaghetti westerns. He proved a washed-up American TV idol could reinvent himself successfully and end up rich enough to make splatter movies for decades before doing a few artsy films for fun. I'm unsure of his politics, but the man has to have bad dreams always. I detested them when they came out; now, I find them amusingly quaint considering how vulgarly violent the newer films have gotten. Unfortunately, these films brought about the disintegration of morals/manners in the world, an antihero crazy society and the notion that only very wealthy people can make a film anymore. They are essentially a very bad thing for humanity, but there's no turning back now.Eli, Eli, what made you think you could pull off a Mexican accent/persona? You are a joke. The NYC grit is still there but mixed with spicese, it becomes a very bad scene. Your tristate accent cannot be squelched. You sound like you're about to hail a cab at any second. And you're just not mean enough, dear. You're basically a teddy bear and it shows. Did you owe Eastwood a favor or did he offer you a bundle? It's very sad because your performance drags down what might have been a more interesting film.


                
It's really interesting. I really don't like Westerns and I don't particularly like Italian directors. But Sergio Leone's Westerns, that's a whole 'nother bucket of fun.Basically, three characters defined by the title--the Good, the man with no name who travels the land turning wanted bandits in for money, but not really so they can die; the Bad, a man set out to track down a soldier who holds the secret to a lot of cash; and the Ugly, a bandit that runs into the man with no name and gets caught up in their journey--set out on a fateful journey across Civil War torn Western landscapes in search of $200,000 gold. The money is buried in a graveyard that the Ugly knows the location of, in a grave that the Good knows the name of, in a place that the Bad wants to get to. However, they all must cross Confederate and Union lines, somehow keep each other alive, and prevent each other from double-crossing each other (typically by doing just that, double-crossing each other) until the inevitable fateful showdown at the rocky center of the graveyard.You definitely gotta give it to Mr. Leone, even in the extended 3-hour English language cut, he keeps the movie building gracefully and moving forward to its exciting conclusion. Whereas I did not find this movie to be quite as good as the profoundly moving vengeance narrative of Once upon a Time in the West, I still have more than enough to keep me interested merely in the vast widescreen compositions. Clint Eastwood is every stolid hero wrapped up into one, and even Eli Wallach's Tuco has some sympathy built for him. Meanwhile, Lee Van Cleef's Angel Eyes, well, he's just around to make things more worrisome, it seems.In a way the title refers to the three main archetypes of the West, the roving, solid marksman we admire, the roving, lonely bandit that we pity, and the roving, powerful evil that insinuates itself into every railroad path, wooden town, and power situation, seemingly. And of course it's not a question of who is the toughest, but the most quick-witted, that decides how the outcome is.--PolarisDiB
The sound track is the best part of this long, long movie. The use of the simple theme again and again works very well. However, in my opinion, it does not justify 2½ grueling hours!


                
The king of westerns. Only with this proposal I describe this movie. I remember seeing a little with my family and I can say that until today not change my mind about this masterpiece that inspired many subsequent filmmakers need a lot of pop-corn, comfortable sofa and of course the big screen.The story takes place in the depths of the wild west, at the time the American Civil War, has been held in favor of the North. In the vast expanses of the American mainland, three men trying to reach a treasure ... buried with a fallen war. And everyone of them will use similar methods of character. The Bad (Lee Van Cleef) will torture and kill. The Ugly (Eli Wallach) will treat the cunning and treachery. And The Good (Clint Eastwood) uses his mind, the cynical humor and his amazing ability to spin. The scale will sometimes leans to one and sometimes in the other direction.
OK, I read most of the reviews on the board for over two weeks now. I am dismayed by the amount of viewers who give this a 10/10 and say nothing poignant or useful. Similarly, ones who give it a 1/10 just say it's overrated. I will try to give depth to why I give this movie a 7/10. The cinematography is spectacular; this movie really does contain some of the best shots I have and ever will see in a movie. The length does not bother me, although there are certainly a few scenes that could have been cut down like the final showdown or some of the Civil War scenes. Now the plot. And here arrives the main problem. Historically and contextually, almost all the weapons and battle scenes are out of their time and place in history. I'm sorry, but I can't award a movie a 10/10 for messing up so many basic historical facts. Besides that, there are scenes that just don't mesh well, and I believe the film is somewhat poor on its pacing such as the scene in the monastery vs. the civil war bridge scene. The acting is decent, but seriously how much depth can any of the actors give with these one sided characters. And here, the next problem arises: The characters themselves have NO depth. One is ugly and greedy, the other is bad and....wicked, the last one is good...and a good shot. There's nothing else about them! At least in some of his other movies like A Fistful of Dollars or Once Upon a Time in the West, all the characters are multi-faceted. Moving right along, the production is fairly decent, but how does it help with so many historical errors? The music......is not that good. I have never understood why so many people think it's amazing. It's very simple and....rather childish to be blunt. Sergio Leone is certainly a qualified and somewhat talented director, but this is not his best movie or even one of his better ones. For a good Leone movie, check out Once Upon a Time in the West. That's my favorite. Again, this is not a bad movie, just not "the best western" or "one of the greatest films ever made".
I enjoying western movie quite much but turn my way back after at last minute where the civil war broke out between two groups of people. Why is that western movie has to obtain this materials for the movie. This movie has been nominated quite high maybe for the actor and for the action itself.Also, the best about this one is the first ten minutes which is almost silent and it creates a highly tension between the audience and the characters. Pretty good if you seen this on DVD like i do but in the cinema? people can't fart... and if they do, everybody will definitely hear that.


                
This movie has the speed that feels slower than films twice its run time. Although it is a phenomenal western with intriguing characters and suitable acting the script feels common sense and the story flow easily exceeds the patience of people who are not used to the films genre.


                
BEST OF ALL MOVIES EVER
I LOVE THIS MOVIE
I ALWAYS ADMIRE BRAD PIT FOR THIS ROLE


                
Unforgettable movie great actor I can able to see over over again. I cannot forget a moment, a person or an event.Sometimes I do not want to forget and cause to forget.Carry on the spirit<U+0085>That is the power of art.To carry on the story and to conveyIt is necessary to live more and keep aliveThat is the key of the director<U+0085>Although you do not know that language, that key expresses the person with senses, poetry, songs, music, dance, theater, art, and sculpture which makes us unique.


                
This is without a doubt my all-time favorite western.The beginning of the film is so memorable, with the young, rough good-looks of Eastwood being labeled "The Good", the absolutely evil look of Lee Van Cleef being labeled "The Bad", and a dirty, unkempt, desperado Eli Wallach with booze and food flying being labeled "The Ugly". The ending fight scene with its 3-way showdown is one of the most memorable pieces of film I have ever watched.Leone did a great job with the camera direction in this movie and the acting is impressive. Eastwood, Van Cleef, and Wallach are absolutely fantastic.The only thing that might scare some viewers off is the length of the film. It is long, but you just don't seem to notice it when you are watching the film - you are just too damn busy watching the best classic western of all time.Do yourself a favor and rent this movie if you haven't seen it. If there was ever a perfect western, this is it.


                
This film seems to get the higher evaluation than the previous film "For a Few Dollars More"(1965), but honestly, I prefer the latter to the former because the latter is simpler. This film is actually presenting to us dynamism by involving the Civil War, but I felt a kind of incoherence, because the bounty hunters, who tried to snatch big money, are mismatched with the Civil War soldiers, who fought for their victory of their own country.The story proceeds by three main characters in the balance, the Good (Clint Eastwood), the Bad (Lee Van Cleef) and the Ugly (Eli Wallack), but the personality of Tuco, the Ugly, is too strong and seems to upstage the other two. In particular, Lee Van Cleef, who had presented a big presence in the previous "For a Few Dollars More," is diminished here. Tuco's exposure also seems biggest among three. But, in other words, Eli Wallack is really one of the finest character actors.In spite of the above, in general, this film is dynamic, shooting again the great scenery, this time big battles of the Civil War, under the relatively lower budget we have heard. It is thrilling till the end even if we know that Clint Eastwood wins in the end.Those who have not viewed this film, please compare the Sergio Leone's trio, "A Fistful of Dollars"(1964), "For a Few Dollars More"(1965), and this "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly"(1966).
