I'm just gonna say that this show has gotten so bad lately that i started literally hating all characters. Each and every single one. Well, just about...After pretty good first few seasons, everything that followed was getting harder and harder to watch. Jokes are so lame that elicit more and more facepalms.The only character i still respect in this show is Ed O'Neill, and that is just because he used to be a women's shoe salesman... I will never forget Al Bundy.


                
This show run it's course after season 3. It's basically just repeated storylines each season. God only knows why this show is still running and why the cast, whose acting is simply awful, get paid so much. 
Somebody put this show out of its misery


                
I really don't know how people say this show is good. Believe me, it's not. I wanted to see this show because of the positive reviews it has received, so I watched the pilot first. It was boring, clichéd, and annoying. Even Ed O'Neill is bland and boring, that made me sad. The normal family (Phil Dunphy) is dumb and uninspired. The gay couple is stupid and annoying. I don't have anything against gay people, but the fat one is nothing less than annoying and disgusting. The other gay is OK, but he doesn't make me laugh at all. Sofia Vergara looks too much excited, like she's hyperventilating....it's really creepy. The kids are bland or clichéd at best. After the pilot, i though "Well, it's the pilot...maybe the second one is better...." Well, that's not true. Everything is bland and boring at best, or annoying and unbearable at worst. The characters, the story, the comic parts. Believe me, I tried to laugh with this...I couldn't. Now for the big picture.....there is no music whatsoever. It makes you feel like you're watching a home video, maybe that's why the series is boring. And finally the worst part.....the camera....it goes up, down, left, down, up, right.....so, who gave the camera to a 15 year old drunken kid? It makes me dizzy to watch this show, and with the story and characters, it makes me sick. I can't stand watching more than 5 minutes of this "thing" now. So, to summarize, DO NOT watch this series, there are better things out there...in fact, almost everything could be better than THIS!


                
Imitator Family steals everything bad from the last 60 years of television. From "The Office" it steals hurky-jerky rapid camera shifts to try to show it is "new"; from "I Love Lucy: it steals contrived plots that are completely unrealistic. From "Steinfeld" it tries to pretend it is a "real-life" show and thus about nothing, even though most sit-coms are about "nothing" and their attempt to turn them into something. And by taking plot devices from everything from "Father Knows Best" to "Roseanne" it tries to create laughs where there are none. While Ty Burrell and Eric Stonestreet play horrible stereotypes poorly, Ed O'Neill is good and Sofia Vergara is very good. However, in 10 years this series won't even be seen at 2 AM in syndication.


                
Produced in the mockumentary style popularised by embarrassment comedies like "The Office"[1] and "Parks and Recreation" this take is far too tame and restrained to work. Those other shows savage the people whose petty lives they satirise. When the mockumentary camera is used to deliver a pure sitcom in "Modern Family", it reveals only that banality is... banal. That is, stripped of the cruelty and gloating of embarrassment comedy, all that's on show here is a tired parade of sitcom stereotypes. And when these stereotypes extend to race and sexual orientation, the result is truly repellent.Even /had/ the writers decided to use the mockumentary style to depict the lives of these characters as empty, pathetic, and meaningless, the characters aren't even substantial enough to savage. And what would be funny about savaging stereotyped minorities anyway? The appeal of this remains unfathomable to me.[1] I'm specifically referencing the British version of the show here; I've not seen the American remake, so can't comment on it.


                
After Seeing so many good reviews here of this show , I struck to idea of watching " Modern Family" .... I seen episode 1 , which was boring,but i tried to force myself to watch more because i thought that May be ahead their will be good episodes .... But I could not bear this show ,I switched it off right in middle of episode 3 ...Again i started fresh by watching its 4th episode , but this was also boring ...so again i switched it off after watching episode 4th also ..Now i have made my mind to never watch this show again . #bad story line,bad humor,Bad Screen Play . nothing will hold u to watch further episodes of show .


                
The worst TV I think I have ever seen. Funny? No, just idiotic drivel.


                
Early on this was one of my favorites. I enjoyed the characters except for Gloria as portrayed by the untalented SV.
Sometimes Ty Burrells' character was annoying but I now find him to be a buffoon and unwatchable - and even Eric's character has become annoying. The last show about them thinking they could be Hip Hop Dancers was beyond the pale. They don't know what to do with the kid's characters- especially the son -. I can bear Manny for a while but in short doses 
This show has seen better days and what I find especially annoying is how the producers dupe the viewing public with a " new season" One new shoe every so often stuck in with endless reruns- and this is a common practice these days 
with many programs.


                
