I just bought this after a friend of mine recommended it, because it was supposed to be so funny. And maybe it is, I'm sure it is for some, but not for me, here is why: not one single funny character! the gay couple i super annoying, the fat guy is supposed to be funny because he is fat and dramatic, the colombian kid, funny because he's fat and acting like a grown up, not funny! the women in the series, sexy super cliché all the time, not funny! the kids, not funny. the father (son in law of Ed..) is the most funny character, but is sometimes over acting his part. To sum it up, i find the whole family kind of irritating. They're always hanging out together (who does that!), pretty, rich and perfect family. I feel more like throwing up than to laugh. In fact I haven't laughed since episode two (I have just watched season one..)Maybe this series works for rich white happy families who recognizes them self in the "funny family situations", people who just had a baby and think that kids are super funny just being kids. Maye I am just a little F#%d up for needing more morally deprived series like "its always sunny in philly", "peep show" or "trailer park boys" to get me to laugh:) I don't like comedy series to be about "learning something". It reminds me of a modern "step by step", but even though I disliked that series for the same things, they at least had some funny characters and good dialog.


                
I weep for the untimely departure of the wit and intelligence of this show's first seasons.
For the past two seasons, I felt the writing less subtle than before. But this (hopefully) final season takes the cake! The stories are garbled, the direction inexistant at best and the acting on constant overload.
I won't cry its demise.


                
Used to like this show but the last few seasons - and the current one only continues the slide - have become stale scenarios divided into the usual personality groups where everyone tries SO hard - often having to rush their lines to get all the details out in in their allotted time slot. It looks like - and is - such hard work. When actors try this hard to be funny it just does not work. The story lines seem to get more and more unrealistic. Frankly this show is in a race with itself - to the bottom. I would have to think that the actors themselves must. Probably should have been killed a few years ago.


                
The many critical accolades for this comedy series puzzle me. For the most part, I find it tiresome, a broadly played, cutesy attempt at a portrayal of "contemporary life," replete with fairly gently insulting caricatures of gays, Latinos, precocious children, and a crusty "colorful" character making an attempt to adjust to his aforementioned Latina wife and her son. It follows the often used technique of rapid-fire cuts from one family interaction to the next that should appeal to those suffering from ADHD. How clever!The best I can say for "Modern Family" is that it is somewhat less irritating than many other current comedies, like the dismal "How I Met Your Mother," the dreadful "Two Broke Girls," and new lackluster efforts like "We Are Men," "Sean Saves the World," and "The Millers." The best left is the long-running "Big Bang Theory" which is, at least, literate and brilliantly acted.Just as television has produced a number of superb dramatic series, its comedies continue to slide into an abyss. We now have brilliant dramatic productions, mostly from basic and pay cable. Where are the comedies?


                
I enjoyed Modern Family for several years. Not every show was top notch but most were up until 2 years ago. The 2016/2017 season was awful, not one good show in the whole season. I had hopes the 2017/2018 season would get back to the earlier quality. But this show is now unwatchable. I am embarrassed for the cast members. They are getting rich but they have to know they are producing terrible work. The storylines are tired and worn. And, is every young character going to have a borderline incestous relationship with an adult family member of the opposite sex? CBS, take back your renewal and put this show out of its and our misery.


                
