Up to Season 7 was great, a laugh a minute but season 8 & 9 just bomb I think I manage one laugh a show. They should rename it to Sarcasm Family it's just full of bickering and bad jokes.


                
The first 5 seasons of this show were as good as just about any sitcom that's been on tv. In season 5 however, it started to decline, drastically. I still watch because I've been here so long I want to finish it out, but most weeks it's painful. They 'jumped the shark' long ago, and the once hit comdedy has been on a traumatic tailspin ever since. Reading rumors as of late that the upcoming 10th season could be it's last, makes me feel somewhat, well, relieved.


                
What's happened! Seasons 1 - 5 were absolutely hilarious "Modern Family" was the best show, one of my favourites in those seasons the writing was SO clever and the laughs were constant it genuinely was a very good show always entertaining with its "mockumentaty" style to it but after season 6 things obviously changed writing creativity was dropping off and the laughs weren't there anymore and seasons 7+ forget about it I'm not finding any laughter at all I hardly watch it anymore. The show had a really good run but they have dragged it on too much now and sadly have ended it poorly. If the show had been left at season 5 my rating would have been 9 - 10 stars and would have well and truly deserved each one but the older seasons have really hurt that rating they just aren't funny anymore and it's really disappointing. The kids have grown up and you just don't get the same laughs if any at all. Do yourself a favour if you're looking for a new show with lots of laughs definently watch this one watch seasons 1 - 5 and then stop! Don't ruin it for yourself I don't watch it anymore other than the odd one here and there just to see the show finish because I was so disappointed it's just boring cringe, worthy even. I'm so disappointed!! Why they felt they needed to make 10 seasons when the show had obviously lost its touch well before season 10 was been filmed and to ruin such an amazing show I'm so disappointed "Modern Family" I'll try to only think of your early seasons back when you were for sure worth the watch and I'll try to forget what a mess the shows become.


                
The first few seasons were good but the show got very repetitive after that. Every season, several episodes are devoted to celebrating special days (valentines day, Christmas, Halloween, Thanksgiving, birthdays and anniversaries) and we get only 2-3 episodes per season that don't revolve around celebrating some special day. The writers must be running out of material or something.


                
it used to be my favorite show and i enjoyed a lot watching it. screenplay was so creative and realistic at the same time but lately ( last 2 or 3 seasons ) it's all soulless and dry like a bunch of celebrities hanging out. even the way they dress up is kinda unrealistic.


                
I discovered this series during its first season, believing that the concept of the ´fake documentary´was brain new. Until I became aware that ´The office´ already used the same concept 7 years earlier. Same for ´Parks and recreations´, these are not original concepts. 
For your defense, the very first idea of ´Fake documentary´ that I remember was in the 1st episode of the 4th season of ER. It may have been used before though. 
Beyond this, the first season was very interesting but I must say that the new ideas started to fade from season 2 and many jokes remind me of others I have seen or heard before.


                
This hilarious new show centers around three families which are interrelated through Jay Pritchett, his uptight gay son Mitchell Pritchett and his married and harried daughter Claire Dunphy. The families occasionally meet with each other at family functions, such as the meeting of Mitchell and Cameron's new baby in the first episode.The stand-outs on the show are Sofia Vergara as Jay's fiery Colombian wife of six months, Ty Burrell as the wannabe 'cool dad,' and Eric Stonestreet as Mitchell's flamboyant boyfriend.'Modern Family' mostly reminds me of a more grounded 'Arrested Development' mixed in with the documentary-style laughs of 'The Office.' Each episode has three main story lines that involve the members of each branch of the family, and unlike some multiple strand shows where some story lines get boring, this show makes them all work.


                
Modern Family hit the ground running as a unique, sharp and witty show. It didn't have the standard laugh track and got the audience to react to what they thought was funny. The unique and modern characters and their interactions made for some good laughs here and there. Despite its decent start the show proved it was not sustainable and fallen off the radar over the years. It is not what it used to be and sometimes tries too hard. It has gotten to the stage in its life cycle where only its devoted fan base tune in.


                
I love this show I do but I hate the character CAM. the guy is controlling, selfish, over- acting, and manipulative. his relationship with mitchell is the most toxic relationship in the whole show and it is stressing me out seeing them. I actually don't want to watch the show anymore because of how Toxic Cam is which is a shame because i love everything else about it.


                
This isn't a bad show by no means, but its not great either. Its more of a time killer than anything else. I can't really explain what's wrong with it, maybe its the whole principle. Yes its modern family so everything has to be modern but i for one don't like that. Everything is modern just like in any other home and all of the kids are "modern" as well, just like in any other home. To me its more of a really show than a sitcom. Most of the stuff they do i do too, and the stuff that's supposed to be funny isn't, for me. There is something missing and i just don't know what that is but the atmosphere of the whole show just don't feel right, it doesn't feel like a loving family that cares about each other they all seem fake. Just like in real life. So basically i find this more of a meta show than a sitcom, making fun of the entire world basically. But this is my opinion and opinions are subjective


                
I liked watching this one. The cast is great. Ed O'Neill certainly isn't Al Bundy in here, even though once a while he still has chance to put up the stupid face he perfected in so many "Married with Kids"-episodes. What actually surprised me is how good the kids act. My favorites are Rico Rodriguez as Manny and Ariel Winter as Alex, which deliver their lines perfectly. They outperform their TV-parents in pretty much every moment! I welcomed the inclusion of a gay couple, but it was very stereotypical for my taste. Eric Stonestreet is "La cage aux folles" all over again and he isn't blessed with his script. Only Jesse Tyler Ferguson manages to keep it real once in a while as the more down-to-earth in the relationship, still the screaming, worrying and squeaking is layered a bit thick here. Less would have been more here.The screenplay feels forced and predictable once in a while. Especially in the first season the writers seemed to have a hard time make their protagonists quirks believable, which are responsible for the humor. Most of all Julie Bowen and Ty Burrell seemed to be skeptical of some ideas of their roles, which is most feel-able in the first role-play-sex-episode. Phil Dunphy being such a perfect charming seducer with almost Bond-qualities seemed to openly contradict his character definition as the clumsy but lovable family dad, even though the actor sure pulls it off acting-wise. If that guy possesses such social finesse, it's hard to accept he gets in trouble with his wife that often...The second season works better, the writers and the cast seem more comfortable with their roles. This at least gives me quite some faith the series might develop into a real gem. At least two episodes here made me laugh hysterically and that's worth quite something!


                
I have to admit that this show has grown on me, I watch it regularly and the humor seems to have improved later on. I also watch it out of nostalgic Bundy sentiments... However, I still don't see why it is supposed to be the best show in the comedy lineup. And here are the reasons why:They just went berserk with stereotypes. I mean come on, here are the "gays", there the "dorks", there the high school sweetheart. This is overused to the extreme! Is it so difficult to produce an American series without clichés?Name just one character that has not gone on your nerves at some point! I can't. They are not unlovable, but why do they always have to behave in the same, shrill way?The main issue bothering me: It is not believable for any of the pairs that at one point they have met and liked each other for long enough to still be together. I just can't see this realistically - or even unrealistically in a sitcom world. Also, how come at least half of the characters are not dead yet? Judging by the idiocy going on every week, which is funny in the situation - but all in all, who could always dodge bullets for a longer period? On one hand this is cartoon slapstick humor, on the other hand the show has set itself the semi-realistic challenge to portrait a modern family suited to current society. Somehow it does neither to a full extent.


                
This is a really good show - for one season. It's funny and touching. The characters are real, they have their comedic quirks, and they care about each other. After that, it's just run-of-the-mill, crank 'em out every week, sitcom crap. My 10-year old daughter continued to watch half way through Season 2, but I had to make her stop. I couldn't even stand for it to be on in the background.But don't let that keep you from watching Season 1.This happens to most TV shows. The creators have good ideas and do most of the writing for the first season. You come to relate to the characters and want to know what happens to them. But greatness is measured and the creators can't keep it up forever. So they bring in "writers", the guys who crank out insults in place of humor and people getting caught in lies instead of drama. (Oh, and dramatic irony, you know, where the audience knows but the characters don't; like the husband and wife who in Season 1 were so in tune that they completed each others sentences, but in Season 2 have no clue what the other one is feeling, no clue what he really means by that tone in his voice, no clue what any sentient being, like the audience, would know is really going on because now all the characters are completely emotionally retarded. Yeah, dramatic irony. Really hate that.) But watch Season 1 of Modern Family (and Cheers, Heroes, Once Upon a Time, ....)


                
It's an okay show, it's just not a great show. It doesn't deserve all the praise it gets, and definitely not an 8.6 rating. The plots are very dull, and the acting is just very forced a lot of the times. It is the kind of show future grandmothers might watch. You should watch it if you're bored and there is nothing on TV but don't expect to make it your favorite show or die laughing.I appreciate that they are trying to show how the idea of what it means to be a family is changing, including interracial relationships, gay marriage, and divorced families. It is in an interesting concept, yes, but it's just not that funny of a show. It tries too hard to be funny. Like, I said, it's okay, you may smile here and there but you're not gonna crack up.


                
After 6 seasons it gets repetitive and annoying.
And the cringy slapstick combined with the bad acting can't support the time between the 1..2 good jokes per episode.
The quality of humor decreased over time and very hard in season six and the writers are still mostly playing the steroetype card.
First 5 seasons were OK and if you're not too demanding and usually laugh about
unintelligent humor, i recommend the show.


                
I don't watch too much TV generally, and I have few favourites in comedy, especially. I believe comedy's appeal lies in its being relatable as well as natural. And that's quite a challenge, and almost everyone fails at it.Not this series. This is by far the funniest series I've ever watched.Phil Dunphy is undoubtedly the star of the show, a real show-stealer, with his amazing timing and those facial expressions. Most of all, what's really satisfying to see is a kind man depicted as a winner, which happens rarely. Most people shown in 'comedies' are generally nasty and unlikeable and plain jerks. Not this one, he has a heart of gold, and seems to be the most humanly humans in the series. The character has been developed to such perfection that it cannot be outdone. And Mr. Burrell has acted, rather, lived the role of his life.He is complemented spectacularly by Ms. Bowen. These two are the real geniuses behind the show's appeal and popularity, I feel.If I had a qualm about one thing, it's the meanness behind a few dialogues. I think it stems from the creators' meanness. There are too many casual descriptions of animal cruelty in the series. For a 'Modern Family', Jay and Gloria and Mitch and Cam talk like savages. I detest the implicit endorsement of animal cruelty, and wish the writers didn't have to go to such disgusting lows in the name of comedy.But overall, this is a series I'd binge watch every time. There's no way I'm getting tired of this one.
During season one, I just thought it would be another Bill-Cosby-Show. In season two, the writing and the actors grew on me, though they are most often based on stereotypes. The kids throw hilarious punchlines. But it is a show that could not live without the dry sense of humour of the leading couple between Ed O'Neill and Sophia Vergara who sometimes bring elements of the unforgetten MWC into it. Watch the series back to back, you will see some scenes in "Modern Family" that will remind you of "Married...with Children". "Modern Family" feels like Al Bundy hit the lottery jackpot. The stereotypes sometimes are exaggerated, but it is still easy entertainment. If you want a really black sense of humour, watch Monty Python or MWC. Kudos to Ed O'Neill for playing Al Bundy and Jay whatever...Good choice of roles! My main point of criticism is that this family is wealthy and will never hit rock bottom like the Bundys, but apart from that, it is a funny show.


                
"Modern Family" is a look at familial relations in the 21st century. The different branches of a family in the LA area go through all sorts of trials and tribulations but press on. To be certain, there are a lot of disagreements among the family members: the patriarch (Ed O'Neill) has trouble coming to grasp with his son's (Jesse Tyler Ferguson) homosexuality, the daughter (Julie Bowen) is less than pleased with her father's marriage to a feisty Colombian woman (Sofía Vergara), while the grandchildren have their own issues to deal with.I just got through binge-watching the first season. I hope to see the rest of the show. The mockumentary-style filming gives it a feeling of extra realism; sometimes I felt as if I was spying on the whole Pritchett clan! But in the end, this is a clever show. I recommend it.


                
