I saw the trailer for this show a while back and was instantly intrigued. Shot in a "mockumentary" style it follows the lives of three couples who's various members are related as family members. Although the set-up is slightly cliché, a gay couple, a stereotypical family and a Columbian wife and son (from her first marriage) with her American husband, this is where the standard ends. The dialogue is fantastic and at many points I found myself really laughing quite loudly, something which is very rare for a TV show to accomplish for me personally. The casting is also spot on with the inclusion of Ed O'Neill (the infamous Al Bundy!), Ty Burrell, Julie Bowen and Sofía Vergara, with each actor really bringing something unique to the mix. I strongly recommend this show to anybody who appreciates good comedy, the "to-camera" sections of the dialogue have a very close resemblance to the original UK version of "The Office" and for those who are familiar with this, Modern Family will be a welcomed return. Great show, great acting, great script. Highly recommended.


                
I decided to check out "Modern Family" after hearing all of the critical praise about it. The show was five episodes in, so I caught up on the action online. And I must say that the acclaim is well-deserved. The show is nothing like what I'd imagined when I read about it. It is not a typical three-camera sitcom and it actually IS as gut-wrenchingly funny as people say.With any modern TV comedy, people are going to compare it with "Arrested Development", which is highly regarded as one of the greatest shows ever by many. "Modern Family" is not quite "A.D.", but I can see why some people may compare the two."Modern Family", like "Arrested Development", is a comedy about a wacky extended family that is filmed in a quasi-documentary style, similar to "The Office". The characters don't acknowledge the camera, but they do contribute "talking head" segments to supplement the action. The show is less cartoony and surreal than "Arrested Development" or "30 Rock", but the comedy can still get pretty off-the-wall.The ensemble cast is great. There are three branches of a single family. The patriarch (Ed O'Neill) has re-married, bringing a Colombian-born wife and her son into the fold. The daughter (Julie Bowen) and her husband (Ty Burrell) have three kids. The son (Jesse Tyler Ferguson) and his partner (Eric Stonestreet) have just adopted a Vietnamese baby. The show focuses mainly on the parents and how they raise their families and interact with each other in today's society.My favorite character is Phil (Burrell), who plays the dad who tries to be "hip". He means well, but he's really kind of a wimpy husband. Phil's always putting himself in awkward situations (without always realizing it) and some of his lines are hilarious. He tries so hard to be the "cool dad". Next I like Cameron (Stonestreet), who's gay and proud of it. He's sensible and sensitive and he has some great lines, too.Although I haven't really connected with the show like I have with some others (just a matter of personal style), there's no denying that "Modern Family" is an above-average comedy. It's written well, with humor sewn throughout the fabric of each episode, and each episode packs some laugh-out-loud moments. And I say this as someone who rarely actually bursts into audible laughter. (Occasionally, with shows like "A.D." or "30 Rock".) This show does it, though. Phil, in particular, has me in stitches.To give you a comparison, I'd say "Modern Family" is like a cross between "The Office" and "Arrested Development". Presented more like the former, with humor and content drifting more toward the latter. More grounded in reality than "A.D.", though, and without some of the triple-entendres and zingers.The show finds windows to sneak in some wholesome family morals like togetherness and acceptance, but the episodes always end with a laugh.But the rumors are true. "Modern Family" IS a very funny new comedy. Check it out on ABC or ABC.com if you don't believe me. (Or wherever else it's available.) It definitely should be on your radar.


                
I love this show but if they don't tone down Clairs character I will have to stop watching. She is ALWAYS so over the top neurotic now I cant stand her character anymore. Just take it back a few notches!!!!! I get nervous just watching her. Her actions are illogical . The other characters are true to the original characters, they have developed normally over the years and are still believable. Lilly is a great character and her lines always make me laugh, I love her attitude and Joe is a cute little boy. Manny and Luke aren't as entertaining now that they are older, Luke doesn't seem to really know how to actually act, they are going to have to address this. Mannys eccentricities were cute in a little boy but as a teenager they are annoying. If they could rework him a little it would be more believable and likable. If they could address these issues it would be the "10" show it used to be


                
Based on the previews alone, I knew I would be watching at least the Pilot episode of "Modern Family". I am a big fan of the "Office" (especially earlier episodes) and love the format, so I had high hopes for "Modern Family". I am happy to report that my hopes were not let down for this show. In my opinion, this is the greatest 1st season comedy since "the office". I've been reading numerous articles about the show and it seems like Ty Burrell, who plays Phil, is the break out star. I hate to say this, but I think Phil is probably one of the dumbest parts of the show. His character is basically a Michael Scott rip-off and the actor seems like he is trying too hard. I basically want to say to the producers of the show: You have a really witty show with some great writing, PLEASE don't resort every week for predictable, LAME slapstick plot lines. You guys are better than that. I give them major credit though, because this show has TONS of potential. First Season review: B+


                
I would give this show a 10/10 up to season 7ish but the decline in script, acting and storylines is feeling tragic.
Seems to be no continuity in the characters, slapstick "humour", and the wit is just not as sharp as it was.
Only plus point to the new season is they seem to have forgotten to write Lily in.


                
This is a great show all in all, a joy to watch<U+0085>.. I like the main family (the father), he marries this loud Latina, lives with her passionate little boy, Manny. The three of them create quite a hilarious family with a lot of laugh. Then comes the son's (gay partnership) family, you can almost feel the normality of this arrangement and somehow forget that gay partnership arrangement used to be a taboo, I am glad that they set it up like this rather than the conventional husband-wife scenario. These guys are funny. They complement each other very well.. then there is the Dunphy family, I like father Dunply, he is the best comedian of all the Dunphys follow by his little boy<U+0085> the only casting I am not convince is Sarah Hyland as Haley, I don't know, just feel that maybe someone taller and older could better play the character especially since Haley does nothing but keep chasing after boys<U+0085> and she wears too much make-up too.


                
Now that season 2's over and I've seen every episode except one, I think the time is right to write a review on the series Modern Family. Following Arrested Development and The Office, Modern Family is a mockumentary TV show. But instead of ripping off AD it manages to establish its own voice early with a string of characters more down-to-earth but still funny in their own right. There weren't enough great episodes for me to bump my rating to a 9, but I never felt this show dipped below a certain quality. The dialogue is not dependent on pop culture references, bathroom humour or a laugh track, giving this show an advantage.Modern Family is intelligently put together, often by having three different stories sharing a motif reflected in the episode title. Some of the best episodes, particularly in season 1, have the characters giving commentary that can be touching. I do like most of the characters, including Alex, even if she's an imitation of Lisa Simpson, and Phil, even if the dumb sitcom dad has been done before on other shows. There's no denying Gloria is beautiful and Jay is played well by Ed O'Neill, even though I was never a big fan of him in Married with Children. Of the three branches of the family, my favourite is the Dunphys.The best episodes, I think, are Coal Digger (season 1) and Caught in the Act (season 2). Here's hoping for a good season 3!


                
Ever wonder what Al Bundy (Married with Children) might be like as a grandfather, if he started his own successful business, married a hot Latina, and spent a bunch of time with her intelligent, chubby kid with a good heart and old soul? Well, O'Neill is not exactly Bundy in this show, but he brings every bit of the "guy's guy" to his Jay Pritchett character. In fact, I just read that O'Neill learned (and still practices) Brazilian Ju-Jitsu from the Gracie family (often credited for elevating BJJ to a mainstream, respected martial arts style throughout the world), earned his black belt in 2007 (after 15 years of training), and was signed by the Pittsburgh Steelers as an outside linebacker in 1969 (although he was cut from the team before the start of the regular season), so he is officially a bona fide bad-ass. I especially enjoy his head-to-head exchanges with Benjamin Bratt when he guest stars as Javier Delgado, Pritchett's wife's (Vergara's) ex-husband and father of her son.This show is hilarious, clever, witty, and endearing, and the entire cast is top-notch. Rico Rodriguez often steals the show as that intelligent, chubby kid I mentioned above; he's working with great scripts, but he nails every line, gesture, and non-verbal cue; that kid's got a bright future ahead of him. Vergara and Julie Bowen skillfully balance hot and eccentric. At first, I found Burrell's character, Phil Dunphy, to be creepy and unlikable, but Burrell quickly developed him into a goofy, ADD-stricken, creative, and loving father, who is now one of my favorite characters on the show. Nolan Gould masterfully displays many of Phil's characteristics in his own way, making him very believable as Phil's son. Eric Stonestreet is funny and charismatic as Cameron Tucker, Pritchett's son's (Jesse Tyler Ferguson's) domestic partner and co-father (is that the right word?) of a little Asian girl (I'm assuming that this was a sarcastic move by the show, since it's so intelligent in all other respects); I believe that the decision to make him a former Missouri farmhand and University of Illinois football player was great in that it would have added another dimension to his character, breaking from the stereotype that all gays are effeminate, but unfortunately, whether it's due to the script or Stonestreet's acting decisions, Cam is a big queen (he even runs like an uncoordinated little girl, making his college football and farm careers unbelievable), and the benefit of that background piece is lost.All in all, though, this show is consistently great. I know that I will laugh and be entertained every time that I watch an episode. I would recommend that everyone set aside to watch this series at some time.


                
I love the show, the somewhat "random" filming, the jokes and the personalities. What I don't like so much about it, is all the touchy-feely moments at the end of the show. Where everyone becomes friends again, where everyone love each other and just having great family moments. I understand that this is a show about different types of families, but I think they should turn it down a bit. They try to kind of "cover it up" with a joke at the end, but I think it's too much of a "Full House"- feeling to it. But as I said, this is the only thing I can complain on. Otherwise I love the show, and this is about the only show that actually makes me laugh out loud when I'm watching it by myself. Keep it up!


                
LOVE this show. Great ensemble but the actor who plays Manny is a terrible actor. Last season it looked like a coach was trying to teach him how to use his hands more because all of a sudden he was moving his hands all over the place. He's the only one on the show not believable. I don't know if they should take him off completely or just decrease his character on the show. He's that bad. It's like a bad SNL skit where he just comes in, awkwardly says a few ridiculous lines (which were cute when he was younger), and then walks off as you're left wondering what the hell...... The actress who plays Lilly isn't so great either but she's young so I'm cutting her some slack.The rest of the actors on the show are fantastic and work so incredibly well together. The writing is terrific and hysterically funny.If they get rid of Manny I would give it a 10.


                
I am a huge fan of this show, even if the quality has dipped slightly in the past couple of seasons. I think it's a lot better than some of the comedies brought out in the past 5-10 years. The only problem I have is with the kid who plays Luke Dunphy, Nolan Gould. He simply cannot act. God knows how he got the job.He sounds like a robot when he talks or someone who's struggling to remember their lines, which is weird because supposedly he's very intelligent. Bottom line is that the producers should have removed him after the first few episodes. Thankfully this error is overshadowed thanks to the amazing acting from the rest of the cast and solid story-lines.


                
I started watching this show with much expectations, just like almost everything that Ed O'Neill ever starred in since Married with children. The comedy script is very successful. Casting is great, though I think that age of Ed O'Neill finally catching up with him. Sometimes it's still possible to catch a glimpse of old Al Bundy, but he is basically looks very tired, and just wants people to let him be. There is another thing, Sofia Vergara. Don't get me wrong, she plays her part very well as passionate Columbian woman and all the comedy goes with "gold digging" and such. Maybe it's just me, but the problem is that she's too sexy for this comedy. I can watch episode and laugh until she enters the screen, and than I feel as I'm waiting for much more adult content. Despite her being the absolute attraction of this show, it's ironically that it's her presence on screen, is the thing that disrupts this comedy - therefore it's 8/10 and not more. Other than this, in my opinion, this comedy is better than how I met your mother - which I like, so it's definitely worth to watch.


                
Note: I have not watched past season 5, and I have no intention of watching further.The viewers can relate to something about every character, and it's quite entertaining to have a laugh at the family while you're somewhat laughing at yourself. Season 5 appears to show that they are running low on material, so I stopped watching there before the series got too bad. I suggest watching through season 4 and then stopping.


                
Why is lily the only character that's not really part of the show. It's weird


                
Modern Family cracks me up every time. Each character feels so real and you really get to know them more and more each episode. The credibility of the characters lies mostly in their complexity as you get to watch them constantly contradicting themselves. It is definitely a feel-good TV show, as loving and caring families are shown in each episode. Personally, I find most of the puns and jokes hilarious- but I understand that is completely subjective. Every scene with Sofia Vergara is absolutely hilarious.One of the things that I completely hated about this show were how a supposedly "politically correct" TV series is so reluctant to including so many sexist jokes. I did not expect this from this show, where the characters are supposedly supportive and open-minded. In several instances throughout the show, the word "woman" or "girl" is strongly associated with inferiority. Cam is offended by being considered the mother of the family. Basically if someone wants to offend someone, they just call them a "lady". It crosses the line so far that at one point of the show, Claire uses the word "girl" to insult Gloria, another female character in the show. However, the female characters are portrayed as strong and independent, which makes it completely illogical to include sexist jokes. Another downside to this show is Cam. I utterly hate his hyperbolic personality, which adds to the melodrama of the show. He could have had the exact same personality except for being overly sensitive and nagging throughout the whole show. You start disliking him so much that you actually want something bad to happen to him.I continue watching this show as the sexist jokes are tolerable and luckily, Cam is not really the main character. Nobody really is, but it seems like there is relatively low focus on him as compared to the other characters. I recommend this show to anyone who feels like having a good laugh without becoming completely addicted to the series.


                
I have been watching this series for a while now but I'm always amazed on how they bring something new and funny in every single episode. Seriously this series will make a chimpanzee laugh(just kidding). My personal favourite episode was the Connection Lost, I mean what a change! It's a bit off, the family-friendly side but in all a great series to watch.


                
For a long time before I decided to start watching 'Modern Family' I've been having doubts about quality and originality of the show. Now I'm in season 7 and I can not get enough of it. The story is easy to follow so you can just sit back and enjoy. When I'm having a break doing work I just put on an episode and it takes my mind off. The thing I was most surprised about after seeing it was the variety of characters. There's a conventional family with three kids. The wife Claire Dunphy is a control and organization freak but she has hers funny outbursts. Husband Phil comes off a bit childlike, always trying to be 'the cool dad', but he also brings the family together and shares valuable life lessons. The oldest daughter Haley is a popular, party girl and her younger sister Alex is very competitive, nerdy girl. Their youngest child Luke is a lot like his dad and they always do funny, odd stuff together. Claire's father Jay Pritchett makes another family in the show. He remarried a Colombian wife Gloria and took her and her son Manny in. She is very beautiful and also younger than his daughter so people always assume she married him out of interest, but we are soon proved wrong. Jay's second child, Claire's brother Mitchell, is gay and in a long relationship with his partner Cameron with whom he adopted a Vietnamese baby girl Lily. When the whole family gets together, there's no way escaping drama and that's the case in almost every episode. It's a great comedy source but it can get a little too familiar from time to time, so that's why I rated it 8 out of 10.With everything in count, it's still one of the best shows in its genre and I would definitely recommend it.


                
I really didn't think I was going to enjoy "Modern Family" when it was first announced. Much as I loved Ed O'Neill as Al Bundy on the legendary farce "Married With Children" (heck, I even liked his take on Joe Friday on the short-lived "Dragnet L.A."), I was afraid O'Neill was going to chew the scenery Bundy-style. I also feared that the gay couple was going to be cast as comic stereotypes. I finally started watching it in reruns and was happy to see that none of my suspicions were true. The characters, with the possible exception of the too-too brittle Claire, all seem to click like a well-oiled machine. O'Neill, even if he is the lead star in the billing, seems to take a back seat as the voice of reason among the cast of characters he calls his children, stepchildren, and grandchildren. And I came to the conclusion that this was really meant as the karmic payback to Al Bundy: a trophy wife, successful children, a successful business...and no Marcy D'Arcy.I only fear that the last scene of the series finale may have Ed pulling a Newhart, waking up next to Katey Sagal and screaming "PEG!!!" in agony.


                
I really liked Ed O'Neil's act in Married with children and he was the reason to begin to follow this title - although I knew I had to expect a presumably much different show. But it's not only about him. The other actors I did not know beforehand, but they play awesome in this well-written, interesting and funny story of three related, but diverse families. The characters (aside from a few things detailed below) are realistic and ordinary, the followers easily can embrace the personality of the woman who has to rear three different children and do everything at home or the teenagers who only want to meet young girls or boys. I feel Lily's character far-fetched: the makers might have done her as a counterpoint of her "parents" who always has a cynical phrase - but these are often not funny, and as a matter of fact she doesn't do anything else, she doesn't have got any cute moments that we would expect from a 4 year old girl. Furthermore, Cameron is too hysterical (even if it's revealing for gays) which me really annoys; and the portrayal of Hailey's stupidity is excessive, unbelievable.Albite it's a quite funny production, in almost every episode there is a little lesson, a message: you know, accept yourself as you are, don't make your children realize your own dreams etc. Unfortunately many of them are simple commonplaces.What could be said at last? Despite of these little flaws I'm looking forward to the next episode. Keep up the good work, at least on this quality!PS.: Ariel Winter, if you read this and feel like chatting me, please send me a message :)


                
I was taken aback by how funny this was because it's just so achingly wholesome ... and that's all the review I think you'll need, I can only imagine you were avoiding it for that reason too. They're gay, she's an immigrant, the kids are noisy, but they all have one thing in common - their home planet, Utopia.Now, there's a minimum of 10 lines per review; and encourage pithy critique that does not - one tries to be as forthcoming as one can, without ruining anything about the product - but if IMDb insists: each episode ends with a monologue, à la 'melted cheese down your throat', though sometimes it's funny (either way, I could still do without it). There are times when the comedy is surprisingly slow to where you've figured out the joke before it's told, only what's told actually ends up being a less punchy version of what you saw coming. And, finally, blah blah blahs too blah blah blah.Nevertheless they did good with this, it somehow turned out better than we all thought it was going to be.


                
