Its too bad the film makers decided to edit out some very crucial evidence.Why not include the key evidence that jurors based their decisions on?At 8:12 a.m. on Oct. 31, the day Halbach was killed, Kratz says Avery called AutoTrader magazine and asked them to send "that same girl who was here last time." He says that Avery knew Halbach was leery of him, so he allegedly gave his sister's name and number to "trick" Halbach into coming. "Phone records show three calls from Avery to Teresa's cell phone on Oct. 31," says Kratz. "One at 2:24 p.m., and one at 2:35 – both calls Avery uses the *67 feature so Teresa doesn't know it him...both placed before she arrives. "Then one last call at 4:35 p.m., without the *67 feature. Avery first believes he can simply say she never showed up<U+0085>so tries to establish the alibi call after she's already been there, hence the 4:35 call. She will never answer of course, so he doesn't need the *67 feature for that last call." You all really need to look at all the evidence. Not just what these movie makers put in front of you. There is a good interview with the prosecutor in PEOPLE magazine.Several jurors and the prosecutor have issued statements and given interviews.


                
I am very upset with Netflix for posting this documentary as if it is a non-partisan take on the Steven Avery trials. I truly believe now, after my research, that they exploited a single side of this story to generate more press and take air time from Amazon Prime Video. Before you watch this and start throwing things at the TV for the injustice of the system (like I did), make sure you do your homework about the actual facts of the case. Netflix LEFT OUT several KEY ELEMENTS of the trial, including:-the murder weapon being found (registered to Steven) and the bullets found in the garage belonging to it -Halbach's camera and phone both being in the fire remains -Steven's non-blood DNA on the hood latch of Teresa's car -the FULL Dassey testimony, which cites SEVERAL things that aren't in the documentary that are far more incriminating that was shownand several other details. Go find them yourself. And now I feel TERRIBLE for feeling so negatively toward Theresa's brother in his interviews with the press about the testimonies. I thought he was a very misguided, blind man. Now I know there is every reason to suspect both Steven and Brendan for the charges.
I'm guilty, I followed the hype and decided to watch the entire series.Me and my boyfriend struggled and had to pause and get back to it many times just so we would know what is the end verdict...Not worth it AT ALL. Also had to watch with subtitles due to the constant mumbling and painful phone conversations shown during the episodes.This was honestly horrific and at the end of the series I even found myself not caring whether Steven Avery was guilty or not, this type of family ought to be questioned for how insane it is. I don't know how so many people empathize for such uneducated and twisted people. I could even believe that Brendan Dassey could definitely be a murderer for how stupid he comes across. The IQ argument in this story has no value against how much obvious moral should come through in such situation: I don't care whether they think he has been manipulated or not, what kind of teenager comes up with a murder story with such horrendous details? There clearly is something really wrong with him.So many still pictures and phone calls recordings, so much repetition. I'd say the only part that was worth it was the recordings of the trial, the rest is a summary of manipulated facts and interviews of this awful low-class family used to gain empathy from the viewer.Although, this series have brought to light some flaws in the American justice system, it also brings to attention the need for a jury in such cases. This is important because even though the police had questionable evidence and what seems like simple misfortune from human mistakes, the viewer should remember this is a real story and unlike many American drama, the police may not have as much science/resources/processes as often pictured. I am sorry but for the viewers who think the police framed him and the documentary itself actually: WHO do they think tortured and killed Teresa Hallback and planted her body in Steven Avery's yard without him (nor the entire family that leaves off these trailers) did not notice a thing? The series bring no answer nor hints onto who they think that could be.
This was so badly done. A bloated 10 hour documentary which should have been tightly trimmed in the editing bay. A tight focus on possibly exonerating evidence without full exploration into other explanations. A decision to ignore completely any evidence that didn't jive with their message that Avery was innocent and/or framed. Ultimately, that makes this essentially a fictitious work. So much potential wasted. We need a documentary on all the mistakes they made making this documentary. There is a reason there are now countless articles about how they misrepresented the information. I wish they would have reviewed how well season 1 of Serial bent over backwards to present every pro and con. It would have led to a much more satisfying documentary and, possibly, allowed viewers to draw their own conclusion about Avery's guilt/innocence and the Manitowoc County law enforcement's culpability in influencing the investigation.


                
This isn't a documentary, it's a heavily edited reality TV show. Unfortunately people have been trained to believe what they see and hear. Do some actual research, and it doesn't take much, then this becomes clearly a complete concoction made for entertainment value. Steven Avery is a scumbag and guilty as hell. He's right where he belongs.


                
Shame on the makers of this so-called documentary. I can't believe their audacity, they should return all the awards they got for this manipulative crap.How dare they mislead viewers to believe this is factual when key details had been deliberately EXCLUDED just so everything"fits" the story line they want you to believe. They have arranged and edited this to suit their script, making sure none would contradict their personal opinions and biased portrayal of the case. Yes, the wrongful conviction from the first case was infuriating, the ones involved should've been punished. It was a terrible injustice that brought me to tears. But even so, you can't let that cloud your judgment of the actual case that this "docu" is about.The makers of this are no better than those responsible for wrongfully convicting an innocent man. They had also done a terrible injustice to all those involved that they tried to portray as villains based on their manipulation. Those people have been wrongfully judged and harassed by viewers of this "documentary" based on what? based on a fact-manipulating selfish expression of their personal bias.Why exclude key evidences and distort events? Why not present everything objectively and let the people decide? This documentary LACKS CREDIBILITY AND INTEGRITY. DO NOT BLINDLY BELIEVE IT. Research the facts for yourself.


                
Avery's new lawyer presents speculation as facts and produces no new evidence. Curious as to why we don't get to see the results of Avery's lie detector results. Glad the real killer is in prison.


                
This documentary is as biased as tv production gets You'll hear one side of the story, and see only what the producers want. Documentaries are done to make the watcher reach a conclusion based on facts. Showing parts of the story that entertains the needs of the producers, and hiding parts that don't is a targeted propaganda that deserves no respect.Any respectful filmmaker would involve the audience in every aspect of the case and provide needed information to let them decide. What I watched in this piece is merely a systematic persuasion to control the viewer's point of view in the direction suitable for the producer and in this case, the convicted murderer.The way the producers try to control the viewers thinking process is absolutely disgusting and shows no respect to their mentality and judgment.


                
I watched season one and found it broadly interesting. I came away - in my unexpert opinion - thinking that Brendan Dassey was likely innocent, Steven Avery was probably not.Season two however is a grotesque circus. As they crticise the prosecution for using the media, the new lawyer Kathleen Zellner is an excellent player at media manipulation. Not necessarily in a negative way - if she belives her client to be innocent, she'll use any tool she can.But what this remdinds me of is things like the 9/11 conspiracies. They flourish in the gaps, the "what ifs", the "maybes" the "could it have beens". And they can be spun in ways that seem very compelling.But some of the plot points in this drama - and it is a drama, it's not a documentary - you could drive a bus through.For example the defence decides that blood was not on a door in the way the prosecution said. So they use some wacky brain scanner on Avery to see if he has memories of the way they think it was done. But this, assuming the method is even credible, was based upon THEIR assumption of hot it was done. Utterly flawed.Then the absurdity that Avery cut his finger, and got blood in his home, decided to go to sleep and not clean it up, that the nefarious parties new this and managed to break in, managed to take the blood, clean up and then use that blood to plan it somwehere else. To say this is far fetched is an understatement.And in no way do they really offer a compelling reason of why. That she happened to be near him, and happened to be killed, and happened to be planted on his property and happened to have all this ability to fake the crime. This isn't some high profile politican, this is really a nobody and the thought that people would go to this extent is implausible.Where the programme works better is an indictment of America and its media circus. That the law can be driven by a public frenzy and social media. It's about Laura Nirider and her colleague - who seem like actors - promoting their profile. That lawyers can make their name through media entertainment. That you have so much focus on women who are getting ENGAGED to criminals they've never met for fame and fortune. Everyone is after their slice of the fame pie. Now, let's cut to a shot of a vulnerable family member as that'll look good.
Remember Israel Keyes and other serial killers? there is a small step from torturing an animal to killing a human being, and it's a huge red flag.
And if it's just for this cat he burned alive, I feel no sorry for him rotting in jail.


                
I binge-watched the two seasons and it is extremly slow in its pace, repeating many things on and on. therefore i found it very hard to watch, especially when lawyers bring on some new or controversal evidence and seem to talk endlessly about it when they already made a clear point about it.Update March 2019 - i need to change my review since I got knowledge of the one-sidedness of this "Documentation", it seems that they left out the Existence of crucial evidence against Steve and the fact, that he has a history of violemt behavior against his girlfriends on several occasions.
There's enough material in Season 2 to perhaps make 3 episodes, but as it is, it is ridiculously drawn out, redundant, and boring. One of the worst examples of documentary film making I hav e encountered.


                
