If you enjoy naked, sweaty men grappling each other, this is for you. Full frontal nudity: Crixus standing there while a patrician Roman woman inspected his goods was a little too much. Shaved pubic hair and the black skin of his penis is a sure indicator of steroid abuse. We have characters alternately speaking like Shakespeare and then hurling obscenities as if they were on an inner city bus after the local ghetto school was let out. Soft core porn of men doing women, men doing men, and women doing women and you pretty much see what this is really about. Extremely phony fight scenes where gladiators fight on after losing 40% of their blood... This has nothing to do with Spartacus - it's just a revolting exploitation vehicle. I stopped watching it. What's up with the signature scene, appearing in each episode, where a gladiator gets whacked in the face, his head spins around, and a pint of blood splashes out of his mouth? Then he always continues as if nothing had happened, without so much as a swollen lip.
I bought this series thinking about the "Rome" series from HBO and the 1960's "Spartacus". Big mistake! While the graphical effects by themselves can impress video games fans and teenagers, and the graphics artist did a good job depicting liquids in motion, there is NOTHING for an intelligent audience. The graphics and the boring slow motion is copying everything from the movie "300" and gets incredibly repetitive. You basically see gallons of blood flying in the air in slow motion, like people would be some soft of bags full of liquid ready to burst and spill at every impact. And then the gross historically inaccuracies. Basically, the movie starts with the Thracians under Roman occupation, and in the situation where are they get raided by no one else but the Getae, a Thracian tribe, basically their brothers. The Getae, while considered barbarians by the Romans due to their own ignorance, were quite civilized, though feared warriors nonetheless. The Getae end up being depicted as some sort of masked savages, with stone axes, coming from the forests to sack villages and rape Thracian women. They look more like Germanic tribes, maybe Goths, or maybe some stone age people from a different age! While historically, the Getae were riding the Romans and trying to help their Thracian brothers. The Thracians are depicted more like Spartans (maybe because sounds similar with Spartacus?) wearing the stereotypical English longs swords which doesn't belong to this place and time, when in reality both Thracians and their kin, the Getae, used to wear Phrygian caps, clothing (yes!), had horses, and above all, curved swords called falx and sica. And these are just some scenes in the first episode! So much for history! And then the dialogue reminds me of porn movies (...) I think this series is only suitable for uneducated teenagers and shallow, immature adults, maybe to some computer geeks, looking to see some blood, soft porn and adventure packaged in a very stereotypical and ignorant fashion. Unfortunately these days so many movies and series head in this direction where graphics replace acting, dialogue, historical facts, directing, everything! All we watch is violent computer games. Disappointing!


                
I went into this with a skeptical attitude and wanted it to be great! I love Epics and being a fan of the Epics of the 1950's and 1960's, and the original SPARTACUS with Kirk Douglas in particular, I was very interested in what would be done with this version. I have no problem with differences in the interpretation of the story since the true history of the actual Spartacus is very sketchy. Historians know very little about many of the details in his life and the military campaigns, so I'm open to changes in one dramatic version over another. The problem I have is mainly with the production values of this version. Let's start with the script. I realize that all films cannot take the course of Mel Gibson's THE PASSION OF THE Christ and present a subtitled film with the actors speaking the original language of the historical period. Kevin Costner brilliantly used this technique as well with the Native Americans in DANCES WITH WOLVES. However, a film maker doesn't have to take it to that extreme. In the historical epics of the past, scripts were often careful to not include dialog which sounded too contemporary in order to give it the illusion of a past time. This helps the audience's acceptance of the story having taken place in times past. Ben-Hur (1959) is a good example of this. Spartacus (1960) has some dialog problems but is also, for the most part, a good example of this. That said, this version of SPARTACUS seems to go out of it's way to sound every bit like Martin Scorcese's GOODFELLAS, complete with use of the F-bomb every couple minutes along with every other contemporary expletive one might imagine, including the "C" word, the "B" word, the "S" word, etc. Simply put...It sounds absurd. Can we at least try to give this some semblance of ancient history. With the expletives and the grunting and groaning of the muscle bound performers during the battle scenes, it sounds and looks like the warriors originated with the WWE.Next up is the violence. I stop short of referring to the violence as exploitive, which it is, but it is SO extreme that it is silly. The use of slow motion, normal motion, slow motion, normal motion mixed with squirting blood all over the camera, all over the other actors, squirting out fast, squirting out slow from this angle and that angle is once again, absurd. It is SO overdone that one is desensitized after watching 45 minutes of the first episode. At one point a character gets punched in the face and even THAT is in slow motion. It's laughable! This viewer got the impression that this was being filmed by students in a high school film class who couldn't get enough slow motion and gory blood spilling. Most of the blood spilling is CGI anyway and looks fake.That brings up my next criticism. I highly doubt that there is one scene in this travesty that was filmed on location. EVERYTHING, including the most simple scene appears to use the CGI technique and it makes the entire production look like one massive computer game.Next we have the overuse of sex scenes which are equally as silly as the violence as they are all choreographed to look like the covers of cheap romance novels with men who look like they're from Chippendales and women who look like they stepped out of the Victoria's Secret catalog. No one looks natural. It's buffed bodies and big boobs. Because of the sexually explicit nature of some of the scenes, I can't go into detail here. I guess the tamest way to put it is that some decadent scenes appear as if they were filmed in an S&M club.This is truly an exploitive piece of garbage that falls just short of being pornography....bad acting and all, but I'm sure it will find an audience. After all, Shakespeare said it best, this kind of exploitation is there to "Split the ears of the groundlings who, for the most part, are capable of nothing but inexplicable dumb shows and noise."


                
The camera "inside" the gladiator helmet is just intensely lame. The slow-motion violence, often replayed, is just pointless. A decent story might be hiding somewhere in this disaster of a series. The cast is actually rather good, but given to many tasteless tasks. One wonders if the writers and directors of this shamble really have any experience at all in telling a story. It is a great subject for a series, but this is not it. One of the most tasteless things I have seen on television ever. I watched it through episode six, hoping something might change, but the story is just crawling along, dominated by far to many plot twists, confusing extra characters, and a barely coherent story line. I feel bad for the great cast of actors.


                
Another gladiator story where brave men, slaves and the likes spill their blood and guts in an arena in the name of honor (or should I say stupidity?). The story is the same one that has been told many times before. To spice interest, the producers added a significant amount of sex scenes and abused on CGI effects showing blood splatters moving in slow motion. After one or two episodes one tires of these tricks. None of the characters is sympathetic enough for one to root for them, Spartacus for example is too stoic for his own good. Curiously, the most interesting character is not Spartacus, but the scheming Batiatus, without him the SB&S would be nothing more than a soft-core porn video about old Rome. SB&S will appeal to juvenile audience, more interested in boobs, butts, blood and gore than a good story.


                
Charlie Brooks a British comedian introduced me to Spartacus: Blood & Sand, after he ridiculed the show. I thought that it could not be that bad...I was wrong...Spartacus is the worst thing on television at the moment, it literally has battle scenes that are over the top and full of gore, its ridiculous and if there is not any violence, its full of profanity and if thats not enough, random sex scenes.The cast fail to do any justice, I mean how could they; when the dialog is atrocious, the storyline is limited to just sex, violence and profanity. Lucy Lawless famous for playing Xena has fallen, big time. While, the lead actor who play's Spartacus has a really bad English accent. Take this off the air...as soon as possible.
I don't understand why people like this show so much. It's just just an excuse to show tits and blood. The acting is poor, but I suppose that doesn't help when the dialogue is completely dreadful. The slow-motion effect is over-used to the point where i wouldn't be surprised if they used it on a guy eating an apple while twirling the skin of his nutsac between his fingers. I watched one episode, and I couldn't wait until it was over. I would rather be forced to watch the same episode of Sex in the City over and over while being spoon fed a goblins vomit. Oh and the part where he saves his girlfriend from the group of what-the- f***-evers is more corny than eating a corn sandwiche where the bread is made of corn, with corn sauce, with the children of corn, in a corn field.


                
In a word, Spartacus: Vengeance was Boring. The actor playing Spartacus changed, but the writers completely changed his character as well. What?!? Where's the anger? The rivalry between him & Crixus? The wit? The sarcasm that Spartacus so often displayed? The undying passion for his dead wife (so that he wouldn't even have sex with Mira until she "forced" him by asking it in return for a favor he wanted her to do). All those aspects of Spartacus' character/nature must've been the writers, not Andy Whitfield (RIP). I feared the show would degenerate into nothing but battles between the Romans and the escaped slaves. It was worse: the characters became flat, uninteresting, with totally different personalities. And the brothel scene was gratuitous and egregiously violent. (This from one who adores seeing Lucy & Viva nude, and seeing well done nude scenes, but that brothel scene: what was the point? Shock value? Boring... Such a disappointment. And I've waited so long for this season. Unfortunately, it was even worse than I feared it would be. It didn't just degenerate into battle scenes: the characters got flattened and dull as well.


                
I've been watching "Spartacus" series from the very beginning and IMHO only 3 actors were good in this NON-historical, but hysterical porn movie: Andy (RIP), the actor playing Batiatus (Uncle in "Mummy") and the actor playing Enomaius (who is god knows why Afro-American male, when in reality he was a gaul). No need even to say, that the movie has nothing to do with real history. No need to talk about poor graphics, "fantastic" battle-scenes like in mid-budget MADE IN CHINA movies. Of course the movie's goal is to be attractive and cover large auditory, but from season to season it became from an epic historical movie to an epic historical porn. The one thing really violated in this movie are not the slaves, it is history. Today watched the episode titled "Separate Paths". And I give solemn oath that it is the last part I am watching. The pathetic rape-scene of Julius Caesar filled my patience out. I address movie creators and scenarists: how do you dare to retell this really great story this way and bring to people your perverted and uneducated seeing of things? How do you afford yourselves to record a pathetic rape-scene of such a great historical figure like Caesar (BTW played by an actor, who is, least to say, inappropriate for this role). All the HARDCORE, GANGBANG, GAY, SWINGER porn practiced in these movies wasn't enough? It may seem that this movie is not produced by such respected "Starz", but some "BangBros"-ish porn studio. Shameful distortion. Obnoxious, perverted and ugly.


                
1 out of 10, only because of the trouble they went through to make this horrible series. Not because of the quality, which should rank no more than 0 (unfortunately less than 0 is only an option in physics). What is this??? A cartoon? A comedy? A...? and so on. The acting is below any standard. So is the background, it all looks like a very sad (high)school theater performance. And then the blood: it's all over the screen almost all the time, in a very unnatural color. And then the slow motion every 20 seconds. A good sleeping pill though! You should see Spartacus of 1960 with Kirk Douglas, which by the way in contrast with this trash did have any historic significance, to see the difference.


                
I thought I'd watch it because of very high ratings on IMDb. But I was betrayed.I never write a review. But this TV show was so Awful, that I was compelled to write one. Believe me when I say, you do not even want to give this a shot!CGI is horrible, over-use of slow motions. Fake blood everywhere, that's right, blood is in abundance and sometimes you don't even know its source. This also qualifies as a gore-fest, with all sorts of body parts flying around with one swish of a sword. There are Sex scenes without any reason or plot. If this series had been advertised as soft-core pornography, it would certainly be eligible for stars.To sum this up, imagine clichéd Indian films combined with CGI done by a 10 year old and soft-core porn.


                
Had the DVR set to record the 3rd season and canceled the series after 10 minutes of the first episode. Low budget equals no talent and forces the producers, cast directors and writers alike to over whelm the viewer with gore and cheap sex scenes. This whole series should have been canceled after the first season. Money to be made I guess. My respect for Manu Bennett who was spectacular as 'Crixus' in season one. In conclusion, if you want to see a well written, intelligent series of Spartacus then watch season 1. After that forget it.BTW, highly trained Roman soldiers are not that easily overtaken by a bunch of shirtless men in shorts and rags. Spartacus and his rebel-mites were eventually either crushed by the Roman legion or they died from starvation and disease or both probably. History doesn't really say. Oh well one fairy tale is as good as another I suppose.
What you have here is not a series, but the excuse to show unseen violence, nudity and sex on screen. Don't get me wrong. I'm not a moralist or a puritan. I like violence and nudity in movies, but I like it to go along with a plot, to serve a dignifying purpose, and not the other way around. Here, the very very slim plot is the slave of an overwhelming cheap violence and empty sexual content, and its purpose focus only on the exploitation of the idiocy and shallowness of the blockbuster fan.We could go on about the disturbing misrepresentation of the gladiator fighting and the values of roman society. Or about the dreadful special effects and the ridiculous overuse of slow motion. And let's not forget the basic dialogs and unconvincing acting delivered by Barbies and Kens. There is nothing good in the entire series to be pointed out. Nothing is real. No appeal whatsoever. Everything has the feeling of a cold computer game.The sad fact that it has so good reviews should be a concern to every movie lover and normal human being.


                
Sex, violence and special effects, the whole basic principle of the show and of course, a recipe for idiots to sit in front of the TV, that's Spartacus for you, in the most synthetic way, as if it was even possible to strain more out of this. Basically, it doesn't need a plot, even though that for making things even worse, the whole story has been totally manipulated in virtue of a more "interesting"? story. If for some any reason, you're this guy who feels abandoned by women, got an inferiority complex with men, and you're enough limited to actually follow a basic narrative, this is the ideal show for you. In the end, I think we all miss Kubrick right?


                
If you have the temptation to see this series to have a glimpse of real Spartacus life and times forget it: best thing to say is you are wasting your time. If you are looking for a series with a poor script, lots of unnecessary sadistic violence, explicit sex no necessarily between man and woman and litres of blood, bad words in almost every phrase, bad taste -to say it softly- dialogs (sorry -did I say dialogs?) and total lack of historical accuracy you've come to the right place: this series are right for you. This have been said, it is a shame some money has been wasted producing this kind of trash but it is even shaming lots of people like it and it should make us think about where the (human?) race is going to. Humm, let's analyze it: here we have a story about a bunch of heroes...err. well, not exactly, better say real people...well, not much real really but...let's say simply people who have and ideal -to be free. But, just a minute. This is not their main reason to fight - because they fight, that's it! They fight! This is certain. So let's start again: this is the story of a fighting bunch of people who fight for their ideals...well, not exactly, but that is not important really, because you are not watching these series looking to identify yourself with any of them -well at least I hope not, since many of them are clearly psychopaths- but because of...having a good time? (Better redefine the concept good to yourself if this is the case). And romans and slaves spent the day having sex and killing other people -mostly for fun, and when there are no enemies around...well, they could always could kill the neighbor- gosh, I forgot they already killed them some chapters ago- or someone passing by. You can also learn about politics - ejem- and..and...well that they had a lot of sex and violence-sorry, did already mention that? Well, better do not keep analyzing it. In fact, you do not need to justify why watching rubbish and enjoy it...or maybe you should.


                
I've watched lot of series and movies from different countries all over the world. I gave Spartacus a chance because there seemed to be a big fan-base.. But I am severely disappointed. The work is so.. bad. I like the ideas of it but the screening and recording and the actors and the plot.. Just awful. I guess most of the fan-base is full of people who like it for the smut. Not saying all of the them but most of them for sure.So far I have never regretted wasting my time on anything - everything for me was something I thought I could learn from or find useful - but I regret waistline time on this. If I want bad quality porn, I turn to porn.


                
And I've been watching TV since the '60's. To say this is a TV drama is a lie, actually. It's a cartoon. There is so much green screen and CGI it doesn't really qualify as live-action TV. I've only watched 3 episodes of this so far, but everything about it is absolute garbage. It's like bad soft-core porn with bad writing (every 5th word is 's--t or f--k', no direction to speak of and some of the worst acting I've seen in years...and that's saying a lot. There is no real action either. Everything is done with CGI. I think even the stunt men were all computer-generated. The blood is all cartoon blood. In fact the CGI is so bad it looks like it was hand-drawn. Guess they wanted to do the whole thing as cheaply as possible. The only 'name' actors are John Hannah and Lucy Lawless which isn't saying much as I'm sure they came cheap. Forget about the whole thing and go straight to the Kubrick film.


                
Like its Spartacus predecessors (Gods of the Arena, Blood and Sand, and Vengeance), War of the Damned's meager merits are vastly outweighed by its pornographic aspect. I'm not so much talking about the all-too-frequent gratuitous sex and nudity as I am the inescapable over-the-top violence and gore. Not only are these incredibly unrealistic, as is nearly everything else in this series, but it's highlighted in such a way as to appeal to our very basest nature. Sadly, I can only imagine this being enjoyable for those who would voyeuristically delight in an actual gladiatorial contest.


                
I have to type a minimum of ten lines for this review, which is going to be tough as there isn't really much to say, except this series is for idjits!. Urban dictionary defines idjit as: "Idiot, Person with an intellectual barrier blocking them from obtaining average intelligence"If computer generated blood and gore, endless slow motion violence, porn grade sexual encounters, extremely vulgar dialogs etc. is your thing, go for it, otherwise don't waste your valuable time and brain cells.If you wanna watch porn, go watch Dane Jones series on PornHub, it's got more artistic value! geeez!.Unfortunately the lowest star level is 1 and not 0.Enough said!.


                
One of the most idiotic, propaganda movie I have ever seen. in all regards, it would have been a perfect movie for Communist Soviet propaganda - but i'm afraid not even Bolshevik Censorship office would not let this pass. If one read the communist books over Spartacus unrest they are more close to history, even they falsify all for 'class struggle' idea. Roman are all lousy, Slavery are all brilliant; it does not matter they conquered three continents, they were mere stupid in front of some non-professional military as slaves. Romans are the evil, slaves are all good, full stop. It like a parodying movie with Bruce Willis. Man-women equality; yeah, sure. Spartacus was a visionary of modern times... The poor Spartacus was transformed in a character I really loved seeing him died. All craps. It make turn in graves all historians... it should exist indeed a censorship for stupid productions.


                
By that opening line, I don't mean the gore and guts. I mean the show in general. How this has reached a rating of almost 9 from viewers speaks volumes to the rubbish the everyday public will put up with...
I'm not going to go into lengthy detail, I'll keep it short and basic much like the characters and story that can be seen in this show.
Slow motion battles, atrocious Aussie accents attempting to sound somewhat British, acting that puts even home and away to shame, Unnecessary sex scenes.
The show is clearly trying to replicate 300 but let's face it, for an intelligent viewer even that film was forgettable, barr the "this is sparta" scene.
If you want to be drawn into the story and connect with characters both good and bad, I'd suggest you really don't bother.


                
Every time there is some action, the dam camera shakes around all over the place so you can't see what happening. So not for me...


                
Does saying the F-word somehow make your movie better? All your movies and TV shows are that way. Even Hollywood's good movies don't throw it around the way you do. Maybe that is how you folks talk but get a clue.


                
You know about half way through season 1 that this show will do whatever it takes to shock the viewers. Well, I do not agree and do not appreciate it when they take it too far at the end of Episode 10 of season 1.Screw this show and screw Netflix/Starz...I'm done.


                
