Yes, the show starts out dull and mindless. Yes, the show offers full frontal nudity. Yes, it's bloody violent (if you measure it in buckets of blood). No, it is NOT a storyless show.To get it out of the way: If you can't stand a naked breast; skip this one. I know how some people are very sensitive to naked skin, but I guess a chopped off head is OK? (Yes, I'm kicking your way you "Oh, that's Janet Jacksons covered up breast on live TV. I have to call the TV network"-people).Each episode added a new layer as I see it. The characters grow in dept, and the conspiracies grow ever more entangling. I always wanted to see more after the second episode. The show exploded! For a show like this to even work the producers had to make a choice between kiddy-TV and adult TV. They chose the latter and hit the damn spot. Spartacus Blood and sand is one of the few shows that is just for us "big kids". I don't care if people are naked or headless on TV, as long as it suits the show. In this case it had not worked without it. Praise the gods that someone had the guts to think past the double morals of todays television and just press on! Rome was no flower-covered heaven on earth.The acting can seem stale at first, but each actor grows in their role as the show progresses. A few of them impressed me, as I had deemed them to be c-graded actors a long time ago (Xena, anyone?). Some of the stars of this show seem to have found a show that suited them as much as they suited the roles they had to fill.To avoid spoilers I will not say much about the story. What I can say is: The story evolves at the same rate as the actors/characters. Nearing the end you will beg for more! It's hard even to catch your breath after what I have just seen: The last episode offers the greatest form of chatarsis I have ever witnessed/felt in a TV show.I will root for Spartacus in season 2 (and 3, and 4).Sorry about the spelling errors and such.


                
For me the pilot was something of a mix between the graphic violence of 300(it even includes somewhat similar battle sequences), the sex of 300, the idea of Gladiator and a bit of Rome. I almost stopped watching it and I'm glad I didn't do it. People would see the first episode and dismiss it as "gore and sex" time-wasting perversity. And they would be mistaken. The plot, filled with at first glance one-dimensional characters, is so varied, so deep, full of plot twists and unpredictable outcomes that you may find yourself glued to the screen.The sex is still there, the sexy images as well(muscular men and beautiful women), but the characters have gained so much depth and perspective, that you can't say someone is just white or black(with two exceptions). There are so many shades of gray in between, that most of the times even if you want to hate a character for plotting against the protagonist, you find yourself siding with him on another level. The protagonist is not a saint, the "bad guys" show they can love and cherish, and you see the other side of mighty Rome, the one not shown in "Rome". This show, even after the less than spectacular pilot, can be and for the moment is great and it's not the gore or sex that make it so.In 300, Rome and even Gladiator, to which Spartacus: Blood and Sand is usually compared, the main characters are free men and women, people who act on their generally free will(yes, even in Gladiator). This show is different. Spartacus: Blood and Sand displays the Roman world through the eyes of the downtrodden, the helpless and the people without rights - the enslaved, THE underdogs, who eventually tried to defy the might of Rome, who lost and lost in an epic and tragic way and in their fall still achieved greatness and immortality. Among the nudity, spilling blood and duel sequences, Spartacus: Blood and Sand shows the viewer why freedom is such a cherished thing, what happens when we lose it and why people throughout time have risen to regain it and died pursuing it or defending it. Some people mock the characters for being "one-dimensional" and demand more complexity. Others have voiced their contempt of the less than accurate representation of "the complex social system of Rome". Spartacus: Blood and Sand does not seek to represent the social system. For the people at the bottom of the ladder it was irrelevant whether Sulla was killing senators or Pompeus was gaining power. As for the one-dimensional characters, let me pound the obvious and say this - when you have to kill a friend at the command of your master, or be killed as well, there's no possibility for inner struggle or soul searching. You can't really disobey your master when humiliation, rape, torture and death lie just a whim away.It's early to say definitely whether Spartacus: Blood and Sand will be a great TV show. It certainly is for now and gets better and better. Unless the creators manage to screw up gigantically, which they have avoided so far, this child of Starz can become epic.


                
its been said many times on this site but i want to add by voice, Spartacus is the TV show now and one of the best ever, along with Sons of Anarchy.sure it started life as a 300 clone but now the story line, acting, characters, plots twists, everything are beyond the best TV and movies ever made. sure, that's a bold claim, but how long does a movie last, even multi-part epics like Godfather and LOTR only last a total of about 7 hours. in only 1 season of Sparticus we've seen characters evolve and schemes develop.the script writers must be some kind of gods to come up with this. like many, i love that the bad guys aren't all bad, the good guys not all good. all TV and movie writers should study this to see how real characters are developed and stories created.and the acting, where to start, Andy Whitfield and John Hannah are brilliant and Peter Mensah just owns the screen every time he's on camera. That guy should be the next Denzel or Samuel L Jackson.and as to those who say 'too much sex, too much violence' i say 'bring it on!'


                
Spartacus changed my life in better. Even after the dead of the first actor who played Spartacus, i continued watching and i loved it. It's about force, power, humble, the sense of life, Love and much more. If you need strength or if you are depressed, you must watch Spartacus. 
Have patience and watch till end. You won't regret it!


                
If you want a series about Roman history, one can watch HBO's Rome (a very fine TV show). If you want to see a trashy and outrageously entertaining TV show with nonstop gore and nudity (both male and female) as well as graphic sex, Spartacus (very loosely based on the history of Ancient Rome's slave gladiator turned rebel leader) should be the choice.Supposedly, TV shows are by necessity tamer than movies, yet I haven't seen any movie as consistently graphic about sex and violence as Spartacus. Suffice to say that almost everybody in the large cast of mostly muscular men and gorgeous women, gets naked in the series at some point. Episode 9 in particular – subtly called "Whore" – is a highlight in that regard.A bit slow to start (I struggled with episode 1, but get hooked after episode 2), this admittedly not for all tastes series, was filmed in New Zealand with a mostly Australian and Kiwi cast. Its striking visual style can be compared with 300 (the gladiator's trainer, the great Peter Mensah, had a small role in that movie). The show is finely led in the titular role by Andy Whitfield (unfortunately he died of cancer after the first season, and was replaced by another actor in the following season). Yet, even if most of the cast is great, the best performance to me is by John Hannah as the devious Batiatus, the owner of the Gladiator's school. Hannah, whose background has been mostly on British comedies, excels here. While he initially seems to lack the toughness one supposes a master of a gladiator's school should have, he is eventually seen as a charming yet also very cruel and cunning man. Also remarkable are the performances of Manu Bennett as the knucklehead (but eventually noble) gladiator Crixus, Viva Bianca as the gorgeous but scheming Ilythia, and Nick Tarabay as Batiatus slimy aide, Ashur.


                
I was reluctant to watch Spartacus because i heard it was produced by Raimi and company(imo Hercules and Xena were abominations) but being an open minded man I decided to watch the series. I can not stress my happiness of the fact I was wrong. It seems Raimi learned his lessons and improved to the extent that he made this truly awesome series. Acting,direction,script and costumes are great,I LOVED the depiction of Roman lifestyle. When The Wire stopped running I was kinda worried that I will never see a series that will grip me and never let go,but I am happy to say I was very wrong.Off to watch the next round of Spartacus. I urge ppl to go and obtain the series you will not regret it(only condition is that you do not find blood and sex off putting)Sacred ground,stained by the blood and sweat of our brothers.


                
Spartacus was the The Best Show Ever i watched. It has craft fully portrayed the picture of a legend : Sparatcus. Intense plot , great fight sequences , explicit sex scenes and wonderful acting. I wish there should be another season of this show. Really missing itAndy R.I.P was greatly missed in last 2 seasons but Liam did a great job after Vengeance.Crixus was oustanding in all seasons along with Gannicus. According to me the best 2 finds of this whole show are Dan Feuerriegel (Agron) and Gwendoline (Sibyl). Sibyl is too hot. She has made sen sous scenes with Gannicus. Her body is simply outstanding. I wish i could see her more in shows and movies in future. All in all Spartacus is very very memorable show of my life and wish to see many more shows like this great one. Thumps up to Starz and the whole cast and crew of this show. Great Job
Imagine everything that (most) women would find deep and intimate and meaningful in a movie/TV series. Now, take all that crap and throw it out the window! Now take everything that a man would find intensely gratifying in a movie, and turn up the volume! Then you have an idea of what Spartacus: Blood and Sand is. It doesn't get any better than this when it comes to intrigue, CGI effects and downright depravity. Stuff to make the Romans proud and the parents of children in a decadent society shutter. The character development is so calculated and thorough that when final outcomes are reached, it never fails to leave the audience in shock. The sheer diabolical nature of just about everyone in this series is sure to bring many cheers during the season finale! As an intellectual, I can appreciate the darkness as much as the Light. No show on television presents it more vividly!


                
Spartacus is probably the best action/drama show currently on television. I had my doubts when i started watching the first season. But after i finished episode 5 and saw Spartacus' epic battle with Theokoles, I couldn't get enough of the show. Yet it isn't just the action that is so intriguing. Each character has their own motives and deceptions, and the plot twists are piled on so thick you never really know whats going to happen next. The story of Spartacus (which is based on an incredible true story) starts out from very humble beginnings, and grows until Spartacus is not only a God of the Arena; he also becomes the most feared enemy in all of Rome. He is betrayed countless times, and the viewer is made to really feel his pain and eventually want blood and vengeance just as much as he does. After the first season's huge success, the show and its fans suffered a very tragic loss in the untimely death of Andy Whitfield. I didn't think the show could go on, since Andy played Spartacus so masterfully that any other actor would pale in comparison. But Liam McIntyre came into the 2nd season and did a very admirable job. Both seasons (and Spartacus: Gods of the Arena) were very well written and acted, and I can't wait to see the final season- Spartacus: War of the Damned
When I first saw the opening episode of Spartacus: Blood and Sand, I found it promising, but I was cautious. With its highly stylised, cartoonish visuals, over-exaggerated violence, splashes of blood and seemingly gratuitous frequent nudity, it was clearly modelled after the movie '300' (which I liked to a certain extent) and after the TV show 'Rome' (another great serial, at least the first season), but it didn't seem very original. But as the series went on I got really hooked. After a couple of episodes Spartacus found its own style and the quality of the writing began to really shine through. Historical accuracy was never the point, and the story itself (Spartacus's relentless quest to reunite with his wife) is spellbinding enough to make up for any minor deviations from what we know of the period.Andy Whitfield is simply mesmerising in the title role (tragically, the young Welsh-born Australian actor died of non-Hodgkin lymphoma before season 2 went into production), but Lucy Lawless, John Hannah, Peter Mensah, Manu Bennett and Viva Bianca give equally strong performances (as do the rest of the cast). The best thing, however, is the script. The plot, the characters, the dialogue – the whole thing is impeccably and very stylishly written. I have rewatched the series several times since and it never ceases to amaze me.The mini-series Gods of the Arena (a prequel to Blood and Sand) is equally as good (dare I say, even better?), while the closing seasons (Vengeance & War of the Damned) starring Liam McIntyre who replaced the late Andy Whitfield are perhaps a notch below (but repeated viewing makes them better and better).
Series was amazing. Didn't initially think I would like it due to violence and gore, but the stories of the characters and their plights, loves and lives grip you almost immediately. The seasons did not falter as they went, even with the change of actor for Spartacus. A dramatic tale all its own. The series finale had me extremely stressed, sad, happy and crying. For me, the mark of a great show. So sorry it's over.


                
So I was recommended by a friend to give this series a go, I was unsure about it at first but I'm glad I did as I couldn't get enough of it. 
 Each episode is perfectly written, if you like violence drama nudity/sex this show is right up your street, I think with each season the effects got a lot better. 
 This show has a lot of great characters good and bad my personal favourite is Ganicus What a Lad like, I give this show 10 out of 10 as I thought personally it was brilliant I hope you enjoy it to.
There's too much action but not just ACTION. This show had nothing to start with, it's just a revenge story if you say, but it went on to be just better. 
The best part is that there's too much scope too ruin it for instance it is set in an era where there is slavery and you will see NUDITY all the time on screen but the creators have done a tremendous job of focusing only on the story. You won't feel distracted by NUDITY if it's not your thing unlike earlier seasons of GAME OF THRONES.


                
Andy whitfield owned this show throughout all the seasons albeit starring in just the first."i am spartacus!"


                
The early few episodes of this show I saw nothing great, poor voice acting and it looked cheap. It was not long, before my opinion had completely flipped, and has easily become one of my favorite shows. The storyline is driven by a powerful character in an extrodary and interesting period in history. The uniqueness of this show is something I will struggle to find again, highly reccommemd it to anyone who is unsure of starting or continuing past the first few episodes.


                
This is the best TV series I have watched in my life. I want to watch it again and again. Wonderfully crafted masterpiece of all the time.


                
Did you like the movie gladiator? it's not watered down or drawn on. it's the movie in detail. a story of life as a slave, a fighter a gladiotar. all the training, hardship and period politics of rome all well done. great acting some awesome secondary characters and a mostly true story - i verified the facts btw. can't ask for more


                
If you like tits, cocks, sex, rape and violence then this show is for you.There is so much wrong with this series you could write a book about it but it never fails to entertain.This series has some of best baddies I've ever seen portrayed. I loved it. But I wouldn't let the kids watch it. Recommend they wait until they're 18


                
Without question the best show on TV! Too bad Andy Whitfield has cancer, but it would be great to see a prequel surrounding the Gladiator School and its characters before Spartacus arrives. They could further build out the characters of Crixus and Doctore for example. I think they did a great job of building the characters already, but it couldn't hurt to expand on what they have already done. Especially considering the circumstances of Season 2 being delayed. This show is guaranteed to be a success for years to come. Knowing the true story of Spartacus, I hope that they take time with the tale. Great job Starz!


                
Simply superb, you'll want to watch it again as soon as you're done. Incredible story, characters, casting, dialogue. Fight choreography is brilliant too. I can't praise it enough. What they did with such a small budget is truly remarkable. 8.6 would be considered a great rating for any show but I genuinely believe for this one it's a gross underrating, there's nothing like it. It's a shame shows like GOT are rated higher when this show stands head and shoulders above everything else, certainly in this genre. Incredibly raw, you'll have to see it to believe it. :) Good luck! It's one hell of a ride. "What lies beneath your feet?!" "Sacred ground, watered with tears of blood!!!"


                
How can I put this show into words? It is more something you experience than something you watch. Sometimes EVERYTHING just comes together: script, casting, acting, budget, directing and this is what happened here. Weep for fallen heroes, curse and despair at villains and cry for lost loved ones in this visceral show that keeps you on a knife edge. Never before has there been such an accurate, brutal retelling of Roman history. Andy Whitfield is amazing but Liam Macintyre does just as good a job when called upon. I have seen the show start to finish twice now and will watch it again one day. If only there was but one other show that stood this shows equal. Quite simply there is nothing like it, this is Spartacus.
I usually do not enjoy roman time movies, however I totally enjoyed Spartacus and will watch it again and again over time. Kudo's to all the actors and director who have done a phenomenal job!! How each actor in this series made their portrayal each character so real and believable is beyond me. I'm curious how many of these actors actually got hurt delivering their performance. Of course if your a fan of the Spartacus series you may claim a favorite, but I don't. I truly liked the portrayal of each character.Great performance by all! Direction is a 10!Kudos to the entire cast, so very convincing!


                
May I just say that even after years since I've watched Spartacus: Blood an Sand it is still the first thing I recommend to people when I get asked if I know any good TV series. Andy Whitfield just blends with the character and is so believable that it makes me think that *he* indeed was Spartacus in his previous life. In fact, all characters - whatever their intentions and actions are - are very likable and their behaviour is well justified from their own twisted way of thinking. On top of the brutality of and reality of the times of slavery of the pictured times, Spartacus shows us that we are all human and we all have our own demons to fight. And yes, these series are brutal, contain violence, blood and hardcore sex, but it is just a cherry on top of a great story and dialogue, winning my heart over Game of Thrones any time of the day.The first season is just a masterpiece of plot twists and tension, which - if watched alone - makes for a perfect story on its own. The effects and lighting are what may put you off, but bare with it, it gets better, although never perfect. However, it is all worth it in the end for the best story you will ever see.


                
Is the first time I write a review on IMDb , I could not resit to do it since this TV series brought me a so deep addiction like never.Spartacus is all about blood ,violence , brutal fights , political intrigue , sex and even a bit of love ,all this things are very well connected together and every time an episode ends you just wish the next come soon and the addiction to watch the next one grow stronger on you.When I finish to watch the first episode I was like...hmm...nice ....but I never thought was became so good and addictive , and I'm writing this review after watching episode 9.Each episode's ending is leaving you with the hope to watch the next as soon as possible and the story is growing more every time with deep intrigues and awesome fights in the arenas,surprising you with good visual effects ( a mix between "300" and "Glatiator") , the acting are impressive for a TV series and the main actors deserve an Oscar !! For sure Spartacus is a very mature TV series which must be watch by only mature peoples due the huge amount of nudity and sex scenes.I wish Spartacus with the time, will not loose the interest that has kept my attention and my addiction till now but continuing surprising me every episode.Glory to Spartacus....may the gods be with you.


                
I love this show. I can't even express how much. If you can get past all the blood and nudity, you find out that this is the best TV show ever created. Thrilling, every chapter counts and leaves you breathless. The producers made a 3.5 seasons show. Perfect. No room for bad, boring and irrelevant chapters.Even some years after it ended, I still sometimes watch the old chapters when I find them in TV and enjoy every single minute of them. Fantastic show.Please, if you haven't: watch this show. If you've already seen it: watch it again.Remember that you need to watch the first season, gods of the arena afterwards, and finally the second and third season.


                
