Like the gladiatorial games it draws from, 'Spartacus - Blood and Sand' is a spectacle of violence, gore and sexy naked bodies.That's why it's such fun.'Spartacus BaS' definitely has its roots in the Raimi & Tapert school of "fun", though.Both '300' and 'Gladiator' are often over-rated; like 'Spartacus BaS' they are also "fun" movies that weren't brain-dead yet didn't require much more than simply sitting back and enjoying them. While I rank the likes of 'Rome' VERY highly, it was more of a period drama (like 'I, Claudius' before it) than an action series, and it boasted a far higher budget and attempt at realism than BaS.Unlike some shows (even many excellent ones) the episodes are extremely well-paced, never feeling overlong yet a lot happens in each; every one almost feels like a mini-movie, and while we are left wanting more, there are so far none of the forced "cliffhangers" shows like 'Lost' and '24' make us suffer through over and over again.On the casting front, I'm very glad (and not just for the obvious reasons) that Lucy Lawless was so up for this, as she really has fun with her (admittedly Attia-like) role, also proving to mainstream audiences that Xena was not just a "fluke", while John Hannah lends weight to proceedings and Viva Bianca really "gets" what this is about and provides an enormous addition to the sense of fun and enjoyment as she plays the kind of spoiled rich girl that crosses genres. Special note to Craig Parker too, who was so woefully underused in 'Legend of the Seeker' (playing perhaps the most neutered villain of all-time), obviously relishing being the "big bad" and playing a right bastard we love to hate. In fact, fans of Australian and New Zealand made shows will recognize a lot of the cast, and its great to see cameos by some old RenPics favorites.While the overuse of CGI gets annoying (it reminds my of late 90's "movie" video games like 'Wing Commander III' when ALL the sets were green screens!) I'll take that over NO scope or action (even 'Rome' - though for their own reasons - never went the "huge scale" path with massive Colosseum events or field battles).Spartacus (played by Andy Whitfield with just the right mix of determination and self-pity) gets on my nerves a bit for being such a blatant idiot at times, making both typical "movie mistakes" ("let the bad guy live", etc.) and very human ones. But it is very nice, on the other hand, to have a "heroic" series/character who is still very flawed and (thankfully) far from the best fighter in the show.'Spartacus BaS' takes a while to get going, and the pilot definitely visually and stylistically feels more '300' than perhaps it should, but once we get to the training school, we're in much more solid territory.It isn't original... those who've played the PS2 game 'Colosseum - Road to Freedom' will find a lot of similarities, as will fans of 'Gladiator' of course. But this is something to expect in a genre that is both based in history and has a fairly narrow list of (decent) fellow entries.So far, I've seen only three episodes, but - for what I understand to be a "startup" network's first big show - I think it succeeds wonderfully and shows great promise... I'm looking forward to where we will be taken next with these characters.So long as they keep things entertaining, bloody and sexy yet refrain from going so far as to be TOO gratuitous, I think it will be a big hit.


                
I have only seen twelve episodes so far. So my review is hardly comprehensive. But based on what I did see, I can say that "Spartacus: Blood and Sand" starts badly, but then improves remarkably in episodes #2-6. When I saw the first episode, my impression was that this series was not going to be successful. The first episode was like watching warfare on a computer screen rather than realistic battle scenes for which Braveheart has set the standard. The first episode was also shameless in the way it employed softcore pornography. Add to that the simplistic dialogue and the contrived performances and I came away with the distinct impression that "Spartacus: Blood and Sand" was not really about anything in particular, but on the contrary was a vehicle for selling gratuitous violence and sex. But the next eleven episodes influenced me to change that view. They were, to put it succinctly, far more interesting than anything in the first episode. Andy Whitfield seems comfortable in the role of the action hero, Spartacus, and he slowly establishes a connection to his audience. But Andy Whitfield also gets a lot of help from much better actors. Take Peter Mensah, for instance, a hitherto unknown born in Ghana who shines as the gladiator trainer Doctore. Mensah is born to play that role, because his performance and command is nothing short of mesmerizing. My hope is that Mensah gets recognized for the great work he has done here and is given challenging roles to play in other films. Another fascinating performance comes from John Hannah as the charismatic and inspiring head of the Gladiator school Batiatus. What makes John Hannah especially effective is that we (as the audience) do not know what to make of him. Is he good or is he evil or is he both? I will not reveal the answer because the creators of "Spartacus" evidently wanted the audience to decide that for themselves. Other great performances come from Lucy Lawless as Batiatus's wife Lucretia who possesses a diverse motley of personality traits; Nick Tarabay as the amoral cripple Ashur who likes to place wagers on which gladiator will win in the arena and can supply inmates with anything (as long as they give him a portion of their winnings in return); and Manu Bennett who is subtly effective as Crixus, a gladiator who is more complex than his mucho persona in the beginning suggests and may even have a grudging respect for his rival Spartacus.But the other strength of this series has to be the plot. The plot started out badly in the first episode, but since then the writers did a really good job in developing a narrative. You can tell that they had as much fun writing the script as the actors on screen had in performing this material. There is so much creativity involved in developing the different plot twists, in developing the characters so that they evolve instead of remain static (which is what happens in so many action films), and finally in setting just the right pace for the tension to escalate (which is something that directors and writers can easily get wrong, as they did with the last two seasons of Dexter and the second season of True Blood). In short, Spartacus is a must-see.
I have been told to watch Spartacus for a while now and I have spent the last few weeks being mesmerised by this show for its violence, sex and awesome characters. The premise of this show sees a free man and his wife separated and sold into slavery, being sold to a wealthy owner the free man becomes a gladiator of the arena and the legend Spartacus. The character of Spartacus is an interesting one to talk about because of tragic reasons he was played by two actors. Andy Whitfield played the character for the first season before he tragically passed away and Liam McIntyre plays the character in the other two seasons. So first to Whitfield who I really enjoyed as Spartacus, he owns the physicality of the role really well and gave some nice personality to help build the performance. McIntyre gives a more detailed performance showing his acting chops to develop Spartacus as a leader of these slaves and an inspiring figure, he also fits the physicality of the role well. Manu Bennett plays the gladiator crixus and I absolutely love this character, his development is fantastic and I just love Bennett as an actor and I loved watching him play this destructive gladiator who has honour. Dustin Claire plays gannicus a character from the spin off show gods of the arena and I love this character, he has the most personality of any of the gladiators and it is just so entertaining to watch and he is awesome to watch in the action scenes. Lucy lawless and john Hannah play the slave owners on this show and they do a really good job, there chemistry is really good together and they compliment each other. Hannah is always really entertaining and lawless plays the manipulative female very well. The characters of onomaeus, Varro and agron are all really good as well and all share a unique relationship with Spartacus throughout the show. The story is really fascinating as you see this group of slaves fight to survive and maybe realise they are better then just being slaves. Pretty much every character has an interesting story arc through the series. Which comes to one of the things I did dislike for this show which was its conclusion, I understand that this show is somewhat based on history but I found the ending of the show to lack conclusion and left me wanting more even though there never was any intent to give me more which let me down quite a bit. The script is great, it has a lot of drama in it that does work but of also works in great moments of humour to help make these characters feel even better. The style of the show is pretty controversial, this show makes game of thrones look timid the action is bloody and graphic with the sex scenes leaving very little to the imagination as well. But for this show it is completely necessary as it fits the type of show you are watching. However, similar to the spin off series gods of the arena my biggest criticism of this show is the overuse of slow mo, it gets better as the show progresses but it is just really jarring especially when it is used for things that aren't action scenes where it feels really unnecessary. Overall if you can handle the violence and sex then this show really is a must watch.


                
If you liked film titles such as 300 and Gladiator, you'll love this series. It takes medieval sex scenes and violence to the next level. Very intense combat scenes too! The acting can be hit and miss. Certainly Andy Whitfield made this series what it was when it started, was sad to see him pass away and having to recast. Do check this out!


                
This is epic. I don't know how else to describe it. I've watched it all (except Gods of the Arena) 3 times now and will happily watch it all again and again. It's that kind of show. So many epic scenes, so many epic lines. After the loss of season 1 I thought the show would no longer be watchable but Liam McIntyre did an amazing job and I like the new turn the show took. My boyfriend finds the CGI blood ridiculous and OTT and some people may agree with him on that. Personally I like the drama of it all.


                
Since each season has its own characteristics, I decided to write a few words on each one and a separate review. Season 1. A clumsy pilot, full of directing errors and what looks to be a poor production. But, it rises above the surface and delivers one of the best series ever made with an amazing grand finale!!! The acting is beautiful, the lead actor for the role of Spartacus is amazing, so are the others like Crixus, Asour, Batiatus etc. Violence and bloodshed (just like the Manowar song!!) and much sex. The script is also great. 13 episodes to be remembered!!Grade for season 1: 10/10Season 0. After season 1 the lead actor was sick and could not participate at the filming so they made these 6 episodes where they show us the story of Gasnnicus and other characters that we already know, before the arrival of Spartacus. Very well done, keeps at the same high standards like the first season. Only that in this season I would like it to see: Opening with the battle of Enomaos (Dottori) with the Shadow of Death See Varro in a small part, gambling and losing money (which would end to his surrender to the house of Batiatus to pay the debts). Those would make the show a little better in my opinion. Still, great show once again, with great acting. Grade for season 0: 8/10 Season 2. Oh my god what a nightmare! The new Spartacus cannot deliver. He is weak, looks weak, even the writers made his weak as a character (where he spares the life of Elithiya (did anyone know that Elithiya means stupid in Greek??? Its true, look it up!), the woman that tried to kill him, the woman that he tried to crash her neck when he realized it was her she was having sex with... Not only that but the script has holes everywhere. Lucretia rising from the dead (didn't anyone look at the house of Batiatus after the mass slaughter, didn't they gather the dead bodies, where was she? she should have been found). Also the Romans appear so weak and damn stupid, they get so spanked and fooled around, more that a "Astérix and Ovelix" movie!!!!!!! They put some gladiators to die in the arena yet no one ever thinks that Spartacus would come to free them and double/triple guards. The result? thousands of Romans (may first class citizens too) die at the burning and falling stadium. Still, they have assigned just a few men to hunt Spartacus down instead of sending thousands to end this rebellion. The Romans always attack in small numbers so that the rebels can easily kill them. They do never send scouts before proceeding. I could go on on and on with stupidities on their behalf (al credit goes to the script writers) but I would bore you. Regarding acting, everyone here seems to have given up too. Crixus is bad a playing the lover that seeks his beloved (the script is bad here too), we said about the new Spartacus that is not only different in appearance and as a character also, but also is not as good actor and not convincing as the previous lead actor. My favorite actor though in all the show is the one that plays Assour. I have to admit that he shines, and he delivers a great performance every time he appears on screen. Great work and should be rewarded (looking to hear from his soon again). The others are mediocre or above average (Legatus was also good). Directing also became bad. Too many slow motions (I think Spartacus only moves in slo-mo, haven't seen him in real time for a few episodes). Everyone bleeds from the mouth, even for a cut at the thigh!! *true fact* But what is more important is the fact that I mentioned earlier, that the ones that gave up first were the script writers. They turned a great show into a damn soap opera. Season 2 grade: 3/10 Season 3: I would not watch it after the disappointment of the second season, but my girlfriend was watching and I had nothing to do so I sat and watched. Now Spartacus has made an army of misfits and ex-slaves against the Roman empire and he is the general in command. OK, lets see how it goes (only 2 episodes aired so far). At least now they have created the character of Krassos, a rich, ambitious Roman, that outmatches everyone we have ever seen in cunningness, ability, skill etc (even skillful as a gladiator). Finally they realized this series needs a worthy opponent. So I hope it will at least be better that the previous season. We'll just have to wait and see.
Gory, violent, lots of sex, and completely epic Yes the CG is "bad" (read: not up to par with the million dollar budgets), but improves over the course of the episodes.Looking forward to a bigger budget and even more brilliant second season.Final episode = best episode ever, the whole series is worth watching just for that episode.For all of you complaining about violence and sex, just don't watch it, its not for you.The fights are well choreographed (esp towards the end, they just get better and better) You never know where you have the characters, they never cease to amaze me with their cunningness and ability to make the best of whatever situation is presented to them.I've never seen a show who so frequently kill off actors! :D I use The Wire as my reference for a 10, this show isn't quite there, but its extremely entertaining.


                
Focusing on the aestheticized violence (the slow motion gladiatorial bouts, the CGI beheadings, etc.) and the nudity ignores some important surprises. I thought the show was just going to be a homoerotic "300" ripoff, and actually it's far better than that. Much more so than that silly film, this show is actually very accurate: about the Roman class structure, the position of the gladiator, the squalor of slavery, the religion and superstition of the Romans, their mores, even the desperation of of a Roman town without a reliable source of water. I was expecting them to be very loosey goosey about historical accuracy (like "300" with its ridiculously portrayed Persians). To my further surprise, I discovered that the extremely well-muscled gladiators on the show (the abilities of John Hannah go without saying) can actually act, and that the character conflicts are both interesting and believable. It's true that the show creates some adversaries in the arena scenes whose abilities and scariness are literally superhuman, and it's true that some of the combats portray skill and endurance that belong more to video games than the human body. But it's also true that Roman economics -- the desperate need of families below for the patronage of those above, the possibility of freemen falling into slavery, the possibility of earning money as a slave and buying your way out -- are accurately portrayed. The sets look right, the costumes (allowing for the universally padded breechcloths on the gladiators) look right, the dialogue sounds right, the relationships feel right. There's even one homosexual gladiator with a younger slave minion, and -- accurately -- the other gladiators think nothing of it. Yes it's a stylized show and a sensationalized show, but Rome really was just as violent and dangerous and precarious and sexed up and cruel as the show portrays. The surprise isn't that somebody created a show that looks like a high-end video game, or that it contains a lot of nudity and graphic violence. The surprise is that they bothered to give it so much substance and class. This, to my astonishment, is quality television.


                
The gratuitous gladiatorial violence, beautifully portrayed nudity, smart sex scenes and politically motivating scheming makes this a viewing spectacle not to be missed. In fact, no Roman period drama, programme or film has left me feeling so enthused and wanting more like this series has. Although sometimes a few of the acting extras is questionable, the main characters are strong, vibrant and bring an energy and class to this is undoubtedly modern take on the Thracian called Spartacus and his quest for freedom. I have enjoyed all episodes to date and look forward to the next addition with anticipation and excitement. Although some scenes can be overly graphic at times, I believe this just adds to excitement and fresh look at one of the most memorable Roman periods in history.


                
Spartacus (Andy Whitfield/Liam McIntyre) was a Thracian who refused to fight after being lied to by Roman commander Claudius Glaber. He is enslaved as well as his wife Sura. He is eventually purchased by Batiatus (John Hannah) as he is thrown into the world gladiators. The house of Batiatus is full of intrigue led in part by his wife Lucretia (Lucy Lawless). He would rebel and bring Rome to the brink.It's a Starz production. It's blood splattering gore. It's full on sexuality. The violence is over the top. The fights are slow motion poetry. The story is human depravity at its finest. The show took a look at any restrictions and laughed at its face. The first season ends with the breakout of the House of Batiatus. Andy Whitfield was Spartacus. However he got sick, and the show next did a six-part prequel without Whitfield. When he died, the show continues with Liam McIntyre as Spartacus.If this was a simple exploitation fare, I wouldn't rate it so high. The story is just so fun. John Hannah and Lucy Lawless really have a lot of fun playing the devious duo. The twists and turns come fast and furious. It's like an earlier 'Game of Thrones' with more nudity. The last season is hamstrung by the fact that it's history that Spartacus dies.


                
Presenting greater carnage and fornication than its peers, Spartacus returns to form after its less stellar second season. Everything works at highly dynamic pace with distinguished script, and most importantly a more comfortable cast. This rings especially true in the case of Liam McIntyre who had a demanding job of replacing Andy Whitfield as Spartacus after his unfortunate passing. Liam McIntyre establishes the role more firmly as opposed in second season where he seemed more of a glorified replacement. Now he projects a legitimate gladiator turned fugitive worthy of his own interpretation of Spartacus, after all a series can only be as good as its titular lead.Story follows Spartacus and his army of rebellious slaves as they trade blows and tactics against Marcus Crassus and Julius Caesar. Simon Merrells as Crassus is the richest man of Rome who strives for honor of defeating the persistent rebels. His character is a stoic father figure who regards discipline highly; he displays more wit and valor than previous pursuers, making him a viable imposing antagonist. Todd Lasance plays the young Caesar, cunning and wild, he has a respectable screen presence. Having slight debonair presence, he surprisingly fits as a brasher Caesar prior to the time of his leadership, a reiteration which isn't often seen of the character.Manu Bennett and Dustin Clare reprise their roles as Crixus and Gannicus, respectively. Bennett dons rougher looks, it does differ much from his previous more gladiatorial image, but the character is now overly invested in vengeance and rather one-dimensional. Dustin Clare headlined Spartacus: Gods of the Arena before as Gannicus, he returns with likable charm. He has plenty of screen time; one of the episodes actually features his story, and proves he could be a proper leading man.One of the appeals of Spartacus' storytelling is how unique the script is. Characters speak with elegant tongue, sometimes with flamboyant analogy and indirect metaphor. It's pretty odd that slaves possess such eloquent vocabulary, but it gives the series a sophisticated tune of its own. This third season sees the rise of expletive curses aplenty, the volume of this f-bomb is a bit jarring and might be tasteless in few executions. Nevertheless, it defines the cruel and tenacious tone more, as they are now in all-time high.Action has been a staple of the series, trademarked by decently choreographed set pieces and abundance of slow motion use a la 300. It admirably invested effort of making the cast look like bona fide warriors, even the women. They carry themselves with gritty disposition and toned physique, some moves might lack refinement but they do the tumultuous war theme justice. If there's one concern, it's the quantity might be a bit much. Seeing men do the same aerial assault in slow-mo, often several times in one episode, is rather excessive. The first season had more diversity of weaponry and combat, but it's understandable since it had gladiator gimmick.Along the gruesome combat, it has also seen its fair share of CG. Most of the setting and some fight scenes play out in animated background. This shows some flaws since its forest, desert and city vista seem drab and uninspiring. It has some genuine setting, such as inner city or villa, but it lacks the scale of what should be thousands of people fighting for their lives. Some effects are still presentable, albeit over-the-top like blood geyser or swiveling snow. Be warned that this series is teeming with gore and nudity, mutilation and intercourse are as common as bread and butter. For those with more fragile eyes and ears, it'd be wise to avert them as this is one mature rating that's gallantly earned on all aspects. Despite the rough exterior, Spartacus: War of the Damned has thorough characterization, great acting by its cast and stylish dramatic storytelling. It stands as an equal bloody alternate of other acclaimed series, and possibly above in some terms.


                
First things first: Spartacus was played by an actor in season 1 that couldn't return due to health issues. A very unfortunate illness that he apparently had during the filming of season 1 already. Not that you could tell. He is the one (no disrespect to the guy who ultimately replaced him later in the series) almost everyone loves on that show. He passed away in 2011, not without leaving impression, as an actor but also as a commentator (you can listen to him on audio commentaries).Another actress did not return later on (I won't spoil the character name or her real name), because of payment issues. Her replacement (while as beautiful) wasn't up to the task either. One special mention has to be Erin Cummings. While I had seen her in other stuff (like Bitch Slap), I have never seen her as beautiful as in this show. Which makes some decisions you see and let's a running story line in the series, very believable.But enough about the actors, though they are beautiful and have their moments! That is down to some fine actors (Hannah and others) and some very fine writing (though it is of a very mature nature obviously). There is Blood and there is nudity! Obviously the sexual themes might be a problem for some, but there are far more explicit shows and I'm pretty sure it isn't the main thing why most people watch. It's the fact, they don't shy away from things of that nature.Remember one thing when you start watching this: First comes Season 1, than you have to watch the prequel series (Gods of the Arena) and then Season 2 and 3.


                
A very nice surprise. Spartacus has nice mix of the best elements from movies like Gladiator and 300. It really combines ancient Rome's complex society with its mischiefs and betrayals with the brutality of the "Arena".All characters are fairly complex. Even Crixus is more complex than just the big brute Champion. He has a cunning sense of honor that drives him beyond his limits.Special effects are not as good as in movies but for a TV show, they're perfectly OK, and if you get the chance to watch it on HD you'll be quite surprised."How many men would you kill hold your wife again?" "I'd kill them all"!


                
First things first. If you want to see an exceptionally historically accurate TV series about Spartacus then go watch a documentary or read a book. If you believe that the fact that the actors have perfect white teeth or that Pericles from Thrace is a black man with dreadlocks does not fit to the era then again, watch a documentary. This show (as all TV Shows) is meant to entertain not educate and if you expect yourself to be educated through TV Shows then you are a fool.Moving on; some said/wrote that the series is nothing more than a porn with gore and cussing. I beg to differ. For starters, wouldn't you expect from people of that era that treated other people as slaves and entertained themselves by having gladiators fighting to the death or by throwing Christians to the lions to cuss like that or have orgies? Wouldn't you expect from people that fought every day to stay alive just to entertain their "masters" to be so violent? If you like everything to be sugarcoated and "politically correct" then this series is definitely not for you. Now that I kinda explained why there is so much sex, gore and cussing let me tell you why I loved the series. The subplots are AMAZING! You could never figure out how the 4th episode would end. It is brilliant how the personal goals of each character get tangled with the goals of the other characters. I really like that in every episode there are so many things going on. I think the casting is also well-chosen and combining all the above with the whole rawness, blood, gore, sex, violence and awesome visuals would explain why I believe that this series is a must-see (at least its first season).Sine Missione!


                
Spartacus offers a somewhat new, but enthralling effect to our eyes. Its extreme similarities to 300 has been able to produce a strong effect and liking in terms of the action, how the blood flows, and how the sex is portrayed. Despite several critics, negative remarks, and skeptical reviews, Spartacus offers a full range of characters, enveloping the true essence of what a character should believe in such as Spartacus fully entrusting in his sense and instinct of freedom. Many may immediately drop the series right after 1 episode due to its grotesque and gruesome scenes, or offering the shallow characters portrayed throughout the episode. Those who do so do not realize the first couple of episodes may show that the series is merely based upon its graphics, repetition of nudity, and one-dimensional characters. However, as the series goes on, the plot thickens and the characters begin to develop, still bringing the strong action of fighting and the justifying pleasures of sex scenes. As the episodes adventure further, you may find yourself rooting for Spartacus, for Crixus, or even the sneaky character Asher. Spartacus is able to develop powerful emotions thrust within us to enjoy the series, but also think about it for the rest of the night, day, or even week. All in all, Spartacus offers intense and excellent action scenes, influential sex scenes, strong potential of acting, the development of every character, and a plot that is able to keep us on our toes and drop our jaws at some times or have us feel enthusiastic and jovial, bringing more than satisfaction to us for this renown and potentially great series.


                
If you love Gladiator , troy, 300, this is the show for you gore violence nudity in abundance some great acting some not so great but who cares the story lines the action scenes are nothing short off superb, the actors who play Spartacus and Croix's will have one hell off a carrier after this especially now sly and Arnie are past it these two must be the next generation off greats... well done guys ..loving your work!!!Hope it doesn't get cut to much when it airs in the UK , there's some scenes which you really think "hes not gonna no they wont" .."oh he did" ..awesome. ha ha Even my wife's into it and she hates any sort off violence so the story lines must be good.


                
The show Spartacus blood and sand is an action adventure type of show, great for people that love ancient times, ancient Rome and amazing visual effects combined with outstanding actions scenes. I think that the ones disappointed with the show expected a real portrait of life at that time, they don't really understand the graphic novel look.The story follows the misfortune of Spartacus who was betrayed by the roman's,pulled into slavery to end up as a gladiator. Spartacus a name that we find on our history bocks as a man that defied Rome's will. The action is awesome using the same type of techniques of the movie 300 witch by the way the actor Peter Mensah that plays Xerxes messenger the one that Leonidas kicks into the pit as he says the famous phrase "This is Sparta!" plays the role of the gladiator trainer. Spartacus blood and sand is not for all ages, there's a huge amount of violence and of course multiple sex scenes and nudity a reflect of the ancient roman morals so different from our own now. Usually when we have something so driven to visual and physical details we end up with a lack of acting skills, but this is not the case here. Jonh Hannah (from the mummy movies 1, 2 and 3) plays Batiatus the owner of the ludus of gladiators. Jonhs character is a multilayer villain the kind that hides his cruelty under a charming personality. Lucy lawless is another fine example, she plays Batiatus wife a woman so different from the hero Xena warrior princes that she played years ago. I find this show so good that it leaves me hungry for more episodes every time I finish seeing one. We never know in witch direction it will go next, no one is safe from death or any other fate so they take away that safety net that makes us positive the hero's will always prevail.
The show itself is very nice, pretty much like a series on the original Gladiator movie. The thing is that no one mentions anywhere that the show is *extremely* pornographic, and may be offensive even to adults! So take that into account before watching this.Anyway, the show takes you through the story of Spartacus, which is actually not his real name as he mentions all the time... It starts in his village, when he goes out to fight for Rome (against his wife's will), ending up 'betraying' them by going back to protect his village, and then they take him and his wife as slaves, separating them. From now on, he is training as a gladiator, and trying to get his wife back. With lots of mini-stories on the way, and very graphic sex scenes.
It's a good show. Sadly Andy Whitfield died, because for me he was the real Spartacus. In my opinion Liam McIntyre was wrongly casted as Spartacus. He was too boyish to be a real Spartacus, too young compared to the other actors. Not very convincing. They should have taken an older actor.


                
Just wanted to say the latest series is definitely the most epic so far.Andy Whitfield is irreplaceable but Liam has done a fantastic job and is growing into the role as the series goes on.Loving it, even if the violence makes me queasy it times.Spartacus works because it knows exactly what it is and sticks to a winning formula.Other series get stuck somewhere in between trashy and trying to take themselves seriously, Spartacus gets the balance exactly right.Great escapism and well worth a watch.


                
The first Season of this show revolved around the Ludus and the Arena. I believe that a lot of the audience that didn't care about the history actually enjoyed the show due to the raw gladiatorial fights and nudity. That would come to an end as the "history" unfolds. And here is where I think the entire show may lose audience. I am afraid that the history of Spartacus campaigns across the Italic peninsula is of little interest to those viewers that have enjoyed the show thus far mostly for its gore and nudity related to the arena and the ludus. The first season was enjoyable because it relied on very little historical data, therefore allowing a lot of "playground" for creativity and speculation. Not much is known about Spartacus before the rebellion, therefore anything could be reasonably acceptable.Now the childhood of the show is over and the writers will have to make fly what they have created thus far. I believe that this can spell the show's demise. Do you remember in the first episodes how they portrayed the battles against the Northern "getae"? That shows the absolute lack of knowledge of the writers of the historical theater setting of that period. The demonic "getae" were no other than the Northern branch of the Thracian people, the Dacians at that time organized in a large empire extending from nowadays Ukraine to present Germany under the rule of mighty king Burebista (82-44 B.C.). Dacians were not barbarians nor demons, just a different kind of civilization of the Roman one. Some good references about Dacians can be found in the international productions "Dacii" (1966) and "Columna"(1968). Spartacus fought as a Roman auxiliary in the wars waged against Mithridates in Asia Minor. His later military exploits are suggestive of a high education and training in military arts, strategy and tactics. In one regard Maximus/Spartacus are the same: the general that became a gladiator. The historical Spartacus must have been by far more than just a very skilled fighter, survivor of the gutters of Rome as portrayed in the show. This speculation in the first season about the "creation" of Spartacus the leader makes me very curios how the show will continue given the offered premises.By many modern historians Spartacus achievements match Hannibal's, if not outranking them considering the weak start-up and the eclectic resources Spartacus had at his disposal. As Hannibal in Italy, Spartacus remained undefeated until the last battle. That is not a military feat that can be accomplished by a simpleton no matter how well ripped or ferocious in the arena he would be. That is a military genius on a par with Napoleon in terms of brilliant strategy and light-speed execution. Over 3 years of campaigning Spartacus defeated the best Roman armies (several consuls and generals) sent against him. He crossed the entire peninsula twice, South to North and back. From a military point of view this can only be explained by a very disciplined army of gladiators/slaves capable of lightning fast, long forced marches, geared and trained on a par with the Roman armies. That removes the picture of "rabble followers" and if there were some their numbers were only a fraction to the rest of the army. It remains to be seen if the show will continue on to same cliché, built over time, of a rabble of slaves marching through Italy and magically defeating Roman army after army for 2 yrs in a row.As said above, the gladiators marched twice the length of the Italic peninsula (South to North and back) in less than 3 years. That cannot be done with a lot of children, women and elders on the trail. A rabble like that can't explain the consistent military exploits Spartacus achieved. Glaber was only a minor lieutenant of Lucullus, the general fighting Mithridates. Glaber was the first Roman general defeated by Spartacus at Mount Vesuvius soon after the escape from Capua and by far wasn't neither the greatest general nor had he the largest army sent against the gladiators. I'm not sure why the screenplay emphasized Glaber so much when other historical characters would have offered a longer "shelf-life" as Catilina or Crassus. Any role for Glaber beyond his initial total and fast defeat it's mere fantasy. There are records of the gladiator school in Capua counting up to 10,000 fighters. Similar numbers exist for Ravenna and Rome. That's the scope of the history that was poorly reflected in the show. This group of roughly 30,000 gladiators formed the back bone of Spartacus army. They must have helped train new recruits, which by all means many could have been war prisoners themselves, not strangers to warfare. Movies have created a lot of clichés of gladiators being caged in cells and behind bars. The history says that most of them, especially the champions, enjoyed a relative freedom to roam the city, the taverns, provide services, etc. Due to the open field for speculation in the absence of historical data I have enjoyed the first Season of the show, but as we move to the more historically defined period I fear the show may lose its appeal and/or audience, based on the path of the story the writers will choose. The gladiatorial fights in the arena will give place to battlefield combat. The budget required to recreate large CGI battles may be beyond the reach of this show. We will see.


                
Okay, I admit that the first 2 episodes put me off a bit and I was not into the characters that much, but once the scenes all moved to the Gladiator arena and the training center things changed. The writing got better, the psychological and actual battles between the gladiators was more intriguing and the sharped tongue fencing amongst the women became fascinating. Talk about your palace intrigue! Each episode builds quickly on the next. Many of the characters are nasty and brutish, but not even the most evil characters are without some measure of goodness and compassion.(Spoiler Alert) The end of the "Party Favors" episode is absolutely devastating and I knew the writers of this show had me in the palm of their hands. Now, I care about the characters, even the ones I hate. Wonderful.
I can understand why there is so much sex and nudity, its ancient Rome, but sometimes I just sit there and ask myself "does this sex scene really need to be in here?" and yes, sometimes it does, but others I feel it is just there for no reason at all. I will say that the action scenes are pretty cool, some people say that the blood is a bit much, but I think that it adds an interesting angle and makes it looks more like a comic book. The story isn't half bad either. It has interesting plot twist, and a decent cast for a TV series. One complaint is that sometimes I find the acting to be sub par, keep in mind I did say "sometimes" and that most of the acting is on par with the violence. This is a great show with a great story and if you like sex and violence you will love this show.


                
OK, so the script isn't the finest, the not-so-special effects that worked for 300 (a cinematographic view of a graphic novel) somewhat questionable here (especially the cheesy sky effects above the ludus and the dodgy guts-spilling effects), but this story brings Rome to our screens and gives a genuine flavour of the ludus, of the sex, and the intrigue of life in the political capital of one of the greatest empires that ever was.Ancient Rome was a cesspit, home to extraordinary violence int he name of entertainment, twisty-turny intrigue that would make your head spin, smouldering passion and sex that would make a modern lady of negotiable affection steady herself on the furniture, and here is a flavour of it. I'm aching to see the revolt Spartacus led that came very close to overthrowing one of the greatest empires on earth, but until then I'm well pleased with the love, passion, intrigue and violence that the writers choose to offer us, portrayed by an array of fine actors.The more puritanical may be offended - the values they hold dear had not been invented in roman times, and I'm glad they chose not to depict yet another HollyRome, but be prepared for sex and violence in abundance. Of course, in every respect, it's still tame compared to real life of the day, but every moment spent watching this is a moment well spent.Feel the fierce joy of trouncing your opponent on the arena, the pain of murdering your best friend at the order of your master, the smouldering passion of forbidden love, and the dull ache of being a slave with no will of your own. Whilst it can't be taken as a definitive guide to ancient Rome, it gives a good flavour of it, and educates us in the meaning of emotion.Ignore the silly cartoon-esquire effects and take a deep breath of history, violence and passion. You'll love it.
This was actually a really entertaining series. Sure, the nudity and violence gets a bit stale after a while and I just wanted to focus on the story later on. But it knew how to incorporate these elements pretty well for the most part, although there is a lot of nudity in this series. Watching this show was like watching a more developed version of "Gladiator" with the violence and action similar to "300". As a matter of fact I wouldn't be surprised if that is where this show got it's idea from when it came to the concept. The plot is riddled with treachery, manipulation, backstabbing, bickering, lust, vengeance and longing for legacy and power. And those elements are integrated quite well. Season one was my favorite, since it centers around the Gladiators training and has good character development and relationships. It also has Andy Whitfield who was just perfect as Spartacus and I liked how the character was written. As this multifaceted and flawed character that is actually not that predictable. However because of Andy's unfortunate cancer issues he got replaced by Liam McIntyre, who was alright but the direction of the character made Spartacus boring. He basically became The Hero right off the bat from "Spartacus: Vengeance" which was my least favorite season. The supporting actors and actresses did a good job though, which made the series more enticing. Some of the character transitions though seemed a bit inconsistent at times, like when it came to Gannicus who actually seemed like more of the protagonist in "War of the damned". And Spartacus that seemed like some nobleman than a anti-hero, maybe they could have done a better job building him up to be the hero. Also when it came to Caesar and Crassus,at first it seemed like Caesar was the brute and Crassus as the rational and smart leader, but as the show progresses the roles seems to reverse. The prequel season was my third favorite season with "War of the Damned" being my second favorite. It revolves around war between the slaves fighting for freedom against the Roman army. And the build up was just compelling and entertaining. With a final battle scene that doesn't disappoint. It's kinda sad to see the series end, but I do believe it ended on the right note instead of dragging it on. Overall, this is a entertaining and underrated show that is actually bloody awesome.8.3/10
