I'll second a lot of the comments already made here -- the great work done by Fry & Laurie, the spirit of fun, the parade of Brit actors who couldn't do American accents, the jarring cast changes -- and I'll add a couple more.On the good side, the series captured an essential characterization from the stories that, in my experience, many readers of the original stories miss. That is, Bertie isn't the stereotypical upper-class idle rich twit. While he's lacking in book knowledge, he's not stupid; he has a flair for expression. While he often appears to lack sense, it's frequently because his helpful, generous, loyal nature takes priority over his personal dignity or common sense. He's a product of the class system, yet as a rule he's genial, generous, and non-condescending toward all. Laurie's portrayal captures the fact that Bertie is a "good egg." One complaint I had is that the later episodes sometimes descended into cheap, uninspired slapstick. Also in the later episodes, Jeeves did some very un-Jeeves-like things, like enthusiastically learning to play the same sorts of music he sniffed at in earlier seasons. The final episode of the final series stooped to a Benny Hill ending.And isn't it ironic that the show hired all those British actors who couldn't do American accents, when Hugh Laurie has demonstrated that he does them very well? I've known people who've seen "Stuart Little" or "House" who can't believe Laurie isn't American.


                
When it comes to comedy doubles, Stephen Fry and Hugh Laurie are one of the best. Their work in 'Blackadder' and their own sketch show 'A Bit of Fry and Laurie' is brilliant, so their combination on 'Jeeves and Wooster' makes this more subtle comedy surprisingly funny.'Jeeves and Wooster' - based on the P.D. Wodehouse stories - is more a comedy of manners and a subtle class satire than a laugh-track supported sitcom we're normally spoonfed with, which makes it even more interesting. Laurie plays Bertie Wooster, a well-meaning, but ultimately dim man of society (who doesn't really seem to do anything of notice) and is more interested in fooling around with friends and defying his meddling Aunt Agatha. Fry plays his valet Reginald Jeeves, a man with reserved manners, address and decorum who has an at-times acid tongue and always seems to save Wooster and fix his many mistakes. In a way, Wooster is similar to Laurie's Prince George in 'Blackadder the Third'. While George's stupidity was more obvious, and used as a deliberate comic tool, Wooster is more of a well-meaning buffoon, who wants to do the right thing but has an inflated view of his own intelligence, while still remaining endearing. Stephen Fry's Jeeves is the star of the show. His quick wit and subtle sarcasm provide the majority of the laughs and his calm demeanour reflects the conservative setting.While the main plots revolve around Jeeves cleaning up Wooster's latest disaster, the hour-long duration gives you time to get to know the characters, which is important for a relatively "gentler" comedy.If you're a fan of Fry and Laurie, then check out 'Jeeves and Wooster', you won't regret it.


                
I agree the cast changes, and definitely the loss of the original Aunt Agatha, affect reaction to the series as a whole, but not necessarily individual episodes or seasons. To see characters switch from one role to another unrelated role was a bit disconcerting. The series 3/4 Gussie was a bookie in series 1; the original Marilyn Bassett becomes Florence Cray in 3/4. It was a monumental task, however, to put all 50 stories into one shorter body of work and this does the job well. I agree somewhat, about the accents: Janan Kubba's New York accent was delightful if odd. The mistake in most Brit productions is they don't hear a difference between Americans and Canadians. Some actors were Canadians and hence (apparently) sounded American to the BBC. I can tell the difference between a Northern dialect, Londoner and Welshman but was stunned tonight (for instance) watching a BBC production ("Carrie's War"), in which an "American airman" was identified as being from Pennsylvania (where I live) and having a southern drawl. Maybe we are picky; maybe we are more conscious because we watch more Britcoms than the average American. And maybe the majority of Englishman wouldn't notice that "aboot" is not something you'd hear south of the Canadian border. These are minor. The later episodes ARE more ridiculous and goofy, but I watch them on a regular basis. Laughter is precious; this is a clean, non-demeaning, and very pleasant escape that even the young members of the household can enjoy. How rare is that?


                
Sometimes I get very nostalgic about good old British series, which had great sense of humor and a very light approach to entertainment. Whenever the nostalgia sets upon, I usually re-watch Sherlock to remind myself of the inescapable glorious walk of the progress, but this time I opted for Jeeves and Wooster instead. And I loved it.Bertram Wooster is a wealthy gentleman who manages to get himself into trouble whenever he tries to solve other people's problems. Then it is the time for his smart and psychological butler, Wooster, to help to resolve all the troubles.It is even difficult to say what it is so nice and exciting about the plot, but for some reason it works perfectly. The whole storyline can be summarized as "wealthy people have their own kind of entertainment" – it is difficult to imagine ordinary people getting themselves into the sort of troubles we see in Jeeves and Wooster. And the troubles that we see don't even look like troubles to us, making the series pretty entertaining and relaxing altogether. The good mix of jokes, particularly concerning the habits of the characters, makes you feel home in Britain of Jeeves and Wooster.Stephen Fry and Hugh Laurie, who play the lead roles, are absolutely brilliant. It is particularly fascinating to see them there young, without the weight of House or Holmes pulling them down. Poker-faced over-polite Jeeves and energetic big-eyed naïve Wooster make the whole series shiny and fantastically charming. Mary Wimbush, who plays Aunt Agatha, is as stereotypical of the wealthy aunts as it can possibly get.The word of warning though: only the first 2 seasons are of the high quality. Unfortunately, the actors change pretty quickly, the interest of screenwriters wanes, and the series become pretty boring. Nevertheless, the first two seasons are outstanding and a great fun.VERDICT: good old-fashioned British TV series featuring humorous Fry and Laurie.WATCH: if you want to get back in time, enjoy some nice British humor or simply observe the life of wealthy.m-picturegoer.blogspot.com


                
Jeeves and Wooster is the perfect blend of writing and casting. PG Wodehouse is one of the giants of English humor and a prodigious author. His best known characters are Bertie Wooster and his valet and tremendous intellect Jeeves. Jeeves first meets up with Bertie when he is deep in the hold of a massive hangover and Jeeves conjures up the cure to end all cures. From that point on, the pair are inseparable, except for brief moments of insanity, usually caused by Bertie.The stories are the epitome of the servant who is more able than the master. This is especially true as Bertie is the scion of a wealthy family and pursues no work (though he will flee from it). He is an amiable chap, who tends to get on well with most people, apart from his domineering Aunt Agatha, the odious Roderick Spode, and the occasional nemesis. Bertie spends most of his time visiting friends and relatives or passing the time at the Drones Club (aptly named for a group the produces very little). More often than not, it is this circle of friends (or relatives) that pulls Bertie into some farcical situation from which Jeeves must extricate him, via his massive brain power.Jeeves is the brains of the outfit and his advice and intellect are sought by all. he is content to serve his master, who he sees as a good soul, provided that he learns his place when it comes to selecting his wardrobe, wearing a mustache, and keeping himself from harm's way (read: marriage). Jeeves keeps the wheels spinning, solves the problems, and devises schemes to maintain his position and influence.The rest of the characters are made up of the monied classes, with names like Bingo Little, Tuppy Gloster, Madeline Basset, Barmy Fortheringay Phipps, and Gussy Finknottle; all uniquely English names, and ones that require money to exist. There is Bertie's more likable aunt Dalia, who pulls Bertie into some scheme to gain Jeeves brainpower, often relating to her publication, Milady's Boudoir. It's all silly, often confusing; but always fun.Clive Exton does a masterful job adapting Wodehouse and watching the program is much like reading the books and stories. Hugh Laurie is the perfect Bertie Wooster, an amiable idiot and Laurie knows the type well, and played it often, before House came calling. Stephen Fry has the brains to match Jeeves and excels at portraying Jeeves steady manner, and cunning nature. he is precise in his movements, as a master servant would be. He's younger than the literary character; but perfectly suited to the man. The rest of the cast would shift a bit and characters can be a bit confusing because of the recasting and similar personalities. Wodehouse had little use for the monied types, though he came from that world. He pokes fun at them at every turn and makes a delightful concoction out of them.The series is at it's best for the first two series, and at its weakest in the fourth; but, even weak Jeeves & Wooster is heads and shoulders above the rest. There is a sameness about many of Wodehouse's stories and characters, though they are still delightful, all the same.If you love farce or character-driven humor, the series will delight and if you just want good writing and acting it has it in spades. The series brought me to Wodehouse and I have relished the man's work ever since.
Stephen Fry and Hugh Lawrie star in this memorable adaptation of the Wodehouse novels, and it is hard to imagine any other "Jeeves and Wooster" production will ever exceed the quality of their work in this respect. The criticisms of other reviewers of the changes in character over the short four years of production are validly made, but this only slightly detracts from the overall quality of the series.By the time this series started in 1990, the two principal actors were already well-established on UK television in a range of television programmes. It was a great change for them to embark on "Jeeves and Wooster", and after this series ended they continued their careers, as an "all purpose compère" in the case of Fry, and Lawrie as Dr House in US television. A quarter of a century has now passed since the series ended, and its timeless excellence will continue to impress audiences worldwide; the series is highly recommended.


                
