I mean, seriously. What is it with this movie? I've seen it twice, read stuff about it, got a lecture on it, and I still can't see how anybody could call this movie a masterpiece. So Scorsese shows us a shot of an empty hall while DeNiro is talking on the phone. So what? And is the fact that he constantly makes us aware that we're watching a movie a sign of Scorsese's greatness? Even when it doesn't serve any real purpose??? I particularly dislike the ending - the lack of comment on the violence and the way Travis turns out to be a hero. Is this a critique of violence or a celebration of it? It is clearly not very hard to imagine someone inspired by Travis's resolution to "clean up the streets".Besides, I thought the film was pretty boring. Especially the second time I watched it.I think "Taxi Driver" is hugely overrated. But that's just me, of course...
Martin Scorsese is one of those directors whose work I just don't seem to get. His films are not totally inaccessible, like most of the work of Stanley Kubrick, but sitting through a Scorsese production is often an exercise that pendulums back and forth between crashing boredom and utter incomprehensibility.Of course, everyone knows by now that TAXI DRIVER is about isolation. Specifically the isolation of one man in the midst of a bustling city. Travis Bickle (Robert De Niro), a Viet Nam veteran, applies for a job driving a taxi in New York on the graveyard shift; the reason he gives for wanting the job is that he does not sleep at night. That anyone would hire him to actually drive a vehicle under those conditions seems odd, but then everything about Bickle is odd. Clearly he suffers from a profound sense of isolation, but most of that is of his own making, since when it comes to social interaction this guy is so clueless that he makes burnout Reverend Jim from the television show "Taxi" seem like Albert Einstein by comparison.Travis finds himself attracted to Betsy, a woman working on the presidential campaign of a politician (Cybill Shepherd, proving yet again that she cannot act her way out of a cream puff factory), and he has sufficient social skills to get her to agree to a movie date. Then he takes her to a XXX porn film. Of course she cannot get out of there fast enough, and he is totally bewildered; in his mind it was a perfect date movie.A good deal of the story is told via Travis's inner thoughts, spoken by De Niro on the soundtrack. This device was old even in 1976, and there is too much of it; the audience is already alienated from this man, and having his thoughts overdubbed places him even farther from anything remotely approaching understanding.Possibly the best scenes in the movie are the ones with Jodie Foster as Iris, a twelve-year-old prostitute whom Travis attempts to rescue from what he sees as a sordid life. Iris is possibly the most interesting person in the film; Foster plays her as a girl walking a tightrope between what she has to do to survive and the necessity to avoid danger; she is receptive to Travis at first, but even a twelve-year-old can see that this guy is not playing with a full deck. And at least she breathes some life into an unbearably tedious movie.Which brings us to De Niro. He's good here, but he's much better elsewhere; watching him I had the impression that Scorsese went to one of two extremes: either he gave the actor no direction at all and let him do as he pleased, or he micromanaged every nuance of the character and in the process sucked the life out of it. Whatever, the result is a stilted and peculiar bit of acting that seems beneath a major talent like De Niro. Yes, we get Travis's isolation, but we never know what caused it, or why he is just so damn WEIRD.And of course, as is Scorsese's habit, all of this is presented under the guise of "gritty reality" (think GOODFELLAS and RAGING BULL, both of which ram "gritty reality" down the viewer's throat until the urge to run screaming from the theater is almost overwhelming).I am a native of New York City; I was born there and lived there until I was forty-two. Martin Scorsese is also a native of the City, but I do not recognize the picture of NYC he paints in this film at all. The simple answer is that we are seeing the City through Travis Bickle's eyes, but while he describes what he sees, we never find out WHY he sees things the way he does; it is perhaps the most frustrating aspect of a very frustrating film.Great film? Depends on which critic you ask. The late Roger Ebert loved it. Leonard Maltin thinks it's awful. I suspect that, like most of Scorsese's oeuvre, this is one of those movies you either love or you hate. Well, I didn't exactly HATE it, but most of it is insufferably boring. De Niro presents us with a wacko character but fails to provide a provenance for his behavior. About the only good thing I can say about Cybill Shepherd is that her role is brief; she's absolutely PAINFUL to watch. It is only Jodie Foster, all of twelve years old yet wearing an ancient expression in her eyes that tells the story of where this girl has been, that draws and holds the audience's attention; honestly, without Foster the film would have no life at all.And possibly the worst of it is that Bickle's increasing descent into violence is left totally unexplained. It would be easy to assume that it was his Viet Nam service that unhinged him, but the movie does not play that way and at any rate if that were the case it would have been an easy matter to communicate it. To put it in five short words, this film is a mess.
I don't get it. I really don't. (And, I guess I never will) Why does this dreary, dead-end movie from the dreary, dead-end 1970s seem to rate so high with so many people? I can't, for the life of me, see how these people would give this certified dud 8 & 10-star ratings.I mean, Taxi Driver's story was less than interesting. There wasn't a single likable character in the whole lot of these NYC losers. The directing was, for the most part, very amateurish and inconsistent. And the violence was, at times, almost laughable.This, to me, was not in any way a satisfying movie-experience, yet people seem to, literally, fall all over themselves, heaping unwarranted praise on it.Personally, I think that most of these people who love Taxi Driver to pieces are probably now in their 50s and 60s.These people saw this film when it was first released in movie theaters back in 1976. And due to a sense of blind-nostalgia they continue to perceive this movie through rose-colored glasses. And, with that, there's absolutely nothing anyone can say that can shake that almost-senile sentimentality out of their little heads.


                
What a sorry excuse of a movie and a waste of 2 hours of my life. Don't get me wrong, I like old movies, from the musicals, to the epics and any well acted movies. I bought the DVD thinking that this was a highly rated classic from the 70s. What it really is actually is a 2 hours borefest with dull acting and practically nothing happening for the first 65-70 mins of the movie. The story revolves around a lonely 26 years old taxi driver that was a loner and outcast and clearly have physcological issues. His ill-conceived atttempts to woo a young women named Betsy backfired and push him finally into mental instability.Then as if suddenly realizing that there is clearly nothing much in both the script and the story line in this sorry excuse for a movie, the Director saw fit to inject the last 10 mins with a meaningless violent bloody gunfight. The entire movie is so meaningless that people must be blind to rate this as a classic.I urge anyone thinking of renting or buying this movie to think twice. Don't throw away 2 hours of your life watching this piece of crap.


                
De Niro plays You-talkinna-me Travis Bickle, a loner and a socially inept New York City cabby who takes the job because 'he cannot sleep at night'. As Travis sees more and more of the filth and depredation on the streets he tours, he turns to violence in an attempt to better the world.The movie is insufferably slow and repetitive while it channels the impressions Travis gets moonlighting the streets of New York. The dialog throughout the film feels unnatural and hammy and sucks the life out of an otherwise potentially interesting watch. There's also not much of a plot here which makes the 2 hour viewing quite a challenge. Foster does well but simply isn't believable as a child prostitute working for a pimp played by Keitel. Keitel himself also fails to convince due to the lackluster and rather phony script. Shepherd makes a short and forgettable appearance as Travis his love interest and seems to be cast only for her pretty eyes and patented stare.Though wonderfully moody and well filmed, Taxi Driver is at its core an uninteresting character piece that goes on too long and tells us too little. The music score consists of variations on two jazzy reprises by Bernard Herrmann that are set on repeat throughout the film. When after an hour you hear it being played for the gazillionth time, it starts to become more than a little silly.


                
20 *beep* cuts of an annoying repetitive song making you think something might happen.. but nothing does..the storey is all over the place.. not in a good way like pulp fiction.. but in a confusing way..like hes supposed to be obsessed with this chick.. but then completely forgets about her after things go bad and she doesn't return his calls? lol next time you see her is the end of the movie.. and they both act like they had a long relationship that slowly went downhill.. but in reality THEY ONLY WENT ON 1 *beep* DATE THAT LASTED 5 MINUTES!!!!!!!!!!! people move on and forget about that kind of *beep* its called reality..the storey seriously didn't make any sense at all.. the climax of this so called masterpiece was him shaving the sides of his head ready to clean up the city BY KILLING 1 PIMP, AND 2 BUMS? AND THEN HE TRYS TO Commit SUICIDE? LIKE HE ACCOMPLISHED SOMETHING GREAT? WOW! HE SAVED A HOOKER THAT Didn't WANNA BE SAVED AND HAD NOTHING TO DO WITH THE ORIGINAL PLOT ( HIS OBSESSION WITH THIS BLOND WOMAN ) 1 minute hes ready to assassinate politicians.. the next minute hes singling out 1 pimp out of 10,000 in the city. why? by far the SLOWEST, TAMEst, psycho film of all time..you wanna see a great psycho film .. watch American psycho..
i had some hopes for this movie since i found it among the 250 best movies list .. so i decided to give it two hours of my life .. then wow ... what was that ?? the story line is not making any sense at all ... it is like the writer and the director wanted to make a flashy movie by adding big names like DE Nero and Jodi foster to it . some unconnected scenes with guns ..


                
Unless I'm hopelessly not getting it, the plot suggests that do-it-yourself-justice, including death-penalty, is very cool and stylish.
The "hero" (De Niro) is made as a figure to identify with [the viewer is put into the hero's point-of-view most of the time, and, more important, into the hero's mood all the time - the monotonous melancholic soundtrack (basically, solo-saxophone) reflects the hero's extreme loneliness, and loneliness is a feeling known to everybody], and the hero's fascist ideology (some people are 'dirt') is not questioned anywhere. The film glorifies violence and fascist ideology, and that's about most disgusting message I can think of, and not very original either.Every James-Bond does the same, I admit, but the difference is, that in case of James Bond, noone expects art, makers and viewers know, that a new James-Bond is  going to be the same old entertainment via special effects, completely lacking a story apart from standard testosterone-phantasy. Taxi-driver is like James Bond minus the special effects. If the message actually should have been "the hero is an asshole", then the film is inane. If not, it's worse.The most overrated film I ever saw.


                
Taxi Driver is a bad movie. U cant call it a masterpiece, It has too many flaws. Just because a movie keeps viewers guessing,it doesn't become a classic. I have listed a few points which everyone should consider after watching the movie and before calling it a classic.1. The hero is shown as confused, psychic. But he acts perfectly alright while trying to woo his girl. He becomes confused, when the girl deserts him. So why is he confused, due to war or due to loss of lady love.2. He is a poor man. Don't drive his own cab, but manages to buy a dozen firearms illegally and all of good make. 3. He roams freely with half a dozen loaded guns. Moreover, he doesn't sleep at all. He drives by night and by day he is on streets. He is having insomnia, all right, but a man does get tired for lack of sleep. Ask a doctor?4. When his bid to kill the senator fails, he runs away. But is clearly marked. Security saw his face. Everyone know how he looks like. Yet he manages to roam freely on street, with all the weapons.5. Next he decides to rescue a prostitute. Now, did the girl asked for it? No But our friendly neighborhood taxi driver, decides to do the job.6. In the end he is killing all people. When he fires people get killed, but even after two fatal shots he is alive. This is not a supposed action flick, but a masterpiece.7. The press hail him as a hero. But did anyone cared what was he doing there, with all those guns. Killing bad guys doesn't make him immune to law, but he goes free.I wish the people watch the movie with an open mind, not clouded by ratings and critics view. And review the points marked by me.
According to another reviewer on this site, JosefSerf: '"Taxi Driver" is about loneliness and loneliness is characterized by an almost crushing boredom and emptiness and Travis Bickle's character reflects that. His life is dull and boring, hardly anything happens to him and that is what "Taxi Driver" shows - Bickle's pathetic life.'And that's what you get, a crushingly boring movie about a deranged man. If that's how you want to spend a couple of hours of your life there's probably something wrong with you.The ending, while not as dull as the rest of the film, is equally stupid.I watched it because it's supposed to be one of the great cinema 'masterpieces'. I've come to the conclusion that 'masterpieces' should have some sort of government warning attached along the lines of "WARNING: MASTERPIECE - ONLY VIEW IF YOU'RE A TERRIBLE BORE WHO LIKES THESE SORTS OF THINGS - YOU CANNOT GET THOSE TWO HOURS OF YOUR LIFE BACK. EVER." Please write to your local representative.


                
Why was this movie listed in the top 100? At this moment, I can't recall the last time I saw a movie worse than this one.The performances were all good performances, that is true. Unfortunately, the story they were in was stupid. I kept waiting for the end so that all the meaningless drivel of the previous hour and 1/2 would come together and bring some sense and meaning to the endless, pointless, non-existent story thus far. Never came. The ending was even worse, unbelievable and completely un-realistic. I watched this with 2 other people. They agreed this was a stupid movie too! SPARE YOURSELF! DONT WASTE 2 HOURS OF TIME WITH THIS CRAP. Walk your dog, have a nice meal, watch ANYTHING else and you'll have a more enjoyable and interesting time.


                
THis was one of those midnight movies that I watched, and my god it was boring. Things kept threatening to happen, and nothing bloody did. Jodi Foster was good, her performance is the only reason it gets one instead of zero. I'm bored even talking about it.


                
I can't believe I just saw a movie called The Big Sleep where way too much stuff happens, and the next day I watch this rubbish where NOTHING happens! They should have evened out the plots and maybe made two good films.I thought I had seen Vertigo, which had all the driving I could stomach but this one holds the record. He never gets out of his little yellow car. Which means that nothing happens in the film. He just drives around talking to himself. I've never seen anything quite like it, and hope to never do again. Films like this should carry warnings about the levels of driving so people can avoid them.The music is boring too. It's the same song played over and over and I just don't get it.Please don't watch this rubbish. You'd have more fun sitting in your own car and driving around doing something productive with your life.


                
Its a very very poor screenplay written for this movie. Very slow that even I can peel my fingernail off and they come on again and the movie is still there. I can't hold my anger against it and ready to write my first review. Its totally awful in all means. If you want to have nice sleep, get the flick, play and sleep tight. Nothing more, worst movie I so far, seen with a brilliant cast. Robert hadn't developed his grip on acting, Jodie is my favorite but early acting of all actors are 3-4 stars out of 10. I really wonder why this movie is in top 250 in IMDb list. I prefer you not to watch but just rate the movie from 1 to 2 stars seriously. May I have some kind of soul rest after watching.


                
Well there are few movies that you regret ever watching them and certainly taxi driver will be one of them to me. I was "forced" to watch this movie due to its fame, the caste and a excellent trailer shown in AXN ( where I watched the movie eventually ). I was shocked to see an actor of the calibre of Robert De Niro wasted his time in producing such trash. If you wish to bore somebody to death, my advice would be to ask that person to watch this movie.


                
I am utterly stunned this is rated as one of the top 100 films of all time on here.Nothing happens for an hour and a half and then the ending is so predictable.There's no suspense, there's no intrigue, it's totally mundane.Awful film, don't waste your time.


                
Taxi Driver is one of the most overrated movies of all time. I'ts considered a masterpiece but let me tell you, it's not. The running time of a little under two hours drags a long at such a slow pace that it feels like 3 hours. Robert De Niro is convincing as the unstable Travis Bickle and he's the only reason I was able to watch the whole movie. This is a typical 70'ies movie. It's depressing with an annoying misplaced soundtrack. And peoples clothes and haircuts makes it impossible to take it seriously. If you expect this movie to be a vengeance movie, you will be disappointed. Nothing happens for the first hour and a half. Travis drives fares all over New York, dates some pretty blonde, until she dumps him and every 5 minutes you have to listen to his annoying monologue. And then when something does finally happen, it's over in 5 minutes. Realistic? probably, but also extremely boring. Harvey Keitel is unconvincing as Matthew the pimp selling out Iris (Jodie Foster) Jodie Foster is hardly in the movie at all. Save yourself the boring torture and find the famous "you talking to me" speech on YouTube. I sure wish I had.
8.6 that really is an insult to humanity to give this movie an 8.6 this is only my second review(my first review was the dark knight) and i just watched this film last night. I am glad i watched it, because it proved to me that Martin Scorsese(i don't care if i spelled his name wrong)is the worst director to ever sit behind a camera. Lets look at his background, ha wanted to become a priest but went on to make movies instead. Not only do his films feature language,sex,nudity, and pervasive violence, but they are so dang boring. i would honestly want to watch some one else's home videos of their Disney vacation than watch this crap.The only thing i have left to say is thank God he didn't become a priest.
OK this is definitely one of the worst movies I've ever seen. Nothing happens in it. Nothing! This guy drives around in his truck and occasionally makes the odd stop to make out with a strange girl or browse a porno theater. I can't for the life of me ascertain how this can be considered art by some "critics".The lighting is bad; the camera work is shoddy at best; the plot doesn't exist and mostly involves of close-ups of Deniro's head or the road in front of him; the sound is bad and at times you can't even hear what the actors are saying (in particular Harvey Keitel in the hotel room scene).The movie is an absolute waste of time. One boring, arbitrary shot after the other. Oh, there's a graphic bj scene in the end. Big deal. Sheppard was never that hot, nor a particularly important actress. And the ending? So he's dead! Woohoo! Not exactly groundbreaking stuff here, guys.Awful.
I believe the word pathetic is on its place here meaning the subject of the movie work "TAXI DRIVER" not the visual style, the acting and of course a very bad screenplay with bad lines which i believe is making this film work to a film work which musn't be consider as a momentum in the history of film-making. The lead actor Mr. De Niro is really a pathetic person and the whole performance of Mr. De Niro is laughable and Mr.De Niro his performance seems like if he is reading the lines out of a bad juvenile novel. The one aspect of this film work that can be consider a more than average is the visual style that is covering the bad acting bad lines in this film work where murder is praised and that is the subject of a movie work, where the original screenplay was killing members of an ethnic minority group in the United States of America, and where murder is hailed. Ms Foster is playing a child prostitute which I personally wouldn't advice anyone who have young individuals living at home to see this film work, because this film work must be consider as inappropriate for these individuals to watch, even though one might say that it is film work and not the reflection of reality. In that sense the film work "TAXI DRIVER" is not a reflecting of reality, but a reflecting of how in Hollywood the law is not consider as a serious option. Why did the main character didn't go to police to report the pimp played by Mr. Keitel for keeping a minor as prostitute ? This is the appropriate way to solve this. That the producers and the director, who also is hailing e.g. the use of a gun in a scene where a client(played by the director)is asking the main character if he realize what a magnum 54 can do if you put it in a woman, meaning his wife who is having sex with another man, her vagina. The Film work "TAXI WORK" is a low budget movie with a low budget theme and in my opinion cannot be consider as an piece of art.


                
it is basically a movie of a lonely taxi driver ed of my lifespan who has no aim in life ,he starts liking a girl she rejects him ,a incident with a prostitute changes his mindset and he ends up saving one.this movie proves that the people rated this movie above 1 are stupid I can't listen jazz music thanks to taxi driver .It feels like there is a climax coming every scene but it is nothing butt mockery of viewers. the story writer should go hide somewhere or people will make him stop writing. It also highlights the stupidity of the Oscars who gave it 4 nominations. i think people were just desperate to watch a movie after the Vietnam war that's the only reason that this movie made it big at the box- office. this movie is extremely overrated .plz don't watch it. first the movie has no sense starts off telling the life of a lonely taxi driver who has no aim in life and just out of nowhere in order yo save a prostitute go all guns blazing and saves her only the last 20 minutes are entertaining rest is just slow bloody torture.


                
Taxi Driver is an action movie without any action. It is a suspense thriller without any suspense. It is a love story without any love story. Michael Winner lead the way with his vigilante epic Death Wish and Scorcese cashed in on it with this sub par effort. De Niro imitates Charles Bronson and fails. Only Charles Bronson can pull off these vigilante roles with passion and he has a better moustache. De Niro tries hard to copy his mentor Bronson but just doesn't make the grade. De Niro's moustache looks fake and unconvincing in this. Scorcese's movie does not have half the style and shock value as Michael Winner's Death Wish. The performances here are lazy. The camera-work is not as good as Death Wish. The camera shot of Bickle's tablets fizzing in water was lifted from a Michael Winner documentary in which he is filmed eating a burger ( no ketchup) as the camera hones in on the burger on his plate.A word of advice, Scorcese: Leave the big city angst stories to Michael Winner, the true captain of street realism...


                
This is a terrible movie. everything in this movie is terrible. i am not going to explain in definition because then i write what i mean and that can't be publiced. So to make this clear as short as possible. the main character is very weird and we get no explanation why. De Niro i an autistic throughout the entire movie. The movie is long, boring, and has a very bad plot. Do not watch this movie. Save your self from this terrible movie.
Well, the title of this post says all that I want to say.See some great movies made during Neorealist age. Well this is a problem with American movies. Some of these movies are great but then with so much hype and propaganda these movies are unnecessarily touted as the "epics" or "masterpieces" or anything humongous: larger than the frame. The problem is those people who write these things or say those things, they have hardly any understanding of world cinema- the whole spectrum of movies about "anti-establishment", about "loneliness" that this movie will falter on those grounds.I am NOT saying that this is a bad movie, this is a pretty good movie, BUT see a lot others (which are non-American in origin) and then draw a conclusion.Its everywhere in this country that if something a bit better and unusual comes out, people immediately claim it a master "in the world cinema".Now, I know many of you will dismiss this as an anti-American sentiment, many will dismiss because I am not discussing why I think so, and I DO NOT care to answer because the onus is your part to UNDERSTAND why there are many excellent and even better movies that this movie tries to portray.


                
This movie pretends to depict the reality of NYC. Yet, it's unreal. Fantasy is mixed with reality, and the border is not clear. In a real life, the taxi driver would not see freedom again. In this movie he is a hero, which is pure day dream.
