I watched Taxi Driver (1976) a couple of years ago & thought that it was a film with a fatally flawed storyline that didn't really deserve the big box office response & all the critical accolades it got.However, now that I've just viewed Taxi Driver a second time, I must report that I STILL feel that it's a film with a storyline SO flawed that there is JUST NO WAY that I can consider it much more than a mediocre film, at best.True enough, Taxi Driver is a film with some great qualities. The cinematography is exciting & innovative. The acting of the WHOLE cast is really superior.However, all the great qualities of this film are for nothing, as far as I'm concerned, because, at least for me, if a film has a story line that is fundamentally flawed, then that just makes the rest of the film pointless. True enough, there plenty of fine films out there with improbable characters &/or improbable storyline elements where through good acting, & good direction they were able to pull off at least a semi-plausible, or semi-believable film. However, there are fatal flaws in the storyline of Taxi Driver that no amount of good acting or good direction would ever be able to overcome.1) That cabbie Travis would take beautiful, educated, impeccably dressed, upscale campaign executive Betsy to a hard core porn movie on their first date is just STUPID. Look, Travis spent time in the Marines & he has a reputation of being the only cabbie who will take fares even to the roughest parts of NYC without getting into trouble, so he has lots of life experience & lots of "street smarts". Moreover, his social boldness in walking in off the street to talk to upscale Betsy, & his smooth, seductive language when he is wooing her in the campaign office & then again in the coffee shop belies a level of social sophistication that is beyond the narrative of this film. So why is a guy like Travis, who apparently has so much "on the ball" STUPIDLY taking an educated, upscale gal like Betsy to a hard core porn movie on their first date?2) That Travis begins to get deranged & delusional after Betsy blows him off, & that he buys a number of guns, & starts to systematically stalk candidate Palatine & then, after his assassination attempt fails that he goes to rescue adolescent prostitute Iris, killing several guys in the process is pure BS. Having a BA & a MA in Psychology, I can tell you that mental illness just doesn't work that way. If Travis spent such a long time plotting the assassination of Palatine, then no simple foiled assassination attempt would allow him to focus his obsessiveness elsewhere. In reality, a paranoid borderline psychotic like Travis would just regroup for another attempt to kill the object that he has been stalking for so long, not just "turn on a dime" & choose a new object to kill.3) That Travis is a deranged guy who has been plotting the murder of a Presidential candidate for a long time, & then starts a caring, empathetic relationship with the kid prostitute Iris is just from outer space. A guy who is as twisted as Travis, who spends 24/7 obsessed with killing a prominent person just doesn't take a "mental health vacation" & goes to express concern to a teenage hooker & has a rational conversation with her. SORRY, but the severe mental illness that Travis was exhibiting after Betsy blew him off just can't be switched on & off that way.4) That Travis is hailed in the newspapers as a "hero" after he murders 4 bad guys while "rescuing" Iris is just STUPID. a) Replete with his Mohawk haircut, & unconscious to boot when the cops arrived after the big shootout, Travis would've been pegged as a bad guy who was in a shootout with other bad guys, & as a lowly NYC cabbie Good Luck talking your way out that corner. b) Even if the cops & the DA did recognize that Travis was not a bad guy but a misguided vigilante ala Bernard Goetz, chances are good that he'd still end up in prison for murder because not even bona fide cops have the legal authority to have the type of self initiated, unprovoked shoot out with the bad guys that Travis had.5) That elegant, beautiful, educated, upscale, uptown Betsy actually seeks out the lowly cabbie Travis & makes overtures to him at the end of the film is UNREAL enough in itself but that Travis blew her off & just drove away leaving her standing in the street is just FANTASTIC, UNBELIEVABLE, & the stuff of children's FAIRY TALES not of an adult feature film.For these reasons, & others, I must conclude that Taxi Driver is an otherwise OK film but with an ill conceived, bush league storyline that is not even worthy of a B-movie, much less international film awards. Obviously, writer Paul Schrader did no research on the complex personality that was the centerpiece of his screenplay.
***** WARNING: CONTAINS SOME SPOILERS *****Well, what can I say? Taxi Driver is one of the worst movies I've ever seen. The other facts contributing to the facts that everyone seems to love this movie is absolutely mind-boggling. First off, the film has absolutley no plot. It's a bunch of stuff that happens. The scenes have no meaning and are very boring. Second, Jodie Foster is credited right after Rob DeNiro. She appears in the movie for about 4 minutes total (literally). Third, the "extreme graphic violence" in the movie is nothing more than a little bit of ketchup and water in the last 5 minutes from a few bullets. And last, the score really, really sucks. Admit it, it does. When I first heard about Taxi Driver, I was very excited. From all the reviews that said "It was the most realistic film ever made" or some such thing. Then I saw it and realized it was one of the most unrealistic films ever made, as well as awful. Mr. Scorcese, if you ever read this, my advice is: when you want to do a ghetto movie, let somebody who knows what he's talking about do it.
This movie earned rave reviews for one reason only, salacious interest in a twelve year old prostitute. A gratuitous detail, why did she have to be twelve?Travis Bickel played by de Niro elicits no sympathy or credibility at any point. Witness his lame dialogue at chatting up the Cybil Shepard character on the phone. Witness de Niro giving her an LP and admitting that he "knows nothing" about music. Witness him telling the politician Palladino that he supports him and hopes that he wins the election, and then telling Palladino that he "knows nothing" about politics. There was another instance where the lead character confesses that he "knows nothing" about some or other issue that had been explored and then summarily cut off by "knowing nothing".Witness the lead character performing the standard and predictable American procedure when a woman states her disinterest in him. The man must grab her by the arm and pull and shove her about. I do not find this (admittedly mild) form of assault to be romantically feasible yet it is standard fare in American movies. Are American women different? Do they change their minds after a little display of childish violence? We also have the great Scorsese attention deficit, lazy sloppy and stupid showing the protagonist cutting off one of the sleeves of his shirt (why?) and in the next shot the sleeve is back. This isn't a goof, it is unforgivably lazy. At this point you realise that this "masterpiece" is a piece of junk.At some point we arrive at the point of the movie, the unnecessarily young prostitute. More lazy sloppy work follows. Predictable painfully shallow dialogue. "why are you doing this?" etc.Now the pace of the film speeds up because our stupid lazy director is running out of film stock.Now that the director has fulfilled his child sex fantasies he can give us a gratuitous violence and loving pornographic focus on obviously fake blood and gore and the film quickly wraps with an easy implausible ending.Our twelve year old whore has gone back to school??? with parents who can't afford to visit New York and she is apparently happy in the rust belt town of Pittsburgh. Poor and happy in Pittsburgh don't make sense. Her close associates have been violently murdered in front of her and she trots off to school with a bunch of strangers in some godforsaken city?Our hero has casually killed three people using unlicenced firearms, yet he suffers absolutely zero consequences (another American specialty?) save for hero status in the media and (predictable) interest from the Cybil Shepard person.A shallow stupid and unoriginal story. Perfect for short American attention spans, lazy untidy directing and unconvincing portrayals except for the whore and the pimp. Alienation is not interesting
Reading the above comments just makes me reach for the bucket-I may have to reach for the toilet bowl before I finish reading all of them.This movie is a sad excuse for a B-movie. De Niro's acting has never been so poor, with half-lines and a semi-hashed script which would put a soap opera to shame. The movie is slow, for no apparent reason, the ending is nonsensical and the entire movie is random and without purpose or direction. Now, I hear some of the 'fans' out there shouting "it's meant to be random, that's what Travis was feeling" or some other wishfully throughout tripe, but come on, give it up, you've pushed this movie up to #37, you've taken the joke too far, give it up. I don't know what Scorcese was thinking, maybe he was going through a lonely period in his life feeling a little down, a little alienated, who knows? He must have gone through a similar patch before making Gangs of New York.I think the only reason why people exaggerate this movie is because they approach it with the formula: De Niro+Scorcese=Ingenious film-making. Hey, it worked for Mean streets, Raging Bull, Goodfellas, Casino. Sorry life, like film-making isn't so simple. You have your good days and your bad days, Taxi Driver was filmed on one of the latter days.Not worth it! p.s The 2 stars the movie got was for De Niro being in it.


                
I like character studies, I like De Niro, I like urban movies. Given that, I was somewhat embarrassed to have reached 38 years old and not managed to see a film much ballyhooed as a classic. Instead, I should have been thankful. It's not just that the pacing is slow, the music vaguely irritating, and the story lacking.The problem is that a character study needs to be about someone who *has* a character. We need to see development and we need to care about them. Travis doesn't have a well defined character. His mental instability ebbs and flows, is never properly defined (probably a good idea from the director's viewpoint), and his actions seem random rather than prompted by illness. Does rejection by a "good" person make him re-classify everyone as bad and lead to his vigilante-ism? Or is he attempting to re-cast Iris as a "good" person? Who knows? Certainly not the viewer as no clues are given.Even if we draw a veil over that issue, and the ludicrous idea that he would be seen as a hero for deliberately killing several people, the lack of rationale for, well, anything, makes empathy with the title character impossible. Frankly, there is no reason to care what happens to him, and so, ultimately, no reason to watch this movie."Rocky" roundly trounced Taxi Driver at the Oscars. Well done, class of '77
I watched this movie with some friends and family after hearing some positive things about it. I figured that a highly acclaimed film with Robert Deniro couldn't be bad; I was wrong. The plot never seems to satisfy or even make sense. Why does he talk to the Secret Service guy? Why's he trying to kill Palantine? Why is he a hero for taking the law into his own hands? How does killing a few pimps bring him back his sanity, when the sleaze and filth he loathes is still all around him? And, really, what's with the mohawk? I really don't understand the hype with this movie. Poor script, poor cohesion, but maybe that's what you get with a psycho for a main character. (The conversation between Travis and "Wizard" outside next to the cab is mind bogglingly incoherent.) Only Deniro's acting saved this from receiving a 1.
My wife and I viewed the video (25 years after film release) and we found the movie to be boring. My wife and I could hardly sit through it because it was so boring. Essentially, there was no dialogue. The score was monotonous. Maybe when it was released it had something to say and was novel. Today (2001) it is boring. The poor dialogue makes the entertainment value near zero.


                
Deniro is outstanding in his role as Travis, but the movie itself is terribly weak. This movie is only rated as high as it is because Deniro is simply fantastic. But overall, this movie wets the bed. I wonder why so many people crave senseless plots? "Are you talking to me," One of the best lines ever? For what reason? I simply don't understand the hype, and believe me, unless you are a dimwitted individual, you will agree with me. I was also perplexed by why Jodie Foster was nominated for best supporting actress. She is hardly in the movie. Martin Scorsese may be one of the most overrated directors in the business. Every movie is about gangsters, hookers, killers, drugs, booze, or troubled people. My bet is that he is a troubled individual.


                
First of all i love martin Scorsese and DeNiro movies, but this 2 hour long masterpiece of boringness could have been shortened to a 25 min. short movie, and then been great. Its to long, and if you walk away for an hour, you will have a better experience with the last 30 minutes. Sry but i don't think this movie deserves 8,6. more around 2. First of all i love martin Scorsese and DeNiro movies, but this 2 hour long masterpiece of boringness could have been shortened to a 25 min. short movie, and then been great. Its to long, and if you walk away for an hour, you will have a better experience with the last 30 minutes. Sry but i don't think this movie deserves 8,6. more around 2.


                
As every single other Scorcese movie, this one is strangely as well as massively overrated.I'll make this simple: if you're not sucked into the senseless, remote action going on there's nothing left but the weakest and most pernicious and ambiguous moral at the end.The film is completely random in every possible way: the worst way being at its core, it is nihilistic and unnecessarily bleak. The entire first part of the film for instance with Cybill Shepherd serves no purpose in the storyline but is rather a fully interchangeable/disposable introduction to the film and means to merely convey the notion Deniro's character longs for emotional connection and companionship, but they could've replaced that entire part with a number of other ones in a way that wouldn't shake up the story at all.There's no explanation or significant reason for the turn of events and the change in texture and atmosphere of the film as Deniro's character becomes exceedingly more extreme: just as everything in this darn thing, conclusions are jumped to and never given a prior development. Things just happen, because the movie-makers (writer and director) were disturbingly inept at their jobs of creating coherent structure and developing a plot and its various ideas.Some scenes are just purely random (why the attempted assassination of Palantine ?), added to the just as unnecessary violence and this here is only a 'personal nightmare' for the viewer, not Deniro's character and what not.Philosophically bleak, not dark or haunting just bleak, as in stupid and morally violent, and pernicious. Influential ? This couldn't influence a hair in my nose. Terrible cinema, terrible story telling, terrible everything. Okay dialogue, De Niro's good...2/10.


                
I can't say it was awful, but it wasn't much better. I find more and more that 'the classics' are really nothing more than classic wastes of time. I don't see how so many reviewers are calling this a masterpiece or a brilliant work of art. I think too many people want to sound like they are cultured and refined and 'feel' a movie and the power behind it, but seriously.... movies are supposed to be entertainment and this one wasn't.I don't understand the point behind this movie. The storyline really wasn't anything more than following a guy over what seemed to be a couple months. Except for one scene that seems to be the goto line, the acting wasn't very good and the cinematography was lacking.I would recommend not wasting your time with this movie. I felt I was missing something having not seen it with so many claiming how great it was. Now that I've seen it, all I'm missing is that 2 hrs I'll never get back.PS. Martin Scorsese only brilliance is in getting us to pay money for his movies.


                
I was really disappointed with this movie. The incredible recognition that it always gets moved me to give it a chance, even if I knew that the plot was quite depressing and has been showed in similar ways by many other movies. And this is by far one of the worst of the type. It is so badly presented, and so poorly finished, that it makes Bronson's plain urban avengers and Eastwood's lust for violence real masterpieces. De Niro's acting is the only part that can be saved. Even Cybill Shepherd is unable to raise the overall bitter taste of this ultra-hyped movieIf you haven't seen this yet, save yourself some time for something useful


                
I like Robert de Niro.....but this movie sucks. Its slow...and not interesting. I never saw it back in 1979....I just saw it for the first time now. The script does not make sense. The director has done...much better movies than this. Taxi Driver is a boring movie...and I hated the violence at the end. I am sorry to say this film is trash.
I watched Taxi Driver for the first time last night. The video box called it one of the most powerful films in motion picture history. I call it one of the dullest things I've ever seenJodie Foster made the film for me; the rest of it just seemed to be a rambling, incoherent ride in the back of a cab!!


                
