This too much black movie concerns on a psychotic taxi driver named Travis (Robert DeNiro) who returns from Vietnam and suffers insomnia . He feels revulsion at the underworld full of delinquents , pimps (Harvey Keitel) , prostitutes (Jodie Foster) and general corruption in the N.Y.C streets and eventually drives him to murder . Then , outcast Travis turning into exterminator angel during the nighttime of downtown N.Y. Meanwhile , he becomes infatuated with a political campaigner (Cybill Sheperd).Awesome film with tremendous images , colorful scenarios and extraordinary performances . Atmospheric cinematography by Michael Chapman , a prestigious cameraman and occasionally director . Bernard Herrmann's impressive musical score , this is his last film . Excellent screenplay by Paul Schrader , containing some immortal phrases , it was written during his splendor time in the 70s . These mid-1970s scripts are full of venom , such as Paul proved in ¨Yakuza¨, ¨Rolling thunder¨and of course ¨Taxi driver¨. Here pursued the issue of urban menace such as in ¨Hardcore¨ in which a Calvinist attempts to retrieve his daughter from the inferno of featuring in gutter-level hardcore movies , similarly Travis Bricke with the 12-year-old prostitute excellently performed by Jodie Foster . Magnificent Robert DeNiro portraying perfectly the dark vision of alienation and subsequent urban catharsis whose environment to drive him berserk . De Niro worked fifteen hour days for a month driving cabs as preparation for this role , he also studied mental illness . De Niro is the Scorsese's fetish actor. Scorse-De Niro thundered on several movies as ¨New York, New York¨ , ¨Raging bull¨ , ¨King of comedy¨ , ¨Goodfellas¨ , ¨Cape fear¨ , ¨Casino¨ , among them . This splendid movie won several prizes in British Academy , Cannes 76 and L.A. Film Critics . Rating : Better than average , well worth watching.


                
This story of a Vietnam vet, Travis Bickle, who becomes increasingly isolated and alienated until he explodes in violence is a fine piece of film-making. When it was over I asked myself if it was worth watching and did not arrive at a definitive "Yes."Travis works some of the sleaziest streets of New Your City. He drives his taxi against a backdrop of prostitutes, drug dealers, pimps, porno houses, and various lowlifes. He seems repulsed by what he sees, but in other ways obsessed by it. He tries to make contact with Betsy (Cybill Shepherd) who is working on a presidential campaign. She initially shows some interest, but on one of their first times together Travis takes her to a porn movie and she is so disgusted she walks out on the movie as well as on Travis. This scene says a lot about Travis' social ineptitude, but it puzzles the viewer as well--if Travis is so turned off by the sordidness he sees, why participate in it? Before going into the movie he tells Betsy that she will like it and that indicates he is not a stranger to such movies; has he been going to them alone? This plays into the repulsion/obsession theme. If the sordidness is what is driving Travis over the edge, why is his first target of violence the presidential candidate? Is it a way at striking back at Betsy's rejection, or just the manifestation of a confused mind? When Travis kills all of the lowlifes at the end, he is basically exonerated and applauded. If he had been successful in executing his first target, the movie would have had an entirely different outcome and audience reaction. In judging Travis it should be kept in mind that he could just as well have been an assassin as an avenger.The acting is terrific. There are some iconic scenes like the taxi emerging from a cloud of steam and DeNiro's "You lookin' at me," scene. Jodie Foster turns in a good performance as a twelve-year-old prostitute and Harvey Keitel is perfect as a hopped up pimp. Interestingly, one of the scariest scenes has Scorsese himself playing a contentious fare in Travis' cab, with murder on his mind.The original score by Bernard Herrmann alternates between being evocative of the sad and depressing street scenes and being overly intrusive.I appreciated this as an accomplished work of art, but having been dragged through the hell presented, I was looking for some additional reward or meaning. The storyline of an alienated loner erupting in violence is not exactly breaking news. The one scene that was perhaps the most meaningful to me was between Bickle and his fellow driver "Wizard" (Peter Boyle). In his inarticulate way Bickle tries to tell Wizard that he is having some real problems and feels like he is going to explode. Wizard basically responds with the "Hey, everything is going to be OK," line. Maybe the message is that we should pay closer attention to what people are saying. But it is hard to see what is going to stop Bickle's slide toward the abyss. I would like to have come away with a better understanding of Travis Bickle and his motivations. We know almost nothing of his life before we meet him, except for his tour in Vietnam. Did that contribute to his actions? But maybe the point is that there is no way to truly understand such a man.
Great atmosphere and remarkable performances from DeNiro, Foster and even Albert Brooks but this film is sloppy with too many loose ends. Never really explained or expanded upon is the underlying friction between Travis and African Americans in the film...his suspicious, trance-like staredowns with black characters are never developed. The ending is completely out of place and unbelievable...Travis initiated the shootings...he never would have been hailed as a vigilante hero and in the real world would have been tried for murder. Deeply disturbed protagonist gets the girl in the end???? Come on. What's that all about. Also never fully explained is why does Palentine become the target of his lonely obsession with making a mark in this world? Travis had always expressed the desire to clean up the scum...and I understand the symbolic linking of a pimp with a politician, but the association is sloppy in the film because Travis always admired Palantine even after his disaster date with Betsy. There was never a turning point or event for him where the candidate became the target of his social dissatisfaction. And then there's the subject of Travis' hair. I know it seems petty but it was very distracting seeing scenes that were obviously shot as soon as the shaved headed DeNiro's hair grew in barely enough to pass for continuity with the earlier scenes.In all, I like this film. I think it's powerful and disturbing but it is not an icon or masterpiece. In its day, it was so groundbreaking that many of its flaws received a pass. 7out of 10


                
Taxi Driver is one of the first earnest studies of urban alienation that, in a very real sense, predicted many of the inevitable consequences such a condition spawns, and from which America (and Britain) has suffered over the past two decades. It proved to be a kind of self-fulfilling prophecy when, less than five years after it was filmed, a loner shot the US president to impress an actress who had appeared in this film. The implications of this are a little frightening when you think about it<U+0085> Robert De Niro is scarily convincing as Travis Bickle, a nondescript Vietnam vet who observes the dissolution on the streets of New York from the isolation of his cab. Each night he drives the streets, witnessing a tide of depravity that spills into the back of his cab, and each morning, after his shift, he has to wipe from the back seat the results of those intrusions. That's a bad enough experience for any man, but Travis is a loner who longs for a normal life and relationships but is too inarticulate and confused to be able to obtain them. He ruins his chance with Betsy (Cybill Shepherd), campaign worker for a senator seeking election, by taking her to a porn film on their first date, and is genuinely confused when she takes exception to such behaviour. As Bickle tries to win her back on a public phone, his face hidden from the viewer, the camera pans away from him to focus on a corridor leading to the street as if embarrassed for him, and from then on, as his descent into madness gathers pace, Travis seems to edge further toward the edge of the screen in almost every shot.Bernard Herrmann's score superbly captures both the sleazy side of the New York streets and the sense of foreboding that permeates the entire film. Scorsese guides us through Bickle's increasingly disturbed state of mind without resorting to sensationalism or cheap manipulation of the audience, and Paul Schrader's intelligent script creates a completely believable character in Bickle as an unremarkable everyman who shares our standards of what's right and wrong but with a skewed perspective that has turned him into a ticking time-bomb. Only the speed with which Bickle and Iris develop a relationship and the contentious ending, for which too many people try to find a hidden meaning, weakens the film overall. That ending just doesn't sit right with the rest of the film <U+0096> and Scorsese himself has discounted theories that it may be a dream sequence <U+0096> but that shouldn't dissuade anyone with an interest in intelligent, thought-provoking films to catch this one at least once.


                
Goodness me, how some movies can change over time, in perception, if not in fact.I'm old enough to remember seeing "Taxi Driver" in the cinema all the way back in 1976 and I've probably seen it two or three times since then, including this evening. It's still a good movie but, in my view, no longer the great and ground- breaking movie that it was back then.What I liked. Well, I liked De Niro in his first serious appearance in a well funded movie. And Jodie Foster was sensationally good in her first box office movie at the age of 13. The script was well written and the movie impressively directed by Scorsese although special effects were pretty much in their infancy back in '76.What I didn't like (now anyway). Well, I came to detest that sax "melody" which was repeated ad nauseum all the way through the movie. It got to be like finger- nails on a blackboard to me by half way through. Why in God's name couldn't Scorsese see that all that repetition of something so tuneless would really get on people's nerves after the 8th or the 10th time? Cybil Shepherd was fine but how about Albert Brookes with that stupid 70s hair and, let's be honest here, he was never really an actor was he?Something else too. I just can't work out how someone/anyone can pre- meditatedly murder three people and walk free from Gaol to continue his life as a cab driver. Was it OK in 1970s New York for a citizen to go about cleaning up the bad guys and the pimps and then be sent on his way because he was doing something noble and necessary. I kind of doubt it, even then.Taxi Driver is still a fine movie to watch now but, in my view, it no longer rates the 8.3 that I see on IMDb; 7.2 from me. There are other movies from around the same time that have "aged" rather better than this one. See Taxi Driver by all means; it's still a good and well made movie. But, trust me, anyone under 30 is likely to be bored to death and maybe p****d off, as I was, by that infuriating sax.JMV
A wild movie that nearly 1000 people have reviewed so what can I offer? Nowadays taxis have made way for Ubers and Lyfts and the drivers definitely aren't helping people. In fact, we need a Travis Bickle for the Uber drivers!! OK, not the real ones, the ones posing as Uber drivers to take advantage of women.Travis Bickle (Robert De Niro) was an enigmatic character. He was very hard to pin down. Was he vigilante, was he anti-establishment, was he racist, was he suffering from PTSD, or was he just plain crazy? He could easily have been all of that but you were going to keep your eyes on him because you never knew what he was going to do.


                
Taxi Driver is a very technically well done movie that didn't quite rivet me at any point. De Niro and Schrader both do excellent work in this film, and the themes Scorsese plays with are very well done. Travis' struggles to fit in with society naturally are well developed, as we see him try to be friendly with several characters and remain alone and dissatisfied at each turn. The personification of the city of New York was very well done. My favorite element of the movie was the use of the music and lighting as cues to show Travis' gradual descent into madness and violence. That being said, I found the ending to be good but not great and that the movie just didn't quite connect with me. It was very interesting thematically to have Travis kill the pimps and be treated as a hero for it, and end up right back in the same place driving a taxi and struggling to interact appropriately with Betsy, even after he was declared a hero. The shooting and his ability to move normally and live through the shots to his neck and shoulder were unrealistic, and the climax just didn't feel like anything more than a violent scene, it held little emotional weight for me. I have the utmost respect for Taxi Driver as a technically well done movie and study in the loneliness of a specific character in relation to society, but it's not a movie that was relatable to me or had me feeling invested in the characters.
Often considered a cornerstone of cinema Taxi Driver left me wanting more. Its not that the movie is bad but perhaps the reputation preceding the product killed it for me. De Niro is in top form as loner Travis Bickle who tries hard to fit in but just cannot. Martin Scorsese has crafted a moody drama film set in his native streets of New York and the cinematography is sublime. It makes you feel uneasy because you are on the level of Travis. Great bit parts from Jodie Foster and Harvey Keital enhance the acting front and a sublime jazz score gives a nice touch. However I feel that the film is a tad overrated


                
This was an absolutely great movie, until the end.  I am tired of some people saying that the ending doesn't matter, because in this film, it kills the whole movie. We had the potential for one of the best, and most effective final images at the end of a movie.  That would be Robert DeNiro pointing his bloody finger at his head like a gun, after his brutal shoot out.  Then they camera follows a track to police cars and they should fade out.  We would have a had a dark, brutal film with an anti-hero. Then it goes on for a few more minutes, and Robert DeNiro has friends and is a hero to everyone.  It changes the whole tone of the movie, and I feel that Scorcese copped out at the end and softened up the movie.  It went from a masterpiece, to a decent movie.  I am just disappointed by how he decided to end it.  It ruined everything.  Thats why this is only a 7 instead of a 10.


                
"Taxi Driver" begins so ominously (with blinking neon lights and rising street heat which seem like symbolisms for Hell itself) that people watching it for the first time automatically prepare themselves for a Masterpiece. Martin Scorsese's film is indeed quite good, but it's also flawed, murky and confusing, talky in the wrong places, and features such an over-hyped performance by young Jodie Foster as a pre-teen prostitute that I imagine most viewers will be let down by what amounts to an extremely minor role. Robert De Niro's work is the centerpiece of the picture, playing haunted New York City cabbie Travis Bickle, a man so consumed by the evil on the streets that he eventually stoops to its level. Bickle is a human time bomb; he's ready to explode, and it wouldn't matter where he was or what he was doing. The movie doesn't make any apologies for Bickle, but I didn't buy some of the reasons for his actions (it's briefly alluded to that Travis wants to "save" Foster from her sordid existence, but one gets the feeling he just wants to shoot at somebody...anybody). I've seen better movies about people-as-targets, the City As Hell and urban alienation, but I think the reason why so many people remember "Taxi Driver" and keep returning to it is Scorsese's style. The filmmaker has an unflinching, fearless ability to take on the most neurotic of outcasts while wedging his camera into the most provocative or squalid of surroundings. His picture moves at a staccato rhythm--and it has too much chatter--yet the seamy, sticky ambiance is so tangible you can practically feel it on your fingertips. Cybill Shepherd does excellent work as a beautiful woman stumping for a senator's presidential bid who comes into contact with Bickle; Harvey Keitel is oddly-placed but compelling as a smug, self-assured pimp; and Oscar-nominated Foster, while just a bit self-conscious, does well with a sketchy role. De Niro, who was also nominated for an Oscar, is so adept at these kind of misfit characterizations that we're ready to fill in the blanks left behind by screenwriter Paul Schrader. We don't really learn much about Travis Bickle--deliberately, one assumes--yet De Niro and Scorsese draw us into his dark world. It's a fascinating portrait. *** from ****


                
Taxi driver is undoubtedly a masterpiece, particularly from the time. However, technical mastery cannot save it from one glaring flaw: the final climactic showdown. Two hours of incredibly built up tension leading to a rather bland and poorly stages showdown which left me baffled. Now, I am giving the film the benefit, due to its age. The sound mixing felt particularly odd to me, but then again: could just be a sign of the time.Other than that, the intense, edge-of-your-seat tension through multiple scenes left me very, very intrigued throughout the runtime. Save for a few strange meddlings with the order in which the events take place, the film was mostly coherent and ambiguous, but not to the point of being pretentious. Overall, I think this is an essential piece of cinema for sure. But, if hasn't aged particularly well.


                
Fantastic filmmaking, an outstanding cast, and cinematography that manages to be artistic and elevating, and yet also captures the grime and filth of New York City's seedier areas in the 1970's. Seriously, I felt like I needed a shower afterwards. That's also because the film is dark, and in several ways. It has an anti-hero who is a disturbed, pathetic loner. Child prostitution. Scenes that seem to glorify guns and violence. And an awful ending (and no, I'm not buying the dream theory). I believe it's all meant to be a brutal (and realistic) indictment of America, but it seems to me it also revels a bit in the mire of this grim world, and ironically glorifies some of the very things it's critiquing. I loved the shots of New York at night, and the effects with light, such as when they come through the back of the taxicab out of focus. I thought Jodie Foster at 14 was brilliant, and Robert De Niro ("You talkin' to me?") was as well. I admire Scorsese the artist, but this one was too disturbing for me to want to see again (though I said the same thing when I first saw it years ago). Poke around and see how many people view Travis Bickle as a hero, instead of seeing in him what isolation, failure, frustration, and mental illness inevitably lead to, and you may get an idea of what I mean.


                
Starting off with the fact that this storyline is very unique especially for a 1970s colorful film. Surprised by how the motion picture is presented with such a flawless color gradient. Plenty of scenes within the film are mimicked to this day with new movies and Television shows coming out. The cinematographer was very off and on with color one scene darkish another shows shades of colors. I think the storyline is what made most of the audience love the film also the characters to pair with the film made a excellent piece of art.
While not the greatest storyline in history, this film has stood the test of time as a true cult classic. Many colleges use this film in Arts courses to display and analyze how well it is actually pieced together. The acting and script are very convincing but where it fails is in the actual storyline (which isn't really much). One of the most outstanding features of this sophomore Scorcese effort is that it introduces us to 2 future mega-stars in Robert DeNiro and Jodie Foster. Also of note are the supporting performances of Harvey Keitel, Peter Boyle, and Cybil Sheppard. Albert Brooks also turns in a short but very convincing performance. The most memorable of all scenes in this movie is the "you talking' to me" mirror scene which has been duplicated many times in both television and film.


                
When diving into this movie you may think this is about living in the city, or about New York City itself. It reality its more than just about that, its showing how the city can tear down someones soul so quickly. Director Scorsese does a great job making you understand that concept. This movie actually surprised me. It wasn't my favorite out of all the other ones I've seen but the actual concept and process of going through the plot was well thought out. The perceptive of the main character is shown really well-showing how he's slightly lost his mind due to the war but still being down to Earth wanting to help people. The scenery shown of NYC is pretty impressive and shows you a different side of it.


                
I think this film is good because of two reasons.First, both the first scene and the last scene are the same. In the beginning, main character drives a taxi and he disappears into the darkness. In the last scene, he does the same thing. I think that ordinary films are not like this because through stories, main characters change and they become better, happy ending. In this film, main character does not change. His loneliness may increase through the story.In addition to it, I think the expression of loneliness is good in this film. For example, Travis sees the vulgar town in his taxi, he writes a diary and talks to the mirror. Back music makes these scenes lonelier too. The most impressive scene is that he breaks the TV. I think the reason is that he cannot accept ordinary happiness because he is so a lonely man. He cannot sleep without drags and he doesn't have any people he can rely on. However he tries to make a girlfriend, he fails to it and becomes lonelier. And so finally he plans to assassinate the next president. I think loneliness makes people madness.
A 1970's disaffected Vet who never fully matured is the subject to be observed, if not actually studied. While Martin Scorcese's eye for disturbing his audience was a great match to Paul Shrader's story of the effects of a violent city existence, it is Robert DiNero who grabs our attention and won't let go. Cybill Sheppard, Albert Brooks, Jody Foster, Harvey Keitel and even Peter Boyle are props for DeNiro's epiphany.The jazz score makes no sense and Travis' date at the porn theater is almost out of context and these stand out as over-reaching, which has become a Scorsese trademark. Never the less a classic character movie with some unforgettable sequences. Is Travis Bickle a vigilante, a criminal, a folk hero, a war victim, a savior, or a psychopathic bomb just waiting to explode? You talking' to me?" The epilogue meanders yes!


                
I get it, Travis is lonely, Travis is angry by the all the corruption and all the apathy and everything seems so pointless and everyone seems so superficial and driven by greed, and he wants to blow the whole place up.(MAJOR SPOILERS AHEAD - DO NOT READ AHEAD IF YOU HAVE NOT SEEN MOVIE)Why does Travis find prostitution filthy, but not a nasty porn theater? Why was he so mad at Betsy for not calling him back? He's a cabby, she works for a Senator and gave him a chance. He took her to a porn theater on their first date which disgusted her, really Travis? What was the point of that bit with Scorsese in the Taxi, seemed pointless, any man would react that way if his wife was screwing around? Why did Travis seem to enjoy the Senator but then go back to shoot him? Why did Travis think it was better for Iris to leave that filthy place and go back home to her folks, but he didn't think it was best for him to do the same, instead he lied to his parents in the card he wrote about how he's working for the govt and he cant go back to them, what great life does he have? What was with that sudden Mohawk, he only had that do for like 15minutes of the entire movie, pointless? Had many more questions throughout the movie, but can't remember them now. It was interesting, but too many contradictions, seemed like Travis was suffering from some serious mental illness (schizophrenia mixed with bipolar), don't think I have any desire to rent this movie again. Not a masterpiece to me, sorry. I usually love Scorsese and DeNiro and Cybill and Jodie and Harvey and the dad from Everybody Loves Raymond, but this was a no go.
A lonely, disillusioned taxi driver is disgusted by the filth he sees around him in NYC and decides to take matters into his own hands. As with his other films, Scorsese does a fine job of capturing the seedy side of NYC, helped tremendously by a moody score by Herrmann, who died before release. Although the film is told entirely from the point of view of the driver (well played by De Niro), we are given few clues as to what makes him tick or what pushes him over the edge. It shows the actions of a disturbed man but does not explore his psyche. Scorsese's overly busy camera work is a distraction at times. Ultimately, the film falls short because it glorifies violence and pushes a fascist agenda.


                
One of Robert De Niro's greatest of all time. And I had many reservations about this film prior to viewing. I was definitely surprised of the real complexity of the movie. Travis Bickle is a depressed loner/taxicab driver who spends many of his nights healing his mind with sexual pleasures. He becomes fascinated with the beautiful Betsy played by Cybill Shephard only to get rejected because of his own mistakes. He becomes enraged and violent which coincidently leads him to save the life of a convenience store owner. It was after this when he met the young and misunderstood Iris (Jodie Foster). He spent his time trying to figure out why such a young innocent soul could turn to such darkness. This becomes his objective, to save the life of a teenage prostitute who has no one in the cold streets of New York. Robert De Niro coined one of his most famous phrases in this film, "You Talking to Me?" Great Film! I would recommend it to anyone.
Robert DeNiro plays Travis Bickle, a Vietnam veteran who takes a job drive a taxi around city. During Travis's time behind the wheel he becomes obsessed with the low life scum that haunts his city (Phillips & Scorsese, 1976). As the movie progress's Travis starts to lose touch with the real world and becomes determined to rid his city of crime and corrupt politicians. Travis finds his out let in the form of a twelve year ago prostitute, Iris (Jodi Foster), whom he tries to save (Phillips & Scorsese, 1976). This is a dark film that looks at the under below of society, a film that is terrifying in one sense. Yet this film could also be a statement to those of us that are in high power, city or state government. It shows that just one person with little care for himself/herself can, and very well may take the law into his/her own hands. Taxi Driver is a wonderful look into the minds of people who just have had enough, enough of the lies, enough of people not trusting people. This film also looks into the minds of those people that are part of the crime; they are part of the reason why Travis wants to clean up the city. During one scene in the film Iris jumped into Travis cab and told him to drive, just get her out of there (Phillips & Scorsese, 1976). You can tell by the lighting of that scene that Martin Scorsese wanted to keep Iris face and even her age a mystery, of the views and from Travis. But by the time Travis could leave Iris's pimp, Sport (Harvey Keitel), grabbed her out of the cab and forced her to leave. Then later on Travis finds Iris, and tries to convince her to leave, leave her Sport, leave the city, just go back home. But Iris is so lost in the world of drugs, pain, and mind tricks, she believes that Sport loves her and will take care of her (Phillips & Scorsese, 1976). Travis Brickle tried turning to Charles Palantine (Leonard Harris), a politician who was running for the primary, so he may have his chance winning the Presidency. But just like many politician's then and now he danced around the question, stating that it is harder then Travis may think to change the city, even the county (Phillips & Scorsese, 1976). Between Charles Palantine and Iris, Travis had lost control of himself, lost himself to the other side of the law. Travis tried to murder Charles Palantine, and when that failed he turned his mind towards Iris (Phillips & Scorsese, 1976). As long as there is crime, filth, and corruption in life Taxi Driver will be a classic. Taxi Driver is a film that, hopefully will never driver somebody to become Travis, the crazed hero of his city.
25 years later this film still holds up as an outstanding work for Scorsese and De Niro. The accolades have already been laid out here in abundance and are very true.  Artful, stylish direction by Scorsese and a totally convincing performance by De Niro.  The soundtrack is effective and powerful and the supporting performance by Jodie Foster is remarkable.  It can be hard to praise a film that is so good at making us feel so bad. But this films is one of the best at doing just that. Made in 1976 this film has become somewhat prophetic in it's portrayal of the lonely, isolated, misfit in our society who sincerely wants to connect but can't and eventually turns violent. John Hinkley Jr. even mentioned this movie in his explanation of his attempt to impress Jodie Foster by trying to assassinate President Reagan.   In the movie, the character Betsy,  played by Cybil Shepard, mentions a line from a Kris Kristofferson song that reminds her of the central character, Travis.  After a recent viewing of this film these lines written by another well known songwriter came to mind:"now they take him and they teach him and groom him for life, and they set him on a path where he's bound to get ill" "he's hell bent for destruction, he's afraid and confused and his brain has been mismanaged with great skill. all he believes are his eyes and his eyes just tell him lies." "now who's gonna take away his licence to kill?"  And then there's the ending. The ending is definitely the weak point of this work.  As stated by another commentator it should have ended with Travis and his mock suicide with his bloody finger pointed to his head. His becoming a hero seems odd and unrealistic. The appearance of him being all better at the end comes off naive. Sort of a wrap it up quick and tidy TV ending.A poor ending to an otherwise outstanding and memorable film.


                
Often considered a cornerstone of cinema Taxi Driver left me wanting more. Its not that the movie is bad but perhaps the reputation preceding the product killed it for me. De Niro is in top form as loner Travis Bickle who tries hard to fit in but just cannot. Martin Scorsese has crafted a moody drama film set in his native streets of New York and the cinematography is sublime. It makes you feel uneasy because you are on the level of Travis. Great bit parts from Jodie Foster and Harvey Keital enhance the acting front and a sublime jazz score gives a nice touch. However I feel that the film is a tad overrated.


                
Often considered a cornerstone of cinema Taxi Driver left me wanting more. Its not that the movie is bad but perhaps the reputation preceding the product killed it for me. De Niro is in top form as loner Travis Bickle who tries hard to fit in but just cannot. Martin Scorsese has crafted a moody drama film set in his native streets of New York and the cinematography is sublime. It makes you feel uneasy because you are on the level of Travis. Great bit parts from Jodie Foster and Harvey Keital enhance the acting front and a sublime jazz score gives a nice touch. However I feel that the film is a tad overrated.


                
It has been fun watching this movie for the forth or fifth time. I tend to find new things every time I see it again. DeNiro truly captures the nuances of a troubled soul, and I;m sure he did some painstaking research on the subject with the crew and director. There was no spectacular camera work done, as far as I'm concerned, but it's okay because the narrative and characters just keep the film going on their own. There are obviously some disturbing subject matters covered in this story, and that's part of the drive in getting you, the viewer, to have perhaps some empathy for the taxi driver played by DeNiro. I'm sure it's funny for many millennials to see old footage of NYC. Far cry from the gentrified state it is in now. The entire cast was incredible, and one really starts to feel bad for DeNiro throughout the film. I will always recommend this film to others.
