I almost want to give it 10/10 but... nothing is ever perfect, although Goblin is very close to be perfection. This k-drama is, in my opinion, one of the best. First of all, its originality as well as the mix of genre (historical, drama, romance, thriller and fantasy) is absolutely incredible. Characters are really charming, and you'll appreciate every facets of their relationships, whether romantic or friendship. They're so likable that you just end up feeling like they're your friends too... which inevitably lead to you feeling all kind of emotions if you are the empathetic type. I ended up bawling my eyes out and laughing my a** off with them. Cinematography is incredible as well. Everything in this k-drama is beautiful, from the images to the soundtrack (seriously, one of the best in my opinion).
I don't have any negative comments. I changed my mind I put 10/10.


                
I've been hooked by kdrama for 14 years and this one hold the top position. I've watched it 3 times already. I think it's because the cinematography, soundtrack, storyline and acting skill of the actors/actress that made this drama different from others. After watching this, your standard for korean drama will be higher than before


                
What a ride this series was! The series embodies the best of Korean dramas. Take what is basically a fairy tale, plop in into modern time and proceed to capture us with all of the magic. The cinematography, the music and acting were all top notch. It is not easy to make a fairy tale relatable but it was. You could feel the heartache, the loneliness, the friendship, the anger, the fear and the love. Beautiful production.


                
I usually enjoy fictional stories, like vampires, werewolves, ghosts and others. And this show is packed with smiles you will give along the way, laughs, and also tense scenes. I recommend!


                
Fresh story, good actors, and other elements made Goblin an outstanding series. BUT once the sword was out, and he came back after 9 more years of suffering, why did Eun Tak still have to die? No logic there. She suffered through those nine years too. The story should have ended with their happiness at that time. At least Reaper and Sunny came back soon and were happy.
Goblin just blows you up and leaves you with wanting more. The plot is amazingly constructed with right amount of suspense, humor, tragedy and romance. And the actors are really talented.
And to be frank, I was quite lost in Gong Yoo's smile and talent.


                
