Cosmos is, hands-down, the greatest educational series of all-time. Even the wonderful (and highly recommended) history series Connections can't hold a flame to the perfection of Cosmos. If you don't believe me, look at the user ratings.It makes me tear up that most of my friends and almost all Americans don't know what Cosmos is (or what "cosmos" means), yet they can name every Friends cast member and their character's name and quirks.Computer graphics have come a long way since 1980, and just a few minor scientific updates are needed, but the series was so far ahead of its time that other than the spaceship deck set, the hair, and the clothes, it doesn't seem dated in 2004. It won the Peabody and Emmy awards, and remains to this day the most watched PBS series of all time (600+ million viewers in 60 countries).The series is 13-hours, but ought to count as a three semester hour (~45 hours of class) Intro to Cosmology college course. Sagan's ability to communicate the essence of the cosmos and the history of scientific discovery is concise and absorbs the viewer.If ever there was a series that explained "life, the universe and everything" (an appropriate quote from Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy), Cosmos is it. Cosmos takes the viewer on a journey from the origin of the universe to the end of time and displays it as easily as looking at a calendar on a wall (literally, at least from the origin until present time!). Evolution of all life on Earth is condensed into a simple animation only a few seconds long. A detailed history of the origins and interactions between religion and science is engaging and sure to provoke discourse between viewers. The series also explores the massive capacities of information available in the brain and DNA (virtually wiping aside "nature" in favor of "nurture"). Cosmos details Mars and Venus and uses them to eloquently describe the "greenhouse effect" and its possible repercussions on Earth. I could describe episode by episode, by suffice it to say, it encompasses almost every "big picture" question one could ask.Some people knock Carl Sagan for seeming smug or turning from a researcher to a public entertainer. I think of his entertainment as education to a broader audience, and any smugness should be discounted in favor of the information being conveyed. Sagan did society a tremendous favor by making this series. This is the most digestible science series I've ever seen. This should be required viewing for all high school students (or elementary students in their later elementary grades).Whether you buy it, rent it, check it out from the library, or borrow it from a friend, watch this series. Thanks to Cosmos, you will have a better understanding of your universe.(Incidentally, Sagan's speech is suspiciously similar in style to Agent Smith's from the Matrix. I've never heard of Hugo Weaving crediting Sagan as an inspiration but, intentionally or not, the similarity is there.)


                
Sagan.  Who else could reveal the Universe to us so eloquently?  Who else could make those humans who scarcely even  notice the world around them gaze up at the skies with wonder?  And all the while, he was never condescending...  He awakened so many ordinary minds--he made us all acolytes to the extraordinary.  Amazingly, drew us in to his world, even those of us who felt that true Science was beyond their grasp. His love of the subject was always apparent, and although his knowledge was overwhelming, his presentation of it never was.I was in school when Cosmos was first broadcast...for me and for many people I know Cosmos was the first time the Universe came to life.  I recommend it for anyone of virtually any age...Be enthralled by what's within and without...Also recommended:  The Connections Series (1, 2 and 3) and the Day the Universe Changed (with James Burke)...Also, A Brief History of Time.


                
Hey folks - THIS is pure heaven!Today I got the Cosmos DVD box set and went completely bananas!  I love it for two reasons.First: Even for todays standards it is a well made documentation that will make you think about yourself and the world you live in. The Cold War may be over, but people are still as stupid as ever. Cosmos is not just a simple documentation about stars and planets with numbers, technobabble and nice pictures - it's a manifest for peace and understanding that EVERYBODY should see.Second: I remember when I used to watch the series when I was ten years old. I didn't miss a single episode. Cosmos may not have CHANGED my life - but it certainly gave it a new direction. It taught me to keep an open mind and to care more about my surroundings. When I saw Cosmos today, I felt again like the little boy I was two decades ago. I'm in awe of the whole world and the wonders of the Universe that surrounds every one of us.If you have kids: show it to them! If you want to know more about life on earth or on other planets: see it! If you think, ordinary documentations about outer space are too complicated to understand: see it! If you don't really care about the Universe, the stars and the planets, but you wonder what all the fuss is about: see it!In any case: SEE IT!!!


                
There really is no way to convey how much of an impact this series had on me when it first came out back in 1980. The views of our life here on this little blue marble seemed so insignificant compared to the vastness of the cosmos. It came to pass then my views on science and technology forever changed and turned my life around. One of the most significant features of the series was the selection of soundtrack music. It was also an example of appreciation for the finer things in life that we take for granted. For anyone with even the slightest interest in space and technology truly needs to spend time in the "Cosmos" to get a view of our world from a different perspective. Bottom line, true brilliance and creativity at its best.


                
More than twenty years on, but this documentary series still stands out head and shoulders above most. It is not simply the fact that it was a well-made production, but more of how it was presented. Professor Carl Sagan offered ordinary intelligent viewers an enthralling scientific series without the scientific language; he presented it as if he were an excellent school-teacher, right there before the class, in his careful, methodical way of speaking. His carefully worded explanations of all that could be seen on screen added superbly to that something which is close to magical; thus, for many people, it was a magnificent series for people to learn English; and I include a lot of North Americans and British people!The magnificent use of visual concepts as Professor Sagan took us on his voyage into the unknown, was admirably backed up by a sensational selection of music which just lifted the entire work way above the run-of-the-mill documentaries. Here there is no preaching: just simple plain old-fashioned teaching; but so carefully carried out. The universe came to life as we journeyed on through the Cosmos: it was at once exciting, it was fun, it was spell-binding, but this series was always educational in the first degree.
And do not think I am talking about it being for a classroom of 14 year-olds: this is not the case. Whatever your age, `Cosmos' is one of those great landmarks in the making of anything for the screen, whether the big one or the small one.Previous to this wonderful series, I had only heard Vangelis' music in `Chariots of Fire', but with the selection used in `Cosmos' I have become the firmest stalwart of this brilliant Greek musician and composer. Who can forget such delightful pieces as `Entends-tu les Chiens Aboyer' and - on my LP recording! - the Bulgarian Shepherdess Song, as well as the other pieces used to such effective advantage for this unrepeatable TV documentary series? This is a series that should be repeated again and again. Outstandingly brilliant.Many thanks to the late Professor Carl Sagan and to KCET, Los Angeles.


                
Such apparently disassociated issues as deciphering hieroglyphics from ancient Egyptians and accompanying the Voyager spacecraft along its planetary tour meet up in these wonderful series. Carl Sagan not only transmits the facts, but also and perhaps most important, his enthusiasm swoops down deeply into the spectator skin.Sagan (who hosts the series himself) magnificently shows that science is the art of solving Nature's mysteries. Every topic that is encompassed in Cosmos, is shown as so: Beginning in the knot, showing the big efforts that are made to untie it, and the final breath-out of the human mind prevailing over the (previously) unknown. Not only science, but everyday subjects are researched as well, such as astrology or the UFO phenomenon. History also shares a good role in Cosmos.Overall, the great production and the soundtrack make this series a MUST for everyone carrying a throbbing heart.


                
I was always fascinated by the documentaries created by public television after my experience with Cosmos, Carl Sagans gift to humanity. Beautifully weaving human knowledge into a 13 part series. He covers the entire landscape of understanding in some way; History, Biology, Genetics, Neuroscience, Physics, Chemistry, Astronomy, Religion and the relationships of all these with human politics throughout history and across cultures. It is quite a goal to hit and it is done masterfully. I clearly remember anticipation for the commencement of the series in 1980 when I was 9. It and many of the later science/natural world focused PBS series to follow (Nature, Nova,The Mechanical Universe) in the 80's were what inspired me to pursue a profession in engineering. I hold an electrical engineering degree because of shows like this. Here I am 25 years later discovering again the wonder of Cosmos. I've picked up the series as a gift for my children, yet unborn, that they may hopefully be similarly inspired by this masterful work of television at its best.Highiest possible recommendation.Regards,


                
Carl Sagan is known world-wide for being the most effective teacher ever. This series is based around his novel by the same name, which is the the best selling science book of all time.  He explains how life works and how we are trying to find life elsewhere in the cosmos, how the laws of physics govern everything, how we must take care of ourselves and the earth, and so much more.  He makes the Earth sound like a total paradise.  Anyone even mildly interested in science should definitely see it.  See this, it should be at your local library.


                
This thirteen part series is Carl Sagan's personal account of the universe and how humans have interpreted it through time. In Cosmos, Carl Sagan takes us on location to places in the world where the most important people and ideas in science and astronomy were born, and to places in outer space where those ideas have revealed the universe to us. Carl Sagan shares a sense of wonder that is both intelligent and humorous, while occasionally warning us of our capabilities of self-destruction. Though Cosmos was made during the height of the cold war, it still stands as a reminder of global problems and dangers we still need to resolve. This series has either consciously or unconsciously set the standard for the format of almost every hosted science show or series on Television since it was made, and it's no wonder. Carl Sagan is a charismatic and sincere authority on the subject matter, and the music score is mostly by Vangelis (Bladerunner, Chariots of Fire, 1492) Synergy, Tangerine Dream, Vivaldi, and more. The visuals are amazing and remain as relevant as they were on the release date.


                
Carl Sagan had a way with words. He had a way of making the complex simple. As a young teenager growing up with an interest in science this was an excellent way to begin.This is one of those must see programs. The music by Vangelis was also fantastic.This ignited (excuse the pun) my interest in science and Vangelis' music which is as keen now as when I first saw and heard it.Excellent!


                
Cosmos. Just saying the name evokes memories of science's best and most eloquent educator, Carl Sagan. By no means a slouch in the scientific field -- he was a planetary scientist who first hypothesized and presented the idea of "nuclear winter" -- Sagan will forever be known for a phrase he never said: "billions and billions" (it was actually die-hard Sagan fan Johnny Carson parodying his science idol). Make all the jokes you want about Sagan's plosive enunciation of "billions" (which he always did to make it distinct from "millions"), Sagan defined what makes great science television for a generation.The 13 episodes of this Peabody and Pulitzer willing miniseries touch on nearly every science topic of importance: astronomy, cosmology, physics, biology, the mathematics of gigantic numbers, and relativity. It also indulges us in a targeted survey of science history, including sections on the Library of Alexandria, the birth of science experiment, the defeat of ancient Greek science by mysticism, and the lives of Johannes Kepler and Tycho Brahe (the original Odd Couple), James Goddard, and Edwin Hubble.Episodes 1, "On the Shores of the Cosmic Ocean", and 13, "Who Speaks for Earth?", provide matching capstones for the other 11 volumes, which jump wildly from topic to topic. And yet there is a coherency across the entire run. Whether Sagan is describing conditions on the surface of Venus, the effects of relativity, or the futility of writing out a googolplex, Sagan is our patient, encouraging, engaging guide, making sense to the layman of complex scientific concepts. The script, written by Sagan and future wife Ann Druyan, educated and entertained. Only occasionally did Sagan's delivery approach pretentiousness, but his own enthusiasm for the topics effectively foils any from creeping in.If you've read one of the Sagan biographies that emerged after his premature death in 1996, you'll know that one of the most effective and clever devices used in the series, the "Ship of the Imagination", was actually forced upon Sagan by executive producer Adrian Malone. This was one of the very few times that Sagan was wrong, because Malone's concept allowed us to step into cosmological situations much more believably than if we were presented simply with Sagan's exposition.Although by all accounts the two men hated each other to the point of fisticuffs, Sagan and Malone's production surpassed all previous efforts at science documentary and continues to set the standard for all who have come since. Now that the Sagan family's feud with Turner has been resolved, it is now available on DVD.A previous reviewer wrote, a plain simple "wow" just isn't good enough. Cosmos is, by the judgment of any person on this planet, one of the top 5 television productions in history.
I recently picked up all the episodes of Sagan's series, which impressed me greatly when I first watched it in my early 20s. This time, twenty-seven years later, I am more than impressed. I am overwhelmed. Sagan is immensely intelligent, yet like all good teachers, he makes his intelligence accessible to all. Sagan's series is an example of how TV can be. The new release includes appendices after some of the episodes, recorded ten years later, in which Sagan, showing signs of the cancer that would kill him in three short years, adds new information without changing anything from the original episode. The man was so prescient, using terms like global warming and intelligent design, before they had entered our collective consciousness. Cosmos satisfies those interested in astronomy, life sciences, history, philosophy, sociology -- so wide is the breadth of topics it covers. It is something all of us should have in our DVD libraries.


                
From the Big Bang to the first humans, from the smallest atoms to the grandest of galaxies, Cosmos: A Personal Voyage does it all. Carl Sagan, an astronomer and one of the greatest popularizers of science of all time, addresses in this 13 episode series some of the more profound questions that humans sometimes find themselves asking. "How did we get here?" "What lies out in space beyond the Earth?" Sagan does it all through a scientific point of view, while still keeping it personal and easy to understand for the audience.Don't think that just because Cosmos is from 1980 that it is outdated. It is a very well done series, and the themes that it addresses are just as relevant to today's world as it was when this program first came out. While it mostly focuses on scientific topics such as space exploration, evolution, and the human brain, it also brings up topics like nuclear disarmament and the danger of believing in superstition. While Sagan makes sure that every statement he says is supported by evidence, he is not afraid to say that, at least at the time, there are some things in the universe that science simply does not know.Using plenty of visuals and layman's terms, Sagan does a good job to make sure the viewer doesn't feel alienated from the complex issues that this series tackles. Cosmos is not some cold educational program. It is also very emotional, showing us how small we are in the universe and how fragile our planet actually is. Watching this series has allowed me to understand some basic things about the universe that I never even considered—"In order to make an apple pie from scratch, you must first invent the universe." I wholeheartedly recommend this program to any human capable of thinking. Even if you think science is only something that a small, eggheaded elite can understand, watching Cosmos: A Personal Voyage should be more than enough to change your mind, and give you more of an idea exactly what our place is in the universe.


                
There has been no shortage of praise towards Carl Sagan's Cosmos and rightly so. Every single episode in this wonderful series takes the watcher on a new adventure, teeming with learning. Sagan manages to make the viewer emulate his awe and wonder at the universe, where every discovery is a treasure trove. Cosmos is entertaining and interesting, containing anecdotes and dramatizations that most people will not have heard of but that are interesting and important. Not refining his viewers to space, and rightly so, Sagan covers many topics in an interesting and understandable way, from the Doppler effect to relativity to evolution and the workings and structure of DNA, the viewer will come out of this a much more knowledgeable person.


                
A fact that may or may not be well known is that before this series had originally aired in 1980, the field of Scientific research and engineering, and any field related to that of Space Exploration was not by any means, very high on the to do list at the major university and colleges. Statistics presented by 'Science Magazine' showed that students majoring in all fields of Science from 1970 to before 1980, were on the decline. Although given that engineering was listed as the most popular major, the field of science was not among them. Scientific Engineering was 12th (twewlth) over all and in the decline. After the 'Cosmos' series aired, from 1980 to 1990, a 10 (ten) year period, there was an world-wide explosion of students majoring in the space science's. The numbers changed dramatically, as a matter of fact, they had more than quadrupled. The study had shown that majoring in all fields of science, particularly those in astrophysics, astronomy,space exploration, rocketry engineering (rocket science) etc... And there was a development of a new field of science, "Exobiology" which is the research and study of extraterrestrial life. The entire budget of the search for extraterrestrial life was $25o,ooo per annum.The budget for the following years after wards were increased in the neighborhood of $35o,ooo,ooo. The extraordinary increase of interest was a directly related to highly successful Cosmos series and to the magnificent foresight and knowledge of the "Super-Genious" Dr. Carl Sagan. Had managed to actually make nerds cool. The re-release of 'Cosmos' series in March of 2006 is expected to be a runaway hit when it Aires on The Science Channel. It will be the same 13 (thirteen) episodes as that which originally showed in 1980, with the exception of the special effects which will be new cgi graphics, similar to what was done in the re-release of the Star Wars Trilogy. All this stands as a testament to the timeless and successful pop-culture classic series. I give Cosmos 8.5 out of 10 stars.


                
Regarding Sagan's "blubbing like a baby", he was talking about the death of a colleague isolated in Antarctica after NASA crushed his dream of adding to the Mars probe, not about a robot, you idiot! Watch the show before you pontificate upon it! The rest of your criticism is based (as I would expect from an American raised on US programming) on his style, his delivery, his mannerisms rather than what he was actually saying. If you think his "45-minute rants" would put most audiences to sleep, then I suggest you never had to go through university. A deeply moving and spiritually reassuring series that acts as a balm to the continuing madness where "Intelligent Design" is given equal if not greater attention than science in American classrooms. www.tracesofevil.com


                
First aired in 1980 this series, written and presented by astronomer Carl Sagan, has one of the most ambitious aims of any documentary; to teach us about the vast Cosmos around us. From distant galaxies, nearby stars and the planets around us to the history of life on our planet from its ancient beginnings to modern humanity. There is also speculation; is there more life out there on other planets and if so what is it like? Will we ever find proof of such life or will we somehow destroy ourselves? There is also the history of science and scientists from ancient Greece to the renaissance to modern times.The success of this series is largely down to Carl Sagan; his presentation shows his passion for the subject and this passion is passed on to the viewer. I first watched the series as a child and found it awe inspiring; especially the then recent revelations about our solar system revealed by various probes; most notably the two Voyager missions. Watching again thirty five years later the series feels almost as fresh as it did then; some of the science has obviously progressed but this doesn't feel dated<U+0085> and the DVD does include some 'science updates'. The special effects might show their age slightly at times but that doesn't distract from the information Sagan is trying to impart.


                
I was 13 years old when COSMOS premiered on PBS in September of 1980 and amazingly as this may sound it was **THE** TV show to watch every week that year amidst my coterie of friends. Our science teacher pimped the show mercilessly and every week the day after the broadcast we would discuss what might have been mentioned, compare ideas on what we thought about it, and usually have some good laughs aping the wonderful speech habits of Dr. Sagan.He became one of my heroes, as important as The Bionic Man, Captain Kirk, Peter Gabriel and David Bowie. I promptly had my parents supply me with not only the hardcover book edition, but one of the ubiquitous hooded parka jackets that became Sagan's trademark ... though it took me a few years to warm up to the idea of the turtlenecks. One indication of in what high esteem COSMOS was held in our household is that -- cover your eyes, libertarians -- it was one of the few television shows airing after 7pm that we were "allowed" to watch in our household. My father was a professor of environmental sciences (my mom collaborated as a library archivist at the college which employed him) and was himself smitten not only by Sagan's emphatic encouragement of scientific method, natural sciences, and critical thinking based on empirical observation, but was also an avid classical music fan. No doubt he believed (quite rightly) that Sagan's populist method of teaching science crossed with his frequent use of Beethoven, Bach, Mozart and Vivaldi might encourage me to toss my Queen and Sex Pistols records into the trash and perhaps choose a life devoted to science.It didn't quite work out that way, though I did initially choose anthropology as a major when entering college half a decade later, and am sympathetic to the music of Mozart and Vivaldi in particular (the hallowed Vangelis album which contained the show's iconic theme music also found it's way into my library of records, right next to The Clash, Dead Kennedys, and Monty Python) but eventually chucked it all aside after a month of Biology 101, and transferred into Visual & Performing Arts, with an emphasis on Media Studies, video production, and experimental studios. Eventually clips from COSMOS found their way into some of my experimental video works, and one of Sagan's brilliant lines opened up the Master's Thesis in Studio Arts that I composed in 1997: "The universe is not required to be in perfect harmony with human ambition." I am not sure who coined the phrase, but the most correct thing that can be said about Sagan's prose is that he was incapable of writing an uninteresting sentence. COSMOS is brimming with one interesting sentence after the other, and perhaps his greatest contribution to the human condition in regards to this show was to demonstrate that science was not necessarily an exercise in applied boredom. Science could be an exciting "personal journey" of discovery, and his enthusiasm for endowing his viewers with a zeal for critical thinking helped me to breeze my way through high school biology & chemistry, which made perfect sense by the time I encountered the ideas presented.COSMOS also encouraged the young people who witnessed it at the time that science could actually be COOL, and that it was cool to be smart, informed, inquisitive, and open to new ideas. It was also pretty far out television, and during the second year it was on the air as repeats I made a point to always watch the show while stoned on whatever marijuana that I could get my chubby little hands on. We used to joke about Carl Sagan "smoking billions and billions of Quaaludes", so imagine my surprise when it came out after his far to early death at the age of 62 that he was a lifelong cannabis user himself. Just like with chemistry, it makes perfect sense once you think about it, though these days it's almost impossible to watch some of the episodes without relating certain on screen mannerisms as being chocked up to Sagan having probably been completely baked during filming.One of my favorite moments from the show perhaps speaks most clearly for what endeared him to me: It's during a sequence when he discusses the social hysteria that gripped the earth in 1911 when it became clear that the Earth would pass through the trail of Halley's Comet, composed in part of cyanogen gas. An enterprising mind of the time made "Comet Pills" composed of unspecified substances that would ward off the toxic effects of the cometary residue, and Sagan had managed to find (or have re-created by a clever prop technician from the RPI iEAR studios it was filmed in, where I took a semester of experimental video arts as a scruffy graduate student) a jar of the Comet Pills. He opens the lid, removes one and says, "Think I'll take one for later" and pops it into the pocket of his famous corduroy jacket. Hilarious, but that's Carl Sagan for you, and I have always wondered if it got him off.10/10: Buy the DVD box set, even though some of the episodes have "updates" that intrude on the purity of the original production, though it helps to prove his cannon that science is a self-correcting process. Even Carl Sagan was bound to his own theory. I like that.


                
I remember watching this series when it first aired in the fall of 1980 - I was 12. I was mesmerized by it then, and at 39 I am still in awe today. Carl Sagan quite simply had that uncanny ability to make even the most abstract concepts accessible. Take for example his explanations of the Theory of Relativity (from "Travels in Space and Time") or very great numbers like a "googol" (from "The Lives of the Stars"). Each and every concept is developed and explained so lucidly that educators should routinely use it as part of their curriculum; depending on what field they teach.In addition, the visuals are quite entertaining (although some may be a bit dated by today's standards) and serve to further clarify the lessons. His language is thought-provoking yet easy to understand and will no doubt have you considering our little corner of the universe and the life on it in a whole new way. The series on DVD contains several updates made 10 years after the initial airing (c. 1991) where Dr. Sagan expounds on new findings and developments in the areas discussed in that particular episode.The series is really part science, part history, part parable but entirely enthralling. Never will 13 hours be better or more constructively spent!


                
Carl Sagan's ability to clearly communicate concepts in simple language without washing down the content of his explanations is such a rare happening, that I found myself in awe of the man right from the start. Having attended science lectures at Columbia University's Physics and Chemistry departments for many years, I can competently judge when a brilliant man can communicate with such ease as to be way above the rest. I have heard many that compare with Stephen Hawkin (he needs a translator) favorably, but not anyone close to what Carl Sagan could do.That aside, the content of the series is superb. It is stepwise, continuous, logical and factual, except for some personal opinion interjected mostly near the end.I can only highly recommend this series for anyone with the slightest curiosity about how the physical world exists and how its elements interact as far as we have been able to examine thus far. It is presented in such a way that you become a voyager through space and time, as if on a ride through the "Cosmos".


                
If you are like me and many other of course, wondering about our place in the cosmos, and if there is life on other planets, our history from the beginning and until today and where we will go from here if we doesn't destroy ourselves.This is a series for you. This is really a great series, Carl Sagan is great. I strongly recommend everyone to see this. And to tell everyone you know to see it too. You will get a journey in tho the cosmos, and learn about all, from the start and other people who discovered the first things like the earth is round and moving around the sun which is also moving in the vast space of billions of other stars and galaxy's.


                
I consider myself lucky to have seen this series and I will continue to watch over the years again and again. Where could I possibly start? The amazing music by Vangelis, Carl Sagan, personally my most beloved documentary host, or the subjects, the only show that doesn't only tell you about the discoveries but also describes from the scientist's point of view of how they were made? Have you seen any other documentaries out there showing Kepler as a child? Or another host visiting the Aegean? I don't think so... There is only one bad thing about Cosmos and that is that after watching it, you won't be able to watch another documentary without thinking that "Cosmos was better". 10 out of 10 from me, for Carl...
I love this award winning thirteen episode series on astronomy by Carl Sagan and my two favorite episodes of Cosmos are "One Voice In The Cosmic Fugue" and "Travels In Space And Time". I love the speculation about the Jupiter "Floaters" and "Hunters" in the conclusion of One Voice In The Cosmic Fugue. I also love the three preliminary starship designs featured in the middle of Travels In Space And Time. Cosmos inspired me to design a realistic starship concept of my own which is rather an extension of Project Orion that gets its propulsion from Project Daedalus. However, I did not watch the series until 2005 but I read the book since 1997 and 1998. I like Carl Sagan prophetic statements and warnings."The sky calls to us, if we do not destroy ourselves, we will one day venture to the stars." - Carl Edward Sagan
KNOWLEDGE! Not just physics, not just astronomy, not just biology, or philosophy or mathematics; knowledge from every strand of human endeavor. Astronomer Carl Sagan ties it all together in an immense library of congress called COSMOS.First broadcast on Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) in 1980, to date COSMOS is still the most widely watched PBS television series in the world. It won an Emmy and a Peabody Award and was viewed by over half a billion people.Not merely a dry, didactic statement of facts, COSMOS appeals to such a wide audience because Sagan makes every episode, every topic, every nuanced syllable as interesting as possible, using props, special effects, reenactments, shooting on location around the world - the brilliant scientist himself, turtled to the neck, the most interesting prop of all.COSMOS is also an optimistic cry to humanity; an understanding of our place in the universe; a plea that we are all in this together on a small blue rock drifting in an endless ocean of night...It has dated, yes, and the special effects look quaintly chumbly-wumbly (especially the hokey "Spaceship of the Imagination" Sagan supposedly travels the cosmos in), but COSMOS is a perfect example of what the methodology of science is: a continually-changing facility, presenting the facts from evidence gleaned up to that point, but knowing those facts will change with more precise measurements, images, monitoring, researching - and welcoming those changes. No one - not even Sagan himself - would claim this series or his book of the same name was the ultimate be-all and end-all of knowledge (matter of fact, in 2005 The Science Channel rebroadcast COSMOS with updated computer graphics, new satellite photos of our solar system's planets, and digital sound). It was a placeholder until more current facts could be verified about the nature of things.Even so, COSMOS is one helluva placeholder, Sagan bringing together strands of philosophy, sociology and science into a fascinating wrecking ball of entertaining intellectualism.
(Note: This review is based on the 2000 DVD release version of the series)This year (2010) is the thirtieth anniversary of the original PBS airing of Cosmos. A thirteen part documentary series, it won both an Emmy and a Peabody Award at the time of its original broadcast and has subsequently become the most watched PBS program in the world (and held the U.S record for a decade until Ken Burns' The Civil War aired). Not bad for what on the surface would seem to be a long documentary on space. Cosmos though is far more then just that though. Cosmos is an epic journey with few boundaries and many lessons. Thanks to its host Carl Sagan and its three writers (Sagan, Ann Druyan and Steven Soter) Cosmos covers a wide range of topics. These range from the origins of life, its evolution from single cell to modern humans, the ongoing battles between science and superstition, our own evolving outlook on the universe, our fascination with the planet Mars (the subject of the fifth episode "Blues for a Red Planet"), the complexity of the human brain (episode 11 "The Persistence of Memory"), the possible existence of extraterritorial life and our species own survival in the future to name a few of the topics covered in the series. As a result, Cosmos touches on a huge variety of topics that covers much of the human condition and the universe around us at the same time. While some of the science is inevitably out of date after three decades, this is made up for by the afterwords at the end of most episodes and the series has actually predicted a number of things as well (such as the early version of the rovers now exploring Mars seen in the fifth episode). Despite some of the science being out of date, Cosmos is still remarkable for the sheer number of topics in covers on its journey.It makes that journey thanks to fine production values. The series takes Sagan around the world to countries such as India, Egypt, Italy, Japan, France and Mexico along with places across the United States as well such as Sagan's old elementary school where he speaks to children and the Very Large Array of radio telescopes in New Mexico). These foreign locations can also be seen in numerous historical segments that explore the history of astronomy or various events and people throughout history as well such as Johannes Kepler or Jean-François Champollion who became the first person in modern times to translate Egyptian hieroglyphs. To take us beyond the Earth and out into the universe, the series gives us a "Spaceship of the Imagination" based on a a dandelion seed that becomes a reoccurring motif throughout the series. While its interior is exactly what you'd expect out of a 1970s science fiction spaceship, the places it takes the viewer to are not. The effects of the series (at least those not augmented and/or replaced by CGI versions) stand up rather well today such as Sagan walking through a recreation of the library of Alexandria, the beautiful "galaxy rise" seen at the end of episode nine "The Lives Of Stars" or the simple effects used to create the supernova seen in that same episode. Last but not least, perhaps, is the use of music throughout the series from a wide range of sources both classical and more modern including the opening music or the use of Holst's "Mars The Bringer Of War" to help create perhaps the definitive screen version of the famous opening paragraph from H.G. Wells The War Of The Worlds to name but two examples. The result is that Cosmos continues to stand up well even against more modern documentaries and is made even more effective as a result.The series greatest strength may well be in its host, Carl Sagan. Cosmos opening sequence subtitles it "A Personal Voyage" and Sagan, one of the most famous scientists of the late twentieth century, makes Cosmos just that. Sagan's sense of wonder and excitement is evident throughout and it is those attributes that makes the potentially dull parts of this series (dull as in topic you might not personally be interested in) worth seeing. That is in large part because of Sagan's ability to bring abstract concepts (such as the mathematical parts of Episode 10 "The Edge of Forever" or the Drake equation in Episode 12 "Encyclopaedia Galactica") down to a level that almost anyone should be able to understand and find exciting. A great example of that lies in the statement by Sagan at the beginning of episode nine: "If you wish to make an apple pie from scratch, you must first invent the universe." which allows Sagan to take us on a journey from the impossibly small (atoms) to the impossibly large (stars, black holes etc). The series also illustrates Sagan's fears about our species seemingly ingenious ability to find new and more deadly ways of destroying ourselves, especially in the form of nuclear weapons. These fears are best expressed in the final episode of the series "Who Speaks for Earth?" and its haunting dream sequence. Sagan though makes sure that this journey is one that shows us that if we can survive our species destructive tendencies, our greatest accomplishments are still ahead of us. As a result, Cosmos is both an epic journey and a personal one as well thanks to Sagan. It is an epic journey not just across time and space but from the incredibly small to the incredibly large and from our species darkest moments to our greatest accomplishments. It is a personal journey thanks to Sagan, his sense of wonder and excitement about us and our universe. Perhaps its message is summed up best by Sagan himself:"The sky calls to us. If we do not destroy ourselves, we will one day venture to stars."May we indeed.


                
