I'm not sure why nobody else has noticed that this movie had no characters. It was incredibly disappointing to walk out of the theater realizing that this is the best movie of the summer and there were no meaningful interactions between the characters. Strangely enough, the appeal of the first movie was inverted; in Toy Story, we were surprised and delighted to see toys have emotions like human beings, and in Toy Story 3, we are apparently satisfied (duped?) into enjoying allegedly human personalities thrown around as toys.In the first movie, Woody is the hero and leader of the toys, then he meets Buzz and his personality is suddenly conflicted. Watching the tension between these characters build and break was legitimately interesting, a sort of Shakespearean kids' movie. It took the silly idea of animated toys and turned it into a real drama. Now, in the third movie, the drama is artificial and stupid; it comes from an outside evil force that has only a shallow personality and cannot be swayed. The main characters are only good people in a bad situation, which they need to get out of. THEY DID NOT DO ANYTHING TO GET INTO THIS SITUATION; their only duty is to escape. Nothing meaningful happens to them.In the first movie, too, the cognitive dissonance between "toys being played with" and "toys acting up when nobody sees them" was very small. Woody was the same person whether or not there were kids in the room. In the third movie, somehow there is a complete disconnect between these two behaviors. Woody is not really a toy, but a sort of soul-infused plastic man who is forced to be a full-time actor, who performs "improv" for the kids and needs to be "in character". The deep, unexplained longing of the toys for children to come back and play with them is more than a little creepy.In short, the metaphor of Toy Story is broken by this sequel, and no meaningful story is told. I would not show it to my kids. I'm sorry I watched it. Two stars for a decent ending scene.


                
There are other reviews which cover specific issues around scary characters etc, so I will not repeat. What I wanted to add was that from the outset the film has an uncomfortable feeling which soon turns to being actually sinister, with adult themes played out by kids characters.The short animation before the film began had my nearly-5-year-old son giggling loudly - but once the actual movie began, it wasn't long before he crawled onto my lap for comfort and after around an hour he actually asked to go home, around the time the scary monkey appeared. I understand that older kids may be able to handle more adult themes, but am at a loss to understand why we would want to subject kids to these themes, as if it was not possible to make a good movie without them.The toys go through threat of being crushed and incinerated, the Sunnyside toys are run by a cartel who oppress, bully and imprison the other toys, Lotso is finally more or less depicted as being consigned to hell and in the end of it all kids are essentially left with a feeling that it would be better to give their old toys to some other kid who has plenty already rather than pass them on to a daycare centre or somewhere where underprivileged kids might benefit from them instead. Just bizarre that we would consider this good entertainment for children!
As a fan of animated movies ,such as the Shrek series toy story all the Pixar greats and Madagascar. I was excited to go see toy story. The movie started of typical as you got to see all the classic toys as the entered the first scene woody buzz Mr. Potato head etc. Then Andy was introduced there to his mother telling him he has to put his toys in the attic throw them away or take them with him to college.After this point the whole movie goes downhill. Every single thing is predictable from a to z. You know the toys are going to get donate. As soon as you meet the bear you know he is evil.(plus his back story was boring). You know woody is going to break out come back save the toys. I could have written the whole script in five minutes and the story has been done again and again. Plus there was probably a handful of good jokes. 11 year waste for this. forty minutes into the movie i wanted to leave and if i wasn't with my girlfriend i would have left.The story needed a bigger connection with people as the first two movies had to do with the toys and there interaction with humans. While this movie was all about toys being held captive by other toys. I thought that was a mistake as one can not relate. The bottom line don't see unless you want to waste your money on a predictable unentertaining movie. Sit home watch the original or rent Shrek two. This movie only disappoints.
I know how all you people think that Toy Story is awesome because it is imaginative and full of that childish innocence that you hoped that you could return to, but this is just way off the hook! For me, Toy Story has never been the favorable movie on my watch list. Somehow i never got to the point of appreciating talking toys. Creepy. Of course, the animations were okay, but you would expect them to be. What really just didn't work out for me, was the part where Jesse fell for Buzz Lightyear. Okay? What happened to the stuff in Toy Story 2? I mean, if what i am stating right now is not a spoiler, than I don't know what is. Jesse showed no signs of admiring Buzz in Toy Story 2, so what happened? And this is a kid's movie. Imagine the stuff Pixar is teaching to kids about love... What should you do when you suddenly find someone more attractive than your current boy/girlfriend? I know, ditch her!
If you like gimmicky humor, this movie is great. If there's some sort of potential gag involving a toy, Pixar has officially milked it for Toy Story's cash-grabs.If you don't like gags involving toys, I'm not sure if this cartoon will be up your alley.The plot, again, is about toys going from point a to point b, rescuing a toy, and trying to survive in a world of abusive children. It's a Pixar/Disney cartoon, you can guess the ending as well as I can.I didn't stay for the whole thing but found the ending online. Seems like I didn't miss much...


                
This is basically Toy Story 2 again, but with better animation and graphics. There is nothing new here. And I was left very disappointed.
Alright! I can feel the controversy beginning! But this was easily Pixar's worst movie. And the only one that I managed to properly dislike. Of course, being Pixar, it can't be all bad, and the plot, and the visuals, were pretty good. The plot in particular was great, except for one thing. This is not a kid's movie. How is it rated G? How? Why?The reason I hate it, and why it shouldn't be rated G, comes from one fatal flaw in the plot. It was terrifying! This might as well be a freaking horror movie! I saw this when it came out, when I was about six. And it traumatized me! It freaking traumatized me to the point where I still sometimes have nightmares about Big Baby and Lotso Huggin Bear killing me in my sleep! Not kidding. It's just terrifying. it might as well be Child's Play. Before watching this, I had no problem with dolls or anything. Now, I can't look at a baby doll without being terrified, all thanks to this movie. I can't even fathom how scary this was for me. I think that maybe now as a teenager I might have enjoyed it, but seeing it at the age of six has forever tainted my opinion of the toy story movies and toys. Would not recommend to anybody but horror fans. That's how scary this is. It's a straight up horror flick. That's all I can say about it. Don't show it to your kids.


                
