Once again Hollywood waves its sanctimonious wand over history with this glossy movie about slavery in the United States. Like a self-righteous teetotaler telling off an alcoholic, it is a sentimental, holier-than-thou piece that challenges you to criticize it or 'you're a racist too'. Following in the footsteps of Django it uses the excuse of history and a worthy theme to justify gratuitous scenes of violence. The film begins in the home of the central character, Solomon Northop, a free black man, who lives a genteel life with his family in New York. The director is clearly eager to get to the gory bits though, and within the first ten minutes Solomon has been kidnapped, enslaved, and the audience is cringing under a close up of his contorted face during a twenty minute whipping scene; the first of many to come. The film continues in this vein, as we follow Solomon's journey through an array of increasingly evil slave-owners. There is a segregation of personality in the film, with most of the black characters being good and moral and the white ones evil. Surely it is as patronizing and insulting to assume personality is dependent on colour as it is politically correct. At least the same cannot be said of gender, the white women are as evil as their male counterparts. However no film about slavery is complete without our token good white guy, and Brad Pitts rises to the occasion, strolling in bearded and ready to play, once again, the hero.One does wonder why Solomon doesn't send a letter under his 'mistress'name on one of his frequent forays to the shop. (Of course, his one attempt to run away is thwarted when after two steps he stumbles on a lynching scene). Perhaps the point the director is trying to make is that Solomon is too broken and scared to do this. He is too proud, however, to pick the cotton quota demanded by the sadistic slave-owner. A necessary contradiction perhaps, as this allows more whipping scenes as he is punished daily.Or why, instead of trying and failing to write a letter with a blunt bamboo stick and watery juice, he doesn't simply use the candle end and stain the paper instead. But it is not a film for the details. Nor the historical overview.It is two hours of increasing brutality, culminating with a horrendous scene where one girl is whipped until her flesh is exposed. Instead of taking one of the many examples of modern day slavery however, which could leave people feeling guilty at inaction, it is set far enough in the past that it allows the audience to do their cinema time, and leave feeling as worthy and sanctimonious as the director.
Solomon Northup suffered many degradations after being unlawfully forced into slavery in the American Deep South during the 1840s and 50s. He contributed to a ghost written book detailing his tragic experiences. This movie is based on that book.The film is relentless in its depiction of the despicable white men and women that Soloman (renamed Platt Hamilton by his new 'owners') encounters as a slave. There is absolutely no let up. This does a disservice to Mr Northup's account of his tale. By his own account, William Ford was a decent man, though a product of the time he lived in, and his background. He was not portrayed as such in the movie - I'm guessing because this did not fit the screenwriter/directors literal black and white vision of his tribulations. Thelma and Louise suffered from the same type of problem, in it's depiction of 'all men are bastards' proclamation.I got bored after a half hour or so. Which should not have happened. It's a terrible story, filled with deeply tragic events. But I found myself, moving from... Jeez, that's terrible. The poor man.....to Oh God love her. That's unforgivable.... to I am so glad I was not born black in America during slavery... to OK, I get it. There weren't many sympathetic white people... to Sheesh, was EVERY white person SO irredeemably vicious? to Alright, ALREADY...I get it..White people treated black people worse than animals!! to Oh FFS, how was this written? With crayons? I also found myself thinking of Alex Haley's Roots. This told a not dissimilar story of enforced slavery on black people in America. But there was dark and light in the story. You rooted for the characters. You understood that the black slaves were quite often better people, all round, than their white owners. But you weren't beaten over the head with that thought.12 Years's depiction of Salomon and his companions existence did not let up for one second. I don't mean to underplay the hardships that they endured, which were terrible. But the relentless depiction of all of the black people as nothing other than victims reduced them to caricature.Just like a good horror movie will have light moments, which both relieve the tension and then make the horror more shocking, it would, for me, have been better served to show moments of light relief which were then snatched away by, for example, the loathsome Edwin Epps. In this way, we can better identify with Salomon's plight. But the incessant misery becomes almost expected after numerous representations, to the point where it ceases to shock. And that's what's wrong with the movie, for me. Something has gone seriously wrong when the depiction of merciless hardships by fellow human beings becomes boring. And I was bored. Not helped by too many lingering closeups, some extending to thirty seconds. The director is obviously a fan of Kurosowa.The actors were all excellent, especially the lead character. It looked beautiful. And I will read the book now, where before I hadn't heard of it. But the movie didn't work for me. A good story badly told.
I'm really going to be the exception here and pan this film. I was no non-plussed about it that I can barely be bothered to review it properly. The amount of dead space (for example a 75 second scene showing Soloman just looking at the scenery) was astonishing - any other director would have dealt with the subject matter in about 30 minutes. Both my girlfriend and I were close to walking out with the boredom.But we didn't because we were expecting the stage to be set for a finale whereby through complex legal machinations, the injustice is uncovered and Soloman is reunited with his family. So what complex genius might effect his release? He writes a letter to a friend! A LETTER! Genius - amazed he could devise such a complex solution given a mere 12 years! So once reunited, will we be treated to the legal wranglings to ensure this can't happen again and that those responsible are brought to justice? Nope.So, basically, man gets kidnapped, lives as a slave working for three different "Masters", witnesses hard work and unfair treatment of slaves including murder and rape, and eventually gets to go home after writing a letter to a friend who comes and picks him up. Hardly noteworthy at all, and in my worst five films of all time.
Let me start off by saying that I like a good movie based on a true story like Schindler's List, The Butler, A Beautiful Mind, We Bought A Zoo, etc., etc. I'm also fully aware that not all events will be entirely factual so when I went into this movie I wasn't going in expecting accuracy in any form. What I did go in expecting was a good performance by great actors and I must say the acting was fantastic, but unfortunately the rest of the film was a complete train wreck. I felt it had potential at first and then that feeling quickly dissipated after watching the first beating commence and continued to diminish after seeing the attempted hanging where he walked around on his toes for at least a good twenty to thirty seconds and we had to sit and watch. I didn't think it was possible for the movie to get more boring but then they threw in yet another thirty second scene where we all proceeded to stare at the main character's face while he sat idle, occasionally moving his head from side to side. I wanted to feel emotion for these poor characters but every emotion that I had was quickly ruined by incredibly long, drawn out, and unnecessary scenes. Not only did I have to sit through the agonizing, stretched out scenes but whenever there was about to be a significant lapse of time within the main character's life they'd add in a bonus five to seven seconds where we stared at a bunch of trees. I'd like to say that I was moved by the movie or felt some sort of enjoyment in watching it but in truth the only touching moment I truly had was at the end of the film when I realized it was FINALLY over. I'd liken it's boringness to The Fifth Estate but honestly it was far worse. My advice to you would be to ignore the plethora of ten star reviews and think twice before you decide to pick it up for movie rental once it finally comes out on DVD.
Before I started reading reviews on IMDb I actually thought the cinema was a form of entertainment. Now I realise I was totally wrong. A silly comedy like "Meet the Fockers" or" Legally Blonde" is condemned as a complete waste of time."I want my life back" But a film lasting two and a half hours which shows a man kidnapped into slavery,beaten half to death and then rescued is considered worthy of 5 stars. If I had gone to the cinema alone I would have left after 15 minutes.What sort of people can enjoy watching other people being beaten senseless for two and a half hours.The only thing that kept me awake was the hope that the slaves would rise up and cut those nasty white throats.No such luck.The slave was rescued.A weak ending to to a weak pointless film.
I feel that a Best Picture Oscar winner should 1) be a film that you would recommend, and 2) be a film that you would watch again. "12 Years a Slave" is neither."12 Years a Slave" falls squarely in the torture-porn film genre like "Hostel" or "Passion of the Christ." So if you are into that kind of cinema, this may be a good film for you. If you like well-directed and well-written films with a strong narrative, plot, character development, sense of place, and historical context and meaning, then this film will disappoint you.The last scene of the film when Solomon is reunited with his family is unbelievably bad but sums up the whole film: bad direction, bad writing, a big mistake and waste of acting talent.For heavens sake, read the book and learn Solomon's story but avoid this disaster.
I was hoping for much more - sadly,we've seen It all before. Since the brilliant and awe-Inspiring 'Roots',nothing In this genre has been at all special and '12 years a slave' Is no exception. As unexciting as It Is predictable,this Movie gives us nothing new and Just re-treads old ground. We've seen enough of pre-emancipation stories. We KNOW what a terrible time slaves In America had without constant reminders like this. Black folk have enough reason to hate White folk without stirring up hackneyed old stories. If you can watch this the whole way through without falling asleep waiting for something exciting to happen then good for you. Giving this Movie 'top marks' just because of feelings of guilt(If you are white) or because of solidarity and mutual hatred of the Slavers (If you are black) Is a naive decision. This boring piece of Americana will soon be forgotten. As the song goes..."Tell me the same old story....".


                
The story is of course painful so it's loaded with emotion. Human beings suck. We get it. But there is no character development and no plot. All we know is Plat's physical pain and his apparent strength to endure it. We feel pity for him. We can sympathize, but we are given very little opportunity to empathize. The actors pain doesn't match the beatings. When the carpenters build, they're not really building. When the field workers are working they're not really working. Brad Pitt's monologue was embarrassing and amateur.Sorry for the analogy, but it's like a porn movie where we are here for the immediate gratification, not the substance.Sorry...I just don't understand they hype.


                
I found this movie about as realistic as a Muffets movie. Every slave seemed to have an Oxford education which made it hard to believe. Don't waste your money or time. I can not believe it is up for an Oscar when there were so many better movies out there. I still can not get over all of the great reviews I have read concerning this movie, am I the only person that got this. I saw this with two friends that had the same feelings as myself and if you look at the top movies at the theater right now you will see it is not even in the top five. This should tell you what the people really think of it. So if you must, go see it but keep an open mind and think for yourselves. It doesn't seem very real.


                
If you plan to go and watch the three Academy Awards winning '12 Years a Slave' (best movie, best adapted scenario, best supporting actress), be warned that it comes without a patient information leaflet. It should have had one. The movie will expose you unsolicitedly to massive amounts of racism, physical violence and psychological cruelty. And for what reason? Is there anything in the story that alludes to historic events we did not know about? Will we walk out of the theater as better human beings than we were before? Does this production leave us with an experience that bears relevance for the way we live our lives today? Unlike you may expect me to answer these three question, I'm going to say yes.Yes: most of us didn't realize yet that the elite of white celebrities today have so mindlessly accumulated so much power, that they feel no hesitation abusing two-hundred years of creating prosperity by enslaving millions of Africans for a mere defamation of cinematography. Yes: after watching this destruction of suggestiveness and denial of our imaginative abilities we will have become more aware of the true nature of art, that its magic is not in getting our questions answered by a nifty recreation of reality, but in challenging our sense of reality in ways that awaken a desire for other questions instead of answers.Yes: when we are offered an opportunity to reflect on the storyline from a present day perspective, i.e. when we try to become more conscious to the thought that we are living in an era where our debt slash guilt is sublimated in seeing a black man saved from his misfortune in the ocean of badness by a rare drop of white Christian goodness personified by the movie's producer Brad Pitt himself, how could that not be relevant for our lives today?'12 Years a Slave' is by far the most lazy and disgusting piece of anti- cinema ever produced, shamelessly just for the money and the fame of its creators alone, at the expense of non-consensual emotional investment by an audience that the movie industry has imagined to own and enslave. Indeed, "A man does how he pleases with his property. At the moment, Platt, I am of great pleasure. You be goddamn careful I don't come to wantin' to lightenin' my mood no further."


                
Was really looking forward to this having read critics reviews. However while there is no doubt this depicts the terrible practices of slavery it is a horrid way to spend a Saturday night - and to what effect. Steve McQueen (the director not the great actor whose fame he is possibly benefiting from)undoubtedly knows how to create emotion in the crudest of ways using scenes which would abhor any fair person. However there is very little signs of skillful film making just a formulaic hitting of peoples emotional and moral buttons. We came out feeling drained, like after the worst day in 10 years at work or worse. Would not recommend friends pay to feel the same. Can not imagine a mental state where someone would see this and feel better. Advice; avoid - please let me know if anyone felt different after seeing.


                
Isn't it ridiculous that our society went so far to be politically correct that it crossed the line of common sense? If you don't give an Oscar to a film that depicts slavery - you are a racist, if you say something positive about Palestine or Iran - you are anti-Semite, if you give a preference to a Caucasian over African American in the U.S. (based on the skills!) - you are a racist again, if you smile to a woman - you are sexually harassing her (wait, gay harassment is coming, so you won't be allowed to smile or make jokes to anyone!). The story plot is quite simple: a free black man is sold to slavery and is later saved. But instead of making the movie multi-dimensional, deep and engaging, the story-tellers "communicate" the story through brutality and violence, as if someone on the face of the earth needs a proof that slavery was bad, and as if slaves were used nearly only as punching bags by sadistic white people. Seriously, ask yourself: how many times can you re-watch this film? Will you be enjoying it after re-watching? Will you be re-watching it several times? There were several worthy movies nominated for Oscar this year (e.g. The Wolf of Wall Street or even Captain Phillips), but, no, lets be politically correct and avoid being labeled racists, lets give the Best Picture to a mediocre, sadistic film about slavery.1 star for the acting, which still didn't save the film.
I was fortunate enough to have read the ghost written biography prier to seeing the film adaptation, and am glad I did.the book was a historically correct tale of a man's misfortune, and the people he was involved with along the way.( good and bad )the movie is a great big serve of white guilt depicting people completely differently to author. the movie went as far as to make villains out of people the book spoke kindly of. I strongly encourage anyone to read the book and be astounded at how different the story lines are. you will also be confronted by how aggressively the film hammers in it's obvious racial Davide, completely unlike the biography it is based on. there should be a disclaimer at the start indicating that this is loosely based on fact and is in no way a historical record. I also believed the director has tried really hard to be arty and it just comes off as obnoxious. there is over a minute of staring at the protagonist while he stares at scenery? why? This film is in no way worthy of any awards or honors, but will be nominated lest the awards panels will be labeled racist.


                
The movie is filmed artfully and it certainly portrays the evils of racism and slavery in a historically accurate way. However, practically all that evil is subtly (and not so subtly) blamed on the Bible, which is far from being historically accurate. Moreover, it is theologically flawed. The main driving force behind chattel slavery was and is economical, not theological. It is true that in the days in which slavery was still legal the Bible was repeatedly misquoted in order to justify such an abuse, but it is also true that the Bible was the main driving force behind the most important abolitionist movements both in the USA and everywhere else in the world. In this movie Christianity is indicted with being the sole origin of the evils associated with slavery, without showing that true Christians were among the only ones who were trying to end slavery once and for all. To prove that I have evidence to support my claim I will say that in ancient Israel slavery differed greatly from the sort of slavery that used to be commonplace in the USA. In ancient Israel people chose to sell themselves and their children as slaves (actually, serfs is a more accurate term), since they saw slavery not as an oppressive system, but as a sort of welfare institution. Nobody in his right mind would have himself as a slave 19th century USA. Likewise, no one would have sold their children into slavery. This shows that Biblical slavery or serfdom was vastly different from USA slavery. Moreover, the lives of the serfs was protected by the Bible, as opposed to the lives of the American slaves, which depended entirely on the will of the masters. Moreover, Christianity has always been a driving force behind abolitionist movements, from ancient Rome to our own times (slavery is still commonplace in the Middle East and Christian groups are among the few that fight against it). Anyway, I believe that this movie is crap because it shows only one side of the story and completely neglects the other, while positing as a historically accurate depiction of American slavery.


                
First of all, I'd like to say, sorry to the other movies nominated for movie of the year that lost to this horrid piece of propaganda bull. You were all wrongfully denied, by reviewers that gave it the movie of the year nomination without even seeing it. As the popular saying goes with this movie now: "You're a racist if you don't like this movie".Well, if that is the case, call me a racist. The movie itself had promises of telling an accurate portrayal of a free victim who had his freedom taken away; from his family and everything he has ever known. There was some glimmering promises that could have made this a decent movie, but as soon as those events happened, the propaganda would start over again; ruining the original point given.The acting by the supporting cast is at best lackluster. They acted as if every white person in this movie was hell bent on torturing blacks or was just a complete moron; unaware of what was going on around the time. A fact that was never mentioned in the movie either; over 80% of the population in the south never owned a slave. I guess they wanted to portray the 20% as the majority.The first owner of Solomon was portrayed as supposedly a 'good man', but obviously lacked of any intelligence. Even with the unbelievable sophistication and knowledge Solomon showed, the owner still would not believe he was anything but a slave when Solomon told him he was not. I don't know if it was the overacting of Solomon's character or what, but there is no way a pure slave during that time period would possess those abilities; let alone having someone dumb enough not to notice that fact. And don't even get me started that the slave owner was doing him a 'favor' by sending him off to an owner that was referred to as a 'slave breaker'.After that, the movie continues to get worse for the next hour or so as it is just basically a white person continuously beating on a black person for one reason or another.Near the end of the movie, Solomon meets a decent white person; but alas he's from Canada (as there is no such thing as a decent white person in the south supposedly...) played by Brat Pitt. He gets Solomon's letter out and eventually the authorities come and free Solomon. The movie ends with a couple lines saying that Solomon goes to trial over the events that happen but loses due to an 'all white congress'.If you want to learn about black history and what happened during the times of slavery, this movie is not the place to go to. Find a proper history book and learn for yourself instead of this director's skewed view of events that transpired then.
This was an awful depiction of the life/times of the era. The plight of the slave was considerable worse. A slave would've never been allowed to act the way this main character would've..the slaves could not speak proper English, let alone command the language enough to effectively insult/manipulate their captives.The "masters" were as uneducated and unrefined as their slaves..but they were in control..period. ROOTS was a considerably better depiction of the times.One thing I noticed, is the only emhasise of the time was the reference to both the master and slave. Although it was accurate, the language spoken was of illiterate people..both master and slave. The only ones who had mastered the language were the land owners themselves.I'm so appalled by this thinly veiled attempt to target the white man in general. We must never forget that the north was republican and the south was democrat, who insisted on slavery..which is what the civil war was all about.Appalled...simply appalled.. the acting alone was worth steering clear of this atrocity that claims to represent the horrible times of the era...absolutely appalled.I think I'll watch ROOTS again to regain my perspective of that horrible stain on America's history...because this film accomplished the opposite of what it so blatantly attempted to do.


                
This film made my eyes bleed it was that bad. If you have been alive for more than 10 minutes you will know how bad slavery was and all this film does is re- iterates what everyone already knows. There's no plot, storyline, character development, nothing. I am baffled how anybody can like seeing a black man get beaten for 2 hours and say that it's a good viewing, disgusting. I had hugely high expectations of this film due to the media hyping it up to being the 'best movie ever made'' but quite frankly it was one of the worst films I have ever seen. No surprise either that brad Pitt helped direct it and he turned up an hour before the end to become the hero. Overall a hugely disappointing movie and I would not this to my worst enemy


                
As a former northerner I knew something was amiss at the get go in this film. Have you ever been to Philadelphia, recently? The Saratoga News clips mentioned in other reviews cite such a dramatically different account of this main characters plight as to almost be seen as terrorism. The incite to riot appears to be the main goal of this film and I found it appalling. With every scene, a white southerner, and don't forget to include those evil women as well this time around, was grimacing with delight to defile, defeat, and attempt to kill their chattel. Does that make any sense when you want productivity?I thought "Gone With the Wind" was racist and after watching this horror film, I redefined the term. It is completely irresponsible for the Producers to have funded this effort. The "Passion of Christ" I could only watch using the option for the blind captions. But I found I did not have the stomach to complete this even worse aberration of film. The music of dread, scary drumbeats, and overall cruelty were incessant undertones to further complete the torture saga. I pray the truth about this man's account comes to bear and that those so affected to further indemnify the South will balance their views with more accuracy. I am horrified this film was an award winning, highly acclaimed manipulation of history to exploit for profit. Slavery is alive and well today and is a serious threatening global issue. Perhaps this debate will highlight a topic for the next award winning effort. God Bless!
Its amazing how a movie like this could win so much Oscars,i don't,i cant even guess why,the movie is the worst ever to me,am thinking maybe it might be because of of that actor but i don't just get it,as for me its a movie,movies like this e.g American hustle & all lord of the rings don't deserve a spot here on IMDb,but there's a saying that a mans food is another mans poison.but why would a movie like this get top ratings it amaze me a lot,too much but if anybody could explain am good with that,its really a tiring movie its a very tiring movie and i really wanna know whats great about it. Got a problem with that contact me via twitter @iamowomizz..


                
My vote is not for artistic endeavor or acting ability which is very good, but I am appalled that Hollywood keeps pumping out this shocking style of drama about slavery which keeps re-visiting the old inflammatory indignations of the past era of the US. I am appalled in all my horror of the harshness of the movie and the severity of the beatings scenes. Shame on those who directed, Steve, and shame on those who sought to raise this issue once again. The movie is far from the entertainment i would normally enjoy! Hollywood needs to take a good hard look at itself and ask is this real entertainment? To boot, the screenplay, which may have followed the original story closely or not, is not that remarkable as far as good drama goes. It seems like the Pitt and other have discovered this story and decided to publicize it for whatever their motives, but I for one am quite tired of mediocrity. I think the last best story along the "slavery line" I had the pleasure of watching was "Armistad". Had i known this was going to be so graphic, i would not have wasted my $20 to fill the pockets of the movie bourgeoisie.


                
This is a terrible film for many reasons and I could go on at length about the over-simplified characterisation, the "tell-us-something-we-don't-know" of the story, and the dismal Terance Mallick-style "extremely lengthy lingering shots must equal something profound" but none of those things would really matter (it's only a film, right?) except that this nonsense will be viewed by some people as a true reflection of US society. For god'sake, this ridiculous depiction of how the northern states of the US was an idyllic utopia for black people (and only the nasty evil south was racist) is not even true NOW in 2014! Never mind how much this distorts the reality of the early 19th century. You can go to Phildelphia, get on a bus, see the black homeless lying in the street, see how STILL America has not made amends for the abomination that was slavery. Race riots and the fight for equality and end to racism were late 20th century events - and yet this disgraceful garbage sets out to rewrite history and paint the northen states of the USA in an absurdly egalitarian light.


                
Go watch this movie if you want to see a bad copycat of Django unchained.Go watch this movie if you want to feel miserable, helpless & restless for 134 minutes.Go watch this movie if you want to feel like beating the s**t out of everything after watching it.Go watch this movie if you would like to see a Bollywood version of a Hollywood movie, where the worst thing on earth has to happen to the Hero.Go watch this movie if you want to celebrate a director whose aim is to make money out of oppressed people.Go watch this movie if you would like to know what Cinema was not meant to be.


                
My God, how the Hell can any anyone give this movie anything above 1 star let alone Oscars. This has to be the most hyped up, BS, dribble drooling, crap I've ever seen. People and critics alike are stating it's the best thing that ever happened since sliced bread...really? 12 years as a Slave is over melodramatic, lacking historical context and quite simply boring as hell. This movie lacked soul and plays on the heart string of anyone who ever was a sucker for such BS dribble.It's not the actors fault this movie sucked. It had exceptional actors: Michael Fassbender,Benedict Cumberbatch , Paul Giamatti and Brad Pitt. A stellar line up expect for Lupita Nyong'o AND SHE WON THE Oscar FOR HER PERFORMANCE. She was the weakest of the cast and her acting was over dramatic to the point of nausea. Truly I dare you to compare the scene where she is being punished with the whip to Denzel Washington's performance in Glory (1989) and seriously think who truly deserved that golden midget statue?Chiwetel Ejiofor, as Solomon is mis-casted as the lead. His character really doesn't develop much, which is the reason the audience don't fully engage with him. Sure we follow his journey and feel sympathy but along the way you realise Solomon is a douchbag. He is suppose to be intelligent, articulate and..well...smart. Come on dude! where's the personality. Seriously, it that does not translate at all through the screen. I reckon the book is better on character development and empathy. The editing and pacing was choppy that it makes you want to pull your hair out. It was all over the place and it is very noticeable in the beginning of the movie. The first and second act were slow but the haste to put the main actor in the south was rushed, and so was the ending. And the costume, what the heck? 36 minutes into the film and you realise he's the only slave in the bayou wearing knee high boots? Say what???I'm not even gonna bother with Steve McQueen as a director...he is really not worth the effort. What is truly bothersome is scenes are left hanging and there is no follow up, or any explanation of what is going on and why. Where's the back story to the main characters & supporting characters? Where's the humour to add lightness and texture to the movie up after a heavy sombre screen (the beatings) like in The Color Purple (1985) or the interaction of the supporting characters. The script was the only thing that made sense but the execution of the story was poorly done. When you think about it you've seen the story line before with a sadistic boss and a slave:- put Lupita Nyong'o as a slave Jewish maid and Michael Fassbender's character in a Nazi uniform and in WWII. Wham!! same relationship scenario in Schindlers List with Amon Goeth (Ralph Fiennes) and Helen (Embeth Davidtz) only better direction of their relationship and the dynamics of it.If anyone wants to see a film about the human spirit and triumph over evil view Schindler's List (1993). For those you are interested in a the plight of the slaves in America see Roots (1977). It might be dated but it's better that the sordid mess called 12 Years as a Slave.


                
I could not believe the extent to which this film was "honoured" at the 2014 Oscars. I found its directorial handling to be flat and pedestrian, and even boring in parts. The film consisted of "scene" after "scene", without conveying any real sense of movement, tension, and development in the story as a key illumination to the American history of slavery in the years leading to the American Civil War and the eventual emancipation of slaves in the United States of America. Contrary to received "wisdom", I found Chiwetel Ejiofor's performance as Solomon wooden in the extreme - as though he was sleep-walking throughout (unlike his brilliant performance in "Kinky Boots"). Ms Lupita Nyong'o ran away with the film with her heart-rending performance as Patsey.
I put off watching this movie when it came out because of the hype. Now it's calmed down a bit I wanted to see what all the fuss was about. I wasn't expecting the film to be incredibly boring. I struggled to keep any interest whatsoever in any of the very turgid story telling. I remember watching Roots many years ago and being captivated by the emotional drama. This film was so childishly written and presented that any emotional impact was entirely lost. It had a Little-House-On-The-Prairie simplicity that grated in every scene. I half expected Pa to appear, playing his fiddle along with the main character. Pa's emotional depth would have fitted right in with this dreadful movie. Chiwetelu Ejiofor seemed as bemused by this film as I was. He was wooden, but then he had very little to get stuck into with Northup. He had no emotional connection with any other character in the film and I really couldn't care less whether he lived or died. I wasted hours watching this that I can't get back. I'm only glad I didn't pay for it.


                
