Being a huge Batman fan, and a huge fan of B:TAS, You have to be a fan of TNBA. But although it's a good series, it doesn't match the sheer brilliance of the original.I like the look of this show. It's certainly a lot smoother, and I love the red night background that they used. However, I'm not a big fan of the big character changes. The only exception being Batman himself. He looked pretty cool. The Joker, Penguin, Killer Croc, and even to a degree The Scarecrow, I feel they didn't really need a re-vamp as they looked perfect as they did back in the original. One of the problems I have with the series. And The Riddler, they changed everything about him yet never even had a Riddler episode, which disappoints me, as he is one of the more interesting villains.But having said all that, some of the episodes are fantastic, and make up for some of the problems with the series, "Over the Edge", "Sins of the Father", "Cold Comfort", "Legends of the Dark Knight", "Mad Love", to name a few. Furthermore, the character of Nightwing is really well portrayed, and really shines in the episode "Old Wounds".To sum up, this series has more not-so-good episodes than BTAS, but as mentioned previously, there are few stand-out episodes which at least match the brilliance of the original. Which sums the show up, not as good as the predecessor by a long shot, but is still an essential for any Bat-fan.
Two years passed and mostly everyone looks different, some for good and some for worse. I still enjoyed as much as I did the original though.Some flaws they had though like changing the Joker he now has no red lips and looks like more blackish hair and black pupils, hes still voiced by Mark Hamill which is a plus I guess. They made Poison Ivy more white hinting that she is becoming more like a plant and Catwomen looks much different and not as "attractive" as she was in the original.Though costumes like Batman, Batgirl, Killer Croc and Scarecrow look badass, especially Scarecrow.The show isn't as dark as the original because Batman doesn't work as alone as he used to. Most of the time working with Batgirl and the new Robin, Tim Drake. While NightWing(Dick Grayson) comes to the rescue often. Batman gave up the yellow logo and with the black wing on his suit and seems like he got a bit bigger but still kicking tons of ass.The show isn't as good as the original mostly because of some of the revamped characters but the stories are as exciting as ever and the dialogue is still elite. "Over the Edge" might be one of the greatest Batman episodes ever so make sure you check that out.Overall 8-9/10
I loved this series when it was on Kids WB, I didn't believe that there was a Batman spin off seeing as the original show ended in 1995 and this show came in 1997. First of all I loved the idea of Robin leaving Batman to solve crime on his own. It was an interesting perspective to their relationship. I also liked the addition of Tim Drake in the series, and once again like it's predecessor this show had great story lines, great animation (better then the original), fantastic voice work and of course brilliant writing. The only thing that I didn't like was that was when it was in the US it would often run episodes in a 15 minute storyline. I just wish some of the episodes could be longer. My favorite episode of any Batman cartoons comes in this series, and it's called "Over the Edge", in my opinion as good if not better then "Heart of Ice" and "Robin's reckoning." Overall a nice follow up, along with Superman this show made my childhood very happy.
Same as the old show with enhanced animation and a world building type of show that will eventually lead to the dcau


                
Batman the animated series was very,very good but I actually like sequel the new batman adventures more, characters look very beautiful and it only lasted one season but all the stories are amazing, over the edge, old wounds... and ofcourse very famous mad love witch covers Harley Quinn origin story. I would say that animations are definetly better in this one than Animated series one, in animated series Poison Ivy for example looked more like a human but in this they really embrace her mutation...but only soo much that she looks good, I have no bad words to say about this sequel.


                
I'm giving The new adventures of batman or batman the animated series season 4 10 stars because the first time I saw it on sale I didn't give it a chance because saw the change in the animation on the pictures on the box. And I'm looking at other user reviews on this site and nobody is off the bat saying how much they really like it. I can say that it wasn't what I thought it was in a good way I thought that they had turned robin into a kid but no hes a new side kick Tim drake red robin ,there's night wing who was the original robin. but there are those changes in the animation some pro's well more pro's in my opinion than con's .Scarecrow doesn't look like a pushover anymore he actually looks like a nightmare.OK This series turns up the adult content in episode 1 season 1 batman gets shot in the arm nobody ever got shot in the first 3 seasons there is an episode explaining the origins of Harley quin. where there's obvious sexual reference that you really notice as an adult. there are other sexual things in other episodes the dare devil lady.on the rocket with batman vocalizing sexually.the sound effects hit hard oh yeah and people bleed. wonder how the networks and producers got comfortable and turned up the violence and sexuality with this series.i liked killer crock in Grey skin in the first 3 seasons they changed bruce wayne he has blue eyes.they changed poison ivy.batgirl is all over this series.there's evan supergirl in one episode basically I give it 10 stars because if your a fan of the first 3 seasons and you look at pictures of the animation and get disappointed because its changed from the good stuff your used too that you didn't feel needed any change. I can say that this fits perfectly as being called season 4 of the animated series. if you liked the first 3 you will like season 4 if you've seen all the first 3 complete your batman the animated series collection with season 4 it is incomplete with out it
I'll say it right now, I love this series. Sure it might've had episodes like "The Demon Within" and "Critters", but the good far outweighs the bad. Out of 24 episodes, I gave 10 of them 10 stars, that's almost half the freakin' series. People love to tear this show apart because of minor details. "Uh, the sky's always red at night." Get over it. "Uh, why do the characters look different from the last series?" It's DC's product and they can decide what characters look like. "Uh, why doesn't this show have as many dark themes as the previous series?" Because you can't have mature stories all the time. This show wasn't dumbed down for kids, it wasn't an insult to what came before it, it was an exercise in creativity. Not every episode was perfect, but not every episode needed to be perfect. Not every episode of "Batman: The Animated Series" was flawless, it has aged somewhat. I feel like this has aged a lot better that. Don't tell me this isn't as mature when characters bleed and say "Oh my God." in like half the episodes. A great show that deserves it's place atop the mountain of other great animated shows. It wasn't perfect, but it was entertaining, and had plenty of fantastic episodes, and at the end of the day, that's all that matters to me.
So a lot of people do not like the direction taken with certain redesigns of some characters and Batman's cold attitude in this one. I agree to a point but this series was pretty damn excellent. First of all it's worth noting that I consider this and BTAS the same thing (TNBA was pretty much the final 2 seasons of BTAS) Just with redesigned animation style and characters.Now, some of the characters new designs were terrible (Catwoman, Selina kyle, Poison Ivy etc.) But some made the characters better in my opinion and some looked a lot more streamlined. For example, Batman's new outfit gave him a much more dark and serious look. Batgirl's outfit was made to look like the way she does in the comics and I think the colour scheme is better. Penguin actually looks like a human being in this one.Storywise, TNBA has some pretty strong storytelling. Such as ''Over the Edge'' which depicts Batgirl's death (It turns out to be a dream don't worry) and ''Growing Pains'' when Robin looks out for a lost little girl (It gets quite emotional).Another thing I admire about TNBA is the fact that other members of the Bat family got more attention like Robin, Nightwing and Batgirl. It's a shame that the series didn't go on for longer because I quite liked the episodes that brought out other characters (Like ''Girl's Night Out'') and I feel like they didn't get enough time to get their stories told before the plug was pulled on TNBA.Overall I wouldn't say either BTAS or TNBA was better because they were both great in their own ways and both opened up the DC:AU and spawned many great stories(and also as I said I consider them both to be the same thing)You can't argue with the talent of Kevin Conroy and Mark Hamill who both deliver brilliant performances. This series had a great run and I wish it was on a bit longer to give the other characters some air time. Wasn't a huge fan of Batman Beyond and I honestly would have preferred for this to have been continued.
This show definitely picked up all the elements from Batman The Animated Series and had better animation and designs.Okay, the one thing I wasn't happy about was we got to see Nightwing less and they ruined Mr. Freezes story when it had a good ending in Batman and Mr. Freeze Subzero.But my favorite episodes were "Mad Love", "Growing Pains" and "Over the edge".
The character redesigns are great. The animation is better. The stories are as good... "Never Fear", "Old Wounds", "Sins of the father", "Over the edge" are just a few episodes that make this series so great. This is BATMAN: TAS steamlined by the master team of Timm, Dini, Burnett and company... so much fun to watch. I wish there were more.The newer movies... not so much... ugh.


                
