When I first heard of this series when HBO previewed it long before it aired, I was immediately hooked.  When it finally aired, it lived up to more than what I expected.  When it finally came out in video as a boxed set, it was natural for me to get it.  Occasionally, some of the scenes still bring me very close to tears.This mini-series details the history of the Apollo program from how manned spaceflight got started to the last man on the moon.  It very accurately details how we achieved humankind's greatest feat ever: the voyage to, exploration of, and return from, the moon, while adding a very reasonable dramatic twist to it.  There are moments where you might laugh, and there are moments where you might feel like crying.  There will also be moments where you might feel something else.Tom Hanks, Ron Howard, Brian Grazer, and the rest of the production staff did an absolutely amazing job in putting this together, everything from the visual effects to the cast and crew.  The casting was done so great that this is the first time you cannot pin leading roles in any of the episodes let alone the whole series, even with big names (Hanks, Tony Goldwyn, Mark Harmon, Adam Baldwin, Tim Daly, Cary Elwes, Jay Mohr, Stephen Root, and Lane Smith, not to mention several other big names).  Even the writer of the book it's based on, Andrew Chaikin, gets a cameo as the host for "Meet the Press."  The soundtrack to this day continues to give me goosebumps highlighting the emotional nature of this series.Each episode (except episode 12) starts with Hanks as the "host" telling a short anecdote which ties into the episode.  The series starts off with featuring the start of the U.S. Manned Space Program versus the Soviet program, highlighting the "firsts" in space by the Soviets and then the Americans, from Mercury to Gemini to the development of Apollo.  Episode 2 centers on Apollo 1 fire and the resulting investigation.  Episode 3 involves the resumption of the program and highlights the crew before they lift off.Other Highlightable episodes include the fourth episode, called "1968," which despite how devastating the events of that year were, the Apollo 8 mission helped the year close on a more positive note.  The sixth episode highlights the famous Apollo 11 landing on the moon and the first man to step on the moon.  Episode 8 is notable for Apollo 13 after its explosion and how the media was trying to find almost anything to feed a hungry audience with tabloid journalism instead of just the facts.  Episode 11 is very notable since it focuses on how the wives of Apollo astronauts were affected by their husband's celebrity status and how they coped through the tense, exciting and devastating times.  Episode 12, probably one of the most emotional episodes in the series, is about Apollo 17 (the last mission on the moon) and how this mission relates to the a dream from 70 years before by a man called George Melies when he created the moving picture "Le Voyage Dans La Lune."  The performances of Hanks (his only appearance as an actor in the series), Daniel Hugh Kelley, Tom Amandes, Tchéky Karyo, Lane Smith, and Stephen Root, with the voice-over of Blythe Danner, make this episode very emotional, especially with everyone except for Karyo in interviews as their older selves.As much factual information is used while keeping any fictionalized material to a minimum, such as the TV network featuring Emmitt Seaborn (Lane Smith)anchoring the missions for the nation.This mini-series reminds me what we have worked for in our society and how we are letting that deteriorate now.  Back then, it was a man landing on the moon that united the world.  It makes you think whether we need something at that caliber to reunite our world today, and how we need to forget our petty differences and better our society as a whole.  When you watch this, should think about that, because this is a series you will absolutely never forget.


                
This miniseries is fantastic.  As a self titled space geek, I enjoyed every minute.  Not only does it tell the story of how we got to the Moon, it tells about the individual astronauts and many who helped get them there.  After Alan Shepard had his 15 minutes as the first American in space, JFK made it clear that we needed to get to the Moon by 1970.  The mini series details every step of the way, touching on the Apollo 1 disaster, all the steps to getting to the Moon (staying in orbit, space walks, docking, etc), the development of the Lunar Modules, and the inevitable voyage of Apollo 11 that landed on the Moon.  I especially enjoyed Dave Foley as Al Bean, an astronaut on Apollo 12 (the funny episode).  From the Earth to the Moon also details the NASA/press relationship, astronaut training, the astronaut wives, etc.  It's such details and perspective that make this stand out as an amazing miniseries. I recommend this to anyone who wants to know more about the Apollo program. Truly an amazing story of arguably the greatest technological achievement of man to date.


                
This series is simply amazing.  It is well acted, well written, and you can't beat the subject matter.  I have never seen a better show. Everyone in this series is wonderful and the dialog is so crisp.  It is a great tribute to an important era in American history.  I recommend it for everyone.


                
For those who look for a well produced, faithful, moving telling ofthe Apollo program, this series is a masterpiece. Michael Kamen'spoignant music, Tom Hanks' exacting production standards,outstanding performances from a range of excellent actors andspecial effects that leave one wondering what it would have lookedlike on a movie screen ---- all make this series a must-see. And forthose concerned that this series might have gross overlap withother films made about this time period (The Right Stuff, Apollo13), you will be pleased to see that the series carefully anddeliberately tells the tales not already well told in these two films.Again, this is a subtle example of Hanks'  production values.But let's say you don't care about all that. Then, get ready to learn.Get ready to see the complex conundrum that was the Apolloprogram unfold in much the way the principal players probablysaw it. Get ready for a balance between humour and intelligence.Get ready for exposition that does not drag like exposition tends todo. Get ready to cry at times, and if you're lucky enough toremember those days, get ready for a wave of nostalgia.
People who rave about this series usually do so not because theyare blinded by their own interest in the subject and are gladsomeone did the tale justice. Usually, they marvel at howsomeone managed to capture so much and keep the quality sohigh. And I believe you will, too.


                
I have seen this many times now, but it never fails to move me to tears. The passion and love that was put into the making of this series is evident in every single scene. The story isn't simple told; each episode invites the viewer into the story, using black and white photography, news reports, hand-held camera, grainy 60s style film, voice-over, music, SFX .. it exploits every film innovation possible. But even without that, it would still work perfectly, because each story is framed as a personal journey and told through human eyes. It reminds me of a quote in the series, about the reasons for sending a human being to the moon: "Only a man is capable of comprehending the moon in terms understandable to other men." This principle is applied to the series itself, allowing us to comprehend the reality of the journey by showing it to us through the eyes of other human beings. There are many awe-inspiring moments, but my favourite would have to be the end of '1968', the sequence starting from the astronauts seeing the earth rise over the moon to "You saved 1968." The first moon landing and leaving the moon for the last time are also very moving. Overall, it's incredible, from start to finish.


                
I have just watched the entire series from start to finish in one hit, absolutely amazing. What a way to spend a bank holiday. I was 8 years old when Neil and Buzz landed on the moon and this series put the whole story into perspective and what and who it was really about. The technological barriers which had to be annihilated to achieve what was achieved. The suspense of the geologists as they excitedly wait for news on the types of rocks and structures and the terrified look from the guy responsible for operating the remote camera on the moon televising the only chance to see a full launch of the lunar module from the surface of the moon for the last time and allowing for the 6 second delay....priceless! .just small, seemingly insignificant stories added together to make this a masterpiece.


                
"From the Earth to the Moon" reveals an American spirit that is seemingly lacking in our current leadership. The explosion of ideas and research from the space program have been seen in no other endeavor except possibly war. Instead of putting our resources into exploration of our Universe, we spend money on military exploits that will provide us with few benefits in the short or long run. When will we understand that this little planet cannot hold us all forever, and that exploration of other worlds for raw materials to improve our lives will be necessary in the near future. We will never achieve harmony with everyone on this planet, to think so is shear fantasy. We must move ahead in concert with those who believe that we must explore beyond this world and look for material benefits from those explorations. We can't wait for everyone on the planet to catch up, we need to move now. It's seemingly like the minor dilemma in buying a new digital camera, do we wait for the new technology next year, or go ahead and take the plunge and buy one now? It will never be any cheaper than it was this year, prices always seem to go up. So lets get going, we will have no problem finding those men and women who share the dream and are willing to take the risk. The question is do we have leaders who understand those dreams, the risks, and the need for man to explore and push the envelop. "We choose to go to the moon and do the other things this decade, not because they are easy, but because they are hard." JFK, Rice University Speech 1961.


                
Truth is stranger then fiction as the saying goes. If there ever was need to prove this one would need to look no further then HBO's 1998 miniseries From The Earth To The Moon. Acting a bit as television companion to Ron Howard's feature film Apollo 13, this miniseries covers the years between 1961 and 1972, this epic twelve hour miniseries covers the race to the Moon from the perspective of those in NASA who went on the missions, supported them from the ground and watched them take place.The epic cast of the miniseries is where much of its success lies. While it may be lacking any "named stars" in its cast it is a perfect place for numerous character actors to show their talents. The cast ranges from Nick Searcy as Deke Slayton, Lane Smith as the Walter Cronkite-like TV reporter Emmett Seaborn, David Andrews as Frank Borman, Stephen Root as Chris Kraft to Ted Levine as Alan Shepard, Rita Wilson as Susan Borman, Dave Foley as Al Bean and Mark Harmon as Wally Schirra amongst many, many others. Then there is of course executive producer Tom Hanks who acts, at the start of all but the last episode, as a sort of Chorus introducing the viewer to the story that is about to unfold.The series is also blessed with fantastic effects work. From The Earth To The Moon builds on the fantastic effects work done for the feature film Apollo 13 to accurately and dramatically recreate the flights of Mercury, Gemini and Apollo. Of special mention is the effects work done in the episodes "1968" and "Mare Tranquilitatis". The CGI and model work blends in near perfectly with the archival material used in places throughout the series. Yet perhaps the biggest special effects highlight of the production is the moon walk recreations. As other productions on the moon landings have shown, recreating these famous moon walks are not easy and yet by the time you have finished watching the twelve hours this miniseries covers you'll be amazed at just how convincing the moon walks are. While there are one or two questionable special effects (such as the LLRV crash in "Mare Tranquilitatis") the effects are fantastic pieces that help make the recreation of the missions all the more believable.Yet the heart of From The Earth To The Moon lies in the scripts of its twelve episodes. Perhaps better then a documentary could, the miniseries' writing brings to the light of day the ambitions, dreams, egos, emotions, politics and the people behind the scenes of the Apollo mission to the Moon. While the first episode "Can We Do This?" moves along far too quickly due to the fact it covers as much history in a hour as the rest of the miniseries covers in eleven, the other eleven hours make for fascinating viewing. The various episodes cover the political fights that came up after the Apollo 1 fire ("Apollo One") to the lead-up to the flight of the first manned Apollo flight ("We Have Cleared The Tower") to the building of the Lunar Module ("Spider") to the media coverage of the Apollo13 mission ("We Interrupt This Program") to the scientific flights of the later part of the program ("Galileo Was Right") to the effect of the mission on the astronauts wives ("The Original Wives Club") to the contrasts between the 1902 filming of the George Melies film Le voyage dans la lune and, seven decades later, the last of the Apollo mission done in a documentary format ("Le voyage dans la lune"). Each script tells the story not only of the missions but of the people there as well and never does it descend into the cliché one has come to expect from TV docudramas.The best episode of the miniseries, in my opinion anyway, would be its fourth episode entitled simply "1968". Better then any documentary on the Apollo 8 flight I have seen to date, the Al Reinert (the filmmaker of the wonderful Apollo documentary For All Mankind) scripted episode puts the Apollo 8 flight in the perspective of the other disastrous events of 1968. Even more intriguing, the episode is stylishly shown with all of the Earth-bound scenes in this episode are filmed in black and white, while the astronaut scenes are in color giving an amazing documentary like effect for most of the episode. Add on the aforementioned acting and special effects, especially in the earth rise sequence, and the result is an amazing fifty-four minutes of television.Across the twelve hours and twelve episodes it covers, From The Earth Of The Moon is an amazing piece of television. From its fine acting, incredibly done special effects and fantastic scripts cover the story of the voyages of Apollo. It tells not just the story of the technological achievement of the Apollo flights but of the human stories that lied behind them, mostly unseen. While it might not always be exactly true to life it may well be as close to an accurate recreation of those amazing missions as we are ever likely to get.


                
This was one of the best mini series I have seen. I loved every minute of it.  This was a wonderful exhibit of the Apollo missions.  I am sad for those who did not see these flights as they happened.  But I am glad and thankful for this presentation for those too young to share this amazing experience.  I loved the music, the wit and the wonderful emotions of this production.  I hope to see more programs like this.  It was captivating, humorous and educational.


                
No superlative can match this show for its fulfillment of the promises that Edward R. Murrow first saw in television before most of the actors on this show were born.  The eye for detail in the dramatic and vice versa, the mundanities long ago forgotten are once more on our screens remembered. There is not a role miscast or misplayed, not a shot wasted nor poorly made, nor a line thrown away or overspoken.Tom Hanks' loving dedication has restored to our memory a time of human greatness that capped the past ages exploration and marked for all time the future ages of exploration to come.  He joins his friend Ron Howard as well as Ken Burns in setting the modern standard for excellence in combined history, entertainment and production.


                
Frankly, every time that I watch the series, I get choked up. The dedication and bravery to make a mandate possible...Yes, it was a political mandate, but it seemed to be more in my view. More a quest to prove that it could be done. Never before has anything been undertaken quite like it. Perhaps the Manhatten Project would come close, but it did not have 400,000 people working together as one.To me, it is totally amazing that it was done on the tools available: Slide rules and rudimentary computers.They went to the moon on a computer that had a whopping 32K of memory if I remember correctly.Most home appliances, cell phones (not to mention computers) have much more processing power than what they used to send Apollo to the Moon.Truly an feat that will be remembered for all of history, at least I hope so.Lesson for today is to remember that given a 'impossible' task that almost anything can be accomplished if you set the human mind free and believe. I wish that in my lifetime, mankind will return to the greatness that was attained during Apollo and surpass it as we must. If not, a true shame for all mankind....


                
For Christmas, I bought "From the Earth to the Moon" on DVD, and I've been rewatching the entire series in order for the past few days.  The writing, acting, directing, cinematography, visual effects, everything is so wonderful, and I'm finding myself choked up at scenes, laughing out loud and being immersed in the scenes so deeply, it's like I'm watching for the very first time.It's a shame that all features shot for TV aren't of the caliber of this series.


                
As someone born in 1959, I grew up with the space program. I was a bit too young for Mercury but I a handful of truly vivid memories from my lifetime. One of those was Apollo 1 and another, of course, was sitting in my living room with my parents on a hot July evening in New York watching, as man first landed and then walked on the moon.As the parent of a teenager, who has had the good fortune to be fairly well traveled, I have had the opportunity to visit a number of NASA facilities over the years with my son. We've even been to the Cape for a number of shuttle launches and landings. So I have naturally discussed what the this time period was like and the impact the Moon landings had on the US and the world. However I don't think he really had a grasp of what I was talking about until he watched this series when it originally aired on HBO.Of course, we added the DVD Set to our collection the day it was released and it has had a workout ever since. I consider this a must for anyone with children. Not only does it do an outstanding job of giving a fairly factual account of the of the events surrounding mans voyage from the Earth to the Moon, but it also gives those who were not alive to witness it first hand a sense of the excitement, wonder, awe and worry a great portion of the world experienced in the 4 years between December 1968 and December 1972.Unfortunately, events such as those depicted in this series are not ones we are not likely to see again in our lifetimes. Hopefully our children will. They will experience it when man finally sets foot on Mars. Perhaps this series will inspire tomorrow's engineers and astronauts to see to it that we do!


                
In searching my memory banks for a movie or miniseries of this much 'scope and hope,' the only thing that comes to mind is another Tom Hanks' production, John Adams, reviewed on these pages several weeks ago. As in that more recent tour de force, From the Earth to the Moon features superbly acted episodes of extraordinary depth and nuance about an era that came to signify what it means to be American (and human)... at least for a significant minority of individual strivers and would-be strivers inhabiting the planet at the time....For my complete review of this movie and for other movie and book reviews, please visit my site TheCoffeeCoaster.com.Brian Wright Copyright 2008


                
I get sad every time I watch this, because it is excellent in quality and accuracy, and each time I see "From The Earth To The Moon" I recall how much I wish I could have been on the crew of Appllo 8 on that first trip around the Moon. As a young boy I watched this story unfold, as it happened on live television. Sure there are some areas that some viewers have found where cinematic hiccups occur, but if you just watch the show and lose yourself in the story, there is little chance of anyone, space program follower or not, that you can't help but enjoy this outstanding series. My wife gave me the VHS version for a Christmas gift when it first came out and I had to go get the DVD signature version as soon as I saw it.


                
Excellent mini-series, with some episodes clearly being superior to others. I felt that the first 7 episodes were far better than the rest, with the best episode focusing on the ingenuity of creating the LM, and the out-side of the box thinking involved in creating this one of a kind vehicle. Most of the episodes had an enjoyably light tone that allowed you to marvel at the amazing journeys and all that lead up to them, but could get serious on difficult topics such as the fire in Apollo 1 and the stress imposed on the wives of the astronauts. I also enjoyed how the focus was on the less well known aspects of the Apollo program, such as the decisions that went into which astronaut would be the first on the moon (essentially decided by the shape of the backpacks and the positions of the Armstrong and Aldrin in the LM, the amount of time the astronauts spent with the design teams showing that they were much more than mere pilots and the geology lessons they all undertook to be able to bring back the best scientific evidence.


                
Every now and again there emerges something on television that rises above the pap, that compensates for all the "Walker:  Texas Ranger" and "Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman."  Apologies if I sound jaded, but it has been a while since I've seen a television show I could classify as "Must See.""From the Earth to the Moon" is simple in its story, humble in its execution, and simply inspiring its effect.  With a couple of exceptions, the series does not contain marquis actors, but yet it does contain amazing writing and nonetheless sophistication in directing.  Each episode emerges as its own vignette, sometimes dramatic and other times even amusing, but always entertaining.Production quality is high, as is the scoring.  Special effects are extremely well done and they do not eclipse stellar acting performances by Dave Foley, Tim Daly, Tony Goldwyn, and Paul McCrane to name a few.I bought this on VHS when it was first released but now I'm considering buying it on DVD.  Yes, it is that good.


                
This is *the* most awesome DVD disc set I own.  The acting is superb and there are a lot of moving moments.  Since I'm not a expert on the space program, I can't say if this is an acurate telling of the entire Apollo program, but I will say it's one heck of a good flick.  The character development is well done and engages the viewer, like a good book you want to watch it all at once, but also want to savor the story.  The effects are beyond compare and I wish I could have seen this for the premire in the theater.  Because each episode was directed by different people they not only tell a different story but rely on different methods to tell that story.  The DVD adds and extra DVD-ROM full of trailers, Kennedy's speech, and a interactive guide to the solar system.  Living here in Orlando and being close to the space coast has always captured my imagination. If you like Science, History, and/or Docu-drama this movie will appeal to you.


                
Incredible.  This mini-series was a highly enjoyable, exciting, and entertaining work of TV production - not to mention historically accurate. If you are like me and you enjoy the personal stories behind all of the astro-science, these programs are for you.  There is plenty to keep the interest of the technically minded, but it is really geared toward the human side of the space race.  The acting, the special effects, the story lines... all of it comes together so well - and maintains its continuity through 12 wonderful episodes.I would highly recommend this awesome mini-series to those who know little about the Apollo program as well as to those who consider themselves experts.Everyone will enjoy this series from start to finish.  Personally, when I had finished watching the final episode, I found myself wanting more.  I will watch "From the Earth to the Moon" again in the future!


                
I have read that Tom Hanks watches raw NASA films for relaxation. If that is true, he took a project which could have been underachieved and nurtured it to be crafted as true as it possibly could have been. You can see the careful consideration given to each facet of this production as well as get an idea that everyone involved had captured the spirit of the mini-series.It shows the well and not-so-well known sides of the astronauts and their families. The acting is superb and the footage is well integrated into the series. One that has become a standard for how a mini-series/documentary should be produced.


                
Tom Hanks has shed a whole new light on the history of the Space program at NASA. Not only does Hanks explore the history of the United States' journey to the moon, but he also gives the viewer insight of the astronauts' emotions, dreams, successes, and struggles. I love movies such as this one, The Right Stuff, etc., but no other has moved me as this one did. For anyone who would like to step back into history for a brief period and actually come out having learned something, I highly recommend this film. Kudos to Tom Hanks for having the foresight to create such a masterpiece. When I watched it, I knew it had award potential written all over it.


                
As a young boy, I always dreamed of being an Astronaut. This mini-series made me remember those dreams. "From the Earth to the Moon" is a masterpiece. The whole history of getting a man on the moon, from the Mercury program through Gemini to the Apollo missions are chronicled. The acting is awesome, the sets are extremely realistic and the action and drama(and some humor)of the early period of NASA is sensational. If one needed a history lesson about our early space program, I would recommend this series. My favorite characters are Nick Searcy as Astronaut Donald "Deke" Slayton (who was grounded due to physical ailments-he would later fly on the Apollo-Soyez mission)and Stephen Root as Flight Director Chris Kraft. This is one space series not to be missed. You won't be disappointed.


                
Ever since I can remember I've been fascinated with Space Travel. As a fan of Star Wars this is no surprise. I am particularly interested in the nuts and bolts or if you will, science, of flying beyond the Earth's atmosphere. I didn't know many details about the early space program other than the fact that Neil Armstrong was the first man to walk on the moon. I had never even heard of Apollo 13. Then sometime in the late eighties I saw a movie called The Right Stuff. That's when things changed. I started reading up on everything I could. When I found out that Ron Howard was making a movie about Apollo 13 I was very grateful to that man. Apollo 13 remains one of my favorite films and I thought a mini-series about the Apollo program would be hard pressed to top Howard's film. I was wrong. From The Earth To The Moon is the best twelve hours ever committed to television. The way every episode concentrates on one aspect of the program while still managing to keep a linear feel about it. The writing is faultless. The acting is topnotch. and even though the episodes are directed by different people they still seem to have their own stamp on it while serving the series as a whole. "Spider" is the standout episode with Matt Craven's Tom Kelly being particularly good. The Apollo 13 episode was the weakest but all I do is insert the movie in here when I watch the series. All in all an excellent job all round.


                
This series looks at the stories behind the stories of the Apollo moon landings, and is not your usual linear documentary. Tom Hanks who produced this series is a "space nut" and it shows with its absolutely incredible effects that will make you believe you are there every step of the way.Tom's aim was to have you say after every episode "I didn't know that", and I believe he achieved that. For example, the story about Apollo 13 does not attempt to compete with the fantastic "Apollo 13" movie (starring Tom Hanks by the way) but examines how the way news was reported was forever changed by that event.Another delightful movie to complement this series is "The Dish". http://imdb.com/title/tt0205873/


                
i will not go and gush excitedly as some of the other reviewers have done ... i will not point out specific episodes or scenes .. although there are enough to write on for pages simply put - this series (and what i had heard about it at the time) was THE reason for me, to buy a region-code free DVD player (horrendously expensive at the time, but the only way for somebody in Austria to watch this series - it still has not been shown on TV "over here") ... and i have never regretted this decision (even though viewing the series umpteen times... the series has only two faults:1. IT IS TOO SHORT ... (no joke)2. Where are the follow on episodes about Skylab, ASTP (Apollo-Soyus), the Shuttle? Oh yes - while you are are working at it - how about a companion series about the Soviet space program?


                
