This is one hell of a production! It starts out with the Mercury missions, but not just the glossy scenes we know and have seen already, it goes beyond the norm. This 12 part series explains the absolute minutia of the space effort and the lives of the people behind it. It progresses through the Gemini and finally the Apollo missions all the way to the last Apollo 17 lunar landing.I learned quite a few things about the space race that I never knew before, such as: The surly nature of Alan Shepard, the fate of the astronauts wives, the fun nature of the Apollo 12 crew and the internal politics within the ranks of the astronauts themselves. I was also surprised on how much a bastard that Walter Mondale was in his attempts on derailing the space program. (I'm glad his bid for the White House was a failed one... Ignorance favors all political parties.)A lot of familiar faces starred in this production, the one that knocked me for a loop was Malcolm in the Middle's father as Buzz Aldrin. The acting is great and shows the versatility of the actors in both comedic and serious roles. I knew that Pete Conrad was cocky, but it shows more of his personality here. Armstrong has been known to be rather sullen and quiet, and is clearly demonstrated here as well. To this day, he doesn't talk much about his adventure. The decision determining who will be the first man on the moon is blunt and anti-climatic, but it tells it as it is. It tells of the astronauts secret activities and agendas, as well as particular small moments that they experienced.In the Apollo 13 segment, the production did not go into the details of the incident like we all seen before, but rather focused on the reporters angle on the event. And I rather enjoyed the insight sweat details on the building of the L.E.M. I wish they did a segment on the rover. I thought that they labored too long over the Apollo 16 mission - training much...learning geology with a trained eye, but I appreciate the effort that they went through. The Apollo 1 tragedy was produced well, with the political aftermath fallout. I hope that all what was filmed is true, and I do understand creative license, but I would feel better if I knew they kept it faithful to actual events. I need to view this again to catch more, but I highly recommend it to anyone interested in the space program. JoeChicago Astronomer http://astronomer.proboards23.com


                
Everyone that grew up during the time of the space race speaks of its inspiration, how it captured the national consciousness at a time when it was otherwise preoccupied with fear.  For those of us who grew up long after the fascinating events of the 1960's and already lived in a world in which shuttles and space flight were a reality, "From the Earth to the Moon" provides us with a sense of the awe and wonder which so gallantly captured that time. Tom Hanks', a noted NASA enthusiast (admittedly he has seen 2001: hundreds of times) seems to radiate his joy for the subject onto the screen, methodically pointing out the highlights, lowlights, and points of interest that marked the American rush to fulfil John F. Kennedy's promise to place a man on the moon.  Perfectly written, wonderfully acted, and beautifully placed on the screen, this mini-series is one of the greats, that when future societies dig up information on our culture, "From the Earth to the Moon" will provide a great example of what the American spirit was all about.


                
"That's one small step for man, one giant leap for mankind."This is a drama with documentary-ish elements mini-series of 12 episodes about the space race of the 1960's from USA's perspective, that gave us one of the biggest achievements in mankind's history, landing man on the moon. Being a huge fan of the subject matter and space in general, I was surprised that I didn't watch this series sooner. It is an HBO series, so you know it will be quality, and along with that, Tom Hanks is the producer, acts as the narrator at the start of each episode and acts in one of the episodes, and is an avid space fan to top it off. Just one more reason to love the guy.The series covers different aspects, different major events and different people involved in the whole ordeal, from Kennedy's wish and promise to land a man on the moon by the end of the decade, to the last apollo mission in the 70's. And it did all that masterfully. The attention to detail was outstanding. Tons of actual footage was used alongside very well acted dramatized scenes detailing important decisions and personalities. It looked really great with amazing huge detailed sets. The only thing that felt off was some of the rare CGI shots, which feels dated now but considering they are from 1998, and that too from a series, I'm not complaining much. It was great to see how many different things, how much effort, how much dedication it took to make this all happen. It was also great to see different side of it all, political, manufacturing, the astronauts themselves etc. "We choose to go to the moon. We choose to go to the moon. We choose to go to the moon, in this decade and do the other thing. Not because it is easy, but because it is hard." -John F. Kennedy.The series also had a great soundtrack, really uplifting the whole thing to that magical feeling of space exploration and the ability to do the impossible. Probably my favourite thing about the series, it just really gave me that feeling that I often look for in such series/movies. The only real gripe, or rather a nitpick, from my part for this series is that since each episode focused on a specific topic, the enjoyment factor varied quite a much sometimes for me. Some episodes were truly great, while others were pretty good. Even the least enjoyable episode was still good though.All in all, it was a great experience, something I wished I had watched long ago. Easily one of the best mini-series I have ever watched. You could just tell how much effort was put to make this series and tell the story in a faithful way, as well as in an enjoyable way and not make it a full on documentary. It is amazing to see what we are capable of when working towards a common goal and when we have proper driving force behind us. 9.5/10


                
One of the decisive moves in the American History was the Apollo Mission to the Moon.HBO has always been successful in providing us Miniseries with riveting experience.Last time I felt like this was in case of 'Band of Brothers'.'From the Earth to the Moon' portrays NASA's Space Program from its conception to its ultimate dream of sending man to the moon.Through the set of twelve episodes we are immediately emerged into the life of the extraordinary team which will make it viable for the man to make the ultimate dream achievable for the generations to remember.Each Episode starts with Kennedy's memorable speech and a short note from Tom Hanks. Lots of effort has been taken to make this series unforgettable. Every detail had been provided to even make a non-science viewer understand how the project took a lift and what had been the motives to do so.Considering the time when this series came to the home screen I can say the visual effects and the SFX had been impressive and I think this credit might be given to the Team behind the Movie 'Apollo 13' which was made back there in 1995. Some of the poignant composition had been provided by legends like Michael Kamen, James Newton Howard.Overall this is an amazing miniseries and can be suggested to every collector to add in to the collection like me <U+F04A>


                
Tom Hanks not only is the best actor we have today he is proving he knows what people want to see in films, Earth to the moon is one of the two best mini series ever made along with Lonesome dove, you are captivated from the first moment to the last of every episode. As a space buff (yes I watch NASA tapes also for fun) I watched for errors but there were few and far between. My favorite episode was with Dave Foley as Al Bean. Tom Hanks obviously puts his heart and sole into films and it shows on the screen. 10 out of 10


                
