Fight Club is one of the most unique films I have ever seen. In addition to presenting a rather fresh take on life, FC also presents its material in a fresh way. My main interest in the film is in that, in my opinion, it does not present characters for us to think about. Rather, it presents actions for us to think about. I will say that I cannot recall *ever* having been "asked" by a film to both suspend my disbelief the way this film asks in its third act AND at the same time come to terms with an understanding that there is no room--or need--for disbelief.Perhaps these comments will not make sense to the average movie goer who will dismiss this film--and, unfortunately, its premise--as another hollywood flick filled with gratuitous violence. I'd go as far as to say that this film is not about violence. It is about choices. It is about activity. It is about lethargy. It is about waking up and realizing that at some point in the past we've gone to the toilet and thrown up our dreams without even realizing that society has stuck its fingers down our throat.I would argue that anyone caught, at some point in their lives, between a rock and a hard place--anyone who has reached bottom on a mental level--anyone who has uttered to themselves "Wait, this isn't right. I would not do/say/feel what it is that I just did/said/felt... I do not like this. I must change before I am forever stuck being the person that I am not." These people, they will know what I'm talking about. These people will not only recognize the similarities between Edward Norton's character and themselves--they will be uncomfortably familiar with him. These people will appreciate Fight Club for what it is: a wake up call that we are not alone.As David Berman once said: "I'm afraid I've got more in common with who I was than who I am becoming." If this sentence makes any sense to you, go see Fight Club. You won't regret it.L.


                
Let's ignore the advice and talk about "Fight Club". This film was a milestone; although it bombed at the box office, Fincher's cinematic language left a mark that can still be felt now, 14 years later, on many current releases. Despite the risky 'cutting edge' nature of the film, Fincher got a huge budget for this and it shows: the camera effects and the whole production design are amazing.This movie has a raw energy that grips me every time I watch it. What a crazy, fun ride! Whether it is a very clever satire or pure testosterone going on a rampage - both are fine by me. A film so visually stunning and sexy, with career best performances by all involved - welcome to movie heaven.My vote: 10 out of 10Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-Movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/


                
"Fight Club" an aggressive, confrontational, often brutal satire that is quite possibly a brilliant masterpiece. Taking the "Choose life," anti-consumerism rant at the beginning of "Trainspotting," and carrying it to its logical -- albeit extreme -- conclusion this is a big budget, mainstream film that takes a lot of risks by biting the hand that feeds it. The film's narrator (Edward Norton) is an insignificant cog in the drab, corporate machine, dutifully doing his job and what he's told without question. He's an insomniac slave to his IKEA possessions and only finds joy in going to as many self-help/dealing with terminal diseases sessions as he can. It provides him with an escape from his sleepless nights. That is, until Marla Singer (Helena Bonham Carter), a trashy chain-smoking poser, enters his life and upsets his routine. The narrator also meets Tyler Durden (Brad Pitt), a charismatic soap salesman whose straightforward honesty, candor and sleazy lounge-lizard outfits are a breath of fresh air. One night, after the two men have bonded over beers, Tyler asks the narrator to hit him. At first, it seems like an absurd request but after they pound on each other for a bit, a strange feeling overcomes them. They feel a kind of release and satisfaction at inflicting pain on one another. In a world where people are desensitized to everything around them, the physical contact of fighting wakes them up and makes them feel truly alive. Others soon join in and pretty soon Fight Club becomes an underground sensation. However, it becomes readily apparent that Tyler has more elaborate plans than just organizing brawls at the local bar. David Fincher has taken the dark, pessimistic worldview of "Seven" and married it with the clever plot twists and turns of "The Game" and assembled his strongest effort to date. "Fight Club" is a $50+ million studio film that remains true to its anti-consumer, anti-society, anti-everything message -- right up to the last, sneaky subliminal frame. What makes "Fight Club" a subversive delight is not only its refreshing anti-corporate message but how it delivers said message. As Fincher has explained in interviews, you don't really watch the film but rather download it. Its structure is extremely playful as it messes around with linear time to an incredible degree. The narrative bounces back and forth all over the place like a novel, or surfing on the Internet -- even making a hilarious dead stop to draw attention to itself in a funny, interesting way that completely works. Yet Norton's deadpanned narration holds everything together and allows the viewer to get a handle on what's happening. This is the way films should be made. Why must we always have to go through the A+B+C formula? "Fight Club" openly rejects this tired, clearly outdated structure in favour of a stylized frenzy of jump cuts, freeze frames, slow motion and every other film technique in the book that only reinforces its anarchistic message. A film like this would have never been greenlighted by a major studio if Brad Pitt had not been attached to the project. Once you see the film, it becomes obvious that he was the only choice for Tyler Durden. Like he did with "Kalifornia" and "Twelve Monkeys", Pitt grunges himself down and disappears completely into his role to a frighteningly convincing degree. During many of the brutal fight scenes, he is transformed into a bloody, pulpy mess that'll surely have the "Legends of the Fall" fans running for the exits. It is an incredible performance -- probably his best -- for the simple fact that he becomes the character so completely. If Pitt has the flashy, gonzo role, Edward Norton is his perfect foil as the seemingly meek yet sardonic narrator. It's a deceptively understated performance as the last third of the film reveals but Norton nails it perfectly. He is clearly our surrogate, our introduction into this strange world and his wry observations on our consumer-obsessed culture are right on the money. They are the perfect setup for Tyler's introduction and his view on the world which is clearly a call to arms of sorts, a manifesto that rejects the notion that we are what we own. And ultimately, that is what "Fight Club" tries to do. The film is a cinematic punch to the head as it challenges the status quo and offers a wakeup call to people immersed in a materialistic world where those who have the most stuff, "win." I think that Fincher's film wants us to tear all that down, reject corporate monsters like Starbucks and Blockbuster, and try to figure out what we really want out of life. It's almost as if the film is suggesting salvation through self-destruction. And it is these thought-provoking ideas that makes "Fight Club" a dangerously brilliant film that entertains as well as enlightens.


                
Superb, and truly one of the greatest movies of all time.It starts with the screenplay. Adapted from, and very faithful to, an excellent book. The book by Chuck Palahniuk was perfect for a movie: vivid, powerful, challenging, original, unpredictable. Considering how perfectly formed the book already was, the screenplay would have been a doddle.Some very interesting themes are explored - consumerism, class warfare, multiple-personality disorder, male bonding, terrorism and anarchy - without being judgemental. Direction is spot-on. Perfect cinematography, pacing and editing. The twists and nuances of the book are captured perfectly.Edward Norton and Brad Pitt are perfectly cast as the two lead characters, and deliver in spades. Helena Bonham Carter is a strange selection to take on the role of Marla, as she tends to act in Shakespearean dramas and other period pieces. However, despite this, her performance is very convincing.An absolute classic.


                
The script was tight, the theme fascinating, the acting incredible (especially Edward Norton, as one might expect), the direction inspired, and the cinematography stunning. It is one of the few films of the past five years that deserves to be seen multiple times.  In fact, if you have seen it only once, you have missed something.  I was seriously hoping the movie would receive Oscar nominations for Best Actor (Norton), Best Screenplay, Best Director, Best Cinematography and Best Picture.So, how is it that the film received no nominations? Unfortunately, it had a mismatched ad campaign.  The ads made it seem like the movie was about street boxing, instead of a intellectual and emotional ride through a man's psyche as he takes a strange path toward rebellion against consumer society. As a result, most who went to see it were disappointed, and those who would recognize its brilliance stayed far away from the movie theaters.  This is one of the most underrated movies I know.I always love movies that keep you entertained and keep you guessing, and this movie scores a 10 in both.  Those who enjoyed The Game, Memento, or The Matrix really should check it out.


                
Similar in idea to 'American Beauty' but certainly not in style or content this bleak look at underground culture and the spiritual redemption it brings is easily one of the most intelligent films I've ever seen. Directed by the same man who brought us the superb 'The Game' this is another film which you'll have to see more than once to truly understand.  Focusing on sad white-collar, middle-class Norton whose only real dream in life is to own all the contents of an IKEA catalogue it follows him through a chance meeting with charismatic stranger Pitt and the unfortunate events which conspire to draw them together. After a nights hard drinking they start a friendly-ish scrap which is viewed by a couple of others and from that small acorn a mighty oak called Fight Club grows. This is the point around which the whole film revolves with Norton and Pitt forming an underground club which draws more and more disillusioned young men to join it. Based on firm 'Queensbury Rules' it is a cathartic if bloody way to spend your night. Eventually as it becomes a huge operation Pitt, the de facto leader, moves it up a gear and creates his own cult from this secret society. This is where the film becomes brilliant and the twist near the end is magnificent, better even than the much talked about 'The Sixth Sense'. It just has so much to say about things: the emasculation of an entire generation of young men ("No great war to fight, no great depression"), the growing isolation we all feel from one another and the need to find something to draw us back together and most importantly, the power of an exciting, challenging idea and it's fermentation into cultism. However, where many films would just say 'This is a bad thing' 'Fight Club' doesn't. It is more a condemnation of a materialistic society which has forgotten about a large section of itself. You can empathise with these men completely, even when they band together against this uncaring society that has reared them to be something their instincts don't understand. It's as close to genius as you'll get and one film you'll talk about and think about for days.


                
Faithfully following Chuck Palahniuk's acerbic satire, Fight Club presents the vast emptiness of modern existence- ridden as it is with shallow values, rampant consumerism, empty of meaning, feeling and life itself- in a slick and ironically consumer oriented fashion.  In a different vein from American Beauty, Fight Club explores the solutions to the veritable sleepwalking existence that plagues modern life.  The film is violent, but it is not gratuitous violence, and any reviewer who claims that the film is promoting violence has missed the entire point of the film. A very black comedy, it is sure to provoke much conversation- it is definitely a film to see with friends.  The film is fast-paced, densely packed and merits a second viewing, just to take it all in, especially if you haven't read the book. In typical Fincher style, you the viewer are left to draw your own conclusions. He feels no impetus to tell you how to interpret what you've seen, appropriate since the film condemns falling victim to the strictures of what society tells us to think and to value.  My only criticism is that the editing is not as tight as it could be in the middle section of the film, it drags just a bit then picks up again. Other than that, it should definitely be an Oscar contender.


                
After watching this movie I was totally filled with enthusiasm. Fight Club is definitly Fincher's best movie even better than se7en. It's not only the story but the optics which fascinated me. When I had seen it for the second time I could see this movie with the knowledge of the conclusion which is really fascinating as you'll see Fight Club in a totally different perspective. Also great about Fight Club is its soundtrack performed by the Dust Brothers and especially the song 'Where is my mind' by the Pixies which really fit to the end of the movie. Unfortunately Fight Club didn't have much success in Germany but anyway the movie got best reviews of the German press. I also have to mention the brilliance of Ed Norton and Brad Pitt who plays best in roles in which he performs the villain. But it's quiet amazing what Edward Norton is able to do - he is just overwhelming. For that role he has to get the oscar.


                
This film, is basically, at least in my opinion, one of the greatest films ever, period.  I read the book afterwards, and equally enjoyed the book. The film is definitely for younger people, the critics of films, in general are older, so they cannot appreciate this film.  The film defines the younger generation, only younger people can relate to it, however, older people(middle aged+) can appreciate the art of the film, the beauty of the camera work, as well as the excellent acting.  The film, in every aspect is fantastic, it begins with a rather humorous narration, from a person we grow to know as, "narrator".  It goes about to show how he lives, and his way of life.  In these scenes alone, movie lines that will go down in history are said, and it's only the first twenty minutes.  The film tends to progress faster and faster as the film continues.  We delve into the narrators psyche, and find that he is not unlike most people in this world, he has a tendency to say to people what they want to hear, even if it is not the truth in it's entirety.  Almost all folks can relate to the main character, and he feels to be a real human, not a character in a story.  This, is partially due to the excellent directing, as well as book, but it is mostly due to the fantastic performance by Edward Norton. It, in my opinion is an Oscar performance.  Bradd Pitt gives his best performance to date, he is definitely an excellent coworker with David Fincher, they seem to share a common thread when it comes to film making I suppose.  I have full intention of purchasing this film when it is released on VHS and DVD.  Do yourself a favour, see this film, if that is not an option, at least read the book.  If you are younger and feel unrest with society, this is the film.


                
First, for this great masterpiece, I would like to thank David Fincher. The film gives a great message on psychology. But the main purpose is to show what level shambles of today's youth. The film tackles the decline of today's youth in a very hard way. Consumer culture can be said to start with the Starbucks glasses we have seen in the film in many scenes. Consumption in the film can be one of the parts that best describes the society. The Narrator is happiest not in consumption, but in Tyler's punches. It is not a fight against the system, but in the film Fight Club is a rebellious aim. Everyone is alone in the consumer society. Officially something new comes out after today's young people run the thing themselves or dedicate themselves to always search for a leader, this problem offers in a great way the audience. Acting I can say enormous. Formally integrated the roles of the players. Already today, many people have come by Tyler Durden character of history is considered as the best anti-hero. Every part of the film is filled with great criticism about our day. Also great to send on to mention other films. One of the most important elements of the film I'd say the mystery. Indeed, for someone with no knowledge of the subject monitors and film for the first time in a very difficult prediction about the end of the film. Absolutely should for everyone to see, and even to do bedside film is a masterpiece..
I had avoided this movie as I had assumed it was 'Rocky Goes Underground'. Saw it last night (May 2013) only because my son wanted to watch it and I was too tired to get off the couch. I was totally blown away. It has no resemblance to Rocky or any other boring boxing movie. Can't stop thinking about it today, certainly can't concentrate on work. Why? Because I totally identify with The Narrator and it seems from the comments here and from the consensus of viewer ratings that I am far from alone. Its not 'Macho Porn', or 'little-boy posturing' as Roger Ebert describes it. It is rather one of the most thought provoking movies I have ever seen.I unleashed my own Tyler Durden 10 years ago, not violently or illegally, but I did turn my back on my serf-like existence as a well- paid corporate slave. Sure it was painful and chaotic. But my marriage survived and now I run my own small business. Sometimes I think I made a mistake, as my former affluent life sure was easier. But it takes a movie like this to remind me how empty it was and how much more satisfying it is to take the road less travelled, to forge my own destiny, to have a proper work life balance that allows me to know my kids and to not be sucked into hollow consumerism.


                
To the world: This isn't really a movie about dumb guys beating each other up because they're too bored to do anything else. No, Fight Club is actually about personal and cultural revolution within a corporate consumer society that destroys the human spirit. At least, that's how I saw it.I loved this movie, and rating it a ten is not some whimsical fancy--I don't hand out gold stars for nothing. It looks good, sounds good, pacing, dialogue, acting, etc. are all excellent. Why it didn't rate higher on the mainstream critics' lists for cinematography alone is beyond me.What really makes this movie shine, though, is the unflinching way in which it looks at North American society--our mass consumerism, our slavery to stuffy corporate office jobs, our growing lack of what makes us human. The movie doesn't pull many punches.Norton's character is the automaton office lackey who is desperately searching for meaning in his materialistic shell of a life, Pitt plays the modern-day surfer/hippie Tyler Durden whose devil-may-care, spontaneous attitude to life offers the perfect (?) solution. These two personalities struggle to reconcile their different perspectives on life without destroying their relationship. To make things more difficult, Bonham Carter creates a love triangle to further test the friendship.Is it better to be free, alive, and chaotic, as in Pitt's anarchistic vision, or safe, secure, and bored like Norton's capitalist American Dream life? Or, can a compromise be found? Can love conquer all? This is the peripheral, deeper stuff Fight Club is made of, not the smack-down action that the trailers and critics focused on.This movie demands at least one viewing. If you're queasy about violence (there is a graphic fight scene or two), then watch it with someone who's already seen it and ask for an edited version. Even if you don't end up respecting the movie's message or the complicated questions it asks, it remains a well-crafted film, deserving of recognition.
"...Advertising has us chasing cars and clothes, working jobs we hate so we can buy things we don't need. We're the middle children of history, man. No purpose or place. We have no Great War. No Great Depression. Our Great War's a spiritual war... our Great Depression is our lives. We've all been raised on television to believe that one day we'd all be millionaires, and movie gods, and rock stars. But we won't. And we're slowly learning that fact. And we're very, very.........." David Fincher has created a masterpiece based on Chuck Palahniuk's novel.This movie photographs our entire generation,analyzing the dead- ends of our society.The narrator(Edward Norton) has become a person who basically has everything,but nothing.Subconsciously,he tries to find an alternative way to go on with his life but this is not possible cause he has already a wrong perspective.Therefore,he invents Tyler's character as a defensive mechanism.Nobody can realize that they are the same person,until the story shows who Tyler really is and the plot follows a different direction.A great thing about this movie is that Fincher keeps a neutral perspective as the movie ends concerning what is right or wrong.Bombing large buildings is a solution to our society's economic problems?Inventing an alter-ego character is a solution for everybody's personal issues?Creating a fight club is really a way to solve your daily problems?It's up to everyone to make his/her own conclusions at the end of the movie.The director does not preach,he just presents both sides of the same coin. I have read that Brad Pitt has become the only choice for Tyler.I totally agree.This movie would be different with another actor playing this character.It's a brilliant performance.I also think that it wouldn't be among the 10 best movies,if the director was a different one.David Fincher has this ability to deeply analyze a situation and all movie characters.All scenes have his own perspective and the plot never reveals the double character.Norton also gives a unique performance and becomes completely his character which is quite difficult considering that he grows a psychotic behavior. In general,fight club is definitely one of the best movies ever made.It demands more than one viewing in order to be understood completely,but after that it creates lot of discussion.A real masterpiece.
I believe the movie-watching community is divided into three parts;the ones who love "Fight Club",the ones who hate it and the unfortunate ones who are yet to experience it.To maintain a neutral stance is quite impossible.Once the credits roll, you may be in awe of this logic-defying piece of celluloid or you may detest the seemingly needless depiction of blood,gore and violence.I belong to the former category and hence,what follows is more of a eulogy than review.So, if you have not seen it I,suggest you first give it a watch and then come back.This movie does not live on the edge;it goes beyond.It does not border on the bizarre.It quite literally ventures head-on into the bizarre and refuses to return.Simply put,this movie is the rock star of its generation.The plot revolves about an insomniac (Edward Norton) who is a by-product of the lifestyle obsession.His life is clichéd,branded and superficial;one where the "Starbucks" and "Microsofts" compensate for the complete void of emotion.He gets addicted to support groups for various ailments,pouring out his heart to complete strangers.Among these groups of terminally-ill people he finds solace making him realize he needs an outlet.In Tyler Durden (Brad Pitt) our protagonist finds his outlet and we find one of the all-time great movie characters.And they team up to create the Fight Club.It is in the fights here that they feel life;a far cry from the desensitized worlds they dwell in.To reveal anything beyond this point would be criminal.But to throw light upon the masterful adaptation from Chuck Palahniuk's book is a necessity.David Fincher's execution oozes style in every frame.Each scene brings out his innovation and is a sheer delight from start to finish.The casting is exemplary as Edward Norton as well as Helena Bonham Carter (having quite an integral role) play their parts to precise perfection.But Pitt's Tyler Durden is the zenith of Fight Club.His every word and mannerism is cult.So Hats off to Brad Pitt.As bad as his "Achilles" in "Troy" may be, his Tyler is,by now, immortal.Beyond that, tight screenplay,impactful dialogs,effective light and sound,a wacky score and stellar direction catapult it into a timeless classic.The essence of "Fight Club" lies in its sadomasochistic theme.It shows us the beauty of anarchy and the symmetry of insanity.It asks us to let go,to reject consumerism and to pull ourselves out from the deluge of brand-consciousness,without ever sounding preachy.It asks us to be alive.Blood-splattered fights may not be the most subtle way of telling us but "How much can you know about yourself if you haven't been in a fight?" is the Tyler-istic way of saying it.I am Jack's mesmerized head bowed in admiration.
Fight Club is an adrenaline rush of a film.  A movie that takes you in, twists you around, tests your limits, and leaves you stunned.  It is an incredibly dark comedy, an inspired satire, and, all around, a great film.As the film opens, we are taken through the body of the Narrator (that is how he is credited, for very good reasons), until we arrive looking down the barrel of a gun jammed in his mouth.  The Narrator is played by Edward Norton, in a performance full of so much sarcasm, Kevin Spacey had better start watching his back.  Here Norton once again proves that he is one of the best actors appearing in film today.  His role is a tricky one, but he pulls it off so easily, it seems like child's play.The gun is being held by Tyler Durden played by Brad Pitt, who also pulls off a tricky performance.  Pitt is a very good actor who is unfortunately cursed with sex-symbol status, and therefore, not taken too seriously. Here, though, he once again shows that he is an actor.Shortly after this, we learn that buildings throughout the city are wired to explode in minutes.  As this is explained, we are given a spectacular special effects sequence where the camera swoops down the side of the high-rise, passes through the street, into the garage of the building, through a van, and right into the explosive device.  The film uses this effect a few other times in the film, and all to good effect.With this setup, the film flashes back to when the Narrator had a bit of insomnia.  His job is tedious, the stuff in his apartment doesn't seem as nice anymore, and he goes to support groups just to sleep at night.  He has a nice thing going until another `tourist' shows up to one of his support groups.  She is Marla, played with fun and a strange sadness by Helena Bonham Carter.Now the insomnia reappears, he is traveling for work excessively, and he just happens to meet Tyler on an airplane.  They talk for a bit, and the Narrator is intrigued by him.  When he returns home, he finds that it is a pile of rubble; blown out of the building.  His decision: call Tyler.  They have a drink, he asks to stay at Tyler's place (after some convincing), and something strange happens.  Tyler asks the Narrator to hit him.  Thus, the unofficial start of Fight Club.From here, the movie centers on the club and how it is gradually knocked up levels, until we begin to realize what Tyler's philosophy really is and its effects on the Narrator and the other members.David Fincher, who has explored the dark side of human nature in Seven, directs the film in such high style that there is never a dull shot in the film.  He proves he is a visionary director, and I am sure he will have many more opportunities to bring his vision to the screen.It is not often that a film is able to capture its time so perfectly. Earlier this year,  South Park: Bigger, Longer & Uncut was able to satirize the censorship issue.  Now comes Fight Club, a film about Generation X and corporate America that is brutally honest.  You leave the theater knowing that Tyler's actions are too extreme and anarchistic, but there is something in his words that speak to anyone who is fed up to some degree with the way our society is.  Fight Club is a film worthy of multiple viewings.  The first time, it is a visual experience.  The next time, something deeper appears.  By the third time, if you already haven't, you should see it with some of your more intelligent friends and discuss the issues the film deals with; and there are a lot.
It is nice to have all the material accoutrement of a thriving, cosmopolitan guinea pig. You are raptured by consumerism, which includes owning several hundred pounds of Scandinavian furniture.You have a precocious infatuation for a white collar title, and your lackluster, extra curricular activities have dictated that you mollycoddle someone with testicular cancer!! As enticing as all of this sounds, you know what sparks your interest even more, BEATING THE CRAP OUT OF SOMEONE!! (I have been underemployed for over eight years now, I am all ears!!) What do you really want out of life? Recognition at the Neanderthal level, or, to be another citified anonymity? The former, of course!! Brad Pitt conveys his message to Edward Norton very convincingly, and now, the trick is to spread the good news, but, remember rules one and two, you are not allowed to talk about it, and, you are not allowed to talk about it!! How do you persevere under such a deranged set of circumstances? Yes!! Boredom constitutes a first rate felony. Fighting to a near death represents an exuberance that has titillated Edward Norton's character to a personal Nirvana!! Dangerously convoluted logic is the ultimate spirituality. You have experienced excruciating chemical pain, someone torched your condo because they want to get to know you a little better, you got fired because you always have blood stains on your clothes, you want to blow up a credit card centralized information building complex, and sex has not been this sensational since seventh grade!! Nobody said that this was a family oriented film!! The aggregate depravity for all of the characters in the movie transcends a diversified experimentation with needless destruction, their devotion to the non-conventional is a little too difficult to comprehend!! What does anybody really accomplish by going this route anyway? Capitualation to the bizarre? This movie's charades of insurrection are exhilarating to the clinically demented (Otherwise known as the fight club) The less I know, the better off I will be I think!! Banalities pertinent to the Bourgeousie have brazenly threatened this bevy of belligerent overgrown boys who wish to brandish their high levels of testosterone... So Now!! Life is one big boxing ring!! This is a potpourri of apocalyptic misgivings which are socially perverse!! How do you empathize with any of this?... You don't!! This website has ranked this movie the 31st best film out of the top 250 ever made.... To concur with these findings would be tantamount to indulging the character that Brad Pitt played, to the nth degree!! The psychopathic rumination involved in all of these felonious antics are even more repugnant than the eating habits of an alpaca!!! It is truly indicative of human nature to favor the form of fruition which is pecuniary, their form of fruition deals with societal malcontent and mutilation!! The resonating agitation, which serves as an inspiration to everyone in this movie, is commensurate with the film "Clockwork Orange"!!! Both films possess a ruthless determination to establish an adamant,counter-culture militancy with a bunch of immature misfits!! The macabre actions to both of these movies signify a heinous non-justification which is pertinent to everything!!! This is not what the phrase "Change your sedentary lifestyle" means!!! There are other recreational diversions out there, maybe golf can fill the void!! As far as unprecedented creativity goes "Fight Club" gets a resoundingly perfect ten!!! Overall, however, for "Fight Club" to be ranked the 31st best movie ever produced, I don't know, I really just do not know about that one at all!!


                
From the moment the credits were on screen I instantly fell in love with it.Fight Club has changed our lives and the way we look at it. You will see this near the top of peoples lists. That is because people think that this film is correct. Its up to you to decide. Or it could be because it is insanely cool, which it certainly is.Though it is not right to call it Fincher's. As the film is adapted from Chuck Palahniuk's book which I must add is just as great. This is Chuck's masterpiece. The main difference is the endings, Chuck's is a book ending and David's is a film ending. Making both perfect.The film has 3 parts to it, studying the character in which called the Narrator played by Edward Norton. The first part follows him trying to cure himself from insomnia. He finally finds a way to sleep. Crying in self help clubs. To completely lose yourself. He became addicted. And joined all of them. We lose track of time. And all of this becomes a routine. His boring job. Non-stop buying from Ikea, as it makes him feel complete. Going to self help clubs. Cancer. Parasites. All kinds of diseases he said he has. Although he doesn't have to say anything at all. But then, at the very moment, just when he had become comfortable, she ruined everything. She is Marla Singer (Helena Bonham Carter). She is also a faker. With her in the picture our narrator couldn't sleep. He then escapes it all by travelling in his job and spends most of his time on planes flying around America.Then he finds a man called Tyler Durden (Brad Pitt), a soap salesman he met on a plane. This then leads the second part. Then Narrator comes to his condo to find it on the ground. Everywhere. Smashed to smithereens. He then calls Tyler to talk about this to. This leads to him staying at Tyler's place but first he must do him a favour; one of the greatest lines in film history. 'I want you to hit me as hard as you can'. Fight Club is born. 8 simple rules for men to fight. To be born again. Soon a lot of men join. Tyler's place is a complete mess. The house looks like its about to fall down at any moment. The Narrator still goes to his job, face full of bruises. He no longer needs the self help clubs. Fight Club grows and Tyler decides to expand it. Just when Marla comes back into his life. Fight Club in itself becomes a cult, a new religion. Then homework comes into action. In which the men of Fight Club go out onto the streets and cause mischief. Which leads the mayhem. Project Mayhem. The third part. The adrenalin starts pumping. But I'm going to let you find that out for yourself.The Narrator guides us through the film telling us his theories and his feelings in metaphors. He is one of the greatest characters of all-time for his one-liners. Not because they are funny. But because they are influential. I guarantee a fan of Fight Club will have those words running through their mind. Tyler Durden also has theories. Yet he does not tell us. He tells the Narrator. We hear. And we believe. Somehow the viewers believe Tyler. He speaks in such a mature way with evidence. His theories are on humanity and manhood. He believes that we are loosing the plot, the original plan for the human race. And the way to get better, is to start again. Marla invades The Narrators life as she feels incomplete too.The depth of the film is incredible and occasionally unrecognized. It's about becoming a man. A real man. The hunter man. The man who will kill. Fighting is just practice. When they take a swing to another man in fight club they are going back to their roots. Not personal roots exactly, but general roots of the gender. It's not pointless violence. It's meaningful. This is why teenage boys love the film so much, not because its cool, but because they can relate to it as they go through puberty. If I were to explain another depth to the film it would be a spoiler so I am going to let you find out for yourself...The cinematography is amazing. The screenplay makes it enjoyable every time and never get old; this means you will soon know all the lines. I love the score, it fits so well. The gritty atmosphere and dark humour make this re-watchable and keeps you watching. The acting is brilliant, and I must say cool. I couldn't imagine anyone else playing these parts. Pitt plays the performance of a life-time, he will always be remembered for Tyler Durden.This has already become a cult classic and a favourite by many. I recommend you join the club if you haven't seen it already, as you will probably not be able to resist.It doesn't get any better than this.10/10


                
Every one of us dream of becoming something. They see themselves as they'd like to be.The whole concept of fight club is so different. People do not fight to win. The movie starts with a strange comic way. You proceed with the movie and you start realizing how minutely the dark side of our life is shown, how minutely the dark side of people are shown. This film will start manipulate your own psychology. YOU will start getting similarities between YOUR psychology and the psychology of the characters in the movie. And in the end of the movie you will suddenly realize that this movie was for YOU. This movie is not like any other movies. This movie conveys something. It manipulates you. When you end this movie you will start to think what did I saw? How could the director show such hard facts and feelings of our life? Then you will start to see it again and again. You can feel your own life reflected by it. THIS MOVIE CAN CHANGE YOUR LIFE or at least your perspective. You will slowly learn this fact that:Everyone see themselves as they'd like to be. Butt they don't have the courage YOU have..... to just run with it.
Beleive me if you want to feel this movie to the core watch it twice . It took me twice to analyse that this movie was something much more than just awesome
Brilliant acting by brad pitt maybe his best one, direction above par .
There is something much more in this movie than meets the eye .. Watch it and find for yourself


                
I first watched Fight Club as 19/20 year old working in the local cinema and it had me mesmerized drom start to finshed. Incredible film which i find offers a lot to reflect on and the fights are pretty awesome too.


                
This movie is one of the best I've ever seen. I had to watch it several times and with every time watching I discovered something new. This piece is art and has to be seen by everyone who likes movies with plot twists and got an eye for the detail!


                
Who do you want to be? What are your values? This movie will stay with you long after you have watched it. And watched it. And read about it. And read the book. Astonishing work.


                
This is one of the greatest movies ever. A really must see before you die!David Fincher is a very high skilled director. The leading actors of this movie are chosen very carefully and I guess this is Edward Norton's best actor performance.You can watch "Fight Club" more than once and you would never get bored of it.


                
Amazing Mindblowing. my all time favorite. my number one movie


                
My dad kept telling me to watch it and i finally did. I thought it was really really awesome. Ed norton and Brad pitt were outstanding, all time great must see movie.


                
