Movies like this are intensely frustrating. They get so close to the greatness mark, enticing you with how good they are, and then, at the last second, as if to spite you, they pull back and go for the Hollywood ending. And then you almost forget the brilliance of the rest of the movie. And any filmmaker that can come close to blocking out the memory of the great parts of his movie with just one crucial scene needs to be beat up. Or have his face shoved into Meat Loaf's man-titties.But I can mostly forgive David Fincher for leaving that copout ending simply because the rest of the movie is so darn good. This seems to stem mostly from Jim Uhls's close adaptation of Chuck Palahniuk's novel, a masterpiece of existentialist grit and wit. The film follows the book through most of its plot, incorporating much of Palahniuk's clever and bitter commentary on our material society into Edward Norton's jaded voice-over narration, which is unnerving for the five seconds it takes to get into the rhythm of the story. That's how good this plot is adapted- we can settle right into a rhythm and a dark tone that match those of the book perfectly.Edward Norton is the perfect choice for Fight Club's bored protagonist, as is Brad Pitt as Tyler, the enigmatic man that encourages Norton's character to join him in starting a fight club. In this club, men come to the basement of a bar and essentially beat each other up in an attempt to reach into the core of their manhood (the screenplay says it with far more deftness than I do). But it's about so much more than the fight club, as Norton's narrator soon discovers. Tyler has a plan to change the very fabric of their society and in the process changes the very fabric of Norton's character's life- more than he realizes at first.For the entire movie, Fight Club is about man's slavery to society and his escape from it. Unfortunately, the ending, which I won't spoil, takes an entirely different direction from this theme, and, as a result, takes the movie an entirely different direction from greatness. The ending of the book, however, is perfect, and if Fincher had stuck with the book through the entire first two hours of the movie, why couldn't he use the book's perfect ending for the last 10 minutes?It's still a must-see though- the ideas expressed by this movie are some everyone should hear and ponder. Plus, it's freaking good entertainment.


                
WARNING! SPOILERS FOLLOW. I saw Fight Club a month or two back, and was kind of unimpressed with it. It was a decently made film, with good acting and good directing... but something about it just didn't quite work for me. That is until I began to examine it more closely. Then I realized what it really is: It's not a life-altering drama or a vicious black comedy, as it is proclaimed to be... rather, it is a cleverly disguised attempt to bring one of the greatest comic strips of all time to the big screen. That's right, Fight Club is really an adaptation of Calvin and Hobbes. Just take a look at the similarities... Fight Club: The Narrator (hereinafter "Jack") feels depressed and alone, which leads to his fabricating Tyler Durden, a friend and companion who is everything Jack wishes he could be. Calvin and Hobbes: Calvin has no friends, which leads to his projecting everything he wishes he could be into his stuffed tiger, who becomes his friend and companion Hobbes. Fight Club: When Jack looks at Tyler, he sees Tyler. When anyone else looks at Tyler, they see Jack. Calvin and Hobbes: When Calvin looks at Hobbes, he sees a tiger. When anyone else looks at Hobbes, they see a stuffed toy. Fight Club: Jack simultaneously detests Marla and desires her. He projects his desire through Tyler, though in several scenes we see this desire in Jack himself. Calvin and Hobbes: Calvin simultaneously detests Susie and desires her. Throughout the course of the strip, we see this desire manifested in Hobbes. But in the very early episodes, Calvin expresses the same desire himself, if only to himself. Fight Club: Jack expresses his dissatisfaction with his father, and the job he did as a parent.Calvin and Hobbes: Calvin frequently speaks of his father doing poorly in the "polls". Fight Club: While at work, Jack is under the thumb of a demanding boss, whom he does not like. Calvin and Hobbes: While at school, Calvin is under the thumb of Miss Wormwood, a demanding teacher whom he does not like. Fight Club: When frustrated with the world around him, Jack goes to a place in his imagination (that place with the penguin) where all around him things are serene. Calvin and Hobbes: When frustrated with the world around him, Calvin goes to places in his imagination, where he is Spaceman Spiff, Tracer Bullet, Stupendous Man, etc.So, thus we see that, though Bill Waterson himself forbad the filming of his strip, a few brave men had the courage to go behind his back and do what they felt was right. Never has there been such a courageous act by filmmakers since the days of Nosferatu, which was another thinly-disguised attempt to bring a beloved character to the screen... Count Chocula.


                
This movie has been hailed by many (mostly men) as the greatest movie of all time. It has been continually rising up the "Top 250" and now ranks as the 10th best on IMDb.I'm sorry, after 4 viewings, I still do not get to that level. I don't think I ever will.I have read many of the reviews and I agree with most of the positive comments and do not agree at all with most of the negative reviews. The movie is not dumb by any means. It is not an experience in testosterone driven world of violence. It is anything but a mess.It is a very well written, extremely well directed, view into a dark anti-consumerism world.The movie's message is recognize consumerism and reject consumerism. As such, it presents the conflict between two characters Tyler Durden played by Brad Pitt and someone who is called Jack, Rupert or Cornelius and who is played by Edward Norton.Jack is quite a consumer, or at least at the start of the movie he is. There is also Marla Singer played by (Helena Bonham Carter), who is both like Tyler in most ways and like Jack in other ways.Tyler is basically against everything society values, and virtually anything positive. He argues with, and eventually begins to win Jack over to his thinking. At one point, he fights Jack and the two of them create fight club. Tyler also has a sexual relationship with Marla, despite the fact that his friend Jack can't stand to be around her.The movie has a good and memorable twist. The movie is loaded with numerous unique and memorable quotes. Most of the quotes are very negative. The movie is extremely intelligent and every frame of the movie is meant to be in the movie for some reason. The Director, David Fincher is Fantastic.If we desperately needed a movie against consumerism: this is it! Here is one of the quotes: "You're not your job. You're not how much money you have in the bank. You're not the car you drive. You're not the contents of your wallet."If we needed a positive movie or a positive message or to learn something positive, or something that at least makes us feel good or feel uplifted in some way, This is not it, and This is anything but it.Here is another one of the movies' unique quotes that gets shouted more than once:"You're the all-singing, all-dancing crap of the world." Here is another line that someone shouts: "You are not special. You are not a beautiful or unique snowflake. You're the same decaying organic matter as everything else."If you like dark negative movies, this is a good one. If you want to be uplifted, this is not your movie, it's Jack Movie as the DVD tells you.


                
"How many nihilists does it take to change a light-bulb?" "-Half." (Gettit?) Fight Club(1999) is a highly stylised hybrid--a pitch-black comedy that's hard to like unless you're male, and (possibly) clawing your way BACK from the edge of abyss.It opens with a CGI-fly-past of firing neurons under the credits, suggesting what follows is caused by misfires in the protagonist's brain. But you miss that at first for all the uncharted territory.James Uhls' impressive screen adaptation continues Chuck Palahniuk's novel attempts to revolutionize men's views of their place in first-world-societies where caveman sensibilities are literally no longer required.Tyler Durden(Brad Pitt) characterizes our generation in one of his early Fight Club welcome speeches: "We're the middle children of history--we have no Great War", meaning that men raised without brutality still crave it--and why so many of them eagerly join up. But Club(1999) delineates its message for just one gender, never pretending to speak for women: the narrator observes that before becoming yuppies, "we used to read pornography": young girls were never so inclined.Nevertheless, it's frightening how many people the film appeals to. Fans over-enthuse, saying "this is the BEST movie EVER". Professional critics aren't so impressed. One courageous video & DVD guide claims that "...this appalling, grotesque, and interminable endurance-test is fairytale fiction for serial killers, imbeciles who succumb to road rage, and frustrated white guys--all the morons who seek excuses for their increasingly bad behavior and hair-trigger tempers".This temper-thing in the psych business is called "sham-rage" (or "decortication" after the severing of the neocortex in 1948 experiments on pussycats)- www.emotion.caltech.edu/courses/ss140/April17-1.pdf. The "misfire" in Jack's brain depicts such a neurochemical break.But maybe Jack(Ed Norton) and Tyler(Brad Pitt) have a point. To me, the movie is saying that "frustrated" guys are really no good for women, because, frankly, they just don't want what women have to give. Such men might now want to bond only with each other, to satisfy ancient caveman instincts, which civilisation--and women--are trying to breed out of them.That's why Jack & Tyler's fight clubs quickly evolve into organised anarchism, and eventually nihilism--the wish to destroy all moral and social edifices: males are getting back to their roots.Having "said" that, Fight Club(1999) tries to throw a lifeline to the seriously disaffected; but that lifeline falls on deaf ears. (*****Spoiler: The ending depicts Jack's retaking control from his "teacher" by redefining his personal limits regarding violence. The protagonist successfully battles his delusion to finally regain himself. He has learnt better.*****) The "nasty" existentialism of anarchism/nihilism still tends to appeal to young men, despite its dead-end logic. A recent email asked me whether I thought this "philosophy of unreason" was a mental deficiency or a choice. I call it a deficiency, as Fight Club(1999) does; the question is only how permanent that is. It can be considered foolishness--which is unlearnable; or sociopathy--which isn't.It's nice to know even its proponents (like my email friend) think this "unreason" is subject to cognitive override--choice--but why would anyone choose it unless their unreason validates some physiological syndrome? Anti-establishment anarchism was last big in the 19thC, having FIRST given rise to Machiavelli. During both periods it was a might-makes-right power struggle against ruling elites. We now think of these periods as callous, brutal and primitive, certainly not part of civilisation today. We expect "civilians" to abide by higher universal standards of humanism. Clearly, blowing up buildings and bashing each other half to death is antithetical to that social contract.However, I do like the film's position that male bonding, with/without a sexual component, might be just what they need. During a bonding session with Tyler, as they consider Jack's heterosexual relationship, Jack admits, "I can't get married; I'm a 30yr-old boy"--to which Tyler adds, "We're a generation of men raised by women. I'm wondering if another woman is the answer we need".This is gender politics; and Norton goes to great lengths on the commentary track to explain Jack's mistreatment of Marla (Helena Bonham-Carter) as symptomatic of Jack's social and mental incompetence. Misogyny itself, the male hatred of women, may be physiologically inspired in such boy-men struggling to behave civilly. Ancient reptilian brain-structures produce the primal urge to violence (ie just to feel alive), so fight-club violence might not be caused by "social malaise" at all.I suspect this is the movie's--and novel's--most unpalatable basis, making Fight Club(1999) seem "irresponsible" to its critics.We usually call reptilian brain-structures "primitive" because except in lizards (hence "lizard-logic"), they're buried deep in the brain, overlain by "higher", mammalian brain-structures. Lifelong learning encapsulated in the neocortex of, say, pussycats, inhibits/overrides this reptilian dominance, but in some ("decorticated" pussycats or people) the process may be faulty, or just take too long. However if graduating beyond such lizard-logic (anarchist idiocy) takes "fight-clubbers" most of their lifetime, then so be it--until then, such men are welcome to have s*x with each other.Fight Club(1999)'s main problem is that it stirs up the powerful philosophical issue of anarchism/nihilism, but leaves it unresolved, notably with its ending. The entire closing scene, including the bombing, is visually nebulous. Did all that happen, or was it just Jack's imagination? Comprehension is deliberately muddied by Jack's speedy recovery(!) from a fatal gunshot wound. Like many, I laughed at its absurdity.Yet the film's showmanship still wins new converts. It seems to set the benchmark for neocinema by demanding freeze-frame plus several viewings to build its enjoyment. Like Sixth Sense(1999), Club(1999) employs perception-shift for the lead character, but here it's integrated linearly to unfold the story. (In Sense(1999) the perception-shift is recursive- cf. www.cse.nd.edu/courses/cse233/www/lectures/ri.pdf OR http://mitpress.mit.edu/sicp/full-text/sicp/book/node15.html.)Club(1999) further winks at us with single-frame interjections of--supposedly--Tyler's full frontals throughout Jack's narration. They serve both as alerts to Jack's insanity, and as visual "easter-eggs".Other clever concepts are borrowed from social philosophy, eg the politics of rich women's fat-paranoia (soapmaking): true recycling, trés Soylent Green(1973).---END_OF_PART1---
Coming in to this title I had high expectations because this is supposed to be one of the best films ever made. However, I couldn't agree less.While I enjoyed the style, editing and overall creativity the story left me with an empty feeling. It takes way too long to finally take off and I can't help but feel like this movie shouldn't have been any longer than around 1 hour and 30 minutes.The ending disappointed me, It felt like a 2 hour wait in line for a rollercoaster ride that never really leaves the station. After the first 30 minutes I could've already guessed it would end like this.Don't get me wrong, I get why people like this film and I understand the appeal. But, should this film be in the top 250 on iMDB and is it one of the best films ever made? I don't think so. It's scores points on creativity and originality but I've seen better films that don't get the recognition this one gets. However, I do think this is a must watch!


                
The Fight Club movie, like its more successful but equally troubled cousin The Matrix, has some philosophical themes, originality in presentation, and is also strong on satire. Another movie that it is similar in some ways is vastly superior and more intelligent and fun American Psycho. The plot is adapted from the eponymous book, which "borrows" ideas from Dostoevsky's "The Double" and puts some "Thus spoke Zarathustra" along a way. It is derivative and not very good, certainly not as good as its cult followers would suggest. In any case, given the hype, I was expecting more. There are some good points along the way - especially its anticipation of terrorism, and some good transformational scenes, like when confronting a boss, but overall, it comes across as much more shallow than its reputation would suggest. It is high on style and influence, has lot of ideas crammed in and it might have been even revolutionary in some respects for its time (like the Matrix, which I also find a bit missing), so perhaps its worth a watch, but it is not a perfect masterpiece some assume it is. It may seem so to perhaps teens, incels and millenials, but this is not the most successful nor sophisticated rendering of such ideas. Tone your expectations down, give it a try, this is a movie that can work in bits and pieces, has originality, but is sometimes given WAY too much credit.


                
Fight Club is one of the greatest movies movies of all time... through the first 110 minutes. The film is about a man who has become a corporate slave, he sees no value or meaning in his life anymore. Because of this he goes to support groups in hopes that the pain of others will enable him to feel something, anything at all. The movie lays out a story that is entirely believable, considering people's tendencies of overworking, and the isolation many people feel in this modern world. Perhaps in the not-so-distant future people will feel the need to beat the hell out of each other to feel alive and connected. So far, in the film, you have grown attached to the characters and are immersed in the reality of what could be. The ending, ah the ending. The first 110 minutes of this movie are rated a 10/10 in my book, the last half hour or so brings the final rating down three points. The ending fit perfectly into a movie that was science fiction based. However this doesn't work. This movie bases its entire story around the idea that this kind of thing could really happen. The ending throws everything out the window. By the time this movie is over you might feel cheated, and rightfully so. To have science fiction like ending to this movie is almost as bad as making an entire movie a dream, you cannot do it! Salpping that ending onto this movie makes the entire thing feel pretentious and phony. Many will tell you that this is not the case, and that I just don't appreciate the twist at the end. To formulate your own opinion, well you will just have to watch this for yourself. Good luck and, please, give me some feedback.


                
The fantasy of a neo-marxist movement run by an unassuming white-collar schmo and his sh_t-kickin' doppelganger,recruiting sociopathic dudes for an anarchic terrorist movement is an adolescent wannabe "gangsta's" wet dream.The incredible popularity of this movie is a sign of how hollow things have gotten in this society.This movie is definitely a technical achievement though,it's neo-cool colors and lighting and bravado camera-work by David Fincher("Seven")are unrivaled,but the real philosophical substance is blind nihilism bound with a good deal of blue-collar angst.There are a few great movies out there that end with nothing but the void to face-this one strangely glorifies it.Watch "A Clockwork Orange"(a lot more layers to it)


                
"Fight Club" is a very good movie, but it is held up much higher than it deserves to be.  It currently ranks at #33 on the IMDb top 250, so you can understand why my mind was blown when an IMDb user actually called this movie "underappreciated".  The truth is that it's OVERappreciated.  "Fight Club" is not the groundbreaking, sensational work of genius many fans call it.  There aren't any stagerringly original ideas, apart from Fight Club itself.  The film is pointlessly overlong, with a ridiculous ending that was not at all needed.  So I see no reason why anyone would ever think that this movie was underappreciated.  It's obviously not the case.  However, it is superbly directed, well-written, and well-acted, so I fell good giving it a rating of 7/10.


                
I don't know how much of a full "review" of this movie I can actually write based on one viewing, most especially as I was rather extremely hung over at least at the beginning of the movie. But actually I think that's not a bad way to watch it. This is quite an ambitious film, a lot of themes and ideas are being tossed around in the film that aren't directly anchored to the characters. Or the character as the case may be. I did really like the movie, but I thought that at times it got too slick with its presentation. It suffers from the same faults as all action films despite being a satire of action films on a certain level -- the action simply can't be intense enough to hold the hardcore audience's attention in the beginning and still ratchet up to something even more grotesque without becoming completely unreal and potentially laughable in and of itself. But you could say the same thing about some of Paul Verhoeven's best action satires like "Starship Troopers" that weren't even as clear as "Fight Club" about actually throwing the macho ethic into question. It seems to just go with the territory.So in some respects this film belongs to the same school as films like Aldrich's "Kiss Me Deadly" or Tarantino's "Reservoir Dogs" in that it's a kind of theater of excess, basically throwing macho types out there and not so much deconstructing them as just pushing them so far over the edge that they already appear hyper-real. But I think the film sort of betrays that in some of its last sequences. That's the kind of thing that I think I'll be able to say later after I've seen it again. I do want to watch it again because certain scenes, especially the ones with Helena Bonham Carter (who I always WANT to like more than I usually do), are really appealing for some reason.The thing that holds me back from embracing the movie is that it just seemed a bit too proud of itself, and the story was a bit too ridiculous even in the end when all was explained to actually take it as seriously as it seemed to want to be taken. I'm going to see what I think ultimately though at some later point. This is the type of movie that might either go up or down in my estimation when I have a better handle on it.
If we're all just "polishing the brass on the titanic", and everything is going down anyway, what's the point? You get up in the morning, you go to school, study and succeed with the hope of one day becoming a doctor, a lawyer or a whatever. But if we know as we do that humanity will cease to exist in the near future, what with global warming and all, why do we bother improving existence? Shouldn't we give in to the beast we all know exists inside man? For the little time we have left, isn't a better idea to destroy, fight and kill? Anarchy seems to be the best thing to abide by in these dark times. Of course, David Fincher's Fight Club doesn't advocate these ideas; it brings them up in order for us, the viewers, to think of reasons why they are wrong. With recourse to the everyman, Edward Norton's character, only known as the Narrator, Fight Club involves us in the film. We are the Narrator. We are the ones who need every piece of furniture in Ikea catalogues for our homes in order to feel whole. However, the everyman in the film happens to have a day only seen in the movies, but we still identify with him: His luggage is lost at the airport, his house blows up and all his possessions, even the furniture, are gone. As a direct result, he is no longer a person because his possessions have been destroyed.Now he meets a guy, Tyler Durden, who tells him he could be more than his possessions, he could be free of the superficial society which creates the needs he does not ("in the hunter-gatherer sense") actually have. He could be, that is, if he hits his friend as hard as he can. Our Narrator does; he likes it. Soon enough, other young men begin to like it too. These young men are also tired of mindless work which consists of helping a society that just enslaves them more as they make it more powerful. What's the point? So they all listen to Tyler, a fervent leader of men who initiates a club in which, every night, these young men can pound on each other. As they experience real freedom through pain and domination, Tyler, the giver of this wonderful experience, hands out homework assignments. His minions happily execute.This is how anarchy begins: A fervent and relentless leader with the wrong idea. I will not divulge any more, because of the many surprises this film has near the end. Any film with these ideas can just as easily fail. Fight Club does not. It is masterfully wrapped in a package of light, sound and images by David Fincher. The film looks good and has the smarts to back it up. Proponents of classic films see modern day cinema as being all style and no substance. Scenes are cut too fast to even get a feel for them, a little gift, they say, from television. Well I say look at Fight Club. What we have isn't so bad. It makes us think as well as being entertained. Edward Norton gives us many performances in one: he is an insomniac who knows there's a void in his life but doesn't have the will power to fill it, preferring to merely go through the motions of a life headed nowhere. Then he becomes "enlightened", finds meaning. Then he discovers what his life really is... Brad Pitt is a charismatic leader able to subdue any lost soul. Helena Bonham-Carter has fun with her intermediary character. Great acting and great directing have always been essential to great films. So has being thought provoking, and you know what? For 7 years ever since its release, everyone has been talking about it. It hasn't stopped; even people who hate it love to talk about it. So should we just stop our productive lives? Boys, let's just pound each other because, hey, it's more productive then anything we're doing now. It liberates us, for a given time period, because short term desire satisfaction is more useful than anything else. Somebody please prove that wrong, because that's what the film wants us to do, and I'll be damned if Tyler Durden is right.


                
i first watched this film a week ago, and since then bought it and made my girlfriend watch it with me. the opening sequence as the camera travels thru a human body while zooming out is breathtaking. it sets the motif of the film which is looking inside of oneself. the settings really lend themselves to Jack's life and the twisted philosophy that man can only achieve happiness thru self destruction is almost believable. the film has great performances from Norton, Pitt, Bonham Carter and Meat Loaf's tits, and reaches a shocking conclusion (which is why it needs a second watching). my girlfriend didn't really like it, complaining it had no real plot (which it doesn't especially) and the only good thing is the ending. i feel this is wrong, but the ending is what we end up judging all films by, ultimately.


                
Oh wait.....................................
........................


                
I just watched Fight Club (which was ashamedly the first time I had done so), and I must say I was thoroughly underwhelmed.This could be a problem with the hype around it meaning my expectations were set really high, but at the same time I never see the hype around many David Fincher productions. This film is similar to David Fincher's other critical success - se7en. Both films are beautifully shot, Fincher's cinematography is characteristically dark but captivating and beautiful. However Fight Club, much like se7en, fails to capture me in its narrative. The message of this film is that consumerism is making everyone a slave to society, suppressing every man's inner urges and masculinity, so people should be allowed to express their inner primal urges (but not let it entirely consume you). This is well discussed in films, and not new, but to the film's credit it deals with it in an imaginative - but not subtle - way. Brad Pitt and Helena Bonham Carter are great, but I failed to get invested in any of them to be honest. A well shot and imaginative yet underwhelming film. 7/10.


                
Fight Club definitely has style and is exciting to watch, with complex characters driven by their actions and a great plot twist at the end. The actors were all good, and Fincher does a good job of maintaining consistency in what's really happening and showing the narrator's perspective. As always with adaptations, some interesting exposition in details is lost, such as how exactly Tyler did his work at night and how Project Mayhem worked. The ending, which is so beloved, works and makes sense but isn't exceptional. Why does Tyler die when the narrator shoots his cheek - because he finally takes control of his life, because he's no longer afraid? It's plausible and there's nothing wrong with it, but it certainly didn't blow me away. There are plenty of good themes, and the contrasts of Tyler and the narrator as opposing extremes in problems with society were enjoyable to consider. I don't think there was anything wrong with Fight Club, but I also don't think it's anything more than a decent movie with a good twist.
David Fincher is a great director, Alex McDowell is a truly innovative production designer and Chuck Palahniuk is a good writer, so, when the two came together, we knew that there was no way that the product of their collaboration would be bad. In fact, it seems most people are of the opinion that it is very nearly a work of genius, and, while it's true that, in places, Fight Club does occupy that territory, it's not genius in its entirety. Let me explain. Fight Club starts off well as a well- observed satire on masculinity and machismo, but, then, in its last third, for some strange reason, any sense of humour is abandoned and the film starts to advocate what it was taking a swipe at. This change of tone and unevenness is unfortunately too distracting for me and, consequently, I'm afraid I can't see Fight Club as an absolute classic.


                
So why am I giving it one? Simple. I do not believe that it is worth all the hype it gets to this day. The film is loaded with problems, varying from one extreme to another, and fans of this favorite will gladly overlook these problems, or will be quick to defend it with their means of logic and common sense. Wonderful. The problems of the film that are apparent, are as follows, and certainly not limited to: 1. Overabundance of masculine energy! Sure, you know what you are getting yourself into when the movie is titled as so, but it cannot be denied that it is just "too much of a good thing." Sugar is great, but do you want your drink drowning in it? 2. Disturbingly violent. And I am used to violence in film. The manner in which it is displayed, however, makes a world of difference. The realism of the violence is there, and most of it seems needless. 3. No set direction for the story to go. The film, instead, relies heavily on layers of several "WTF" moments, one after the other. Some believe this is just part of the mystery, but I tend to disagree. 4. Not logical. Not logical at all. Which part? Any of it. Take a quick research look into mental illness, anti social behavior, not to mention the ungodly ending to this film. None of it adds up. So I did not come here to bash this work. Simply put, I believe it is over rated. Severely. I do get the point the movie tries to get across, he only fights one person in the entire movie. He fights himself. He cannot cope with the fact...how can I be all these people, and have all these jobs? It's because you don't sleep, you're all but one entity. As we are all. Was the ending real, or was that all made up in the insanity within himself? Many questions are asked, but we do not get the answers. The film just chooses not to deliver them. I do have some things that I love about Fight Club. The cinematography is excellent. And the movie is loaded to the brim with very intelligent quotes. "On a long enough time line, the survival rate for everyone drops to zero." Love that line! And yet, people still decide to waste their time watching TV. The casting was good, I thought it could do without Meat Loaf, but that's just my opinion. The story itself is a bit weak, almost too weak. The movie over extends itself past boundaries it should not surpass, and yet it is saved each time by another element that actually makes the film work. Weather it was by trial and error, or intended, does not matter, the film does work well with its components, each gear seems to turn another, and yet it does ABSOLUTELY NOTHING to master anything as a whole. Hidden away some place safe, is the emotional part to this movie. It does a good job hiding it away, preserving the "manly" feel of this all. I admit, I am more in touch with my feminine side, which is probably the reason why Fight Club does nothing for me. It cannot be denied that this film is just not worth the hype it has, and yet on the same token, it has earned it. I just want to point out this film bombed at the box office in 1999, and if you do not believe me, look at how much the budget is, and compare it to the gross. See? Lost a lot of money. I understand fully that this is a favorite among many, and I understand many may be seeing this a little more different then the way I am seeing it. Well. Now. That is why there's over 3,000 reviews, now isn't it?
'Fight Club' is a memorable, iconoclastic, disturbing film. Director David Fincher's visual style is really on display here - he has an exceptionally good eye, and the film is not only thematically dark but also quite dark visually. The visual darkness of this movie recalls Fincher's earlier film 'Se7en', which also starred Fincher regular Brad Pitt.The Narrator (who remains unnamed throughout the course of the film but who is played by Edward Norton in a wonderfully neurotic performance) is an insomniac office worker who feels as though he is a slave to corporate ideals and senses that his humdrum life has no meaning. Things change drastically via a chance meeting with an anarchist soap salesman named Tyler Durden (Brad Pitt). Together, the two men channel their latent male aggression by forming a primal 'fight club' which meets on a regular basis in the dank basement of a seedy bar named Lou's Tavern. This cabalistic club invites fellow frustrated angry young men to find catharsis by fighting each other and rediscovering their baser instincts. But Tyler has an even more ambitious agenda in mind...This film, while highly recommended, is definitely not for the squeamish. Special makeup effects genius Rob Bottin provides some very graphic makeups and, while the film is about a lot more than just violence, there are some pretty horrifying moments. The violence depicted here is stomach-churning and horrific, and this is precisely how violence SHOULD be presented on screen. This is, after all, what real violence is like.'Fight Club' has become a cult classic and rewards repeat viewings. The source material - Chuck Palahniuk's 1996 novel - is an excellent read shot through with a dark vein of black humour. Returning to the film, particular mention should go to British actress Helena Bonham Carter, who is wonderful as the bonkers Marla Singer, a suicidal woman who is sucked into Tyler's world. Carter made her name in period pieces like 'A Room With a View' and 'Howards End' so it is exciting to see her play a very different role here. And she has great fun with it.I sense that 'Fight Club' is going to live for a long, long time. For a mainstream film, it is intelligent, vital, and has a great deal to say about modern society and the way we live our lives.
Nel complesso un bel film, da vedere comunque,anche se alla fine dici: non è possibile! Non puoi spiegarti molte cose che succedono nel film con il colpo di scena finale sulla schizofrenia del personaggio! E poi quel finale stupido, il modo che ha il personaggio principale di sbarazzarsi del suo alter-ego, quel fantomatico Tyler Durden, sparandosi in bocca e di restare vivo nonostante tutto! E tutti quei grattacieli che collassano, peggio dell'11 settembre! Ma va!Mi ha rovinato tutto il film. Un film di denuncia sociale e contro il consumismo,che però non rinuncia all'holliwoodianesimo, all'americanata finale! Un controsenso in termini.
Before we start, I should tell you all that I have actually only seen this movie one, and that was around a year and a half ago, so I am mostly going on memory. Also there will be spoilers.Is Fight Club a good film? Yeah...there's really nothing bad about it's plot or anything. Is Fight Club and Overrated film? In my opinion...yes. Sorry, I know there are a lot of people who absolutely love this film, but it is currently number 14 on the IMDb top 250.OK, first off, this movie does look really good, it has a gritty look to it that matches the tone of the film perfectly. And yes, I did really like the twist ending, I never saw that coming. However there are two really big pet peeves about this movie that get to me, and really brought this movie down hill.One problem is this: What is this movie trying to say? Don't tell me this is just supposed to be a popcorn movie, this movie is trying to say something, but I'm still not sure what. Is fighting good? Is fighting Bad? Can severe depression lead you to do a lot of crazy stuff? Are children films becoming to sexual (insert Mr. Poppers Penguin joke here.)? I guess the big question it tries to raise is what will happen if the US economy started over, but I'm still not sure that was even the question it brought up.My second big problem was the ending, and this is where the spoilers will be in full force. Now this movie tries really hard to be realistic, which for most of the movie it does really well. But after Tyler is revealed to be in the main character's mind, the movie sort of gives up.How does shooting yourself in the mouth get rid of Tyler? And how do you survive a shot to the mouth, you don't, and even if you did, you be in way too much pain to talk. Also I'm not an expert on the economy, I know very little on how the nations' economy works, but I'm pretty sure that destroying half of New York City, the city that controls the nations economy wouldn't start everyone over, it would screw us more. Isn't that what the terrorist were trying to do on 9/11. So basically, the characters in this film caused an event that was even worse than 9/11. Think how many people must of died, even if the bulding were empty the smoke, the debris, it must have made one hell of a mess. Basically, the Fight Club is worse than Al Queda.I'm still gonna dwell on this. Where did they get that many bombs. They would literally need thousands of bombs per building. They came down in seconds.OK, maybe I'm being too hard, maybe the writer thought that bombs would work. But wait didn't a terrorist group try to bring down a the twin towers with bombs in 1993? And they failed.OK, I think that's about it, there are some small nitpicks I have, but the questionable moral and the ending just completely made me forget. Fight Club is good, if you love the movie, good for you, but I will not be buying it any time soon.
The biggest problem of this movie is that it is so overrated. For years and years I have been hearing how amazing this film is. Two times I watched it, two times fell asleep. Was too tired probably. Today I watched it again, once again expecting something great, and again fell asleep. I started watching it two hours after I woke up after a 9 hour sleep!Face it, this movie gets really boring at times. Pitt is often mumbling useless phrases, dull story (after the two get together) and there is an illogical ending.But for me the most disturbing is the whole idea of changing your life, becoming sensitive again(what??) by engaging into bloody, futile fights. Who would do that? You wanna fight, go to Darfur and fight for the starved women and children getting raped and killed every day. Trust me, you'll make your life interesting, you'll escape this ''stinking'' consumer society and on your way might just save someone's life or raise a few eyebrows. I am not from USA and not really aware of this ''horrible'' life of the American white collar worker, but if this movie has ''opened your eyes'' then my friends you really are in it deep.On the good side the movie is very stylish and the acting is first class. 7.5/10 just for these attributes. However since the movie in my eyes never lived up to the hype; ''different, disturbing, entertaining'', its a 6/10.


                
Telling the tale of a broken man in a unique way. Diving deep into the shattered psyche of the main character the audience is presented a tale of love, loss, and showing how the mind copes. Truly a masterpiece of story telling and a must see.


                
The pretty and smooth Brad Pitt along with the sweet and bashful Edward Norton as the couple of a blood dripping undercover fight club, rolling in the gutter with broken teeth, swelling eyes, and bloody faces in a secret underground game.Could the filmmakers and writers make me believe such a story, or make me care? Well, director David Fincher did. I went to the theatre and saw this movie with an open mind, confident with the notion that this would be a pure fighting action movie. However, I was dragged into a story blacker than night. It embraces widely, it puts its grip around consumerism - the Ikea generation where brands and advertising defines our identity as hollow and poor. We are left quivering with strength, but empty of something meaningful; that's the message of this story.Here we are trapped in a world of shopping culture, but is it about an identity crisis, some kind of revolution, or straight up terror? I couldn't really tell. The movie is quite surreal, a struggle between two people who become something totally different.Very good performances from the three main actors. The movie has a dark and visual power, and turned out to be quite disturbing, but it was very fascinating - and very good!
Fight Club may seem just about letting go and stop trying to control everything and venting out your anger so that it just doesn't explode inside you every time you're on the verge of..well exploding. But it's about more than that. It delivers a message about thinking about your life and realising that you've submitted to commercialism, to hypocrisy and to consumerism. All the fights and all the explosions and the sex in this movie are just covers for what actually goes on. They're just the in between parts of a movie that are minor details. And just what this movie does is treat its message like a minor detail so that those who truly pay attention figure it out. The most beautiful scene in the entire movie is when Tyler forces the grocer to follow his dream, albeit in an unconventional way. And that scene is the gist of the entire movie. Fight Club was a very unusual movie in that it left me unsure and uncertain of what to think of it. I kept thinking about what the film was getting at, what it was trying to teach me and like the narrator I was also distracted by the unneeded and unimportant details of the movie that was his life. The deep rooted message was to live your life and not get caught up with the farce that the world has become. When Tyler tells the narrator that the things we own end up owning us, he's talking to you. And you better listen because he's telling the truth. The otherwise violent and sexually perverted parts of the film are why I cut three points off this film's score, the reason I give it 7 is because of its deep rooted message and the way it delivers it. I do not say that it is a perfect film, (far from it) it could've been much much better and that goes for the book as well, but it does deliver a message and a good one at that, one which sinks in. Unlike the pathetic film and book that was "A Clockwork Orange."
Fight Club is a laugh fest from beginning to end.  Brad Pitt is very engaging as the fight club 'director'.  I was very pleased with the entire film.  While a great deal of violence is in this picture, it is in a perspective that makes it cartoonish.Congrats to all involved in this film.  The story, the screenplay, the acting, everything is well-tuned for good entertainment. And, great fun!


                
