Having just watched this film, I honestly can't believe it is ranked in the top 250....let alone in the top 10! Don't get me wrong this film was good but I just can't see why it is rated so highly. If there's only 9 films supposedly better than this then I have lost all faith in the IMDb rating system.After all I had heard about this I was expecting an absolute classic, which is what it is being classed as. With that expectation it fell horribly short. For me this is just worth a one time watch and is a decent 7/10 movie at best.I thought this was supposed to be FIGHT Club, well there was very little fighting or action. The drama was good and did keep me gripped for quite a long time but then when the twist came it was just stupid. Maybe it's just not for me.7/10.


                
A dark comedy with a cult following. Director David Fincher takes Chuck Palaniuk's novel to maybe a harsher and dangerous place. Known only as The Narrator(Edward Norton)is a corporate employee that is no longer enchanted by his elaborate apartment and its expensive furnishings and pretty much disenfranchised from life itself and is concerned with his lack of ability to sleep. He attends self-help groups to relish in not being as miserable as the people surrounding him. He meets a suicidal Marla Singer(Helena Bonham Carter), but wants to distance himself from her. Life changing is his meeting with a soap salesman Tyler Durden(Brad Pitt), who is anarchy's poster child. Durden thrives on being a roguish rebel and convinces The Narrator into staging impromptu boxing matches in parking lots and deserted building basements. These matches are bare chested and with bare knuckles. The fighters beat the living crap out of each other until one yells stop. Durden is credited with starting fight clubs across the nation; and eventually turns the clubs into aggression laden pranksters releasing their malice on corporate America.Brutal violence and strong language is to be expected along with some pretty graphic images. Also in the cast: Meat Loaf, David Andrews, Zach Grenier, Jared Leto and Eion Bailey.
The writing is brilliant, the voice of the "Narrator" is honest and the acting is just right. Norton and Pitt make such a great team, I wonder when they are going to make their next movie. And the comments about consumerist society ring very true, even though we probably won't admit it to ourselves because it's a shell of comfort that even we ourselves are not ready to shed.The plot isn't too heavy, and the reveal at the end progresses perfectly. I'd take a twist ending like this one and "The Usual Suspects" over the twist in the next M. Night Shyamalan thriller any day.


                
The film is good, but not excellent. What is excellent is Edward Norton's performance. He's a very good actor, and in this film, he just did it again. I'm not really convinced about Pitt's acting. I don't know if the director's intentions with Pitt was to show his famous muscles. This movie was not about to be the sequel of Troy! While Norton captivated the attention running with ridiculous underwear and a beaten face, Pitt appeared to be a god with a perfect body and with a not very beaten face, given the circumstances. It seems that the leading role was assigned to Pitt, but Norton is the one who deserves it. But it's a very interesting film.


                
I enjoyed it Edward Norton ,brad Pit, helena acting is the main attraction for the film and the climax is awesome and unbelievable


                
Billy la bufanda was here mf lol lmao xD rekt mf nerd
It has some cliched moments, even for its time, but FIGHT CLUB is an awesome film. I've watched it about 100 times in the past 20 years. It never gets old. It's hard to discuss this film without giving things away but suffice it to say, it's a great thriller with some intriguing twists.


                
As we approached that totally arbitrary year 2000 it seemed Hollywood movies were becoming darker and more pessimistic, or at least (to be more accurate) were being marketed to give that impression. A perfect case in point was this violent, cynical fantasy about disenfranchised men getting even with an unsympathetic world by bonding together to beat the living pulp out of each other.It's called 'Fight Club', and Brad Pitt is the charismatic psychopath who kicks it (sometimes literally) into gear, enlisting insomniac everyman Ed Norton into a netherworld of black eyes and broken noses. Pitt only wants his otherwise mild-mannered new protégé to embrace his own dormant masculinity at its lowest and most honest level, and in a sense the eponymous club is presented like the ultimate touchy-feely support group, offering members the epiphany of uncomplicated pain as an antidote to the numbing monotony of modern life.But what begins as a strictly masochistic form of macho catharsis soon devolves into an underground skinhead cult promoting worldwide anarchy and destruction. And if, after reading that, you suspect this is where the plot gets derailed, give yourself a pat on the back and a blue ribbon for eagle-eyed film analysis.'Fight Club' is a disturbing movie, not least because it can, at times, be a lot of fun to watch, in an admittedly twisted sort of way. Viewers are invited to chuckle in sympathy at thoughtless acts of petty rebellion such as waiters urinating in the soup at pretentious uptown restaurants, or (my favorite) the 'homework' assignment asking club members to pick a fight at random with a total stranger, and lose – not an easy task, as it turns out. And let's face it: who among us hasn't entertained daydreams of demolishing a tacky piece of corporate public art or destroying a generic coffee franchise (or, better yet, accomplishing both at the same time)? Boys will be boys, but a lot of that guilty juvenile pleasure gets pushed aside when the anti-establishment vandalism turns to wholesale sabotage and terrorism. It's too bad, because elsewhere the film presents a canny dissection of the American male psyche: not an altogether pleasant topic, but certainly ripe for exactly this shade of black comic satire. Few other movies have dared to approach the same subject with such unblinking candor (the closest recent equivalent was probably Neil LaBute's 1997 feature 'In the Company of Men', a minor classic of y-chromosome misanthropy), and none with this degree of microscopic scrutiny.It even begins, pointedly, at a subatomic level, tracing the feverish sparking of nerve impulses across poor Ed Norton's sleep deprived synapses. From there the focus expands upwards and outwards, targeting all the usual suspects of our late 20th century social stalemate: the credit card economy, the empty consumer culture, the slow brain-death of a television habit (of course), the empty paycheck at the end of another dull day's meaningless labor. "This is your life, and it's ending one minute at a time", says the desensitized Norton, a white collar wage slave unable to find any emotional release outside of other people's support networks: terminal cancer patients, adult survivors of childhood incest, alcoholics anonymous, and so forth.Until the fateful moment when he first crosses the path of kindred spirit/alter ego Tyler Durden, one of the more compelling anti-heroes (for better or worse) in recent screen memory, brought vividly to life in a typically extroverted performance by Brad Pitt. Durden is Norton's dark companion: a post-modern messiah preaching a gospel of enlightened self-destruction. "Forget redemption", he tells his disciples (although he doesn't actually use the word forget), "we are God's unwanted children." That's a lot of philosophy to swallow in one sitting, but over most of its (considerable) length the film successfully negotiates a precarious narrative tightrope between brilliance and pretension. Unfortunately the chosen method of discourse in the adapted screenplay by Jim Uhls is non-stop voice-over narration, the laziest tool in the arsenal any hack (and a pet peeve, to be sure). Movies work best when used as a model of visual, not verbal, expression, showing (or better yet, merely suggesting) the meaning of things, instead of artlessly spelling out the intended lesson in exactly so many words.To be fair, director David Fincher does his best to open up the format and have some fun with it, for example asking Norton to address the camera directly (spoiling Pitt's aim while he's peeing in the lobster bisque), and employing a typically hyperactive visual scheme stocked with every up-to-the-minute gimmick imaginable, all set to an effective electro-shock soundtrack by a team calling themselves The Dust Brothers. The sets are likewise dressed to the acme of stylish decay (an apparent specialty of Fincher), and attentive viewers will even catch some ultra-cool subliminal foreshadowing: strategic single frame inserts of Tyler Durden popping up at random, anticipating his first appearance by several scenes.But after setting up such a novel premise the script quickly runs out of first-person prose, having exhausted itself on hackneyed pearls of Occidental wisdom such as: "the things you own end up owning you", perfectly true, but hardly the most original observation. With nowhere else to go and nothing left to say, the story collapses quickly to a desperately over-plotted climax, losing the thread of its already subversive sexual aggression sub-text to foreground the 'Project Mayhem' conspiracy agenda, and finally introducing a ludicrous doppelganger dénouement too far-fetched for even an old Twilight Zone episode.Bottom line: it's a provocative movie at odds with its own ambition, leaning hard on a necessary crutch on black (bordering on tasteless) humor. Ignoring all the stylistic window dressing, the film is also more cynical, and in many ways more original, than anything since the pre-Lucas/Spielberg '70s: think of William Friedkin's 'Sorcerer', written for laughs. That, by itself, is enough reason to recommend it, but is this where one hundred years of screen art have brought us?
In the closing months of 1999, two films were released depicting modern man in crisis. The first was "American Beauty" directed by Sam Medes and depicting a middle aged man suffering a midlife crisis. "Fight Club" directed by David Fincher and released two weeks later was its angrier, much more cynical counterpart. Adapted from Chuck Palenhuick's 1996 bestseller, "Fight Club" swaggered into cinemas to a lukewarm reception from critics, who found the film polarising and its violence gratuitous, exacerbated by the studio poorly thought out marketing campaign. Since then however, the film's reputation has gradually grown in esteem and is now regarded as one of the greatest films of the 90's. The film's themes still resonate today and I feel that it fares well when compared to its competitor, which seems soapy and melodramatic by comparison Whist I would agree that the film is a unique one, featuring stellar performances from Norton, Bonham Carter and Pitt and slick direction from Fincher, the film loses some of its acerbic potency slightly upon repeat viewings. Nevertheless it's more than apparent "Fight Club" will go down as one of the best movies of the late 20th Century and a landmark depiction of masculinity on film.Pitt's performance as Tyler Durden is undoubtedly the highlight of the film. Boasting an air of dangerous virility and later mocking, contemptuous threat, Durden will likely go down as one of cinema's most iconic male characters, up there with Eastwood's Blondie, De Niro's Travis Bickle and Pacino's Michael Corleone. Coming at the end of a seminal streak in the 1990's, Pitt delivers a powerhouse performance, playing the anarchic Tyler with rebellious aplomb. His chemistry with both Norton and Boham Carter are excellent, with Durden as the perfectly extroverted yin to Norton's much more introverted yang and his scenes with Carter crackling with sexual tension. Without a doubt, Durden is the films charismatic heart of darkness and Pitt deliver's in a truly exceptional performance. Norton's role as the anonymous, insomniac narrator is far more subdued compared to Pitt's but Norton's white collar everyman appeal gives the character a relatable appeal. Whist at times, the characters narration can seem dour and neurotic, Norton's anonymous nature makes him a more relatable protagonist then Kevin Spacey's Lester Burnham, and more sympathetic that Michael Douglas in "Falling Down". If anything, Norton's character feels more like Generation X's equivalent of Dustin Hoffman's Benjamin Braddock in "The Graduate" than Spacey's disillusioned baby boomer or Douglas's psychotic vigilante. If Pitt's anarchist soap salesman is the films dark heart, then Norton is its audience surrogate and ultimately the moral core.Among the supporting cast, the two undeniable stand outs are Helena Boham Carter as the nymphomaniac, destitute Marla Singer and Meat Loaf as Robert "Bob" Paulson, rather unfortunately endowed with a pair of "bitch tits". Here, Boham Carter plays a character a million miles removed from the quirky but increasingly stale characters she's played recently. A foul mouthed, nymphomaniac "tourist", Singer comes across as a interesting and unique love interest and yet, when at the end of the film she displays more typical romantic lead aspects, it feels true to character as opposed to suddenly jarring. Meat Loaf gives the role of Bob, a sense of humour and likability, in a role that could have easily lapsed into parody, which makes his eventual demise and martyr-fication by Project Mayhem all the more tragic.Fincher's past experience making stylish thrillers such as "Se7en" and "The Game" is clearly on display in "Fight Club". The fight scenes are brutal and gratuitous, not shying away from blood, sweat and disfigurement, but there's logic and reason behind them, as opposed to just being sequences designed to shock or disgust its audience. I feel that if the films fight scenes had not been as visceral as they are, then the films themes would have felt less effective and the film would have been criticised for not developing or exploring them enough. The film is shot through with a glossy sheen, which doesn't detract from the grittiness and brutality of the fight scenes .The more stylised sequences that are in the film however, are handled competently, sequences testament to Fincher's early experience directing music videos, with the film boasting several uniquely stylish and occasionally surreal sequences, from the title sequence depicting a brain's neural network in which the thought processes are initiated by the Narrator's fear impulse, to a disorienting, slow motion sex scene. On the downside, several of the more stylised, CGI heavy sequences now look dated, especially the latter. Whist the films themes may be timeless, evidently the CGI isn't. Thematically, "Fight Club" is not the first film to explore the "modern man in crisis" theme. Throughout the 1990's, we had several movies exploring that and similar themes, usually with sardonic observations on society and commercialism peppered throughout. "Falling Down" had sly observations on commercialism and advertising and Oliver Stone's "Natural Born Killers" explored the relationship between sensationalist media and violent serial killers. "Fight Club" tackles much of the same themes and whist it does it successfully, at times the films themes and messages tend to overwhelm the plot and frequently feel heavy handed. I felt the bar scene where Pitt explains his philosophy and views on commercialism to Norton was a subtler way of getting the films message across. Overall I would say "Fight Club" is certainly a unique film with a cynical, acerbic take on consumerist culture. Undoubtedly one of the best films of the late 20th Century and with an enduring male icon in the shape of Pitt's Tyler Durden, the film admittedly does lose some of its satirical bite upon multiple viewings with its message coming across as heavy handed. The films non linear plot line and cutaways can also feel repetitive after a while. The pro's however far outweigh the cons of Fincher's searing satire.
there's over 2000 comments about this movie so this stuff has probably been said b4, but what the heck firstly, to clarify: the final gunshot - if u watch the commentary and/or freeze-frame over this bit, you will see that the bullet supposedly "bounced" off his jawbone and back out of his mouth, thats why he survived it...now, dunno if this happened in the US but over here there was a rash of morons who started their own "fight clubs" after seeing this movie as an excuse to beat on each other or hapless stragglers...i must comment about this - if anyone who did that is reading this, you're a FOOL and you completely missed the point of the film. its a little bit understandable though when u consider the average IQ of these jokers matches their shoe size...anyway, great movie by the way!
As a dude, I feel obliged to watch this movie at least once a year. No seriously, it's good for your testosterone levels.I first watched Fight Club in high school, and although I didn't get it at first, I've been watching it ever since with increasing pleasure. Arguably David Fincher's best movie for a multitude of reasons, namely that sweet blend of dark humor, violence, and bad-ass performances by the actors.Cinematography is great, even though the special effects are sometimes questionable/dizzying/cheesy, it never seems to bother me; call me nostalgic, I think it just adds to the overall flavor of the film.People kinda either hate or love this movie. Either way, if you haven't seen it yet, something's wrong with you.


                
There's a not so subtle irony in the premise of this picture that managed to intrude on my consciousness about the time I learned about Strinne green stripe patterns. Society's obsession with material goods has a dehumanizing effect on the individual, leading some to destructive behavior in an attempt to rid the shackles of mindless adherence to a herd mentality. Whenever this idea is presented in a commercial venture however, it itself falls victim to a form of circular logic. The success of the film depends on it's ability to denigrate itself as a form of commercial enterprise or achievement. The same can be said of the principal players; I highly doubt that Brad Pitt or Ed Norton go around bemoaning the fact that their wealth is somehow an obstacle to their self worth as human beings. There's an element of hypocrisy in all this, but I won't begrudge the actors or director for their part in it. They're trying to make a statement in a unique way, and often have to deliver a punch to the gut to get there.By the way, if you're paying attention, a clue to the identity of the narrator comes early when Tyler Durden (Pitt) opines on his views of life and mentions those same Strinne green stripe patterns. That line jarred me about as much as it did Ed Norton's character; the look on his face at that moment betrayed a moment of introspection that would be revealed at the end of the story. That was actually a clever clue planted by director Fincher, because the odds of two different people coming up with the exact same concept about home furnishing options defies probability.The troubling aspect about the film, aside from it's message however, is the glorification it seems to convey upon a youth culture bent on a form of self destruction. You see it in the copy cat rise of actual fight clubs in the wake of the picture, along with other forms of physical mayhem like extreme wrestling. One doesn't absorb the pain in real life quite as nobly as Tyler did while mocking the garage owner. But I guess some will only learn the hard way.Hey, did you catch that newspaper clipping that mentioned the street violence that was occurring after the fight club concept gained prominence - 'Missing Monkeys Found Shaved'. I wonder if there were twelve of them.
Fight Club is like Shrek. And Shrek is like onions. And onions have layers. Therefore; Fight Club has layers. Many of them. Because of this I do feel it's a movie that needs repeat viewing in order to appreciate it more. Fight Club makes interesting and very relatable statements against the current consumer-driven materialistic society (which has only gotten worse since the film's release.) Very stylish and sophisticated, the film features some hilarious and inventive ways of breaking the fourth wall and hitting you with subliminal messages. The famous twist ending remains one of the wackiest in recent memory and performances across the part are perfect. It's one of those movies where you notice something new about it each time you see it, whether it be a split second shot of a dong or a single line of dialogue that makes you ponder on the emptiness of your existence. The cinematography is outstanding and really adds to the nihilistic tone of the movie. Overall, the film is about a great many things: manliness, materialism, generation X and Y's place in the world, life's little ironies, the oddity of western civilisation and, of course, fighting. But we can't talk about that.Best Scene: Hmmm, picking one is difficult because I felt that the film flowed in such a way that it didn't feel like a movie where one scene follows another and instead worked as a whole. I'll pick the part where Edward Norton beats the crap out of himself and blames his boss.
It's the first and second rule - I seriously can't talk about it!


                
Little bit confused in some scenes. But, Helena did a great acting, remind me to Bellatrix.


                
I cannot believe it has taken me so long to watch this film. I assumed the title would indicate what it was about. When I watched it seemed that was the case, part of me was thinking this is just trash getting into mindless fights. Skip. Don't see what the hype is about. Then towards the end, it hits you and things come full circle. It is a brilliant film and mind blowing. After years of seeing thrillers and similar concepts in films this still delivered a curve ball. Great performances and this film was well paced. I can only imagine how ground breaking this must have been when it came out 20 years ago. Even the ending sequence was done so beautifully and simply it just couldn't have been directed better, a moment was created.8/10


                
In this film a narrator describes about some difficult days of his life. How he had been facing a lot of difficulties, how he met a mysterious man, how that man affect his life, you can see in this film.Who is that man?
What is his purpose?
What Happens in the last of the film.My personal rating is 8.00 out of 10.00.
#Iamnrdurjoy
#FightClub
#PsychologicalThriller
#English


                
Good story, excellent acting, solid editing, tickes all the boxes!


                
Fight Club is David Fincher through and through. From the underlying dark nature to the visual outlook this is the work of a master at the height of his talent. Fight Club has been analysed and interpreted since its release and yet every time you see something new. A take on blatant consumerism with each passing year this movie becomes all the more relevant. There is a Tyler Durden hiding inside all of us and the anarchist outlook has inspired many a men. Brad Pitt and Ed Norton are in amazing form here. Just watch this film if you have not already.


                
David Fincher's style was made for Fight Club the novel and the outcome of this collaboration is a stylish dark, nihilistic splattered with healthy doses of dark comedy and irony. The film itself is brilliantly paced, reeking of humor and brilliantly shot. The acting is top notch. Ed Norton is relatable as the narrator and Brad Pitt shows why he was so popular back in the 90s- he owns the scenes. Ladies get a strong character in Helena Bonham Carter's Marla Singer, though quirky and psychotic. But then everyone is that way to some extent in this stylish film. One of Fincher's best and that's a tough call to make.


                
Awesome movie. The film is brilliantly paced, reeking of humor and brilliantly shot. The acting is top notch. Ed Norton is relatable as the narrator and Brad Pitt shows why he was so popular back in the 90s- he owns the scenes. Ladies get a strong character in Helena Bonham Carter's Marla Singer, though quirky and psychotic. But then everyone is that way to some extent in this stylish film. One of Fincher's best and that's a tough call to make.


                
Fight Club is David Fincher through and through. From the underlying dark nature to the visual outlook this is the work of a master at the height of his talent. Fight Club has been analysed and interpreted since its release and yet every time you see something new. A take on blatant consumerism with each passing year this movie becomes all the more relevant. There is a Tyler Durden hiding inside all of us and the anarchist outlook has inspired many a men. Brad Pitt and Ed Norton are in amazing form here. Just watch this film if you have not already.


                
Fight Club is perhaps David Fincher's most famous work. Why is it so popular? Of course the anarchist in your face plot and the anti-hero's cool demeanor make this a hugely popular film, especially among young disillusioned men. The film itself is brilliantly paced, reeking of humor and brilliantly shot. The acting is top notch. Ed Norton is relatable as the narrator and Brad Pitt shows why he was so popular back in the 90s- he owns the scenes. Ladies get a strong character in Helena Bonham Carter's Marla Singer, though quirky and psychotic. But then everyone is that way to some extent in this stylish film. One of Fincher's best and that's a tough call to make.


                
I saw it in last night.
For the First time.And it's just trully amazin. The vfx were trully stunnin. It can be comapareble in modern days vfx
Loved its twist.


                
Fight Club is David Fincher through and through. From the underlying dark nature to the visual outlook this is the work of a master at the height of his talent. Fight Club has been analysed and interpreted since its release and yet every time you see something new. A take on blatant consumerism with each passing year this movie becomes all the more relevant. There is a Tyler Durden hiding inside all of us and the anarchist outlook has inspired many a men. Brad Pitt and Ed Norton are in amazing form here. Just watch this film if you have not already.


                
