That this squalid, pretentious nonsense scores 7.8 overall, in my view reflects pretty poorly on the TV-viewing public. Sadly, for my work, I have had to watch this entire series in great detail. I watch many series and movies in this way and see violence and sex on a routine basis - which is fine when they are somehow meaningful. Banshee does not have plot - merely a flimsy structure on which to hang sex and violence. It does not have characters - merely avatars for the fulfillment of the vilest fantasy. It tells us nothing about real life and fails to uplift in any way. Ask yourself whether sex and violence should become so conflated as to be almost indistinguishable, whether the more violent you are the more sexually attractive you should become. Ask also what kind of pressure young actresses feel to "put out" in this way. This is artistically and morally bankrupt garbage.


                
I have no idea how this can have such an high rating. Plot is bad, characters are worse, acting is wors...er. Everything is so stupid, so uninteresting, i have no idea how could anyone appreciate this.Oh and on top of that it is full of extreme violence and sex...which would be a very good thing if those scenes were contextualized or useful to the story. But they are there just to impress the viewer, and they miserably fail.I don't know what else to say, there are a lot of things i don't like but i'm awere that it is a personal opinion. But this is so bad on so many levels that it's objectively horrible.


                
Got recommended this show by a friend who's taste seems to become more childish the older he gets. The only selling point of this show is flashes of nude women, but do some google instead and save time. So far very little story, violence and fights brakes out of the smallest things. 3.rd rate actors that seems to be focused on other things then acting. Regarding the rating here, The Wire is most likely the best show ever and it has 9,4 in rating. Banshee currently is rated at 8,4 which is at least 7,4 points too high. Spend your time more wisely, watch CSPAN while google some nude photos.
Interesting show, bad awful cgi, too many sub plots and stories, very predictable at times, casting of bad guys is very poor. The accent and acting of the character Widows Peak (christos Vasilopoulos) is very bad, it reminds me across of a Russian accent combined with Lebanese accent. As far as audio/visual some bad ADR (over dubbing) overall in some scenes the lips don't even match the words heard, sfx remind me of very cookie cutter templates in Maya and Avid. The story so far is not believable at all as there are way too many bad guys in one city and very little police presence. What else is weird is that Anthony Starr does this weird thing with his jaw and he looks swollen. Other than that there's sex,drugs,bad guys,and a town named Banshee.


                
This is such low brow garbage, I can't believe I made it through two seasons.Boobs and Violence. Rinse and Repeat. That's the show in a nutshell.I rented it based off the rave reviews, but quickly questioned how anyone could like this show. It appeals to the lowest common denominator who like boobs and violence in place of a coherent story.At first I tried to find entertainment in how laughably absurd the whole premise was, and started to think the high ratings were because it was a parody of over the top, completely unrealistic movies and television shows, and it was being enjoyed because of that.After two seasons of recycling the same story though, the luster of just how bad this show was wore off, and it somehow got progressively worse. Besides the aimless plot that seems to repeat itself each season, everything in the show is about as unrealistic as it gets.Despite how awful the writing is, the acting is even worse. All the women are supermodels in the show, and all the guys are martial arts experts. Everyone's an alcoholic in the show, always drinking and making bad decisions that go along with that, but none seem to be sporting beer bellies or showing the obvious signs of alcoholism.The main character "Lucas Hood," is a half leprechaun midget with a serious Napoleon complex that gets into all sorts of extremely unrealistic situations. The worse character and worst actor/actress is the actress that plays "Carrie." All she does is mope around whining about her chaotic self created situation. She is definitely the most depressing character in a show since "Eeyore" from "Winnie the Pooh."I was surprised to see Cinemax is even still around. After watching this show I'm even more shocked.If you liked Transformers, but crave more boobs and violence this is your show!


                
There is a fatal flaw in this show that renders it absolutely boring & painful to watch. The problem is...when the writers favour certain characters or factions...they make it ANNOYINGLY clear to the audience.The action is treated like 1950's children's comic-book fiction...with the hero surviving every absurd murder attempt imaginable. Oh but don't worry, because the action is presented in full-frontal contemporary glory...so you get all the unrestricted CGI & gore modern television allows.You could forgive that...if the show wasn't always trying to climax in an orgy of violence. But really, everything that happens...happens to setup some monumental fight...where the winner is so obvious & pre-determined.Why bother watching? The sex? Okay, there's sex. I remember it being hot maybe one time. But most of the time...it looks sad & pathetic. And occasionally, it looks kind of pedo-like. So for all you poor beta's who like to take out frustrations on even lower-grade sexual partners...this show guarantees you at least 5 minutes of entertainment per-episode.Really, whatever audience this show has...it has...because its audience seems unaware of Al-Queda propaganda videos & Larry Flynt's pornography company. What this show delivers on TV in an hour...those two deliver in under 5 minutes online.


                
The leading character is a villain indestructible superhero with not 9 but 109 lives. Countless times captured, tortured, beaten, stubbed, shot, but always something extraordinary happens and manages to last for four (4) whole seasons. In reality, would be dead from the first season. Of course, is the sexiest male in all the cast and attracts all (literally) the females, like a magnet. Mysteriously, this super powered, super sexy, super lucky hero, manages to be the most unlikable character of this series. The plot has a lot of violence, action, some nudity and passion but is so unreal that it becomes ridiculous. After the first season, I managed to watch this series in fast forward, just to see the end. Could be better as a computer game for kids, than a series for all audiences.


                
The guys in the family seem to like it, they're on episode 7 already. Maybe because every episode has at least one gratuitous sex scene. But dear god the acting is so bad, the dialog feels painfully forced. Not sure why it reminds me of a long, drawn out, poorly adapted series version of Roadhouse with B and D list actors. I'm mystified that people seem to like this so much?


                
I'd just finished binging "Justified" and wanted something similar, "Banshee" was recommended as just as good or better. However, I struggled through season 1. Extremely unrealistic storyline, bad acting (with a few exceptions) and too much unnecessary nudity had me fast forwarding with my eyes rolling."BANSHEE" is definitely NOT as good as and definitely NOT better than "Justifed".


                
