Banshee has recently started its third season, yet if you search for online reviews of the show from the major entertainment sites, you'll find almost none. Which is a crying shame, because for any one who loves good action shows, Banshee is a must watch. There's a reason, despite being on a premium channel not many people watch, that Banshee has lasted this long. And that reason is sheer awesome badassery. First off, being a premium show (and a Cinemax one at that), Banshee is chock full of gratuitous nudity and sex (which, not to sound dirty, is of pretty high quality). And there is typically at least one crazy violent scene per episode. So if neither of those are your cup of tea, maybe you should skip this show. But if you like or don't mind either of those things, you'll find amazing gun-battles, even more amazing hand-to-hand fight scenes, and some cool, gritty characters.The plot is a tough pill to swallow early on in the first season--a hotshot thief just happens to get the opportunity to masquerade as a small town sheriff in Amish country--and you pretty much have to resign yourself to the fact that nearly every female character on the show will sleep with the protagonist at one point or another at the point of bordering on the absurd. But after the first few episodes and the benefit of suspension of disbelief, the show becomes incredibly addictive, and you end up really caring about these characters. Stand outs include the mysterious protagonist; Kai, the Amish crime boss; the criminally underused deputies who both aid and are suspicious of the protagonist; and Job, our hero's cross- dressing confidant. What makes Banshee stand out are the little things--the subtle changes to the opening credits in each episode. The epilogue scenes of each episode. The incredibly well-choreographed hand- to-hand fight scenes. The foreshadowing of developments to come. If you're a fan of shows like Justified, and True Blood, and Sons of Anarchy, then you'll love Banshee. Cinemax is well worth the subscription just to watch this show (plus you get other awesome shows like Strike Back and The Knick, but that's beyond the scope of this interview). Do yourself a favor and start watching this show immediately.


                
When I first found this show on demand I was already excited. Yet after watching it I was beyond satisfied. Every episode had me at the edge of my seat wondering if it could actually get any better, and it just kept getting better. By the end of every episode I was left in my chair speechless from the shock. I wanted more, and I think I will need more for a very long time, I decided this is going to be one of my favorite shows so long as it airs. I don't think I will ever get enough of this series. The acting is great, the story is epic. The action scenes are perfectly executed. Everything just goes together so well. I don't want to write any spoilers, I just want you to support this show with me, because I want to see season after season, and I don't want it to stop if it keeps up this. This is a good thing that we have been given, and the more we watch it, the more hope it has to be given another season.


                
The story is unbelievable. The action, fights (some of the best choreographed fights ever in any medium), sex, language are all WAY over the top, sometimes to the point of ridiculousness. But that is what set this show apart from anything else on television and what makes it so worth watching. Is it for everyone? Probably not. But the characters...the good ones and the bad ones (and most of the main ones are a little of both) are all outstanding as are the actors that portray them. I watched Banshee from the first airing and it instantly became one of my favorite shows ever and at the end of each episode I couldn't wait for the next. If you are a fan of 80's & 90's action movies then this is a show you need to watch.


                
IMDb needs a review, this show is excellent. I apparently require ten lines...The initial storyline of this show makes you wonder where it can possibly go, but as soon as you are a few episodes in the characters really flourish. The web of lies that has ensnared all involved is truly entertaining.Lots of good, aggressive sex.Some really well choreographed violence, mixed with sex sometimes... Very well done.The first season left me really, really wanting more. Ukrainian gangsters, always a great dynamic.This is a show I fear could get better and better but may fall victim to a lack of overall interest and get cancelled.I recommend you watch the entire first season and then start telling people about it.Is that enough?Are you intrigued?There, reviewed.


                
I don't agree with some of the negative reviews. After watching the pilot I didn't know what to think of the show. After looking for some shows to watch as I was bored, I came across Banshee. After seeing the first series. I can definitely say, I'm hooked. At first it was kinda slow and left you wondering what was happening but as the series progressed, I started to enjoy it a lot more.Now that I have caught up with the show I'll be watching series 2 :DSeriously give this show a chance. At first I was a little sceptical of banshee. The trailer didn't reveal much and the logo looks like a cartoon but once you start watching it you will be hooked...


                
I am watching the series in sequence, just started the second season, and I have been reviewing individual episodes in the IMDb because frankly they are some of the most amazing episodes I have ever seen in mainstream TV.I thought I had already done a summary review of the series but then found I had not. Oops.OK, for the record, the acting is superb, the casting is superb, the scripts are to die for, and even the direction is in a class by itself (just finished s02e02 and the opening sequence did a match-cut of two parallel story lines with a wonderful sultry audio track over the top).The assumed identity theme is brilliant. The idea of writing not one but two supervillains into the story and letting the audience try to figure out which one is worse -- brilliant. This series is brilliant.But the ones to watch are Jonathan Tropper and David Schickler who are relatively fresh to the game and I predict will be at the edge of their craft for years to come.These guys are off the chain. The seem to instinctively know how far they can push the viewer's sensibilities without causing blowback. That simple feat is not so simple and is possibly the key, the secret, to successful TV.As I write this, most of the shows I follow have already gone slightly bonkers (LONGMIRE and JUSTIFIED pop to mind) but so far Banshee is holding up.Astonishing entertainment.-------Update Feb 2015: I'm a critic. My job is to report on the extraordinary. I am halfway through Season 2 and this series has me gob-smacked. Shickler and Tropper, who seem to have very few credits on IMDb outside of this series, are astonishing. Appearing as if out of nowhere, this series has individual episodes as good as or better than some of the product JJ ABRAMs is currently doing. And Abrams, who is a God in Hollywood -- one year he did both the Star Trek and the Star Wars films simultaneously(!) -- has had years to perfect his craft, plus, he can pick up the phone and bring in the Nolan Bros if he wants to. Shickler and Tropper in Banshee are showing us an instant and total mastery of writing, direction, casting, and -- my favorite -- a grasp of how important it is to keep the viewer "connected" from week to week. This "underdog" series is extraordinary in every sense of the word.---- update June 2016 ----Going to miss this show. I will even miss the titles and the credits, that's how good it is. As the (former) top rated Cinemax show, Banshee joins the rarified air of shows like Dick Van Dyke and Seinfeld, shows that VOLUNTARILY took themselves off the air because they felt they had given their all to the fans. Good news? The producers and even the stars can cut their own ticket in Hollywood for whatever they want to do next. Buy the boxed set, lock yourself in a closet and binge-watch. You will not be disappointed.


                
Banshee is up there with the best box sets around. I'm just amazed more people don't know about it. It's one of them series you just wish never ended but unfortunately it eventually has to end. It contains so much from great fighting/action scenes, to a very good story line and twists when you don't expect them. The writers and actors/acactresses need a big pat on the back as they couldn't of made this better than what it is and it truly is amazing. If you haven't seen it don't think twice about giving it a go cause I promise you that you 100% Will not regret it.


                
This was one of the best shows on tv and was so under-rated !!! Great plot , great characters , mysterious , violent and sexy ! It was so addictive , every episode had you on the edge of your seat ! I get why it ended after 4 series as it did complete the plot but it's such a shame it ended !!


                
I must have seen banshee at least 4 times by now and after rewatching the pilot,i couldnt help but be drawn into watching the whole series to the end, and OMG ! what an ending! closure on all levels for all characters..Immensely satisfying !! As many have stated,the lead actor anthony has an extraordinary presense and the ability to emote and get that emotion across the screen,often without even using words,but thru body language and facial expression..pretty special..The main protagonist is Kai proctor and much of what i said about anthony applies to the incredible actor who plays Kai..from the moment he 1st appears, there is an air of mystery, power, presensce and menace exuded from his character that you just know is going to be unleashed and make for an explosive dynamic between him and Hood. ALL, and i mean ALL the characters in this show are very complex, layered and Ultra convincing in their roles..I can honestly say i love every one of them, they are that good and there is Not a bad actor in the entire cast..they all are quite incredible ...Burton is a Terminator like assassin that seems unstoppable and unbeatable ,no matter who he goes up against, he is utterly fearless, once the glasses come off this guy becomes a serious badass..the over the top fight scenes are one of the great things that u can look forward to in literally every episode, and not just one but multiple fights!, and not just the men but women as well,often wiping the floor with men..This show doesnt just have a lead badass but his protagonists are as well and the girls..insane! What i also like in this show is the multiple storylines all happenning at same time, each one more wild than the other..As far as all time best Badguy in the shown i gotta give it to Kai,then burton,then Huge indian with the voice like James earl jones!, then Nolah the indian baddass chick who went up against Burton, what a fight! then the military colonel, then rabbit..needless to say i love this show..its ultra violent so be prepared, but its also one hell of a thrilling ride from start to finish, and that finale is 10 stars, one could not ask for a more fulfilling finish..


                
If you like non stop action ,brilliant fight scenes,pretty girls,really nasty bad guys a good plot.I can't understand how this series has gone under the radar Antony Starr is superb as lucas hood a criminal pretending to be a sheriff in a small town .just watch the first ten minutes of the first episode and you will be hooked


                
This show has the making of a great series, from what I've seen so far a con gets released out of prison after serving 15 years inside for something that he clearly did do but was setup for just the same. It seems his ex lover was involved and basically just took the money and ran when he was leading them away or something to that effect. There are also already mass organized crime elements and all of this circling around the fact that the main character has now started to impersonate a cop. Yes this will definitely shape up to be one of the better shows for sure I highly recommend watching it.The cast is spot on, characters seem to be well thought out and flow nicely together and everyone has a past which you see just a glimmer of but leaves you wanting to find out more about. A fantastic start I give it a 10/10 and eagerly await the next episode.Update: First 3 seasons were fantastic, the last season looks like it was put together by a child with a crayon on a napkin. I don't know why but for some strange reason they completely changed the formula and the way the story lines run in the last season and it's a complete and utter disaster.
Not interested at all in this series because the summary didn't fulfill what i do like in a series I never picked it up until a friend told me to do so because it's rather not that bad at all. Have seen the two seasons at this writing I must say that it is one of the best series I have seen so far.People of True Blood being involved it shows again. You have different 'people' in it like the white people, the Amish and the Indians and the androgen that does give Banshee a special touch. But not only that, the characters are very strong and the way it was shot is excellent with a lot of arty-shots. To give it an extra touch the score used is special too. I wont go into the story itself because it do evolve every time and some things you just don't see coming. It never has a boring moment, every episode delivers excellent suspense full of action (some rather gory), fight scene's that are brutal, a lot of nudity even full frontal and extreme people. After Spartacus and The Walking Dead series this surely follows in my personal top 5. A must see.Gore 2,5/5 Nudity 2,5/5 Effects 3/5 Story 3,5/5 Comedy 0/5


                
I am always on the look out for new TV series that have substance/quality/good acting and sometimes a bit of just madness. I just finished True Detective and thought that was one of the best writing I have ever had the privilege to watch on TV, better than Breaking Bad (Don't shoot me). Also a massive fan of The Wire/Boardwalk Empire/Supernatural/Game of Thrones/Sherlock etc. The reason I mention these shows is to give you a understanding of the type of shows I watch and I can happily say that BANSHEE IS NOW AMONG THEM!! Banshee incorporates great acting from the two leads (Anthony Starr & Ivana Milicevic). You actually believe there story and as the series progresses (especially the 2nd season) you truly get a feeling of what they have gone through and that kind of relationship makes great viewing The rest of the characters are fantastic as well, from the young Amish girl who only wants to fit in somewhere but at the same time cant help to rebel (Sleeping with Hood & Killing Alex) to the transsexual IT guru that cant help to make ya smile when going off on one to Hood to Carrie's Ukrainian mobster who plays the role as villain/loving father absolutely perfect (disagree? wait till the last episode of season 2) I notice a lot of people saying this is ridiculous with all the sex/violence/plots etc but you have to bare in mind this is produced and directed as a type of comic reveal as part of cinemax's original development project.After Season 1 you are left with questions regarding some seemingly plot holes but trust me finish season 2 and they will answer most of them for you, leave you with some still unanswered questions and open up brand new ones for you which personally I think is an excellent way to do a show and keep you wanting more.Banshee is definitely one to watch, cant wait for series 3
Having watched Banshee's first 6 episodes on demand, my wife and I are hooked. With Showtime's Dexter coming to an end, Cinemax Banshee is our new favorite show. I hope it will last for more than 10 seasons. It's that good.What is nice about Banshee is that the bad guys get their share of street justice at the end of every episode. You will be satisfied at the end of each episode - a lot of action with the right conclusion/ending. This is just the opposite of 'the Following TV series w/ Kevin Bacon' where you end up frustrated at the end of each episode, because the bad guys gets away with it.This is a dark show about a small town with different shady characters. What's nice about it is that the storytellers and director weaves these characters beautifully showing how each and everyone is connected to each other from the protagonist, to the Amish, to the local businessman, to the drug dealers, and the local rednecks. And yeah - the women are smoking hot - Ivana Milicevic, the teenage Amish girl lover of Tony Starr (Lilli Simmons) - smoking body, the police woman (Trieste Kelly Dunn), the widow of the guy Lucas killed = Kat Moody (Kay Story). These 4 women are so hot, they give juice and adrenaline to Banshee.Lastly, the show is shot on location in North Carolina, just 1.5 - 2 hours away from where we live. Hopefully, we could catch the filming of the show :)


                
Two ex-jewel thieves who are star crossed lovers, one who went to prison for the other and who now assumes the identity of a dead Sheriff. A cross dressing computer tech/street fighting hairdresser, an old heavy weight boxing champion/bartender, a shunned Amish/now criminal landowner/butcher/politician, Russian mafia,I mean...the story is just so engrossing with all these amazing characters, and that's not even all of them! I really hope we get another season or ten! I am so addicted! The story is original and the acting is great! The music is brilliant. Love the fast paced action. The characters are colorful and sexy! It is not a show for kids. But it is on after bedtime so that shouldn't be a problem. This show tops Breaking Bad and Dexter in my books, perhaps because Sheriff Hood is so damn sexy as the anti-hero... and I really love both those other shows too! I don't want this show to end...ever! My new guilty pleasure!


                
I recently became hooked on this show. Didn't even know it existed. (I don't watch a lot of TV, because I find very few shows that keep my attention. The last show I enjoyed was Dexter, and I think Banshee has Dexter topped. ANYHOW, once I saw my first episode, I immediately spent my entire vacation watching EVERY single episode to catch up. Even to the point where I was dead tired, but had to keep going. LOVE this show, and will continue to watch every Friday night. It is the ONE show we all agree on watching together. No disagreements, because everyone in my house feels the same way. Hooked on this show! Tonight is the night, 45 minutes to go! This is a much watch show!


                
What is this show called "Banshee"? It's kind of a strange hybrid love-child of Justified, The Shield and Billy Jack. And since the main character "Hood" can't hardly meet a woman that doesn't immediately want to sleep with him or a man that doesn't immediately want to beat him to a pulp than maybe we can throw in some "True Blood" and "Oz" cooties, too, for good measure.What we have here is a show that crams every episode with wall to wall gratuitous sex and violence and doesn't stop to take a breath. Yes,it's over the top and some of the premise is downright shaky but Antony Starr creates a charismatic core with his morally ambiguous swaggering Hood; a man that has his own sense of justice and his own sense of vulnerability for crimes against the innocent. This is one stubborn man that can't let go once his mind is made up. But we can't help appreciating that and rooting for him despite all his left turns.. Rare is the man that stands by his convictions.Hood is surrounded by a cast of characters that could have come across as just another side show at the circus in lesser hands. But nearly everyone is played with a straight face and a layer of complexity from his new best friend and bar keep, Sugar (Frankie Faison), to the lost love of his life,Anastasia (Ivana Milicevic). Even the resident town bad guy, Kai Proctor, is given a measure of gray complexity and has us wondering.It might be Rebecca, with her Madonna-whore syndrome and the swishy hacker, Job, that are the biggest victims of the cliché. But time will tell if there is more than meets the eyes here (or if seeing them is their biggest purpose). I do like how the use of flashbacks are integrated into the story to round out the currents events as they are unfolding. It's well handled in giving layers to the past 15 years and to Hoods painful history.So overall I recommend this show that comes out of the track running and never stops to rest. Action, adventure, sex, romance and more violence than I think I've ever seen in a 45 min television show. It's never boring.I just have to reiterate that for a guy that seldom is the aggressor in getting laid or getting punched ...this Hood is one guy with equal measures of both good and bad luck in plentiful supply. I look forward to Season 2.


                
Quite frankly, I love it. It is packed with different story-lines and such and each character has his/her own plot, agenda or whatever you want to call it. Some complain about the "gratuitous sex scenes" and I don't see why. It IS Cinemax, after all and most know they show that type of programming. While the sex scenes aren't really necessary to drive the show, I can see why they are there--to prove what type of people the characters are--so it gets put in your face, so to speak.Everyone that can get beyond the nudity will enjoy the roller coaster ride this show offers. In fact Ivana Milicevic compares it a bit to the roller coaster in her interview for another magazine. Ben Cross warned viewers about that prior to its debut on his FB page by saying it would be "intense" and "for adults"--and "It is not a family show"...I think that kind of gave it away, so I guess I'll put a check mark in that spoiler box for those of you who haven't seen it yet. You have been warned.The acting is intense. The script is well-written. Everyone will pick their favorites on here and will follow those characters into the jaws of Cerebrus. My bets are on the characters of Kai Proctor and Rabbit-- and both actors are very good! Love watching them! Those characters they play are truly twisted. Seriously, but that character Job (played by Hoon Lee) deserves a nod of some sort because that is one cool character in the mix and I LOVE his scenes! They are freaking cool!
I've came upon "Banshee" pretty much accidentally - someone mentioned it in his blog. I've downloaded the first season - and it got me hooked in an instant, while the 2nd and especially the 3rd literally took my breath away. The 4th season seemed a bit of a disappointment... at first... but then it just got on par with the previous 3 - in its own way. I don't think there could be a better way of ending the story. HBO and Cinemax definitely should take steps to further promote this worldwide, it's a shame most people I know never heard of this show. "Banshee" excels in all aspects - visuals, sound and story. Rough as it might seem, it's got a good story to tell, which just get better as the series progresses. Sometimes the plot twists make your jaw drop and the only feeling you get afterwards is "WTF was that???". The characters are very well-written (even the small ones) and also develop with the series, making you realize that the world around us is not just black & white - sometimes evil has more goodness in it that gets the eye. The opposite is also often true. And yes, sometimes, to do somebody any good, you need to get out of their lives - for good. The soundtrack deserves a separate praise - it's just f..king incredible :-) I just wonder whether there could be some kind of "Banshee: Resurrection" :-), though I truly doubt it. It would be next to impossible to repeat the success of the original "Banshee", as the authors had set the plank WAY too high.All in all, a must see. I'm doing what I can to promote this show among my friends - with some success to date :-)


                
I was totally hooked on this show from the very beginning. The suspense is phantastic, as well as the writing. very cleverly done. It has such a variety of characters, and it is easy to get lost in this show. I hope there will be a 5th season. Besides the very beautiful women, the pace of the show is phenomenal, and the cast of character extremely compelling. It has me waiting anxiously for the next episode. I can also see that is there is still a lot of story lines that need to be continued, and explored. I also wish they would make more than just 8 episodes a season. I have rarely seen a show with characters that are from a psychological view so believable. Keep up the good work!!


                
First off let me say that I live in PA. That doesn't take away from the show's story due to inaccuracies. That being said...WOW, what a show!The lead guy, Antony Star, is without a doubt, one of the most talented actors I have never heard of! I saw him during an interview for the show and could not believe this is the guy that plays the rough, brash sheriff Lucas Hood! The other characters fit into the story seamlessly. Ivana Milicevic is just as talented in her role as 'the one that got away' for Lucas Hood. I hate long reviews, so I'll keep it short. If you're into shows with a lot of action, gruesome fights, steamy sex scenes (how do these actors 'act' these scenes without...well, you'll see what I mean), prison bullies, racism, revenge, street justice, etc, etc then this is the show for you! Cinemax with Banshee has definitely raised the bar and gone waaay outside the box on this one. Watch it, you'll be WOWed!
Ignore the naysayers who take these things far more seriously than even the creators. They seem to be tuning in so they can pull it to pieces. Are you this dumb?? Its a comic! Clue: its poster is a comic. Are they looking for Treme or West Wing?? WHATS WRONG WITH PEOPLE!! The closest thing i can compare Banshee with is the awesome Sons of Anarchy - daft, violent in a comic book way, sexy (is literally every woman in Banshee a 10?) and most of all fun - it's about the FUN people!! Especially love the clash of cultures, we rarely gain much of an insight into the Natives and the Amish in modern pop culture for example, and though i'm sure there are inaccuracies, i find it interesting to go off and learn a bit about them myself.So all i will say is give it a try, and if you like it, you will be ramming it down people's throats forever more until they submit - this really has the potentially to go MASSIVE, so long as they keep up the quality. Get in there now! It is slick, brilliantly acted and super cool.EDIT: and hours after writing this it has been confirmed there will be a season 3!!!!!!!!


                
Okay, where to start... It has a great story after all, and the cast is great, the chemistry between characters is really something . I just started watching the show and Wow... To put it simple awesome. Blood, Revenge, Betrayal, Love, Lust, Bravery and ... are going to be this show's keywords for the plot. So if you are a fan, go for it. I've seen so many series lately but best believe me this one has that special thing. This is one of those series in which you longed for the next episode and you can't wait to see what will happen next. It's a smart thriller abounds with suspense and excitement. A little advice: Don't miss it, it is well worth watching.
Straight forward action. Great acting espesially Proctor and his right hand guy. Awesome pace and not like 99% of shows these days with Way to much crying and hurt feelings all over the place. Just good old fashion kill'm all. This show even manage to get a wide variation of People in to the show without going all Disney. Great work from the team behind this. Thank you.


                
Storyline,choreography,acting everything is too damm good & has gone above & beyond perfection.Not a single part of this show will make you disappoint. Best show of all time for me.


                
