We watched this show after having withdrawals from 'The Following' and being told that this was of a similar standard.... How wrong can you be?! From the second it started, it went steadily downhill! We just couldn't take to the main character which was a major problem, plus the action scenes we're so unbelievable and unlikely that we struggled to finish the first episode.We weren't really taken with the plot and none of the characters had any real screen presence which really doesn't make the viewer care enough to want to keep watching.We usually give new show 2 episodes but I'm not sure we can bear to put ourselves through it with Banshee! Lots of better shows out there like Breaking Bad, Game of Thrones and Orphan Black. Avoid Banshee and try one of those instead!
When Banshee first aired last season I was really looking forward to it because I had read that Alan Ball was producing this show. I have been a fan two of Ball's past projects Six Feet Under & True Blood and both of these shows were fantastic and won a lot of much deserved critical acclaim. Sadly I can't say the same about Banshee because the show is definition of "trying way too hard". The Banshee writers/directors/producers seems to take this approach "OK we are on premium cable channel so let's see how much ridiculous sex and violence can I cram into a hour of television"! You might think I'm some sort prude for saying this but I have loved many premium able shows that have had their fair share of sex & violence when it's necessary but in Banshee it's just comical and plain stupid. Banshee could have been a good show if they had focused on the story and the character relationships but sadly they didn't. Instead they made all the characters sex-crazed bare-knuckle boxers and jujitsu experts on steroids who heal with remarkable speed. Oh and for spice they threw in a gay-Asian-transvestite-computer-hacker who is also a jujitsu expert. Don't waste your time with this ridiculous show.


                
This series, now mercifully ended, is yet another fine(?) example of contemporary America's fascination with crime shows predicated on a preference for vengeance over justice. There are few characters worthy of admiration, let alone emulation, in this slog through the worst that people can do to each other.The basic premise follows similar motifs already explored and produced by the likes of Quintan Tarantino (think "Kill Bill" and "Pulp Fiction"): bad people doing bad things to other bad people while dragging good people down with them. The principal characters are all unrepentant criminals. They rob, torture and murder others like them while using all manner of self-serving lies and rationales in ultimately vain attempts to justify their actions and personal loyalty to each other.The show's writers and producers seem to think this will win sympathy from viewers. Many viewers will admire both the acting and physical talents of both the leading and guest cast members. Still, one can never forget or ignore the fact that they are portraying what are ultimately utterly despicable characters. These characters present, indeed epitomize, why, if there is not one, there should be, a Hell. The unremitting hypocrisy of the characters, particularly that of Anna/Carrie, is just too galling.Without giving much away, the series sadly concludes without the well deserved deaths/comeuppances of many of the lead criminal characters. Perhaps Cinemax has plans for a "Return to Banshee" or "Banshee: The Final Chapter" special. Frankly, I think 4 seasons were probably two seasons too many. I have no desire to see any more.
I do honest reviews. The plot seems good, and I'd recommend up until season 2, whereafter I firmly believe that the director and producers should have been just fine with the show and left it for good, leaving fans in a state where they truly missed the show. However, they decided to be greedy and mint more money out of the at-the-time popular series. Season 3 and 4 are just horrible. The characters just feel too redundant, the plot is just below average, the main actor seems to be living in a perfect ideal world, and everyone associated with him do too. I would have liked it if they made the show seem at least a little realistic. Instead all the people connected with the main actor are some sort of super heroes, and no matter just how big the hurdle can be, they just somehow make it out. Like I said, it's way too fake. For me, the show ended in season 2.


                
