The show feels similar to the Patrick Swayze movie 'Roadhouse' in many ways, but it's not nearly as entertaining.I recorded the first season and watched it over a period of 3 or 4 nights, and can't get up enough motivation to care enough to even begin the second.The premise is that an ex-con runs into the new sheriff of a town at a bar and kills him and assumes his identity as sheriff of that town. He can get away with this because no one has met the new sheriff yet. He makes instant enemies with the town's wealthy and powerful evil genius.The things that drive me crazy are:<U+0095>He kills people left and right, but no one seems to notice, care, or investigate.<U+0095>He has such strong animal magnetism that every girl who catches his eye winds up in bed with him without so much as a conversation.<U+0095>Every fight scene is about five minutes long, where everyone who fights is a master of hand- to-hand combat. That is, of course, unless he's fighting with a gang of five that he can defeat single-handedly (no clichés here).<U+0095>Doesn't it bother anyone else that nobody at the police department even bothered to Google their new boss? That's all it would take to see that he's a fraud.<U+0095>Doesn't anyone else care that when there has been a shooting or killing, no one runs fingerprints and discovers that there are fingerprints at the scene belonging to an ex-con?Please just rent 'Roadhouse' instead. It's so much better than this drivel.


                
The dialogue is, are you happy to see or have you got a judge in your pocket. The main actor has one and only one expression throughout the entire episode, with a plastic smile which doesn't change ever. The action scenes are as jerking from being filmed on a trampoline. The opening gunslinger shooting his stance shows just what a poser he is and why he has failed to hit his target at all. Watch in the opening and wonder like I did WTF why the truck fell over, it was a pointless as this series. What a load of crap. A least there was a glimpse of some boobies if again adding nothing but false expectation of what well be a dreadful season within an Amish town's community... These same made TrueBlood, yea right. I managed to watch the first 15 minutes before fastforwarding it in hoping maybe it would get better, see how long you wil last.


                
Let's get this straight from the start, I ain't no film buff. I think they should be removed from the gene pool before nothing is fun to watch anymore, but this is f***ing shocking. I was really looking forward to watching this, sounded great on the reviews etc and enjoyed watching Antony Starr in Outrageous Fortune, but it opened with everyone trying to be cool and continued that way with no real entertainment value. The acting is weak, it looked a bit like the TV version of The Fast and the Furious and I'm not even sure I care if there was a plot or not. A total disappointment and waste of bandwidth. I feel insulted.


                
I had some hopes after the pilot but the substance is just not there. The plot is so silly and improbable that you just have to switch off your imagination otherwise it gets unpleasant. Acting is so - so. Main characters - again, nothing special, male - kinda OK, barely likable rebel with tendency to drama and unnecessary pathos, female - stupid as a brick and light years from really hot, just sort of sporty, no tits type. Other characters - schematic, full of clichés. Fighting scenes are plain ridiculous, period. Sex scenes - too many, too revealing, boring as f..k (really guys, never thought I'll hear myself saying this - if you choose to stick sex everywhere you can make it damn interesting, otherwise people get offended for nothing).That's really it. It's a TV show equivalent of Harry Potter. Not really a good literature, it's just easy to digest. If you've never been in a fight or never had sex with attractive woman then you might get some kicks out of it, otherwise it sucks. I watch it while doing corrective exercises for my spine. Th plot is so stupid and predictable that I don't feel that I'm missing something anyways if I can't follow every twist of it. If I was looking for a real piece of TV entertainment I would be badly disappointed.


                
I found this series insultingly gratuitous, violent, not believable, and poorly written. No idea how this received such good prior reviews. 
The acting was only about as good as the script would dictate, although it had its moments of empathy for some of the characters. 
But the last few episodes bordered on ridiculousness.


                
