I was at work earlier today when I was reading random articles online and I heard of a new show on Cinemax so I decided to check out the trailer. Needless to say, it gained my attention. The premise is a bit "eh" if you know what I mean, but once you actually start to watch it, you're hooked.The overall plot, the bad guys, the protagonist, so far everything about this show.You, yes, YOU, should DEFINITELY check this show out. When a pilot is good, it typically leads for an amazing season and series.


                
I started watching this by chance. I was scrolling through what downloads had popped up, films etc, and I seen this. At first I thought it was a cartoon due to the strange picture it has for the series. Anyways thought I'd give it a shot and download it. The first episode was a little over the top, what with all the shooting and chases etc, but the story was more than enough to make me want to watch another episode. I thought nothing could top Game Of Thrones or Dexter as my all time favorite TV shows, but this has. The acting from the lead guy Antony Starr is just phenomenal, he really makes you believe it. The fight scenes are really something else. I grew up in a bit of a rough area and was constantly getting into one fight or another, and the fight scenes in this are more than believable. The sex scenes are a bit more explicit than they need to be, but other than that I am well pleased with this so far.


                
This is a new series that has strong potential. An ex-con leaves jail and tries to pick up where he left off.The first episode has some very good action sequences in it and the 'hero' plays the strong silent type role of so many anti heroes. But there is a nice twist; he becomes the new Sheriff of the town Banshee after seeing the newly arrived Sheriff die in the line of duty.So it will be interesting to see how this lean mean fighting machine that isn't adverse to law breaking works as a lawman. He has already had a couple of run ins with local baddies and met the head villain who plays the role of evil dressed in a veneer of respectability.I have already read a review which says how shallow and 'unworthy' this program is but that says more about the aspirations of the reviewer than the program. So watch it if you'd like dirty harry brought up to date with a twist. It's not Brideshead Revisited by any stretch of the imagination but it does look like it will be fun.UPDATEI have just watched the finale for season 2. The series just gets better as it matures. The characterisation grows as the history of the roles is filled in with flashbacks. There is more to it than originally meets the eye; far more.So I can't wait for next series as I would think about the plot during the week whilst waiting for the next episode. I have upped my rating from 7 originally to 9. It is well deserved.
The main character Antony starr as 'Lucas hood' is well presented. A smart thief, fighter, good team player & a die hard friend/ lover. Initially didn't like the look of a main character but after the 1st season he went into the character so well that i started seeing myself in him. It was one hell of a treat. The chemistry of hood & siobhan is a lit. All the characters are good except Ryann Shane whos playing Deva Hopewell. Thank you for your time. :)


                
I love this show. It is so brilliantly over the top and crammed full of extreme violence, sex and swearing. It wears it's schlocky heart on its sleeve and isn't afraid to push the limits of moral or televisual boundaries. Just when you think it can't get any dumber or crazier, it does! Don't think, just enjoy the ride....this ain't art.....this is Banshee!


                
I stumbled upon banshee by accident. What a bloody brilliant series... Like Burn Notice, this show has not been noticed by a majority of TV series lovers. I would any day pay for a reboot of the series. Banshee, you are missed.


                
Explosive, sexy, visceral. All of the good guys were compromised and all, well most, of the bad guys were ultimately redeemable in a way that helps you understand that the root of all evil is unmet desire and sometimes plain old boredom. A fresh look at a small Amish town that has an amazing amount of really crazy and violent people. Just like anywhere else. The purposeful act of ending the show in its prime has achieved its intended end. I never got tired of it. I still desperately miss it.


                
Like Breaking Bad I watched the season premiere with zero knowledge about the show and similarly to Breaking Bad, I was instantly hooked.This show stands out above many other drama action shows currently aired on TV and the unfortunate part is - I don't think many people know about this show. I can rant and rave about the action scenes the intense sex scenes and he endless other things that make this show top notch but the reality is the plot line and character development are remarkable, truly. There is always enough at the end of an episode to feel satisfaction along with the intense desire to know what happens next. I find myself rubbing my hands together when certain characters find themselves in particular situations and always correcting my position on the couch to get prepared for some phenomenal choreography in the fight scenes and various other action scenes. It's riddled with twists and turns that keep the story line fresh and moving forward at a perfect pace. I don't usually review TV shows or movies as enough people do that for me, but this show really did deserve some attention from me. I would highly recommend it, as it is sadly a mini series - but that simply means you aren't faced at catching up on countless episodes. Each episode really expands on the story and as I say keeps the momentum at a perfect pace.I won't say any more about anything specific as I went into this show with zero knowledge. I only hope others who find this show have little to no knowledge going in as it will grip you from episode 1.


                
Having watched only 1 season of trueblood and while not being a modern vampire fan I did enjoy the show but not so much that I would follow it as the "flash" super powered vampires are a bit silly for my taste. I saw the ads for Banshee and though they looked good I was worried it would to be silly, instead I was very very surprised. The plot while being a bit flimsy as I think they would find you out pretty quick, is an interesting one. The setting is perfect, and the characters are unique and deep with new sides and mysteries unfolding all the time, (they did everything right Transporter didn't,) and thankfully very few FLASHBACKS! The series has a very "pulp" feel to it, with a lot of violence, sex and wild characters, but a very good story that keeps you going. I definitely recommend it to anyone to give it a try, while it's not perfect it's one of the best shows I have seen a long while.


                
Those who enjoy bloody and adult rated show, this show is a must watch for them. Although i enjoy an occasional stimulation while watching my TV, this one is a bit much in its graphic content. It's bloody and satisfying.This action filled series has a very well balanced story to go with it's stimulating adult contents unlike Spartacus (in which if the characters are not doing battle then they are doing a marathon orgy). While it may not have the best underlying story to back up the series, with it's clever casts and well laid out script Banshee totally had me gripped form the very start.What i most appreciate in this series was how the characters are developed alongside the running main plot which with it's mystery elements from the main character's past had me intrigued and waiting for coming future episodes.


                
This show is one of my all time favourites. I started watching it because of Anthony Starr (Outrageous Fortune is a crack up if you haven't seen it) but quickly became addicted. Fast paced, clever, dark and violent.....perfect combination in my books. It is so well directed that even when the plot is totally comic like and predictable it isn't cheesy. Character and plot driven is a rare find in a TV series. Each episode leaves you wanting more. My husband and I stay up late watching multiple episodes in a row. Historically shows like this, which do not have mass appeal, do not last long. I, for one, hope that Banshee continues on for another few seasons.


                
Fantastic viewing, well done!!! I can't believe this is from the creators of True Blood, and what a great first season so far..Mostly everyone that has watched the show will be buzzing to tell you how good the show is and how typically cliché it is NOT.. I got a bit bored of some of the comments about this show, highlighting minor story lines and using that as negative comments against the show, I am on episode 7 and I can safely say they rip through the cliché's which are the foundation of the show and prove themselves to set the standard of how shows should be made right now. Great plot, amazing cast, I want more more more... I like the way they experiment with the show, and use different lenses to capture different scenes, like the police chase's and fighting scenes. My biggest worry is they will get way too experimental to the point of being unoriginal, and take away the edge this show has compared to the rest of them!! I look forward to watching the next episode. I would pay a lot of money to watch the next episode now!!
What happens when a group of small time criminals who feed upon an innocent town face a sheriff who's a psycho? A man who not only comes from a violent past, actually enjoys brutality? Banshee is an excellent show that is very satisfying. It's depth does not come from the usual tormented good guy, but rather from a group of characters who are insane, so to speak. There are no morals here, no lesson. If you want a deep story, watch Downton Abbey. If you want the satisfaction of pure evil hitting a bad guy who much deserved it then Banshee is for you.Do note however that this show is very violent. While not overly gory, the punishment meted out is extreme. For a taste, go check out the scene on YouTube where Lucas Hood taken down a creep boxing champ who likes to rape and beat up women. You will enjoy the beating he gets.


                
I must admit that I was a little uncertain whether Banshee would prove able to keep my interest, so it was an enjoyable surprise to discover that the many twists and turns in a sometimes outrageously explicit plot kept me gripped with every episode. The main characters are either intriguing because they are able to retain a level of depth that maintains a viewers' interest with questions or simply because the viewer wants to know whether they're good or baddies. Performances are very good, especially the primary actors most of whom I have never watched previously. If season 2 can maintain this edgy type of writing style it will be extremely likely to win an award, cannot wait for season 2.


                
I was hooked after watching the 1st episode. This show is raw, gritty, brutal and over-the-top; it's got everything most action films lack these days – and it's absolutely NOT PG-13. Granted, it's pulpy, trashy, sometimes even down-right ridiculous – but I loved every minute of it so far. The production values are among the best I've seen on TV and the cast is fantastic. An adrenaline rush from the first scene.Hopewell, played by Ivana Milicevic), who is NOT your stereotypical weak-willed woman in danger. Even in a scene where she should be considered a "damsel in distress" and is presumably rescued by an officer of the law, we see glimpses of the resourceful & powerful woman she really is. In a later episode, she engages in a brutal fight that - including other scenes cut in to break the tension - spans nearly 2/3 of the episode.I mentioned it before, but I can't emphasize it enough: the fight choreography in this series is incredible. It's taken to a level that should come across as fake and over-the-top, but it never does. Perhaps that's due in part to the actors' dedication to the scenes. You see no restraint, fear, or apprehension.Even as the season ends on a fevered pitch, you never get the feeling that the show is running out of steam, and there is certainly no doubt that our characters' stories could carry through into a second season with ease.Glad I stumbled on this show this year and I love it. Each episode caught me off guard. I watched all three seasons in 4 days. Hopefully Lucas and Carrie will get a chance to be a family in the final season.Wish the show would go on!!


                
I really can't get enough of this show, I stumbled across a preview when pickings were slim for new TV shows to watch, and boy, was i glad this hit my radar.The premise is a common one, to a degree, new guy in town, fresh out of the joint, happens upon an opportunity to stick around when he realizes the love of his life/partner in crime has setup shop in said town with a new identity and a family to boot.We slowly see the back story unravel as to who "she" is, and why he served hard time in the first place, the town is divided amongst the Amish, American Indians on sacred ground, and the sheriff's department, just inside the first season the story takes some dark turns, along with gratuitous sex, gnarly violence, and general badassery.Now into a second season, and still going strong, i'd urge anyone to give this a chance, i'm seriously hooked.
Its surprising to not see this show in the limelight up there among some of the other top action TV shows. This show has it all and then some more. Right from the titling, which is really surreal and tactfully done to the actors, action scenes, sex, editing, pace and last but not the least - the production value...are all top notch. The fight sequences are beautifully choreographed. I would want to watch this show over many other so called 'highly rated' ones anytime. All in all this one will not catch your attention if you are randomly searching for some good, thrilling TV shows to binge on. So purposefully chase this show and watch it!


                
Now it's over – my pleasant moments in front of TV, with all 4 seasons in sequence. I am very content, even I was referred to this series by IMDb after watching some other series – no prior knowledge of Banshee. From the 1st episode, I liked how it started and evolved – no long reasoning/introduction, but events important were narrated and shown as flashbacks. And the setting, the camera-work, with long scenes having great importance, tasteful erotics – in short, Banshee is no trivial action flick, although fighting and shooting scenes have big importance there. I was very fascinated to follow how parallel events were depicted, often focusing on big similarities or big contradictions. The cast is evenly strong, although at times the main cast was overshadowed by supporting cast (particularly Hoon Lee as Job and Ulrich Thomsen as Kai Proctor; the latter, by the way, is a talented Danish actor famous in his homeland, but worth admired internationally). For years now, it seems to me that, for the success of a film or series,, lots of main actors have to come from outside US (incl. the protagonists Antony Starr and Ivana Milicevic)Recommended to all action fans who desire that thrill starts soon and the number of unpredictable events is bigger by far. True, some twists and turned were "edited" for increased viewability, but as "some good guys died too", then the big picture did not become airy-fairy.


                
Banshee is one of those rare TV shows that stays fresh, and never over-stays it's welcome, wrapping itself up in the classiest of ways. I've just watched the final episode... What a send off. I've never written a review on IMDb before, but after watching this I felt I just had to. You see the problem is that most people have never heard of this show, and that is a tragedy. Granted, it probably isn't for everyone, considering the nature of the show and the extreme violence, however, the motivations, subtext and messages within the series are undoubtedly grounded in that fine line between logic and entertainment.If you haven't seen it... Seek it out.If you have, then you know what I'm talking about.I for one will miss this show. The characters, action, story and quality of the show are top notch. Here's hoping Netflix pics it up to continue the story...


                
I recently Watched all the three Seasons In a row , This show Was Not On my Radar at first but I Saw "True Detective" First Season And Followed Rebbeca (Lili Simmons). Then Found Her Another Work and reached to find this show, I watched First Episode Of First Season........ and couldn't help to watch Whole Series. Seriously I Left Everything Else on my PC To Watch, For Watching this show completely.... this show has very well character definition and you can't predict what's coming next... each & every Actor Has done full justice to their characters..... Writers had done a lot of thinking on every episode... each episode has its own uniqueness and leaves story to further pickup in following episodes.. Directors kept changing but there is no difference in story-telling .... which is I think, Because of well written screenplay and very gracefully done cinematography...... and editing is on its best notch... I Watch Whole 3 Seasons in 1 Week and it gave me feel like Marvel's cinematic Universe (Similar Story-telling, without super powers And Sci- fiction)..... Every Actor Is Great And I Liked The Characters Most of Antony Starr,Trieste Kelly Dunn, Hoon Lee, Frankie Faison, Ulrich Thomsen, Yeah Great Great Series.... Waiting for next Season.........


                
Banshee is, for me, best described as a savvy, street smart, "kick your teeth in", style of drama. Its predictably violent, hard nosed and quite literally pulls no punches. The premise is a novel one if not overly credible. An ex-con who steals the identity of a murdered police chief in a small country town called Banshee. The vehicle by which this is accomplished is, in itself, quite clever, in so much as the chief has just arrived in town and is killed off before anyone has the chance to meet him. That's not to say the locals don't become suspicious of his impersonator. The new chief is unconventional to say the least.This is the starting point of what is a cleverly written drama that uses violence as a vehicle but moves beyond mere thuggish exposition by providing the audience with real insight into the characters. There are reasons for their behavior which are surprisingly subtle and complex, with a raw humanity anyone can empathize with. Its the credible character development that lets the viewer suspend disbelief and ignore some of the glaring improbabilities associated with the key characters masquerade as a chief of police. Not to mention his larger than life, on going criminal exploits, as a high stakes thief. In short this series is well acted, supremely well written, original and engaging but not for everyone. If you find, at times extreme violence, off putting you may want to look elsewhere. If this does not phase you, take a look, you won't be disappointed. Nine out of ten from me.


                
The first series of this sometimes feels like it's trying to fit in every storyline all at once - there's so much going on, in plot as well as action. Few dramas have as little down time as this - every episode has action, action with some extra action thrown in. Lots of fighting (fairly realistic), loads of blood (make up is surprisingly well done), lots of gun fights, the odd car chase... Watching this series pushes a lot of buttons. Sometimes it's quite cartoony in its plot - Bang! Crash! Wallop!, See Bad Man, Shoot Bad Man and somehow the paperwork will get sorted out.Other times the plot slows down enough to allow some quality acting to take in. The characters appear a little two-dimensional to start with, but either these guys write on the hoof extremely well or a lot of stuff was planned from the start, as they each develop into strong and individual people that you start to care about. The acting itself improves as the series rolls along too.Ulrich Thomsen as the "bad-guy-oh-wait-he's-a-caring-good-guy-oh-no- he-isn't-wait-what" Kai is very well played - brooding and menacing. Antony Starr plays his part reasonably well - a bit clunky to begin with but he starts to show depth later on. Ivana Milicevic is coldly hot. Matt Servito - someone I've not seen before - turns out to be a solid actor who plays his by-the-book part perfectly. The writing is fast, snappy and at times seems to be therapy (The show's relationship with the Amish is complicated and not at all favourable). Direction, especially photographically, ranges back and forth from good to sublime - some of the montages and flips between concurrent scenes work very well. (Some not so much, but I like to see people try new techniques)Nudity is frequent and blatant and honestly, that's okay. This is an adult program. Plus, all the lead women are smokin' hot, and all get their kit off. If you like the men - they're all honed nicely too; something for everyone there. Downsides: Occasionally the CGI is done badly. (I mean very badly) and breaks the suspension of belief. (Jobe getting hit by the car for example) And the Whisky: I mean, what is going on? Each series has a brand of Whisky they seem to promote. First series if Chivas Regal (asked for by name, labels on show - turned towards the camera in each shot). Second series it's Jameson. Third series - Glenlivet. It's honestly quite bizarre.Overall, I like this show a lot.
This is my first review on my IMDb and I couldn't have chosen a better title to review.Well I was quite hesitant to give this one a shot initially .It took me 3 years and some rare reviews to actually go for it and I did realize what I was missing. The pilot episode really stands out and sets the perfect tone for the episodes to follow.I am more of a "one season a night" kinda person and to be frank, I just couldn't set my eyes off it till the final episode of the first season was done.(even though it meant reporting pretty late to work the next day :P ). I am on the second season currently , and each episode is as good as the other and wont leave you disappointed.The camera work and the plot setting is marvelous and not to mention the action sequences will keep you at your toes.The main characters do a perfect job and for me the stand outs are Lucas Hood (obvious choice) and Kai Proctor.The rest of the cast don't fall too behind and leave no stone unturned in impressing you. Do watch it if you have not already.Trust me if a lazy guy like can actually go ahead and write a review ,it actually should be outstanding enough.Happy Watching :)


                
The title of my review may give the impression I find this show a bit too brutal. I am not one for excessive violence but I have to admit I have seldom been so hooked on a show from the first episode. I binged all three seasons in a few days and was kept at an adrenalin high. The acting is excellent, the writing always on the mark. Each director has their way with the characters and brings out the best in the cast, best example Antony Starr. Even the worst of people have something that makes them human and that is what makes each and everyone of the figures, even the villains, in this series a pleasure to watch. Thank you also for the banter between Sugar and Job allowed me to deflate a little and breath occasionally. Why this show has not got a wider audience is beyond me, when other shows that should have been cancelled after their first season keep going on and on. I am looking forward to next season and will be recommending this show to everyone.


                
Only recently started watching Banshee after hearing so many good things about it, and boy I haven't been disappointed yet... After watching the brilliant pilot that sets up the story and main characters nicely, I have been increasing hooked, binge watching the first season within a week. Currently going through season two which so far is as strong, but felt compelled to write a review of what I have watched so far... Banshee has an array of rich and interesting characters including a very likable lead character with a very cool name - Lucas Hood. I'd go as far as to say he's as cool as Raylan Givens at times! From the stunning opening teaser in the pilot, the action scenes (although admittedly very violent at times), are excellent and very well executed. With its strong premise and characters, the story lines keep you gripped and wanting more. Being a big crime drama fan, loving shows such as Breaking Bad, Sopranos and Sons of Anarchy (to name a few of many), I already get a sense that Banshee is destined to be among them...


                
