I'm all for supposedly intelligent films and series, that contain hidden meanings you have to search for. And it's only on the Japanese market that one can find some good examples of these. I've greatly enjoyed pondering over Evangelion, Jin-Roh, and many others. So why can't I be bothered to do the same for Akira? Simple; Akira is just so... ugly.The big mistake Akira makes is that, if a movie wants to make people think about it's "hidden meaning", for people to try hard to understand it's point, the film should at least offer something to draw the viewer in. Likeable characters, interesting concepts, or at least -something- just plain nice to look at. Some positive elements that can make one grow to like a movie.Akira does none of this and is, from start to finish, deeply detestable. It may be just a matter of personal taste, but the character designs struck me as especially repulsive. The film is populated by doughy-faced goblins with bad dressing habits. Ugh. How can one possibly be interested by such a cast of characters who look like radiation-deformed Hiroshima toddlers, let alone remotely like them?Even worse is the way the film hurls a constant slew of sickening and really needlessly gory images at the viewer's face. Sure, violent gore-fests can be fun in a mindless way if you like that sort of thing, but they seem badly out of place here. If it's supposed to be a deep and intelligent film, how come it feels as if you're watching something from Troma studios? These two sides of the film co-exist in a very uncomfortable way. As if Fellini was trying to direct Attack of the Brain-Eating Zombies. Bottom line; the exaggerated bloodlust of a random violent horror film doesn't go hand-in-hand with anything remotely refined.Still, deep beneath all the tasteless violence there's the kernel of some kind of -point- to all this carnage. Trouble is, it's terribly patchy and impossible to make sense of. Every now and then, there's a small flash of lucidity and a few brittles of a deeper meaning are thrown around, but it seems so random and rushed that it ends up just adding to the confusion and the unpleasant overall feel of this film.The overall impression one gets from watching Akira is about as pleasant as staring at a badly-treated, crusty fleshwound dripping with pus. And very few people will want to stare at something like -that- several times in order to be able to make sense out of it (all for a deeper meaning which doesn't even look all that interesting from what I can make out). Sorry, but no way am I going to willingly watch such a repulsive film again, I've been put off for good. Akira is not "gritty", "haunting", "menacing", or any other cool word the marketing bods might want to slap onto it, it's just ugly.And for some reason, there are still people out there who claim that this is the be-all and end-all of the Japanese animation industry. Let's just be grateful that it's -not-. If every Japanese production was this dreadful, we'd have been denied the joys of the most graceful and aesthetic animation in the world. The way Manga video marketed Akira gave a bad, and lasting first impression of Japanese series in general to occidental audiences, which qualifies as a valid enough reason to hold a grudge against this movie in my view. You're better off watching Macross Plus, Honneamise, Gall Force, Jin-Roh, or even Saint Seiya instead of this sick and messy effort. Simply because those, and many other films are thought-provoking as well as plain enjoyable.(fans of mindless and truly disgusting gore will love Akira, though).


                
The problem i had with this movie is that it came off as a plotless mess with very superficial characters.  I'll admit it was well animated but there was nothing to make me want to see it again nor recommend it to anyone else. I think the reason it is so highly acclaimed is that when it was released to the west, it was so fresh to viewers equating animation with Disney that it automatically became "good."  I think it gets 1.5 stars


                
A timeless mess that anyone even slightly interested in science fiction or animation should watch before they die. Those who readers who have already passed on to the great-Akira-in-the-sky, oh well, you snooze, you lose. Akira is a highly flatulent piece of Japanese animation, with more than just a little putrification. I won't explain any part of the story, as that information can easily be found elsewhere. I will simply try to explain how I feel about this movie, and why. After watching this movie for the first time in years, I felt like my mind had been blown - which is the second best body part to get blown. I couldn't stop thinking about obnoxious characters. THose who voted for Saw 3 for Bast Picture Oscar will find a certain charm in it's brutality and story about friendship and rivalry between two young biker gang punks killing about 729 people and then trying to kill each other. On top of that, it's also got great action scenes, (hey, how else do you kill off about 729 people, in fact, about 95% of the homo sapiens shown in the film die before the end of the film).
Akira(1988)Review: I remember when about 15 years ago when my brother rented this movie and was excited about it. I never heard of it, but had an open mind. Here's my take:Akira is possibly the most overrated anime ever. I do not understand the love. It's been hailed as a classic. Tell me why you loved this. Is it because of the convoluted story? Is it because of the lifeless and dull characters? Is it because it is really long? Is it because of it's many scenes of unnecessary violence?Seriously, I do not get it. The characters were dull, the story is contrived and confusing and the violence is far to much and some of it is towards the kids. It gets rather hard to watch. I found no joy in this. This movie overstayed it's welcome. It's just too damn long.However, I must give credit where credit is due. The animation is really good here. For 1988, it's mighty cool.There are many Anime that are great like Vampire Hunter D:Bloodlust, Princess Mononoke, and the Cyber City Oedo miniseries. Akira just does not satisfy at all. It's a boring and unpleasant experience.And to finish my story, halfway though Akira, my brother who was excited fell asleep and I was really drowsy. True story.The Last Word: I hated this movie. Through the test of time, Akira will remain the most overrated piece of Anime garbage. Good visuals do not make a good movie.


                
First of all, this anime doesn't deserve 1 out of 10 but let me explain why I voted as 1. I actually vote as 6 out of 10 but I've read many ridiculous comments so far. That's the reason of my vote.I'm a huge anime fan. I've watched every kind of animes. People tell me it was great and I read comments about it was good. What makes me bother is quality of anime. How can you draw all human beings as if they come from same mother and father. If you don't believe, go and watch it again. The guy who drives the red motorcycle and the girl he hung out. If I didn't hear their voices, I would think they were brothers. Same ugly tiny nose, same hair cut and same big jaw. The people in the Akira's world got tiny noses on their big heads. Also those green things! Ughh! They are really disgusting! I've seen many disgusting creatures in the animes but I don't remember I hate this much. Also you can use this as an insult: "You are so ugly that you look like someone in the Akira movie" Let's talk about some motorcycle or we shouldn't because you'll see that motorcycle at the beginning and the ending of the movie. Also that motorcycle got no trick. Don't expect too much! The story. I can't tell it's amazing but it wasn't bad honestly. You can watch the same idea with better plot and drawings. But I was bored. It was really hard to watch these kind of a boring plot and ugly animation. When you saw the cover, you have got some expectations from the motorcycle and the story. Let's forget about the plot but I'm wondering these guys didn't watch their anime? I mean they should have a conversation like this: -Dude, we got a problem here! -What's that? -The characters we draw look like the product of a twisted relationships.I heard that they started for a new Akira project. I hope we watch something as they recommend this time.
