Without a doubt the necessary injection of Manga culture Western audiences needed. Personal objections (or should I say appraisals) aside, Akira deconstructs the form of narrative and character development that we had all become accustomed to through Hollywood and produces a reasonably honest translation of Katsuhiro Otomo's Manga epic, with mass deletions of unnecessary characters and plot avenues. The story is complex enough to keep western audiences attention, yet simple enough to digest whilst taking in the wonderfull animation and excellent soundtrack (a collection of traditional Japanese instruments and modern day synthesised electronica that allow for elements of cinema to establish themselves for the audience) The conflict between the two main characters, Tetsuo and Kaneda is ultimately superceded by the films namesake, the mystery of the boy Akira, and as with very few films Hollywood produces it leaves it's more labour intensive thinking until the end. A delight to follow, with periods of intense action and thought provoking predictions of a neo society, one would like to think of the film as the pipe dream of one who predicted such tragic events as of September 11. Akira, whilst violent for the medium, is a lush metropolis of gang warfare, a psuedo examination into the possible, and a fantasy tale of elements long lost in modern cinema. A cool, entertaining piece littered with cult visions and awesome bikes.


                
Visually Astonishing, Dark and Original is what best describes Katshuiro Otomo's Masterpiece `AKIRA'. Now here is an animated film that is way ahead of his time, the film was released in 1988 even before Disney created computer FX's in their animated features. AKIRA is one of my favorite movies of all time it has beautiful visuals, great animation, an extraordinary story and a wicked soundtrack. I have read the entire AKIRA manga comics and yes it makes the movie that much easier to understand but with the new DVD edition which contains the correct dubbed version that allows the viewer to understand the film a little easier. I first saw AKIRA back in 1994 when I was 14 years old and ever since then I have collected great anime, at first I was confused but yet intrigued and consumed by the plot, I wanted to know what the story was about. Finally after 4 times viewing the film I understood the plot and the message Otomo wanted to deliver in this feature. The story is fascinating it takes place in the future in the city of NEO-TOKYO were citizens live in a constant chaos of an urban revolution, while the youth lives reckless on the dark streets gathering in bike gangs the government proceeds with the so called `akira project'; a mayor step in scientific discovery based on human energy.AKIRA is a movie about betrayal, love, loyalty, anger, and fiction. For those who do not understand it is a movie about the universe and how us humans connect with it, we use about 11% of our brains but what if we were able to use 40% or even 100% of it, what then? And what if some of that percentage was damaged by hate, depression, or anger, this is the case of TETSUO who is the center character of this film. The possibilities are far from anything we can imagine, `AKIRA' provides a fictional possibility that self energy exists within all of us and that is just as delicate as it is powerful.This is an epic proportion animated feature, the action sequences are creatively amazing, the plot is very intriguing, dark and character driven like no other film. It is one of a kind and even after 14 years we have yet to see anything like it whether is an animated or a feature film.


                
When I first grabbed the cover box for AKIRA off the shelves of my local video store, I had never heard the word "manga," (Japanese comic book) nor "anime" (Japanimation) for that matter. Back then I would have given that movie a 9 (excellent), since it was like nothing I had ever seen before, was true graphic violence, but was still a bit too long and too hard to understand. Ten years later, having watched a slew of other anime productions, I would have given this movie an 8 (very good) from memory had I not seen it again yesterday. After seeing AKIRA for the first time in the original Japanese language, I have come to fully appreciate its cultural and artistic merit.Ten years ago, I watched the English dubbed AKIRA and understood absolutely no Japanese. Ignorance of the language made for funny jokes with my brother ("Just as my bullet was reaching the red line! You think you're so tough") but added nothing to the movie. Ten years later I understand both the language and the country, thanks in part to AKIRA, and I have finally realized that Katsuhiro Otomo had created a classic. While critics may know the director Kurosawa, it may take another 10 years for the name Otomo to make its way to the forefront of American cinematic consciousness.From here on out, I have nothing but praise for this historical milestone. No other hand-drawn movie I have ever seen is done as meticulously. The pillar lined coliseum comes to mind. It's apparent on first viewing that an immense amount of effort was put into the hand-drawn animation. It seems as if every detail within the frame is in motion. This stands out in the ANIME industry, where so many directors don't bother with effort and instead choose to have a still frame frozen over five seconds. In my mind AKIRA's animation is peerless on an international scale.Second, the Neo Tokyo depicted in AKIRA is definitely the one that should exist today. Nightlife is dark and violent. Fundamentalist Buddhist sects roam the streets chanting dogma and searching for answers. And most importantly, the medicated punk teenagers speak a crooked, thuggish Japanese slang that I haven't heard in any movie of recent memory. 1988 was Japan's heyday, what with the bubble economy and all, but since then the artistic vision of Otomo's AKIRA seems to have gotten stuck in an economic recession. I feel as if modern Tokyo and its Anime has diverged quite a bit from the Neo-Tokyo depicted in AKIRA.My final comment is DO NOT rent the English dubbed version, as I did long ago. If by chance you've developed a familiarity with Japan's language and culture, AKIRA makes so much more sense, as it was animated for the Japanese language. The poor English dub job does nothing but distract BIG TIME. As Japan's economically exuberant and excessive 80's heyday fades further into the past, AKIRA will prove to be a relic of a cult imagination that may be fading as well. To watch it in English would be sacrilegious.In homage to this classic, I've titled my homepage AKIRA-TETSUO, which is named after that demonic anger and guilt you feel when you fail -- the emotion that you can harness to wreak atomic havoc upon this green planet earth. No happy ending with this cataclysmic movie.JYJimboduck-dot-com


                
It amuses me that so many people are appalled by the "graphic violence" of this film when they are the ones who will turn around and glorify a movie like "Silence of the Lambs" simply because it is live-action.  Akira completely dispels the myth that animation must be replete with characters who are super-deformed and randomly break into song.  This is a true emotional experience the likes of which Hollywood could not duplicate even if it tried.A gang of young motorcyclists get involved in a government plot involving the resurrection of "Akira," a force which once laid waste to Tokyo.  Now, in the Neo-Tokyo of the future, the youngest and lowliest of the gang, Tetsuo, ends up harnessing this extremely destructive power and goes on a rampage of telepathic mayhem to earn the fear of those who once bullied him relentlessly.  Beneath the violence in this movie lies the very touching story of this young man and his reconciliation with Keneda, his best friend.
One of the most moving scenes in the film is a flashback that shows the first meeting between the two when they were very young.  Though the other kids had bullied and harassed Tetsuo, Keneda was there to stick up for his now lifelong friend.  If those who watch Akira can discard their preconceived notions of what animation should be, they will find one of the most exciting, emotional, and rewarding films they will ever have the fortune of seeing.As a special side note, I personally prefer the dubbed version, which is executed very well by a talented cast of voice actors. My favorite line in the movie belonged to the Colonel: "They don't teach tact at the academy." Though it was adapted from a huge body of manga work, Akira was executed perfectly, being directed by its original creator, Katsuhiro Otomo.


                
This film is simply amazing! Takes place in the near future after the end of WWIII. It was supposed to be caused by a nuclear bombing on Tokyo. It was actually caused by a boy named Akira. His powers were woken suddenly and unexpectedly. The scientists, quick to take action, stepped in and abducted him. They pushed his mental powers to the limit and he lost control.Tokyo was destroyed in the resulting psionic explosion. Several years later another gifted child has escaped from the same institution and is involved in a motorcycle crash with a 16 year old kid name Tetsuo. When the military takes the kid away Tetsuo is taken with him. His childhood friend Kaneda watches as he is abducted. This leads to that and Kaneda is breaking into the facility where Tetsuo is being kept. Tetsuo wakes up in a hospital room and escapes the facility. He is constantly being contacted by Akira and goes to find him, leaving a trail of destruction in his wake. Tetsuo is lashing out at the world that oppressed him. Kaneda follows him trying to end the destruction and death. Tetsuo finds Akira... what's left of Akira and goes insane. Kaneda trys to kill him and Tetsuo loses control of his powers. Like the Akira incident a psionic explosion happens and the universe is reborn again. This is presented in stunningly detailed and extremely smooth cel animation. It remains a pinnacle achievement in animation technology. This is not for children. It is extremely violent and deranged. If you are not into anime you will be after watching this. If you haven't seen it already kill someone if you have to do so. Highly recommended. :)
In fact, Akira was the thing of my twin brother and as it was his, it was crap. (I know how much we can be dumb when we are kids but that's what adulthood is about). Well, I watched him collect all the books and above all, I heard a lot the rhythmic score in our parent's car! I remember to watch a few minutes years ago but it was senseless with Tetsuo calling "Kaneda", Kaneda calling "Tetsuo" and that was all.One week ago, I started to read the comic and it was hard to put it down: Contrary to traditional comics, the text is minimal so the pace is really dynamic and matches the story: as it deals with devastations, technology and mysticism, it's really Japanese at heart. The characters (Kaneda, Kei, Tetsuo, Kaori, the kids, the Colonel) are well studied and all the emotions are rich: humor, romance, courage, madness, faith, friendship... Otomo is a stunning artist too and the numerous devastations of Tokyo are among the best pages of comic ever. If there is a big slump between volumes 17 and 27, the last volumes are visually fascinating! Now, comes the movie: actually, it's 20 years old but it's not very outdated. At its release, it surely rocked the animation because there weren't a lot of productions like this. As for the adaptation, it's a good thing that Otomo was at the helm: The movie looks like the comic and vice versa. The story has been drastically cut for the screen but the core is still here(in fact, it's indeed the big slump mentioned that has been left). In addition, a lot of ideas have been rewritten so it's nearly like a special edition. Finally, the comic is so explosive that this animation is nonetheless less powerful. In other words, if you like the movie, read the comic because it's a thousand more epic and read "Domu" as well (it's a good prequel!).


                
when compared to some of the digitally edited anime on offer nowadays AKIRA seems almost antiquated with its soft hazy backgrounds and over emphasised facial expressions but if you look at the work as a whole, taking into account the staggering amount of man hours involved in each scene (there is almost constant movement in every shot, especially the traffic scenes!) and the ease with which the audience empathises with the characters, then you have to consider it to be the benchmark for future anime to be judged against. I love this film because it got me into anime! And it was one of the smartest films of it's genre, somehow adding acceptability to an otherwise entirely implausible plot. I love it, and I prefer the original to the anamorphic!


                
AKIRA is more than just a good film.  It is flat out great.  Its story is unequaled in the movie business and it is by far the best anime ever made, LODOSS being a close second.  But many people are turned off from AKIRA by reviews about its bloodbath and intense violence.  In fact, there is hardly ant blood in the movie.  A lot of people die, but much of it is not graphically shown.  Anyone 14 and above can, and should see this movie. It is appropriate, if the viewer is mature of mind, and delves into the realm of the human psyche vividly.  For anyone who loves real "ART", completely drawn except for one scene, and of a truly high caliber of films, then AKIRA is for you.  I have not seen the Subtitled version, but the dubbed one is extremely good and easy to follow the second time through.  LONG LIVE AKIRA!!!


                
I understand how some people feel: that this film has absolutely (or very very little) to do with the original books, or that there is no discernible plot. And I would agree. As a movie, AKIRA is very shallow. However, you have to understand what this movie has done to Anime. It was the movie that brought the anime craze to the United States. Also, just watch the movie from an art perspective. Just as a cartoon, this film blows all conventional anime standards out of the water. No current film has ever come close to what AKIRA did for anime, and I doubt any other traditionally made (cel) movie ever will. My thanks and congratulations to Katsuhiro Otomo's team.Kaneda's character in the film is much shallower as the one described in the manga. His real motivation is only mentioned once in the movies, when he says "Tetsuo is our friend, if anyone's going to kill him, it should be us." In the books, Kaneda's transformation from mere bike gang leader to head of an entire resistance is a slow one, and you can see his skill growing. He is motivated by sheer revenge in the beginning, revenge for Yamagata. Towards the end though, you can begin to see that his interest in the Akira Project itself is present. Unfortunately, the actual Project is not made perfectly clear in the movie version. A terrible shame, as it provides some interesting aspects of the behind-the-scenes of the story.*more to be updated in time*


                
I remember seeing this film when I was around oh, 8 or 9 years old, in full knowing of the adult content (I mean, the most violent animation I had seen previos was probably "Footrot Flats"). I didnt sit all the way through it (its a hell of a lot of story to consume) but the action in the first half entranced me like no other "Cartoon" had before ie I couldnt believe they allowed breasts and shot dogs in cartoons.I have since bought it myself, and it still, from start to finish entraps the imagination in its beautifully stunning animation, set pieces and unbelievable action. I would say the last half hour is the greatest action sequence ever portrayed on film, whether animated or not, and is enveloped in animation I believe far surpass' that of even Ghost In The Shell (which is saying a lot) especially considering its entirely hand drawn, which I appreciate greatly in animation.The storyline while being convoluted and incredibly hard to follow the first few times, and could alienate some viewers through its intricacies, opens up after several viewing and provides a great backdrop to the entire experience.I will admit one thing though. I have yet to see the subtitled version, and while sure to be superior to the dubbed, its not entirely necessary IMO. The American dubbing, while ruining a lot of the context (as anime dubbing does) its probably one of the best efforts I have heard. The characters voices really grow on you, and are all individual sounding with a lot of character differentiation.Overall it sits on my personal top ten, and provides a depth rarely seen in film, let alone animation.10/10.


                
This isn't just the best anime of all time.  I feel that it trancends its boundaries as an "anime" film and can rank amongst the all-time greats. What many don't understand in their haste to compare this to films like Princess Mononoke or Ghost in the Shell is that it came out about 12 and 7 years before those films, respectively.  Akira was so far ahead of its time, that it's actually aged very well.The story, centering around two members of a biker gang, actually goes so far in depth about the nature of their friendship that you actually forget about the theme of "man vs. nature" in the story.  The SE DVD was done really well and it plays really well on a good home theatre system.You can't possibly think of a film this layered as just another Japanese cartoon.  It set a high water mark for anime and along with films like Macross and Vampire Hunter D; was very instrumental in anime crossing the pacific to enjoy widespread popularity in the U.S.The only complaint I could think of at the moment is that much of the plot was toned down from the even more adult themes of the comic book anime that this was based on.  Although many people think that the original dubbed voices were poorly done, I think that they gave the movie some extra character and charm.


                
The first time I saw Akira was when I was young.  I remember thinking that the animation was superb but it was not until recently that I discovered it's true beauty.  The plot, whilst complicated, is a tremendous example of imagination and foresight.  The film draws you in and you really get a feeling of empathy for the characters.  I recommend this film whole-heartedly to anyone who wants more than stunning visuals and violence (Akira has a balance of both).


                
I've seen this movie over 30 times now, within a time spawn of 10 years (my first time was at 16) and this movie is unequaled!The story is incredibly inspiring, and the plot mystical! There hasn't been a single time that i didn't get a new insight or vision from watching this movie. It is so complicated i had to watch it at least 3 times before i could be able to begin to understand what is going on in this movie! I recommend to watch the movie Japanese spoken (i always do!) with English subtitles, because the Japanese brings out more of the culture and i fear that any translation other then English will diminish the incredible detail of the dialogs.I absolutely love the details everywhere: The junk laying around, the destroyed and decayed things that have not been repaired, the look in the eyes of people just walking about, the atmosphere of purposelessness and decay. Also admirable are the so very non-Hollywood little human things like for example: The annoying TV commercials, the dull hanging around of the gang being bored, and senseless chattering of a girl on the phone. Everything is just... real! Next to this, the quality of the animation is just overwhelming! You can see the dedication and hours and hours of work on every frame! No computer can make this kind of art...This movie is not just another movie... It is a piece of animated art that for me has as much Art-value as the Mona Lisa. My deepest respect and admiration to the makers of it!


                
"Akira" is a milestone in the worldwide human culture which is still going to affect generations to come<U+0085>Every single day some of us live through a rough day full of nerve wrecking experiences and unaccomplished dreams. Each one of us faced the problems which spawn from our modern way of life – a society bubbling with many various people full of egoistic purposes and goals. Each person has desires and runs head on 'till the wall of limitations stands in his/her way. We don't want to be mistook or underestimated, or wrong. We all want to succeed in what we do and achieve what we dream of. But in most of the cases people just in walls of prejudice and egoistic competition.We all strive for that freedom and success, fulfillment and happiness which go with accomplishing whatever you desire. That's what moved Tetsuo – unhappiness from childhood abuse and loneliness, dreams of being that arrogant bastard who is the leader of the pack. Kaneda is more pure hearted – he IS indeed the leader, he had the same troubled childhood, but he always chose to fight, to excel in whatever he does – fighting schoolmates, kicking rival motor gang leaders in the teeth, picking up dangerous chicks, or fighting monsters to save the world. He is just always ahead of his mates, his friends, his rivals. He of that sort of people who is always surviving to be better than the others. Not because he is actually something more than them, but because he decided that fear is not the answer to all the troubles which the dark world around him presents to him. Something which Tetsuo cannot understand. And that's why Akira has to take Tetsuo to another place, where there are no rules, there is no life yet, and the little prick can create whole new galaxies, full of darkness and light, primal worlds where he is not being defined and defied – possibilities which doesn't come with limitations. This is why Kaneda is suited better for this dystopian world – he can channel his rage and angst into excelling as a motorcycle rider, fighter and survivor.In our own modern world we strive to be better, but most of us are forced to compromise and suffer because of feeling fear and losing confidence and and resilience. It's essential to provoke every single day that same spark which we feel when watching Kaneda ride his bike. But most of the times we can't do that – every morning is a new opportunity to believe in the possibility of fulfilling our dreams. And right after that the day shows us that we simply cannot achieve everything as we want it. And then comes the fear. And the laziness which causes loss after loss. Because we simply cannot maintain that same level of excitement and energy which we had at one moment.This is why we need remember that we are just a glimpse in history, a blink of an eye in the life of a galaxy – and we cannot live with fear and compromise all the time. It is important to overcome most of the problems so that we can succeed in being whatever we want to be and become. Just to live how we want to live it and not regret it. That's how the colonel and Kaneda live. And that's why they survive after all the destruction. Maybe the human DNA is indeed changing and at one time we might be able to achieve whatever we want without the need to devise this internal energy somehow.Let's just enjoy the ride as we want it, and don't have any remorse about being good or bad.
Katsuhiro Otomo wasn't even finished with his sprawling, 6-volume, 2,000 page epic Akira when he got together with a huge team of animators to make the film. The books were hugely ambitious, combining Buddhist-influenced ruminations on the evolution of intelligence (What if something like an amoeba were given the power of a human? What if a human were given power far beyond itself?) with a sci-fi/action plot taking place in a post- annihilation Tokyo, featuring everything from teenage motorcycle gangs, covert military psionics research, and something called "Akira". In the film, Akira is a perpetual mystery. Until fairly close to the end, we can only guess from the facial expressions of those in the know whenever the name is uttered. In the books, however, Akira appears by book 2 of 6 and features heavily in the rest of the story. This is the main difference between the books and the film: While the film builds to one massive climax, the books have several gigantic climaxes along the way and, therefore, quite a few more notable characters. Lady Miyako, for instance, is a huge character in the books, but only glimpsed twice in the film, and only from afar. Joker, the head of the rival Clowns biker gang, only features in the opening sequence of the film and has no lines, whereas in the books he remains important until the end as an actual character. Other such massive aspects of the books' plot, such as the Neo-Tokyo Empire and the covert American military operations to stop it, are completely left out of the film. But somehow, all this shedding of material that seems quite important in the books only distills Akira down to its essentials. It keeps the jaw-dropping action sequences and the philosophical weight while slimming down the narrative structure to something that feels like a much more natural fit for film. The core characters - Kaneda, Tetsuo, Kei - are still fleshed out extremely well. All in all, though the actual worlds of the books and the film are quite different, it would be impossible to say either world is better (though more hardcore fans will definitely pick the books since there is simply much more to sink your teeth into). So I recommend you watch this film, though not on an occasion where you just want something light and fluffy. It's dark, it's a bit gory, and most of all, it's extremely heavy. If you come away wanting more, then you should definitely check out the books.


                
Not often does a movie come out that has both kick-ass action and storyline, but also a deep hidden meaning and some huge questions. 2001 must have been one of the first, even though it's "coolness" has faded over four decades. Since then, every now and then movie-makers has decided to coat existentialism with action-packed innovation. Matrix is one of the latest to mix the two in a good way.Akira is another of those movies. The story starts out on a pretty basic level but quickly unfolds at a brisk rate which forces you as a viewer to keep your eyes peeled. This is made very easy in Akira by the amazing visuals, the fast and sometimes mysterious storyline and a kicking soundtrack.Akira is raw and uncompromising, the action is over-the-top and spectacular, the setting(Neo-Tokyo) is fantastic, and the characters intriguing. At the end of the movie, we also get a good dose of theology/science ideas thrown at us for good measure. Combine all of these and you're in for quite a ride.Akira was one of the movies that started the Manga phenomena outside Japan. It's not hard to see why. Even though I've seen very little Manga, the few movies I have seen has convinced me that the Japanese have a lethal advantage over Western animation. Nothing wrong with that either. The best outcome is, of course, that Hollywood smartens up and starts to come up with some cool ideas themselves. We'll just have to wait and see. Until that happens, there's still a ton of Japanese movies to see.


                
I really don't have much affinity for anime. I love animated films, but, frankly, beyond Miyazaki, I'm not a fan of this distinctly eastern artform. Ninja Scroll and Ghost in the Shell mean nothing to me. Though a typical anime film in many ways, Akira seems different from all the rest. It's a fascinating film with wonderful animation, and it doesn't contain the softcore pornography that often passes for artistry in the anime world. It's been several years since I last saw this film, so only moments remain. What I remember: the apocalyptic showdown and some demented teddy bear spewing milk while the eeriest music I've ever heard plays. First, lets take the apocalypse--I love apocalyptic works of art; Mad Max, the Watchmen, Threads, etc. all had a tremendous impact on me growing up. Perhaps because I grew during an era of nuclear proliferation, I have always been terrified of World War III. Watching the Russian tanks travel across the wasteland of Afghanistan remains with me to this day, as does the fear that accompanied those images. Akira, at its end, taps into those childhood fears and those experiences awaiting the end of the world as we know it. This is an incredibly personal reaction, I realize, but one that I probably share with a lot of people between the ages of 25 and 40. And then there's the teddy bear. It's probably the single most disorienting and frightening scene in the history of animated film. While in a hospital room (and while probably drugged, I don't remember), one of the characters has visions of two stuffed animals grow to gigantic proportions. Milk starts pouring out of them (I think, maybe I'm imagining all of this) and this strange, frightening music plays. It's terrifying and brilliant. One should watch the film if only for those two scenes. The story, as I remember it, is fun as well, involving secret government tests and such. It's got a whiff of conspiracy to it, and that tends to make things better. All in all, a great little movie. If you like cinema at all, see it, and, if you think you don't like anime, then watch this and be amazed that you can stomach the stuff.
I am a 15 year old boy and i bought AKIRA for my psp. i went to buy pro evo 5 but i was 49p short and because i am an impatient punk i didn't want to walk back and get more money. When i watched AKIRA that night my life changed, my friends say I'm obsessed with the film and i know they would not appreciate the film if they did watch it. If you have not seen this film go and buy it now you will either love it or hate it (like marmite)if you hate it then at least you wont spend your life wondering what would my life be like if i bought AKIRA but if you are one of the people that grasp the intelligence and over coolness of the film you will never regret buying it for a second. And you will look back with sorrow at all the wasted AKIRA free years and think,"why did someone not tell me about this film", this is the only Japanese animie film i have seen but it will not be the last AKIRA has opened my eyes to a different kind of film, a kind of film without actors that are in love with themselves and in which the word impossible is nonexistent i hope you will take my advise and go out and buy AKIRA right now...stop reading this and buy it!


                
Like the introductory nuke that sets up the back story, Akira exploded upon the western hemisphere with the power of 10'000 pounds of pure TNT. Wasn't animation supposed to be cute? Wasn't there supposed to be song and dance routines, fluffy animal sidekicks and good old fashioned morals interspersed between moments of slapstick comedy and saucer-eyed shenanigans? Thankfully, in Japan they do things differently; in Japan, animation is cool.Akira blew my mind when I saw it at the impressionable age of 15. I wasn't a complete noob, but still I had no idea what I was in for when I popped that crispy VHS tape into my noisy VCR. This movie had everything my teenage fantasies craved; ultra stylized and ultra violent sci-fi action more than a decade before the Matrix with production values that (now) nearly 20 years old still rock. There are scenes in this film drawn with more precision than a computer rendering, that look more alive because of that added human touch.And there's a story to go with it. My animation instructor claimed Akira had nothing more than people yelling at each other in it (he was a little biased tho, having been influenced by only the western animation greats like ... well, none of their names come to mind because I was only influenced by Japanese ones! No wait, Tex Avery, got one! hah!...) Needless to say, I pity him and never did forgive him for his stupidity.This is a masterpiece, something that must be seen. The original Streamline dub is better than the new Panasonic one, even though it is probably less accurate it left more to the imagination. But don't let that or the steep asking price deter you from the new DVD. There's tons of special features, from the Akira production report (30 mins) to 100s of character designs and background paintings to frame through. And the digital mastering brings out the picture and color in a way that makes my VHS tape weep tears of joy.If you haven't seen it, I can't give AKIRA a higher recommendation.


                
(****) Out of four starsAkira is far underrated, and should be easily in the top 250 movies. The story is innovative, and draws you into the plot in a matter of minutes. The surreal and futuristic society portrayed, is one that few if any other movies can match. The music and cinematography intermix perfectly, as Kaneda and Tetsuo lead the cast in a whirlwind of explosions, mystery, and mesmerizing visuals.The story opens with a cataclysmic explosion, that sets the pace for the rest of the movie, and then from there goes into a heart-racing bike chase, in which Kaneda's superiority over Tetsuo is established.From here on out, words cannot describe the visual aspects of the film, and the plot line is unlike anything that you can read. Watch the movie for yourself, and not just as a good anime film, but as a superb film in general.


                
This was the first Japanese animation movie I ever saw -- I was totally unprepared what I was in for, and left the cinema stunned and amazed.  For me, without any doubt, Akira is a seminal film.  The story, animation, everything is perfect.  The soundtrack is something else, absolutely the best I know and a piece of art in its own right -- the voices of the dolls Akira sees in his nightmare, for example, are pygmies, not children or a studio effect.  I bought the OST as a super expensive import CD for one of my girl friends, and the daft cow completely failed to appreciate it ... oh well, her loss.This movie makes Disney look very, very old.  Absolutely a must - see -- 11 / 10.


                
This is a movie that you got to watch twice.  It's a great movie but it's really confusing and I just don't understand the end.  However the animation is brilliant and the animation is strong this film most definately is not for everyone.  You better have a strong stomach for the climax.  Very gross. Enjoy.


                
I guess I should start off by saying that I'm a Japanimation fan ever since I was little. I always enjoyed watching robots fight it out on tv. Then of course I grew up, and became more and more interested in animations and I thought I should watch a full-length anime. I went down to the local video store and a little package in the corner of the shelf caught my eye. I picked up the video and was first introduced to the best anime of all times : "AKIRA".I was absolutely enthralled when I first viewed AKIRA. Even though I felt that the story was complicated, it did nothing to effect my judgement of the film. In fact I liked the mysterious feeling the movie gave me the first time I looked at the futuristic Tokyo with all the skyscrapers,lights, and the incredible artwork it was presented in.The character animation in this film is by far the best I've seen. The characters moved fluidly and realistically, showing off a wide range of emotions. The voices were equally well done, the speech actually matches the character's mouth movement. This can be seen by watching the subtitled version of the film, which I consider to be the better version.One of the things that stands out in this movie is the detailed background. The futuristic Tokyo was brought to life in it's full glory. Complete with detailed texture on buildings, realistic lighting effects, and constant movement in the background make the film extremely atmospheric. Along with a powerful and unforgettable soundtrack. You'll be sucked into the animated world in no time.The story like I said is very complicated, and will require multiple viewing to fully understand. Basically in a nutshell the film is about a secret army experiment on ESP that can render a test subject so powerful he/she can destroy with only their will. The main characters come from a motorcycle gang, the leader Kanada, and his friend Tetsuo. In one of the battles with a rival gang. Tetsuo was seriously injured and was taken to a military hospital, where he became a test subject for the army. He gained more and more power and finally escaped from the hospital. On the verge of insanity, Tetsuo swept through Tokyo with his supernatural abilities and it's up to Kanada and his rebel friend Kay, plus a trio of psionics to stop Tetsuo and prevent the destruction of the whole city, perhaps even the world.If you want to fully appreciate AKIRA, i suggest you watch it at least 3 times so you can full piece together all the subplots.I've said all I can about AKIRA. I can say no more if I do not wish to spoil the story for those of you who haven't seen it. All I can say is no matter if you are an Animation fan or not. Go rent AKIRA and enjoy it, you won't regret it. Because this is the best animation ever made and there'll never be one like it ever again.


                
"Akira" is one of the most visually potent animated films of all time.  Set in a darkly futuristic version of modern-day Tokyo, this tale tells of several people trying to stop mentally unbalanced adolescent from turning the city into rubble by the use of enhanced mental abilities.  I have seen this movie twice and I still cannot believe how spooky and disturbing it is. The plot is hard enough to follow that it might require a second viewing. This is a movie to watch if you really to have some fun experiencing the anime genre.The animation is exceptional considering it came out before the advent of computer-assisted animation.  Now, it looks even better since it is digitally remastered.  I believe this is the best animated work to have come out of the Land of the Rising Sun.  It is quiet possibly the most beautiful classically (aka sans computer assistance) animated film of all time even though it was probably one of the last ones to ever be made in the classic sense.  Overall, Katsuhiro Otomo has created visual and even psychological potpourri that will leave an etch on the psyche of animation for all time despite the country of origin.  Animated films that were released after "Akira" and that have yet to be released have looked and will continue to look "Akira" for inspiration because of how groundbreaking it actually was.  This movie introduced me to the anime genre but nothing will probably overtake "Akira" as being my all-time favorite anime film.  10 out of 10!


                
I remember that when I first rented the video tape of Akira, I didn't like it, most likely because I didn't understand it.  But after waiting 2 months for the special edition DVD of Akira, I gave it a second chance.  The second time, I loved it!  What probably drew me into it was the stunning and beautiful animation.  A second factor that probably drew in even deeper, was the musical score.  It is definitely the best I've ever heard.  The violence here isn't really as graphic as some people have made it out to be.  Yes, people get shot, yes there are bodies exploding, yes when people get punched or hit by foreign objects, blood does flow, but all the blood and gore here is sustained.  I won't lie.  I DID rent this movie expecting a gratuitous bloodbath, but to my surprise there isn't really all that much violence as in terms of graphic violence.  Akira gets a 10/10


                
