Before I start, let me say that my experience of this movie might have been influenced by the dubbing, which I gather from other comments was the original one which is considered inferior by some.  So, it is entirely possible that subtitles or the apparently new DVD version would make a difference.  I have also not read the corresponding book; I'm only familiar with one other Japanese manga and might be lacking cultural context.Potential minor spoilers ahead.I usually like darkly tinged science fiction stories (the likes of Blade Runner, 12 Monkeys, etc.), but I did not enjoy this movie at all.  While it started out mildly intriguing, it became tedious by the time it was only half-way finished.  There are all sorts of problems; let's start with what is probably the most severe: the dialogue.  The characters seem unable to formulate complete sentences; if they aren't shouting each other's names for the n-th time, they are usually grunting monosyllables ("Kanedaaa!", "Tetsuoooo!", "Huh?", "Grrr", etc.).  This leaves most of the characters entirely underdeveloped and two-dimensional.  It doesn't help in the least that a lot of them get only a few minutes of screen time without anything interesting to say that would develop them away from the stereotypes suggested by the visuals.The grunting is augmented by some random pseudo-philosophical technobabble that sounds vague and uninspired even by Star Trek standards.  There is nothing deep and meaningful here - it all seems haphazard, thrown together at random from various bits and pieces of stock sci-fi ideas with no coherency whatsoever.What little there is of an intelligible plot is no more than an excuse to begin the overlong final sequence which consists of escalating scenes of mayhem and destruction.  Not that there's anything wrong with a nice bit of mayhem and destruction, of course; but in this case you'll find yourself asking "what's the point of it all, and how long until it's over". Character development in the last 30 minutes or so consists of little more than Tetsuo turning into Pizza the Hutt for no readily apparent reason.The ending resembles the one in 2001 - a bizarre string of images that, far from resolving or explaining anything, leave the viewer feeling he's just been looking into a kaleidoscope for two hours.  I'm sure some will claim that this sort of thing is art; but to me it was just a lot of admittedly imaginative use of colour and shapes.  (Some of the music was also quite interesting).  Unfortunately it's all style and no substance.Tired of Disney?  Want to watch animated movies dealing intelligently with "adult" themes?  I'm sad to say you're more likely to find that sort of thing in "South Park".
I remember seeing this in my teens and being distinctly underwhelmed. But Akira is a film whose stature has grown with time so I thought it would be worth another look in my thirties. It's taken me five days to get to the final third as I keep falling asleep.Many reviewers have commented on the beautiful animation that to me looks utterly average. Many have also mentioned the character development, which presumably impresses people who've never read a book. Still others praise the apocalyptic nature of Akira, which is never believable for an instant. Some decry the film for its gore content, which would at least have kept me awake.I guess I just don't get this kind of film. Seems to me like fodder for culture-starved teens and emotionally immature adults.Hmmmmmmm.
Well, firstly I have to say that perhaps the American audiences were not exposed to too many Japanese anime. For one, I think this animated movie has been over-hyped by the American public. Frankly, I grew up watching anime and think this is one of the most mediocre. Many other anime have better story, graphics, character-developments and following. If you ask enough Asians about this movie, they would probably have the same comment. This is seriously not as good as you really think.


                
Like wise, Akira was (and is) considered a great Anime film for one reason, it was one of the first to be brought to American television. That is the only reason. The Animation itself is NOT typical Anime, just a fat Americanized version of the thin slender, big eyed wonders that wander the screens of Japanese houses. The only reason I gave it a 2 is because of the fantastic story line that has stayed almost the basis for all Anime plots brought to America. DROP IT EVERYONE, Akira is NOT A CULT FILM, just the first Anime seen by general public.Accept the fact that it sucks, no one is forcing you to like it. I hope Japanimation lives forever but no through this pale version of a violent, fat, Disney cartoon.If you want to view authentic 'anime' watch Ninja Scroll, Demon City Shinjuko, Appleseed... basically everything else except this.


                
It is an okay animation nothing close to the ghost in the shell class, in any category you can take. I was suggested that I would like this movie if I liked GITS. what happened? I was so enraged by that suggestion. So here I am warning GITS fans. If you like most animation movies, you might like this one too. If you even like the ones that are conceived with some adolescent's level ambiguous maturity without much character development you might like this movie too. Otherwise you should stay clear of this. I cant think of anything commendable about this movie. That makes me really wonder how the movie has been given such a good rating.


                
This was the game changer? Really? Wow. I can't believe that a movie with such poor writing is considered one of the all-time greats, the anime that brought the medium to The West. Its 2 hours long, but its worse than Genocyber in terms of character development and explanation. I felt helpless as the plot unfolded, each point more out-of-damn-nowhere than the last. Things only happen because Akira wants them to. Who cares about logic? As if there's a reward for interpreting the cryptic writing. These characters are awful. Most of the cast has no personality beyond their role: "biker", "colonel", "scientist", or "politician". The two lone exceptions are Tetsuo and Kaneda. Tetsuo apparently has a huge inferiority complex that makes him homicidal immediately after getting his powers. We barely see him struggle, but we hear him b!?$% about it throughout. Kaneda is just a dumbass. Rude, violent, and annoying, without any backstory. Instead of creating a strong relationship between these two, all we get is bike chase scenes and yelling the other's name.The saddest part is, honestly, the animation is among the best out there. The level of detail on such a grandiose city is astounding. The animation is smooth, and it overall conveys the dark tone. The weird moans and yells of the soundtrack also strangely work out. Too bad its wasted! This is one of the worst written films I've seen. Akira cares far more about fast bikes and bloody deaths than character development. Not one character resonated with me, and the ass-pull ending was emotional anti-matter. I hate this movie.


                
