For its time, Akira set new standards in animation. However, a movie is more than just visuals. In this respect, while ground-breaking on a technological level, Akira is a failure as a movie. It features unlikeable, boring, often-stereotypical characters with poor character designs. And the plot does little to make up for the lackluster characters. At best, it's a very rough synopsis of over twenty volumes of manga. At worst, it's an utter train wreck.Rather than seeing Akira as a movie, viewers should consider it an animated "omake" to the manga. If you liked the manga, and always wanted to see certain scenes in action, then it's worth watching. In that respect, it's sort of like the movies your annoying uncle takes of his vacation. If he vacationed in Hell.One notable thing about Akira is its exceptional soundtrack. Even if you never watch the movie, it's worth giving a listen.


                
It is my opinion that Akira is no masterpiece for several reasons: I can't find any likable characters in the movie. Kaneda and Tetsuo are members of a biker gang, and when I thought about it they're just sociopaths and aren't any better than their rival gangs. By the end none of the characters really develop or learn anything, and the ones that were killed off I assume is because they simply weren't useful anymore.I find the movie visually unappealing and confusing. Most of the youthful characters were so plain and similar, they looked like they were made with a cookie cutter and I couldn't tell them apart. Kaneda and the female protagonist looked like they could have been siblings if not the same person. In contrast any character in their twenties or older was positively hideous for whatever reason. And you'll here this from every poor review: it is pointlessly gory and full of confusing grotesque creatures.The plot is full of unanswered questions some of which include "what's with the kids who look like old people?" "what's with the killer stuffed animals, and why are they bleeding milk?" "Where did Kaneda find a laser gun without anyone stopping him?" And I felt cheated by the end when I spent the whole time thinking: "Akira? who's Akira? When are we going to see Akira." Only to find out Akira was dead the whole time... At this point in the movie I feel they ran out of ideas so they just filled it with grotesque nonsense and nothing was accomplished.I give it a 2.5/10
The fact that this movie is animated, and it comes from Japan for most people is enough to give it a good mark. The story is typical of an anime. It's the future.. and things are rough. A bunch of powerful people want to unlock some long forgotten power to make everything better. However, things don't go as planned. That's about it. The direction in this movie was my biggest gripe, it was way too sporadic and the story didn't flow well at all. People like to say 'well you know.. it's the first anime to get 5 stars in North America'. Those are the same folks that think effeminate greased up men with giant swords are the coolest thing ever.


                
The manga on which this movie is based (written by the director) runs for over 1000 pages, but this movie not only couldn't compress all of the plot, it was also done before the manga was finished. This is the reason why the plot is almost non-existent and the end is obscure. If you're in for great visuals, see this film. but if you're not then expect to be bored. very bored. for better anime check anything by Miyazaky.


                
Animation wise this holds up pretty well and is watchable with good style. But as far as plot and story goes it doesn't make a whole lot of sense and i don't find it rather compelling. It may symbolism how the advancements of technology comes at some sort of cost. But i in know way feel i can relate this to myself and normal life. Character building is a mess and the actions characters choose don't make logical sense along with the repercussions of these actions. I would not go back to watch it and wouldn't recommend it either unless your seeking vintage anime. I also don't understand why there has to be a 10 line minimum for reviews it is inconceivable to think people would do this for shows they have watched.


                
While trying to concentrate on watching the rest of this movie, I just couldn't keep up with it. There was too much action going on and like it made it hard for me to understand what was actually happening. Yeah I know its about a boy in a motorcycle gang who are trying to defeat a government who kidnapped their friend. However, I found that things all came at once.I don't understand why Kanye West or anyone would call this a masterpiece because its so confusing and you have to keep up with it, otherwise you would be lost as me. I've watched better anime's then this I'm afraid.........
It's not for me. I can see why this appeals to so many people, the animation is fantastic for an older film, but it doesn't appeal much to me. It's depressing and too dark, and the biggest gripe I had was the blink-and-you-miss it appearance of the title character. Sure they yammer about Akira the whole movie but you barely see him at all. If you're going to name the entire movie after a character, why make it one that only appears for what amounts to the last four minutes of the movie? In my opinion he may as well not have even been in the movie. While in the same vein, how about how Tetsuo's powers appear? So let me get this straight, he almost runs over a gargoyle-like psychic with a motorcycle, who blows up said motorcycle the moment before he gets hit to escape unscathed while leaving Tetsuo half dead in the road, and somewhere in the intermediary between those two events he gets powers. SOMEHOW. So in this universe the easiest way to get psychic powers is to lurk around government facilities and commit vehicular manslaughter?I didn't like the characters much either. They were street thugs, I get it, but think about it. If they weren't jerks, Tetsuo wouldn't have been out wrecking stuff with the rest of the gang, and therefore wouldn't have almost killed the gargoyle, and no one would have died. Literally the only reason that anything happens is that Tetsuo and his friends are violent destructive heathens! Upon reflection I don't really find anything likeable in any of the main characters aside from the psychics. They were just fine in my opinion, although the voice actors were a little flat in my opinion.That's not to say that it's a bad movie. Far from it, it is exceptionally well made. It does its job of being a dark, gritty anime, with no detail spared. The characters react as expected, given their characters, and they do feel believable. But the bleak downward spiral ending in Tokyo turning into a crater is just to dark for me to find any appeal in.. I honestly do see why people love this film, but I personally find it hard to find any appeal in.
