The truest words spoken in Akira are when Kaneda screams (Kaneda does nothing but scream) "Where the hell am I friggin going?". By that time this thing has gone off the deep end. I have to give it a few points for the fine animation and for having influenced other, future, better movies. But, beyond that, geeeeez. This thing consists of violence, screaming, violence, swearing, violence, some Blade Runneresque neighborhoods, violence, and more screaming. When the lead characters are punks with inferiority complexes who ride around trying to smack people on the head with lead pipes, well, who gives a ($*@$*#($!! It really does need some kind of theoretical physical framework, because all systems are definitely not nominal in Akira.
I feel that Akira is a highly stereotypical anime blood bath.  It has decent artwork and an underdeveloped plot line.  Watch the movie for blood and guts action, not much else.  All in all it lacked the depth and thought of other anime.


                
Akira is the kind of movie that seems to inspire extreme loyalty from the vocal minority who have seen it.  Overall though, it's only an average movie.  The story is pretty weak, and like all anime, the drawn characters are guilty of 'over-acting'.


                
((Warning: MILD spoilers ahead))The good:* Very nice animation, although it sometimes seems choppy and other times it is as detailed as a Saturday morning cartoon. I wonder if there was more than one team working on this movie, since the animation quality is not consistent.* Special effects. The streaking lights on the motorbikes are superb, and they compliment the action nicely.* 5.1 / THX soundtrack. In DVD format, this movie has terrific sound and video quality.The bad:* Forget about understanding the plot if you never read the comic.* Editing is terrible. Imagine a cartoon version of Battlefield Earth (minus the dorky angles, terrible acting, and blandness). It all adds up to a confusing mess of a movie.* The pacing is bad. The first half of the movie goes by pretty quickly. The second half is boring and confusing.The ugly:* What's up with the scenes where a 15 year old has her clothes ripped off and she is clobbered viciously? Isn't this illegal? Bad taste... really bad taste.* Vices galore. Drinking, drug abuse, and violence. I thought these were only Hollywood traits.* The level of aggresivity in this movie is way high. Way too high. It makes Fight Club seem tame in comparison. We get the idea on the first motorcycle scene; so why emphasize it over and over again during the entire picture? Is this a trick to make us believe the movie is great, when in reality it is just violent?The verdict: you might have to watch it once, since it is really interesting (much more than the overrated Ghost in the Shell), but it is ultimately confusing, a bit boring, and unfulfilling. It's one of those movies you come out with a feeling of emptiness you didn't have in the first place.
You can summarize story of Akira into this one line: "There was an energy named Akira."SO WHAT?The painting 'was' marvelous at that time. But for now, that is out-dated.Boo. 7.6 rating score for this candy-looking movie with no meaning at all but just pretending being serious? It's no better than Final Fantasy Movie.


                
I am not familiar with anime, or Japanimation, or manga, or any other sort of Asian animation style. I watched Akira because of its reputation as one of the best films of its genre. Evaluating Akira as a film, however, as opposed to a cultural phenomenon, I thought it was disappointing. The animation style is very detailed and glossy, although in 2002 (with films such as Shrek, Toy Story, Final Fantasy, and Waking Life in circulation) the visuals in Akira are nothing special - they even seem somewhat dated. What really bothered me about the film was the lack of interesting characters, uneven pacing, and an alternately boring and incoherent plot. What could have been an interesting story about human evolution and government conspiracies gets stuck in a teenage biker gang soap opera before falling off the metaphysical deep end in the last twenty minutes. This might make sense to people who are familiar with anime styles and stories (I think that Akira was a book before it became a film), but speaking as someone who is not versed in that folklore I was left scratching my head in confusion and not enjoying this cinematic experience. I give the film 4/10.


                
(Dubbed version). I was really interested in watching "Akira", since everybody still mentions it as a cornerstone of Japanese animation, 25 years after its release (1988).You van definitely tell that the animation still looks pretty good, 25 years after. A lot of details in the backgrounds, and the way the main characters were draw. It is important to also mention, that the scenes of violence and topics covered (anarchy, experimentation in human subjects) were not common in animation by 1988 (at least in western animation, which is the one I am familiar with), which is probably also one of things that makes it a hallmark in animation.However, after watching the movie, I was never too engaged with the plot. In my opinion, there were too many things going at the same time (the fight of Kei's revolutionary group, what was the whole point of the ester's, the concept of the internal energy in every human) that did not allow me to focus in any of them, so I felt the narrative and the story a bit chopped.I know it might be because they tried to condensate a whole manga into a movie, but these should be 2 independent pieces of art, the movie should not rely on you reading the book to understand it, otherwise what is the point.Overall, I was not fully satisfied by the movie, making it an experience that I did not hate neither enjoy. (I learned also that I am not the biggest fan of Cyberpunk, as Akira belongs to this SciFi genre) Score (5)


                
This is an interesting film. The story is sophomoric and the characters are, well, cartoons. But the cinematic world is interesting. The creator was clearly brimming with ideas, and these are obviously from his print efforts.This was done using print techniques. meaning that the animation is drawn and page-sequenced rather than using what are now common computerized techniques. So this may be the best of the films that are 'hard-edged.'The art itself is all cartoon, meaning each object and person has sharp outlines. This is hardly unique, even with modern (but cheap) animation. But at least here, you have some clever shading and use of complementary colors. Few colors are used throughout. Shadows and blends are also "hard" of course.More interesting is the hardness elsewhere. Because this is cell art, there is no motion blurring. Its lack is jarring once you've gotten used to films which use it, so because of its age, this film has already achieved a curious antique effect of hard motion. Obviously, the animator was aware of this, because he uses extreme discontinuities between shots. The result isn't just simple choppiness, as others have noted, but a continuation of the punkish style of hard edges, as well as an evocation of comic panels.Stupid story, but curiously stylish, dated animation.


                
