While, this movie wasn't a success, when it first came out during its limited U.S theatrical release, this film has garnered a large following as a cult film since then. Akira led the way for the second wave of anime fandom outside of Japan and is a major influence on live-action films. Now, it's widely considered to be one of the best anime to come to the United States. In Japan, this movie is considered by many critics to be one of the greatest animated and science fiction movies of all time. I wouldn't go that far, into the praise, but I do love the way, Akira use imagery and themes regarding revolution, teenage delinquency, and political/religion incompetence, to show the deep clashes of cultures, between the new age beliefs and tradition values. It all build up to the inevitable destruction of the old and the rebirth of a new society. However, the film relies so heavily on symbolism, surrealism & absurdism, that it fails to connect with everybody. Some people might get lose, with some the film's many motifs, such as the image of a capsule that repeated throughout the story or the double helix shows up several times. Since, most of the character designs and settings were adapted from the original manga, the restructured plot of the movie differs considerably from the print version, toward the last half of the film. Without spoiling it, just note different characters dies and lives than the manga. So don't worry, if you get confused by the odd visuals, because I was also asking 'WTF', was I watching, even after reading the manga novels. Lot of the character development and back-story was left out from the novel. Even, the majority drug abuse concept of the manga seem, to non-existed, here. Instead, it focus on an evolution theory that doesn't really go anywhere. Then, there is the fact, that a lot of the flashbacks, they did use, were edited in the film in the wrong spots. It made the film, so much more baffled. It's doesn't help, that the science-fiction manga in which, it was based & named after, is indeed a long read, so not everything about their world, can be put in the 121 minutes, run-time of the film. No matter if you're a first time viewer or a fan, the film does get a bit messy at times. Directed by the same author, and artist from the manga version, Katsuhiro Otomo; the film depicts a dystopian version of Tokyo in the year 2019, call Neo-Tokyo with cyberpunk tones. It's here, where the odd plot comes into play, focusing on teenage biker Tetsuo Shima (Voiced by Nozomu Sasaki) and leader of his biker gang, Shotaro Kaneda (Voiced by Mitsuo Iwata) being expose to psychic powers from the government, that would wipe out, their world. What a lot of western viewers like myself, was surprised by, is the amount of violence and adult-driven themes. It was very rare to see that, in animation, at the time. The body horror in the night was and still is, visually haunting for me. This Japanese anime film contained some of the most kinetic sequences in animation history as well. All of the action scenes, were really made well. It gave the film, an epic scale of detail, movement, and fluidity. Akira has often been considered the greatest animated film of all time, with advanced technical features, such as highly-detailed scenes with textures, shadows, unusual colors, and seamless animation with over 160,000 animation cels. Computer-generated imagery was used in the film, primarily to animate the pattern indicator used by Doctor Onishi, but it was additionally used to plot the paths of falling objects, model parallax effects on backgrounds, and tweak lighting and lens flares. At its time, it was the most expensive film ever produced in Japan with $8 million. It's kinda cool that movie had the destruction of Tokyo occur on July 16th, 1988, the day that the movie had its Japanese theatrical debut, it was the same way; the manga told their story in 1982. The film has also been dubbed twice into English — once in 1988 by InterSound & later with Streamline Pictures and Geneon AKA Animaze via Pioneer in 2001, leading to a misconception that they produced it themselves. In my opinion, I like the Japanese version with the subtitles than the English version. There is just something, not right with the English dubbing. With the English editions, some of the original Japanese dialogue is lost or mistranslated. I also not a huge fan of the movie's soundtrack by Shoji Yamashiro (pseudonym of Tsutomu Ohashi). Some of the music on there is very unlistenable. I can hardly stand the heavy breathing mixed with pounding of the drums. It hurts my ears, so much. Overall: While, a live-action film adaptation version might or might come, one day to renew fans, for the most part, this movie will be best known for its sharp animation. Still, the confusing plot and downer feel of the movie, doesn't make it, a great watch. It's still one of the most memorable anime of all time. However, I can't recommended everybody to see it. In the end, if you're a fan of anime, check it out. If not, there is better anime films to introduce you to that genre.
This is the "Watchmen" of the Orient. An awesome masterpiece which has so much to say to young people. The struggle in 2019 in Neo-Tokyo by the orphaned teenagers is our struggle. We identify with Tetsuo and his horrifying decent from childhood into manhood and beyond. A marvelous superhero story and the human relations. Tetsuo´s girlfriend and "best friend" we know and understand these problems. Akira remains the elusive opponent of Tetsuo. But in reality the battle is not between Tetsuo and Akira but between Tetsuo, his friends and the leaders of Neo-Tokyo. I cannot emphasize how much I recommend this movie. It is the animated version of Kurosawa blending with the modern art of Tsukamoto´s "Tetsuo" which is definitely build on "Akira". I didn´t know that until I saw it today. I guess it has something to do with the Japanese concept of "Manga". Anyhow, don´t believe the "low" rating for Akira on IMDB. This is one of the most important films ever made. 10/10.


                
Without a doubt one of the best Manga`s ever. Akira possesses the stunning fast paced animation that only Manga have been able to achieve, however it is not just that which makes it a classic, the story-line is detailed and in depth and never leaves the viewer bored, the dubbing is superb (and believe me, it makes a difference!) The music, although a bit annoying at first, complements the atmosphere very well. Overall these are the aspects that have allowed Akira to gain a cult following, and rightly so at for that matter!


                
Before reading this review, understand that I am over 40 and am not an avid anime fan. I have watched MANY anime movies (my daughter is NUTS about anime) but my primary interest is in Japanese movies (such as those by Akira Kurasawa---a DIFFERENT "Akira" from the one in this movie). So, look at my review in this light.Artistically, this movie is brilliant. When I was a kid, Japanese animation meant crap such as KIMBA or SPEED RACER--very choppy style animation and in their American form ONLY for the kids! Calling that old stuff AND this movie "anime" seems like a disservice because of this. Instead of poor backgrounds and extremely low frame-rates that made the shows look more like slide shows than cartoons, Akira abounds with high quality animation, backgrounds, intense sounds and action! This is certainly NOT "your father's anime".So why only a score of 7? Well, the story is incredibly confusing---even for anime. I felt like I needed a script so I could logically follow along or that MAYBE the translation into English subtitles was flawed (I've seen this ruin several movies before).In addition to being totally confusing, the main characters are unlikable street thugs. It's hard to get into a movie when you just don't like ANYONE (well, maybe I liked the one freaky kid who had neat mental powers).But, for lovers of anime and anyone who wants to see an incredibly intense and high quality Japanese animation movie, this will definitely be a must-see. HOWEVER, I STRONGLY WARN PARENTS TO CONSIDER WHETHER OR NOT TO LET THEIR KIDS SEE THIS. The movie, is at times, intense and gory AND features one attempted rape that gets pretty graphic! If you aren't sure if your kids are ready, they probably aren't!


                
I don't know where to begin with this. This is a wild ride.I struggle to make sense of it. Does it even make sense? I don't know!What starts as generally semi-dystopian motorcycle gang yarn turns into a stunning piece of large scale body horror that seems to have something to say and a very loud (if poorly articulated) way of saying it.It's spectacular.It can drag in places and none of there are no really well developed characters but I liked the zeitgeist of motor gangs and how it felt at once futuristic yet retro with their gals, the masculine teasing and the disregard for law enforcement and refinement yet a respect for the fine craft of motorcycle maintenance.No masterpiece but something that needs to be seen. By the non-squeamish...


                
I'm not a big anime guy so up until now there are not a lot of movies I can compare AKIRA to. But with regards to the dystopian setting, GHOST IN THE SHELL is a particularly obvious comparison.AKIRA does not feel as tight as Mamoru Oshii's masterpiece but they are definitely on par in terms of profoundness. While GHOST IN THE SHELL ponders what could be, Katsuhiro Otomo's movie reflects on the past - especially japanese history - and toys with elements of surrealism to bridge the gap between between the sociological and philosophical layers of the movie.


                
I wanted to like this movie so bad. I heard a lot of great comments by friends about this movie, they built to much hype that I expected way more. It went to a whole different direction from what I thought. The poster looks really cool and I thought it would be about motorcycles, but then I watched and was very disappointed. Don't get me wrong, the animation is really good, the colors and the idea, but the movie had much more potential. The characters are not very appealing and their expressions are awkward at times. Maybe I would like it more if I had watched it as a kid.


                
The common theme you will see in virtually every review of this film is the critical acclaim for the vivid imagery and uncanny animation in this film. The story is both deep and shallow. The nuanced layers of meaning are fascinating to examine on multiple viewings. The characterization is a bit lacking for my taste however , The story's surreal cyber-punk dystopian sci-fi elements mixed with stunning animation truly make it a worthwhile experience.


                
Akira is a good movie with a very good animation for the '80s, some interesting scenes, but that is all. It's TOO long. Not only because of its120 minutes, but also for its dynamics.  If you haven't see an anime film (japanese animation) in your life, see it. But there are a lot of anime movies that are better (for example, Ghost in the Shell, Macross Plus).


                
So I have seen a couple of animes in my time. Most of them surprisingly by Yoshiaki Kawajiri. I then found some video on YouTube about Akira and the style caught my eye. Looking into it and it's place in anime history I decided to watch it... then I found out it is an adaptation of a very long manga. Having not read the manga, a few things are lost in translation.So after a blast of some kind destroys Tokyo, 30 years after World War 3 a new Tokyo is built. Kaneda, the leader of a motorcycle gang basically goes out to fight a rival gang called The Clowns. Then Kaneda's friend Tetsuo almost runs over a psychic kid but doesn't due to his psychic powers. Tetsuo is taken in by the military and experimented on, when he basically gets the same psychic powers... somehow. Then he begins running amok, not being able to control the power and basically slicing through any military force to get the most powerful psychic kid outside his cryogenic pod and it's up to the military, Kaneda, his freedom fighter acquaintance and whoever else to stop him.Okay being as that this is an adaptation of a near-2000 page manga there are a lot of things left out which for a complete newcomer like me, has me straight up questioning things. For example, if there is a revolution and a fight for freedom then what else is the government doing to people other then monitoring psychic children that can reportedly (if left unchecked) nuke an entire city with their mind? Clearly the government has some kind of motivation or goal but the only hint we have at that are a few throw away lines about how corrupt they are.Not only that Tetsuo could have been handled a lot better. Actually a few of the characters needed this. Talking about Tetsuo he begins to have the power go to his head because he didn't want to be weak or something and then decides to use the power to awaken "Akira" because something in his mind told him to. I feel as if maybe in the source material that Tetsuo may have been a tragic villain and maybe give more focus to Kaneda being conflicted about killing his friend but here it just seems rushed.Aside from those things (and maybe a couple of other things) left unexplained there is a lot to like about this movie. For the time the animation is excellent, really not only is the movie highly stylized but the animation itself is a big step up from the.. how should I put this, cheaper animation of earlier anime. It manages to still be stunning to this day.That and while this does leave a lot out it at least can be followed if you overlook stuff like the government's goal being unexplained or Tetsuo's motivation being weak and it does this while not boiling down to exposition every couple of minutes. While some may ask "well so what?" this movie could have been so much worse if all it was would be exposition and action scenes.So there is something to be enjoyed in this movie. Particularly the style and the animation. I would also say there are a couple of story ideas that are really good despite them not being that explored. I may or may not read the manga but if you're just diving into it (like I almost did) then I should warn that there are things lost in translation and that is made clear from someone who hasn't read it. I still enjoyed it and would recommend it to those with a slight interest in anime.


                
I am not familiar with the Japanese anime movies - and this seems to be one of the classics of this genre, and so I thought I would finally get around to watching this particular movie - the subtitled English version.The art style and animation does stand out as being something special and well executed. However the storyline line - and ending, is not something I would say would impress me. I did not understand the ending and later part of this movie. I probably didn't understand the movie at all, with the way events unfolded in this movie. It lacked the cohesiveness of a Miyazaki movie - of which I have seen all of his movies released in the west.I have mixed feelings about this movie - I wanted to like it, but it simply did not jell together for me. I guess I lost the storyline and any kind of purpose it wanted to impress me with...


                
From start to finish, Akira was an extremely heavy and intense movie, in every imaginable way. The fast pace, the cynical story set in a cynical universe, and all the brutal violence makes Akira a very difficult film to sit through. What keeps the viewer mesmerized however, is the extraordinary animation. Every shot is breathtaking and in all the gore and cynicism, it's absolutely beautiful. Akira is a work of art and a stunning masterpiece that needs to be acknowledged and remembered (believe me, it's hard to forget the experience), but I cannot really say I liked the film, at least I didn't enjoy it, as much as I appreciated it. Even though the universe that the movie takes place in is very complex and a lot of the movie experience is trying to understand it, the underlying plot is rather simple; ultimate power is unfortunately given to someone who can't handle it and wreaks havoc. But what really stands out about Akira and makes it very likable, is that it takes so many chances, it shies away from nothing and just when you think the story can't become any more insane, it manages to surprise you again and again. The 7/10 rating is a personal compromise; Akira is absolutely amazing, but it left me feeling hollow and heavy. It's an experience no avid film-lover should miss, but I don't have the stomach to give it a higher rating. I personally find the story very lacking, but much of the imagery is incredible and will stay with me for a very long time.


                
I'll start off by saying that the concept behind Akira is extremely interesting and I will be sure to check out the Manga to find out more about the film and it's background. In addition to this it is animated beautifully. What the film lacks is consistency in it's execution, which I should say won't bother most people, in fact I think this film is pretty entertaining but I don't review based on entertainment I review based on execution. The thing about this film that irritated me the most was the inconsistency of sound mixing, particularly footsteps. The way footsteps are integrated into the environment is a little absurd, I have never heard footsteps as well-defined as the ones in Akira, and as well as this the surfaces on which footsteps can be heard is incredibly inconsistent. It's a pretty minor thing but if you notice it it's really annoying. I have to say the score is pretty great, it's intense and well-used. There are places where the integration of the score into the environment is a little awkward but forgivable. A big problem with sounds mixing was the use of silence. This is mainly due to the fact that once the silence is brought on it doesn't stay. Rather than remaining in silence the film moves in and out of silence without changing location, which could be believable if someone was causing this to happen, but the change in volume was too abrupt and awkward. While the film is animated beautifully the use of depth of field in like 10 shots out of 5000 or so, is really distracting. When the rest of the movie is animated as if everything is in focus and then there is one out of place shot, where someone or something is out of focus is really odd and like I said distracting. As well as this the editing is really weird in some spots. Example, a character is being swallowed up and the film slowly fades to black as character gets swallowed, cuts to the events outside, and then cuts back inside where the environment is no longer black like before but as bright as the outside, and then fades halfway to black before cutting back outside. It's not something most people notice but for me it was a really odd thing to watch.I have to give props to the writers for being incredibly intelligent in their adaptation from manga to anime. There are quite a few things that aren't fully explained within the film, but the world that exists withing the movie isn't able to explain those things to you and so I personally felt satisfied with not fully understanding all aspects of the plot, because even the characters sometimes don't understand what has happened. I saw the movie with a friend who has read the manga and told me most of the things I didn't fully understand were explained in the manga, so the move to adapt the world presented in the film as slightly different to the manga was very intelligent. Overall intelligent, well-thought out, beautifully animated and entertaining, check it out, especially if you've never seen any anime before, this film is a great bridge into that kind of thing.


                
First off, Akira was one of the best anime films of it's time. The story, characters, and animation itself are amazing! Anyone who truly appreciates Japanese culture and art MUST experience this film.Here's my problem: The new English cast. Just awful. In the original, the voices and acting actually MATCHED the characters. The new cast was supposedly an attempt to produce a mre "accurate" English dub, but the film lost so much with the new dub.This is NOT pining away for the "old school" version and being all nostalgic. I think anyone who experienced the originial would agree. Good thing I still got an original copy. On friggin' VHS.


                
On 16 July 1988, a nuclear blast levels Tokyo. Now it's 31 years later after the end of WWIII. Kaneda is a bike gang leader in a dystopian Tokyo. Kaneda's best friend Tetsuo runs into Takashi who escaped from a secret government laboratory. There is a dissident anti-government organization. Meanwhile military scientists is experimenting on supernatural powers.While the style is ground breaking, I would have wanted a clearer story with a more prominent main character. The movie should really follow Tetsuo and let him discover the secrets for us. Instead we keep switching to the bad guys who tells us everything. It's a pretty good story with an impressive imaginative style.


                
The supreme level of animation and imagination seen in the movie makes you question the fact that it was made in 1988; the hand-drawn cityscapes and bike chases leave you in awe.The themes, the characters and the circumstances are universally relateable. The concept and climax of the movie maybe a little confusing to many viewers, but once you get a hold of it, it's quite fascinating.Katsuhiro Otomo adapts his well-acclaimed manga (graphic novel), 'Akira', for the screen. The movie seems a little longer than necessary, and a bit dragging towards the second half, but I guess it was unavoidable due to its 6-volume 2200-page original story. The characters are likable and interesting, especially that of Kaneda. The background score and effects are strong and exhilarating, and go well with the story.The story starts with a great premise and a lot of promise, but towards the end (after the revelation of all its scientific principles) it just seems a bit underwhelming; not a great (or epic) ending I expected it to have. Still, it's a thoroughly enjoyable movie, and can be relished for its spectacular animation, intriguing plot, shady and interesting characters, and delightful humour.One thing everyone has to accept, when 'Akira' released in 1988, it paved a completely new level animation or science-fiction could achieve in storytelling as well as graphics.


                
Japan. The near future. Tetsuo, a young street urchin, begins to develop psychic powers. Local authorities believe him to be the successor to Akira, a dangerous psychic responsible for a nuclear explosion which decimated Tokyo 31 years ago. Akira is currently in cryo-freeze, cocooned in a heavily guarded bunker several miles below the earth's surface. The Japanese military want Tetsuo securely locked away with him. Attempting to rescue Tetsuo is Shotaro, the leader of a rowdy biker gang.Directed by Katsuhiro Otomo, "Akira's" one of the more influential Japanese science fiction animes of the 1980s. The film featured a larger budget, more animation cells and more fluid motions than was commonplace in Japanese animation at the time, and would go on to influence a number of directors, amongst them James Cameron and the Wachowski "brothers". And as is typical of sci-fi anime, our cast are a bunch of loudmouth kids who can't stop yelling, and the film spends most of its time salivating over machinery, vehicles, computer screens, urban landscapes, urban alienation and apocalyptic imagery.Japanese animated films tend to be preoccupied with adolescent metamorphosis. Japanese culture is itself plagued with a specific form of infantalism. They've dubbed this phenomenon "hikikomori", which refers to a large, growing subset of the Japanese population who essentially refuse to "grow up", take on responsibilities or enter the workforce. In most cases this rejection of adulthood is due to a perceived, socially exacted trauma. To millions of Japanese men and women, the adult world has been discredited, is traumatic, offers little, and is already a nightmarish, pseudo-robotic, cyberpunk nightmare which offers nothing but anxieties and phony social expectations, interactions and demands. They ditch it all. Caught between the cosy, stable traditions of Old Japan and the schizoid dystopia of New, the hikikomori choose to remain protectively cocooned and stuck in limbo. Mamoru Oshii's anime, "The Sky Crawlers", deals indirectly with this arrested development."Akira" is, in a way, also about extended adolescence and the anxieties of growing up. The film's biker gangs are populated by naughty kids, led by Shotaro, their own daddy of a leader. Shotaro constantly admonishes his boys for trying to "grow up" and "be big like him", but he's no more childish than the other figureheads in the film (some of whom are literal babies). Tetsuo, meanwhile, wants to break free, his adolescent metamorphosis mapping a passage from puberty and impotency to power and authority (he literally gets bigger and bigger, increasingly large and powerful). Everyone else wants Tetsuo infantalized and frozen, like little Akira, cryogenically frozen as a child and presumed nonthreatening, but Tetsuo won't have this. He fights them off, conquers his uncertainties and confusions, but goes positively nuts whilst doing so. From this point onwards, anxieties very specific to Japanese culture pop up: the fear of too much power in the wrong hands, of nuclear annihilation, of urban sprawl, of technology's smothering of tradition, the threat of overreacting leaders etc. Indeed, it was around the mid 1980s that Japan began to gain technological prominence and redefine itself. In many ways, "Akira" is tapping into a zeitgeist that was perhaps weary of its growing technological power and influence. And so Tetsuo paradoxically resists his metamorphosis whilst also revelling in power, an internal power struggle which eventually becomes too much for him to bear. From this point onwards the heroes of Japanese anime would get increasingly impotent, self-reflexive and stuck in existential ruts, until you reach the self-loathing heroes of "Evangelion" and "Sky Crawlers", social outcasts in giant robots who can't even muster the will to fight."Akira" was based on a 2182-page manga by Otomo himself. The film sports a number of atmospheric passages, but its attempts at depth, nuance and scope also clash awkwardly with the demands of a teenage audience. Aesthetically, French comic-book artist Jean Giraud is a massive influence, as he was upon "Blade Runner" (to which "Akira" is oft compared) and Hayao Miyazaki (who adored him). Fans of "Akira" hate its English dub. Oshoro's next feature, "Steamboy", traded "Akira's" cyberpunk for steam-punk.7.9/10 – Worth two viewings.
Dystopian, post-apocalyptic anime film, set in Neo-Tokyo, afflicted by an exceedingly corrupt government and exceedingly violent revolutionaries, and the main characters are members of a teen motorcycle gangs, who cross the paths of the terrorists and the secret project attempting to monitor and control the development of children who, in the next stage of evolution, have started developing super-powers, like the legendary Akira, a child whose powers, some claim, led to WW III. One of the young bikers, Tetsuo, turns out to have the powers himself, to an extreme degree, and it gets out of control, changing his personality entirely, and he becomes a flame-haired monster, but is saved from himself by his best friend Kaneda, who has fallen in love with the revolutionary Kei, by the three strange children, and Akira, who returns. The militaristic colonel turns out to be a hero, despite his fascist leanings. The story is disjointed<U+0097>it comes from an extensive series of anime books<U+0097>and in close-ups of people the animation appears a little cheap, though the city scenes are very impressive. The wanton destruction of bridges, buildings, and hordes of otherwise harmless people is disturbing to me, especially when it only serves to demonstrate the vastness of the characters' superpowers, disregarding the humanity of the general populace (could be called the Godzilla effect)<U+0097>and the destruction has no effect on the story<U+0097>the cruel monster Tetsuo is still considered sympathetically, a victim of the suddenness of the onset of his powers.


                
In a way I liked this, but I was shocked at the end: It's different than in the comic version and my opinion is they ruined it. (Hard to tell you what I'm thinking without turning this into a spoiler.) Too much playing with violence, it's entertaining for a while but not when it hides the plot (if there is one underneath... - OK, there is!). The first half is wonderful and the way the music is used, rules. But due to ending I only rate this 7/10. If only they had used the ending from the comics, I would have given this 9, but what are you going to do about it?
First off let me say that I haven't watched Anime for over two to three years after probably Gundam. I used to watch Robotech(Macross), Gundam, etc... This is my first anime that I have seen in quite some time. I have aged significantly too, which means that I understand some of the conflicts that are brought up in some of the shows better than when I was younger. Recently Akira was brought to my attention as being the one of the best pieces of Japanese anime's ever produced if not the best. I was interested to see how well this would hold up to my film knowledge and criticism. To tell the truth, this would make a great live action flick if it could be done WELL. And I stress well, because there is also great potential to make this a piece of crap too. First off I found the artwork or animation to be quite refreshing. I haven't a good cartoon so wonderfully drawn in many years. I'm more used to crude animation like the old days. I only wish I could have seen this in theaters back in 89' or so. Sadly I wasn't born yet so therefore couldn't have possibly seen it. But I have the next best thing, a new clean DVD transfer that was done pretty well. The dub in English was pretty well done but I wish I could have had both the original dub and the new English one as well. I haven't listened to the Japanese language track because I never used to when I was younger. But hopefully now I have matured to the point where I will listen to it. The characters in the film feel and look very lifelike to me. Akria seems to borrow a lot from American films and throw them into a Japanses anime, which is very intriguing. I found out that the voices were recorded first before the animation, therefore; the lips would match the dialog perfectly. This is something that Disney has been practicing forever but that this was the first time it was used on a Japanese anime. Quite cool. Akira's story again is like a great director from the 20th century has created it. It has an essence that pull the audience into the world of Neo Tokyo 2019. A little Blade Runner, a little Children of Men and so on. The only nudge I have against the movie is not giving more insight to what Akira is. But I guess thats the great adventure to the film. That you really don't have a clue as to what Akira is, or who he is. I kept thinking that Akira would pop up somewhere and kill Tetsuo, and control Neo Tokyo once and for all. But this never happened and I'm glad it didn't. Just see the movie. I won't give anything away, but just to say that the end is a bit of a downer. Although, what great movie isn't. The film is immerse as it sucks the audience into a world that is dark and mysterious. It makes the viewer question his or her own life and choices we make in it. Although, I might only recommend this film for Sci-Fi, action people. Don't be put off by the fact that its anime. I was for a while but soon changed opinions and hopped on the Akira bandwagon.


                
Akira is a giant in its field. Based on a highly popular manga series and directed by said manga's original writer Katsuhiro Ohtomo, it's a film that helped popularize anime culture in the West. It was nothing like we had seen before, being aimed solely at the adults, containing graphic sexual references, disturbing and gory images, heavy themes and more violence than any two Hollywood action blockbusters put together. It's also a thoughtful story and analogy about a young man forced to grow up too quickly and being confronted with strange phenomena, feelings and powers he's not yet mature enough to understand, let alone control.So what's the story? Kaneda is young hooligan belonging to a motorcycle gang. They're enjoying their freedom and mischief, until one day his friend and fellow gang member Tetsuo happens upon a small child, who's much more than he seems. Tetsuo gets injured and happens to absorb some of the child's power. From there the eponymous Akira seizes control and lures Tetsuo into trying to free him. And from there it's a nonstop battle for the survival of Neo-Tokyo, Tetsuo's soul and everyone's lives. All told through phenomenal voice acting, alluring twists, great plot points and animation so vivid, gorgeous, detailed and vibrant that people have made completely valid arguments for this being the crowning achievement of animation.Furthermore, the score is very good. It's not what you would expect from a movie such as this, being more groovy and ethnic than the normal pop and electric tunes, but it fits. You're always a bit surprised by it, but after a few moments you'll start digging it.Akira is a masterpiece. If you can, do read the manga series beforehand, because it's well worth it and offers a deeper understanding of the material. But, if you can't, this movie will still win you over with its brazen style, high impact concepts, beauty and sheer energy.


                
it is a long movie, and you will probably get a lil bored about half-way through, until the end, and the characters are weak in their storyline. this is mainly an action movie, but it seems like they also want it to be about the story-line. it could have been a lot better at building up the great story concept, and adding some more action scenes, but for 1988, this movie deserves a 10+. i give it a 7 or 6 for what i'm used to now, but i feel this IS a milestone for its time and every anime lover should have a copy) so if you don't mind looking back towards the past and watching a decent anime, this one is for ya. also...the front cover has a pic of a dude and a motorcycle and a picture of a pill on the back of his shirt. his motorcycle is hardly in the movie, and the pill pretty much is never seen in the movie, so i don't know how they come up with that. like i said, the story line is weak, and put together quite badly, but hey, it is 1988, and the graphics still look GREAT today)


                
'Akira' can be said to have helped in making anime (kind of) popular in the United States a long time ago in nineteen-eighty-eight; I keep a copy of the movie inside of my personal library because of how it's a sort of landmark. I suppose 'Akira' really WAS an enormous contribution in making anime a little more mainstream here, and it always will have a special place inside of me because of that, though I have to disagree in that it's not 'THE GREATEST ANIME MOVIE EVER'. Being an self- proclaimed Otaku (and because I call myself as such for truthful reasons) I can say that I've seen better through my experiences with the medium, though that's not to say that I dislike Akira either; only, I think it's over-rated (my personal favorites are 'Ghost in the Shell' and 'End of Evangellion', but I'll talk about those two later). I'm going to keep this review brief by leaving the story vague; of the story are elements of science fiction and surrealism which feel to me as leaving the audience in a state of being helpless. The characters show a contrast with future anime heroes and heroines; that they have a grittiness to them and appear void of melancholy (they're like a homage to American comic-book characters even). The story too feels like a homage to American actions comics; super-human-powers fill the story with conflict.This film is 'fun' and it gets for it's audience to think too, but again, there are better anime films existing, and I can say that 'Akira' has little of some important things like character development; I feel like the director didn't care too much for that stuff anyhow, and focused his attention on violent scenes so to interest the action fans (and I'm sort of fine with that). 7/10


                
I am generally not an fan of anime, but there are a couple of exceptions. This movie is the biggest exception. This is one of the few animes I really enjoy. The story revolves around Tetsuo Shima, a young member of a bike gang in Neo-Tokyo. After an incident with a strange young child leaves him injured, he is taken by the government, who awaken latent powers inside him that Tetsuo finds himself consumed with and unable to control. The movie, based off the manga of the same name, is probably one of the few anime films that will ever find itself in my collection.The animation in this movie is fantastic; the movie looks great. My favorite scene in the movie would have to be when Tetsuo awakens in his room at the government facility and he finds himself hallucinating, the toys in his room coming to life. It's one of many awesome visuals in the film. The film contains a good amount of graphic violence and 'frightening' imagery, so this is definitely not a film for a younger audience.I can't think of much to say about the film, except that its worth checking out. It's got an intense story that keeps you entertained throughout and it has sweet/sick animation. There you have it. As I mentioned before, I'm not a fan of most anime but I would recommend this movie to anyone, fan or not.


                
