I remember the first time i watched this when i was 14, back then it didn't mean much to me i just watched it because of the violence. Growing up i cant count the number of times i have watched it but it seems as though every time i watched it i uncovered something new in the plot. On to the review then; There are two different dubs for this film in English, the initial one i watched on VHS is much better then the one on DVD. The voices match the characters and bring across emotions very well in the VHS dub. In the DVD dub the voices seem alien to the characters personalities, this may be due to the fact that I'm used to seeing the film with the old dub.The animation is very fluid, definitely a revolution in animation. The vast range of colours used really bring the metropolis alive. The start of the film where Kaneda and the crew are riding through the city you get to witness all sorts of sub-environments of the city, from tight alley ways where you can almost sense the deprivation to the bustling streets bright from the flashing neon lights.The characters grow on you the further in to the film you get, at the beginning you can sense friction between Kaneda and Tetsuo, however as the film progresses you understand the past between these two characters and come to terms with their feelings. The colonel is also a very interesting character who seems to represent a beacon of hope constantly attempting to avoid the inevitable catastrophe headed for neo-tokyo.The storyline revolves around two central characters, Tetsuo and Akira. It is heavily emphasised towards revealing what the next evolution of man is and whether or not the evolution would be in the best interest of man.Closing comments, Akira is a must watch for any anime fan who appreciates a thought provoking storyline and dense characters.Also watch; Ghost in the Shell, Ghost in the Shell:Innocence and Perfect Blue


                
I only recently watched Akira (though I have heard a lot about it) and I must say I am impressed (so much that I bought the DVD). This is, beyond any doubt, one of the best animated films in existence. Visually impressive, solid direction, with a compelling story (if a little complicated), just the right amount of character development, good and very appropriate soundtrack and an extensively detailed New Tokyo, Akira manages to be as groundbreaking as it was when it was first released. It's only drawback is that most people (including me) will probably have to watch it again (and again maybe) to completely understand the full story. Highly recommended (especially to anime fans). I give it 8 out of 10.


                
I was probably around 8, when I first saw Akira. It was my step dad who asked me if I was interested in watching this Japanese cartoon. I expected something like, my favorite children movies like The Lion King or The Land before Time.Akira however, was something else. At the time I was to young to understand English, since it was a second language for me. But I remember what kind of an affect it had on me. It was brutal, it was hard, it was edgy. The drums and Neo Tokyo lights flew through my little body as butter, as I witnessed death, gore and sadistic killings. Something my pure and innocent eyes had never seen before. And yet I was strangely excited. I was never tough as a kid. I was a afraid of the dark and often had nightmares about all kinds of things. But Akira, despite it's mature nature, just had me in awe. When I finally re-saw it many years later, when I was an old teenager, I was still in awe.Akira is simply a wonderful and entertaining sci-fi movie. It was what introduced me to anime, and innovation in a hole new way. If you want to start watching anime or see, what all the fuss is about, then Akira is a good place to start. Even though it's over 17 years old today, it is still a fantastic and visually stunning animation. Even if you don't appreciate animation you owe it to yourself, to check it out. It has spectacular action, motorcycle-chase-sequences, mad scientists and tons of blood and shooting.8/10


                
First: This movie is full of BLOOD. Blood on the street, face... So if you are fan of bloody movies see this, also if you like SF you should see this movie. For me the begining of the movie is great, middle is good but boring, an d the end is little stupid for me (transformation to big creature on stadium). I watch this but only once 5/10


                
I had heard about this from many sources, saying it was the greatest Japanese Anime film in the Manga category, it features alongside other Animes I have seen, such as Princess Mononoke and Spirited Away, in the book of 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, it had to be worth it. Basically thirty one years ago an atom bomb exploded and vapourised Tokyo, leading to World War III, now in the future, 2019, the city has been rebuilt on the artificial Tokyo Bay, where terrorism and violence is gripping everyone. In amongst the this are The Capsules biker gang leader Shotaro Kaneda (Johnny Yong Bosch) and his friend Tetsuo Shima (Joshua Seth) who go against rival gang The Clowns. Near the end of a chase, Tetsuo ends up crashing his motorcycle, after almost hitting a child that will be mentioned later, and captured by armed soldiers, while Kaneda are the gang are taken for questioning. The Colonel - Col. Shikishima (Jamieson Price) and The Doctor - Doctor Onishi (Simon Prescott/Isaacson) of a secret government project discover Tetsuo has mental powers similar to the little boy who caused the explosion that destroyed the city, Akira, so naturally they decide to keep him in captivity and will kill him if his powers get out of control. But Tetsuo escapes the facility and meets up with girlfriend Kaori (Michelle Ruff), and after Kaneda joins them and stops an assault by The Clowns, Tetsuo experiences a painful headache. Taken away again by a government van, he goes to military hospital, where he is attempted to be killed by The Espers, Masaru (?), Takashi (Cody MacKenzie) and Kiyoko (Sandy Fox), of course with his power growing this only makes it worsen. After going on a rampage, Tetsuo stops off at a cryogenic storage facility below Neo-Tokyo's new Olympic Stadium, and that's how he finds out about Akira and the powers he had. Kaneda and Kei (Wendee Lee) meanwhile are determined to stop Tetsuo from becoming more powerful that he may lose his mind completely and destroy the city, Kaneda's right-hand Yamagata 'Yama' (Michael Lindsay) gets killed, and Kaneda is now out for revenge on Tetsuo. He meanwhile has returned to the Akira cryogenic chamber, where the Colonel is waiting to try and stop him, Kaneda soon arriving as well, but any attacks on Tetsuo fail, apart from removing his right arm. At the Stadium Tetsuo grows himself a new arm from non-organic components, like machinery, and Kaori arrives to see the power he now possesses, and that is when they go out of control and he starts growing. Continuing to grow into a large blob creature, and killing Kaori inside, the Colonel tries to make go back to the lab, but he just attacks, but Kaneda arrives, with the Espers protection, to stop him. In the end though, the explosion does happen, and all the Espers can do is teleport the Colonel and Kaneda to safety, with flashes of Tetsuo's memory showing, and they return to see most of the city destroyed in the glistening sunrise. Also starring Mike Reynolds/Ray Michaels as Mr. Nezu and Matthew 'Masamune' Mercer/Miller as Kaisuke 'Kai'. I have to say firstly, I had almost no idea what was going on throughout, the story was confusing and complicated, but I think this is one of the only times where I can forgive that, because it is so good. I recognised the most fantastic sequence, where Tetsuo becomes a mechanical blob monster, because it was spoofed in the "Trapper Keeper" episode of South Park, but there are so many great moments that will blow your mind. Director and creator of the comic strip Katsuhiro Ôtomo went over budget creating many night sequences with fantastically vast looking cityscapes, with marvellous use of colours, great camera-work, wonderfully disturbing material and design ahead of its time, this is an amazing animated science-fiction action fantasy. It was number 16 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons. Very good!
I'm not usually a huge fan of anime but this is awesome full of ideas and visually incredible, a neon lit dystopian future is the backdrop for a story of teen rebellion and government experiments on children with terrifying powers.Akira works on several levels as a straight ahead sci-fi blast, a teen's gone wild adventure or an intellectual sci-fi posing many questions. I would recommend this film to anyone who enjoys sci-fi even if Anime is not your usual thing this film may just change your mind. Also the end showdown is mind blowing without the constraints of what's achievable with special affects the animators have really run wild producing a unique experience. 9/10


                
There is a long,long time I don't watch ''Akira'', and when it was released, I was just 2 years old. I remember being afraid of this movie, since it is very violent, full of blood and bizarre things/people that were quite shocking when you are young. If I am correct,'' Akira'' was also one of the first anime movies to be watched here in the West and anime in general would become very popular during the 90's around here.''Akira '' has a lot of destruction during all the movie and also in the manga, and the story has as a present theme, the idea of people with superhuman powers, the government always manipulating things behind our backs, the big corruption that is always around and teenagers being delinquents and alienated.
Anime has never been something I felt drawn to, yet there are many titles to which aficionados of the genre/style will always point you and which have achieved a sort of name recognition among those who wouldn't necessarily consider themselves fans. AKIRA is one of those films, and it happens to be the first anime film I've ever seen. The setting is 2019 in Neo-Tokyo, so named because of an apocalyptic event which took place 31 years earlier. The rebuilt city isn't too different from what you might find in a post-apocalyptic/dystopian sci-fi story. What stood out most to me, and the most recognizable elements of this type of story, was the portrayal of a fascist police state where government and those in authority abuse their power and the citizens fight against them. Not only do they show this violence, but there is also a lot of graffiti which provides subtext and context to the overall situation. Some of it went over my head because it's probably specific to Japanese society when this film (and the source graphic novel) were made, but the broad strokes of oppressive regimes, the military-industrial complex and populist uprisings should resonate with most viewers. All of this, and I haven't even gotten to what makes this story unique. At the center of this story is a biker gang, and one of the members, Tetsuo, is captured by a secret military group that studies people with psychic abilities. There is also another group of people who prophecy about the return of some mystical Akira, who will either bring balance or destruction. To be honest, I don't completely understand all of the plot intricacies, but most of the time I was being blown away by the stunning hand-drawn animation. I've never completely warmed up to computer animation, but animated films such as this one have an artistry to them that is second to none (when done right). One minor complaint I have is that the English dub (and I don't really like dubs) was a bit iffy in places. What I mean by that is some of the voice acting was a bit over-the-top. Still, it wasn't too distracting like it might be in a live-action film. My other minor complaint has to do with the length of the film. The third act was perhaps a little bit too protracted and it messed with the overall pacing. Still, I ended up liking this film a lot and look forward to delving into more anime in the future.


                
The first thing you should think about before watching the movie Akira is that it is an anime. But it's not any anime like Pokemon or Yu-gi-oh, Akira is not meant for to be watched by 6 year old children. The story line is a bit confusing and very deep. If you don't like to be puzzled and confused in a movie, Akira is not for you. On the other hand if you enjoy movies that make you think, Akira is pretty good. There is plenty of good action and almost never a dull moment. The characters especially Tetsuo and Kaneda seem believable. It's not like some anime movies where you don't feel any empathy towards the characters. This movie is also a bit graphic which is why it should be watched by a mature audience, so if you are a bit queasy when it comes to blood, don't watch this video. Also the music in Akira is pretty good (in my opinion at least). In the end you'll either hate this movie or love it.
Akira. Every anime fan worth their salt knows the name, many have seen it, and some understand the legacy it has. Akira came out in 1988 to critical acclaim and may be considered one of the first truly mainstream anime successes. Its success was enough to open the gates to the golden age of cyberpunk anime, paving the way for Ghost in the Shell and a slew of mostly forgettable 90's OVA's. With the majority of anime of the period being cast aside or forgotten, especially by casual anime fans and mainstream audiences, Akira has had a stranglehold on pop culture for years. But nearly thirty years after its release does Akira hold up? The year is 2019, thirty years after a giant explosion wrecked Tokyo during the Third World War. Neo-Tokyo is now home to motorcycle gangs, such as the one led by the teenaged Kaneda. During a battle between his gang and an opposing group of clowns (seriously), Kaneda's friend/rival Tetsuo gets into a crash caused by contact with an escaped psychic child. Tetsuo is taken in by the government where it is discovered that he has powerful psychic abilities. From there, Tetsuo and Kaneda wind up meeting for a violent and disturbing fever dream of a confrontation.The plot is very reminiscent of Philip K. Dick and the idea of using psychic children is interesting. The problem with the plot is that despite the iconic biker gangs and general scenario, the actual story we follow is not exceptional. The mean rival becoming super powerful and facing off against his former teammate has been done before and done a million times after. The story that we follow is bare-bones.And the same can be said of the characters. Tetsuo and Kaneda have taken on a life of their own because of how iconic this film is but I can't help but feel they are pretty underwhelming as a pair. Neither gets a lot of development, something that makes the final scene less emotionally impactful than I thought it should be. There aren't any extraneous character moments to show the camaraderie between the two. Instead, we're tossed right into the story and denied any real depth.The same can be said about the relationship between Kaneda and Kei. The implication is that they are in love or have some sort of romantic bonds growing, but the majority of their time together is in the heat of action. I understand that compressing a large manga into a two hour movie requires cutting away the fat and the director would rather have a comprehensive story than well-defined characters. That's fine. And truthfully, the lack of real character depth in no way detracts from this film since the story is interesting and the world and design are fantastic.The art of Akira is what is, for me, the most memorable part of the movie. Painstakingly hand-drawn with multiple layers for even the most mundane of shots, Akira is gorgeous from start to finish. The city is dour but feels lived in and the movement is ridiculously smooth. The color scheme reminded me very much of The Watchmen. It wasn't very anime-y in palette. In fact, given the fact Watchmen and Akira share some themes and have a very similar ending, I wouldn't be surprised if that graphic novel influenced some of the design choices for the Akira film.Adding to the ambiance is an absolutely stellar soundtrack that doesn't feel like background noise but integral to the entire design. The use of music and the sound effects on top of the cinematography and direction shows that the production team busted their asses to make as good looking and technical a product as humanly possible.Akira has aged well. It's prettier than most of its contemporaries and the plot, characters, and especially the world are still engaging. Pulling out from the nonstop praise and love it receives and looking critically, you can see Akira's armor is fairly hollow. But that armor is way too beautiful to be left to rot and belongs in a display case and revered if not for its substance for its craftsmanship. Akira is a movie well worth your time and should be a must-watch for all anime fans. Even if you're not into it, you should still be able to appreciate what it brought to the table and how it evolved the medium, showing that anime wasn't just for kids and teens, but for adults as well.


                
This is by far the best hand-drawn animation I've seen in my entire life and it surpasses every single anime that is praised for the hand-drawn animation like Dragonball, Naruto and many other anime series. It has been made in 1988 and it is way ahead of it's time, Disney is just a copycat in my eyes from now on for me. The story is complicated and deep and altho I understood some of it, I know that if I watch it at least one more time everything will get clearer, especially the ending. An amazing piece of art that has a bigger meaning than many live action movies that are praised for the same reason.


                
I just read an article suggesting a remake or an actor remake to make a series manga or movie. Why children stand to rate this as an anime is undeniable. Anime? Gore all the way of the entire movie and some obscene obscetion of Japan. I don't really think the idea is necessary. However I myself do enjoy the original post traumatic life of high school students even if Kaneda still looks like he's Hollywood East long old. I also enjoy the original world I had to learn to get used to. And everyone knows that you have to wait for longer than six seconds for a Welch grannade.


                
Akira is one of the most important animated films ever made and remains shockingly visual even in 2019.Akira was released in 1988 and at the time was the most expensive anime film ever made. When adjusted for inflation it is still one of the most expensive animated films to ever come out of Japan. Akira revolutionized the film industry in a way few films have before. Akira was one of the first adult animated films to ever breakthrough into the west. Akira helped to popularize anime in America and in that sense, it still continues to influence us to this day. At the time, when Akira was made, Japanese anime films were cheap and often would settle for bad production in return for more profits. Akira was a revolution in this sense. Every penny was spent to craft what is possibly the most beautiful animated film of all time. Akira was one of the first animated films to animate characters around the voice dialogue and incorporate 3D CGI into its animation. It also was not afraid to have tons of dialogue and extremely bloody scenes. The results are stunning to say the least. But why has Akira remained so popular through the years?
If you are an otaku, the first thing you will notice that the film does not adopt the regular style of drawing, the faces and figures are roundish instead of sharp manga-style drawing. Which will make you less reluctant to avoid watching it, even if you have the habit of skipping a movie by watching its dull beginning. The problem of juxtaposing the post-apocalyptic the low-life and high-tech in the making of a regular cyberpunk movie has overcome by its thick representation. But it has missed the little details of life, like those little-animated details of how nature works in the Ghibli films.The ending disarrayed my interest, I did not understand the ending, the creation of the singularity and several realities and being existed in one of them, seems like too much complexity has been put in a very little amount of time. I prefer either startling and action-packed endings or happy endings rather than an obscure one.The movie is free of romance, but promising affections have been shown in several scenes, In the scene, when Tetsuo escaped from JSDF by using his psychokinetic powers and returned to Kaori, to whom he surrendered his egomaniacal appearance, later devouring her unknowingly with the psychic power of uncontrollable dual identity. Also in the scene of Kei describing the mystery of life to Kaneda with the help of esper Kiyoko.Maybe overrated but the improvision of the futuristic dystopian tech world with a thick storyline and layers of topics which inspired a lot of masterpieces this movie is worth-watching.
One word: wow before watching this film I wasn't a fan of anime.... Now I am


                
The story is set 30 years later in Japan at the time it was made, it shows a possible future what could happen this year. The film was made in 1989 but the setting is in 2019.Kanada and his gang of bikers get involved in stopping biker gangs which leads to their friend Tetsuo to be in a creepy hospital like area where they treat him and he has these illusions because of these three kids who also operated by the same people they look like senior/mid aged people but they are actually kids.This is good way to get introduced to the mature side of anime, as it has a lot of gore, mild nudity and lots of strong language. With of course mature themes, I normally don't like anime which has too much gore, horror or nudity but this was actually really good.There are two dubs to the movie, the pioneer and the streamline dub. If you want to watch the dub I would I highly recommend the pioneer dub as with the streamline dub there was a lot of mistranslation, miscasts and of course dialogue changes . If you see any weeb reviews claiming the dub is bad please do me a favour and pay no attention to them because people like them just love to ruin anime for others and just think they are better then everyone else because they think their annoying japanese voices are so perfect. These people are the main reasons why I always stick to dubs.We have a perfect cast from the Pioneer dub with Johnny Yong Bosch as Kanada and Joshua Seth as Tetsuo they both fit their roles perfectly and we also have voice actors like Michelle Ruff, Michael Lindsey, Jamieson Price, Sandy Fox and former child voice actor Corby (I can't remember his last name) my only complaint was that they should have had another child voice actor to do one of the boys who were still kids at the time like Aaron Dismuke or Max Mittelman Borby wasn't bad or anything but they to create chemistry they should have had each of the kids with different voice actors with the exact gender. But Corby was a lot better then both Barbra Goodson and Bob Began as both kids since they were both adults trying to sound like younger boys but failed.As for the streamline I could only get through 45 minutes of it and other then Cam Clarke as Kanada I don't think anyone had a clue on how to voice their characters or were even given the right direction. Luckly, Barbara Goodson and Steve Kramer made up for it when they did additional voices for the pioneer dub.Overall if you want to get exposed to the mature side of anime I would high recomand this movie. It is big coincidence that this movie took place in 2019 and I am writing this review on the first day of 2019. Have a good year everyone.As for you BatmanFunReviews I thought you were a cool guy but I guess I was wrong."I'm no fan of anime type of movies" then question then why do you even watch or reviews them. If there is tons of stuff out there for you to review. I just feel like you are just trolling.
Akira is an intense thrill ride that is both gorgeous and revolting. The world of Akira is depressing, it is bleak and it is unforgiving. It is hard to define the experience. Recommended.Personal Enjoyment Score (IMDb): 8/10
Movie Score (LetterBoxd): 10/10


                
There are few pieces of media that have had the seismic effect that Akira had on it's 1988 release. Based on the manga of the same name and directed by the same author, the science fiction film changed the face of Japanese cinema and, indeed, the face of Japanese fiction in general.It's not hard to see why. Katsuhiro's world is dense and alive in such a captivating way; beyond the biker gangs of our main characters Tetsuo and Kaneda we have doomsday cults, government conspiracies, insurgent terrorists, mysterious physic powers... Audiences back then and even now are pulled into the world, invited to explore every nook and cranny, making it instantly watchable and perfect for repeat viewings.Such a shame then, that this is exactly what drags the movie down, particularly in the second act. Cramming the plot full of so many subplots gives rise to many false climaxes and resolutions, leaving the pacing choppy at best. Particularly evident is the resolution of the titular Akira plotline, which seems like it should be the resolution of the movie, but upon looking at the remaining time, you'll be shocked to discover that almost half an hour still remains. Cutting a lot of these superfluous subplots would help the pacing greatly, but then again that's exactly what made the film so engaging in the first place, providing a serious conundrum.Even more confusing is that, because of the inclusion of so many subplots, it seems that the characterisation and character development of our main characters - Tetsuo and Kaneda - suffers as a result. Tetsuo turns too quickly from disgruntled childhood friend to telekinesis-wielding antagonist, but at least this isn't as bad as Kaneda's treatment, who remains the same one-note, shouty delinquent virtually the entire way through the film. Why the filmmakers chose to focus on these smaller threads instead of the main thread of the movie escapes me, but at least another key area of focus for the film - production - paid off in spades.The bubble economy of the 1980s made Japan a lot of money, and it's no surprise that a lot of this money was channeled into entertainment - namely, the burgeoning anime industry. With a budget of around $10 million, this is still the most expensive anime film of all time, and it shows. Everything on screen is animated, even the backgrounds in panning shots, making for one of the best looking pieces of animated film out there. Just watching the film for this level of quality rarely seen in anime films anymore is worth it, and there's no way you'll pick up on every detail with just one watch. So perhaps this is why, despite choppy writing, the film still stands the test of time today, and can still be enjoyed with our modern eyes. Akira still remains one of my favourite films of all time - perhaps because of the impression it left on me at a young age - even though it can't exactly be called the 'best.'


                
Extremely bloody and violent animated film about neo-Tokyo 30 years or so after World War III. The story is way too complicated to get into--suffice to say it starts quickly and never lets up. Actually, that's a big problem.It does move quickly and is hard to follow (at times), and there barely a let-up. At two hours + that tends to wear you down. Also the English-dubbed language is very funny--all comic book clichés coming fast and furious. Still this is one of the best animes.The animation is mostly superb. Some of the characters moved rather awkwardly and they all look the same (a real problem with Japanese anime). Still all the other animation is just great. There are some stunning motorcycle ride/chases/fights and the views of neo-Tokyo "moving" while the motorcycles are roaring really astounded me! Better than anything Disney ever did!I do have problems with this movie though. As I said, it's too convoluted, and the women are shown pretty badly. There are only two female characters--one is a victim (who, for no real reason at all, is almost raped) and the other is the love interest who will do anything for her man. Sheesh! Still, this is a truly fascinating film. If you have a strong stomach (the violence is VERY explicit) and can follow a plot going full-speed constantly, you'll like this. A must for animation buffs.


                
Saw this on sci-fi channel so I have no idea how much was cut out.  What I saw though was pretty cool.  It is a bit slow at first, but once a dream sequence starts up it gets moving pretty fast.  The story is about a group of bikers, one of them takes a spill thanks to a mysterious boy in the middle of the road and the army takes the dude who had the spill and does experiments on him.  These experiments end up giving him telekinetic powers...powers that were apparently given to another named Akira.  Well the guy ends up going berserk and using his powers to destroy the city, looking for the one called Akira.  Meanwhile his old friend joins some rebel group in the hopes of finding his friend.  The rebel group opposes the Akira experiments.  After awhile the two friends have a cool duel.  Parts are hard to follow, but all in all it is a cool movie and trust me nothing I wrote will spoil it for you.  This is a very brief summary of the plot.


                
Akira is a great film that balances gore, sci-fi action, horror and disturbing images. And thats all you need to know. And then there is neo tokyo the amazing city filled with life and all of the action. And Keneda (The main leader of a biker gang) has to take on something ( no spoilers ) but i cant say any more you have to watch it because it is amazing.


                
Based on reputation alone, I expected quite a bit from Akira, and I have to say it mostly lived up to its reputation. I say mostly because I was led to believe this movie had battles similar to Dragonball Z (superpowered characters facing off against one another), but that certainly is not the case here. I guess I was expecting a bit more 1v1 battles between espers (those with psychic abilities), but instead, the movie had a deeper story to tell. Akira is a brash and dark film that takes place in a dystopian future where the government is struggling to keep secret the evolution of mankind. The concept alone was enough to hook me in and using animation was the perfect medium for this type of story to fully flourish.Everything in the movie was unique to say the least, from an animation standpoint to its bizarre conclusion. If you go into this movie thinking it will be nothing more than action or your typical 'strange' anime, you will be quite surprised at how much detail goes into the story itself. There are a ton of ideas floating around (albeit a bit too many to fully understand most of the time) but the important ones are developed quite nicely. But those larger ideas that they choose to focus on really do thrive thanks to the animation, which as I said, know no bounds except the imagination of its creator. The only downside seemed to be most of what occurs in the first half of the movie seems a tad irrelevant in the end. It was as if the creators were trying to throw in too many ideas from the manga into the movie and it became a bit convoluted. But that is where the whole idea of rewatching the movie comes into play, Akira makes a bit more sense having seen where the story goes in the end. That way, as the movie progresses you can follow what exactly characters mean when talking about past events that occurred which we are given very little detail about.But the main driving force behind Akira (for me) had to be the idea of unleashing the supremely powerful Akira. Knowing that he was powerful enough to release the energy equivalent of a hydrogen bomb was enough to suck me in for the entire runtime. It was this idea that made the movie interesting if not nerve-wracking because we don't exactly know what kind of a person Akira is, is he good or bad? Will he save the world or choose to destroy? It was this type of trepidation building throughout the entire movie which lead to the final climax of the film that worked for the most part. I have to admit, I wasn't expecting the type of ending the movie had, at first I was disappointed with how everything ended up, but as time went by, I kept thinking more and more about the ending. And eventually came to the conclusion that the ending was justified. It not only leaves the viewer in awe but more importantly, it leaves a very strong lasting impression.Looking back on the film, the actual storyline of the movie is a bit more interesting to me than what was put on film (possibly meaning the manga would be something I should look into). While I didn't necessarily love the movie like I thought I would, mostly because it seemed to have pacing issues (at least the first hour of the film), the story itself was right up my alley. That being said, I would gladly watch the second half of the movie because that's where the action picks up, the telekinesis starts to appear, the characters start coming together, and the movie dives deep into hardcore science-fiction. Assuming you have no problem with anime and can buy into the idea of telekinesis, Akira is something everyone should see based on the impact it had within the film industry.


                
man.... oh man.....as a big moviefan and movie lover, I am rarely really touched by a movie. I usually just laugh, or say it has been good, or really good. But this is one of the movies that made me stay, like, half an hour, staring in the space in front of me, just....being amazed. The whole story was amazing, had the thrill, had the important human values and all... but the characters were just brilliant. My fave is and always will be Tetsuo. I don't know if it sounds crazy, but it's kind of beautiful to see all that rage, gained in the years, just to poor out with such force.If I had to chose one character to identify myself with, it would be Tetsuo. And if I had his powers, even for a day, I would make the world remember me for a century.So people, if you have the chance, WATCH IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! you won't regret, you have my word.


                
So I finally got a chance to sit down and watch it, namely the English dub. What do I think about it? It was pretty good for an anime that came out in the 1980's and it holds up pretty well to this day. I was very surprised that the show was actually directed by the writer of Akira as well. Not many people can write a manga and get to direct it as well when it comes to movie. This means that the show would have come out how he wanted to and not changed around as it went from hand to hand. Just how close is this to the manga? Well as of now, I have not read the manga so I can't answer that. Some things do bother me with the story and mostly with the characters though it is more based on my preference of character then anything else. I just think that the biker gangs felt a bit forced. I never been in one, never even been near a gang like that before so I can't say for sure but I think they wouldn't be so open with what they were doing for so long without already being caught by the cops. I may just be analyzing it a bit too much but it just got on my nerves. That also goes for Kaneda always trying to get into Kei's pants.The main story had a very deep underlining meaning both in psychology and in humanity itself. It's hard not to spoil anything about this when most of it happens at the end but I do have to talk about this. There is a back and forth aspect that seems to happen of what science could learn but at what price. It's there when they mess with Tetsuo's brain and the results that happen after. Let me tell you, the results were not pretty. We are always striving for learning more about ourselves and to push ourselves to the max but at what price do we pay for such an idea? Are we even willing to push us to a point that we ourselves are not considered human anymore? And what would happen if such a power was placed in the hands of someone who didn't fully understand how to use it? Something that Kiyoko says in the show rings pretty true no matter what you're talking about. I went something like 'when you are given this much power, you must chose how you use it.' Sort of similar to Spiderman's Uncle telling him 'with great power comes great responsibility' but the idea is still the same. The animation was rather gory and bloody for the most part with a lot of dark depressing textures. The place they lived really did look like a back ally pig sty but I believe that was what they were going for. For the time this came out, the artwork is rather good and I was surprised by just how much detail they put into the background as well as some of the movements. They even placed the streaks from the tail lights of the bikes in. I don't think I have seen that much detail put into a show that was hand drawn except for Studio Ghibi's movies. While the design of the characters were pretty realistic as far as anime can go without not looking like anime, they were still rather simple and it is understandable when people have to draw them time and time again. Once in a while, the lighting and shading didn't work all that well and I don't remember much shading on the 'children' except for the wrinkles. The voice acting was surprisingly well done for the time it was dubbed. I can understand why this movie was what got anime going in America because the voice acting was what I would of imagined the characters to sound like. Because of the somewhat realistic artwork and the constant yelling that characters did, the lip sink suffered slightly. I can only say slightly because what they did do; they did a damn good job in doing it. One person who stood out really well was Kiyoko's voice actor (The female little child) Melora Harte. For those of you wondering, I did watch the 1988 release of the dubbing and not the new 2001 version; at least I believe it to be. I can truly understand why this is called a cult classic, being as a symbol of 'greatness' in the anime world. As the years have not been all that kind to it, it may not hold that title for animation and voice acting but its story is still something that should be kept in the minds of those who watch it. If you haven't watched it, you are missing out even if you don't like this stuff.
Hadn't watched Akira for years and years. Managed to catch a "clean" version - very well restored, hi def and all the works and honestly it hasn't aged at all. On the contrary, with the exception of one scene where a girl talks a public phone, the whole thing has aged gracefully and is still as relevant as it was in the late 1980's: the animation is flawless, the designs as cool and modern as ever and the action flat out awesome. The story is still what one could have qualms about - the debate is the same as 25 years ago. It does have slow & confusing moments but overall it's well worth a watch. Now I'll go ahead and reread everything! Katsushiro Otomo : I wish you were doing more!


                
