'Akira' is an astonishingly influential film, easily as much so as cinema's touchstones Citizen Kane and Pulp Fiction. Its impact is made more difficult to judge, though, given that it was made more than sixteen years ago, and didn't make an initial impact outside of Japan. Oddly, this made its influence even more profound, benefiting from 'word of mouth' and the influx of cheap VHS at the end of the Eighties. It's also gained enough of a following to warrant being digitally remastered, at a cost of over US$1 million, as a 'Special Edition,' which I am basing these comments on.Rather than suffering the humiliation of being advertised, Akira filtered, like a software virus, into the bedrooms of what would become Generation X. Hollywood began to sit up and pay attention after teens began abandoning the pap of the day like Last Action Hero, and started seeking out something different, dissident, and Akira finally had its audience. Japanese animation now has a firm presence in our media, and so many paths lead back to the cultural genesis of Akira. Finally, its role in the history of film was cemented with the release of last year's mega-hit, the Wachowski brothers' The Matrix. Without Akira, there is no Matrix, and with no Matrix, you have to wonder how very different Western cinema would be today.So what is Akira? It's a Japanese animated film, an adaptation of 2,000 pages worth of graphic novel by Katsuhiro Otomo and set in the futuristic world of Neo-Tokyo. Rebuilt from the ashes of World War 3, it's a technological dream of neon, computers and soaring science, mated to the social nightmare of corrupt politicians, a rampant military and an oppressed working class. Add to this the rise of a powerful breed of psychics (or 'psionics') capable of various degrees of telepathy and telekinesis, and somehow linked to a top secret military project known as Akira, and Neo-Tokyo seems ready to explode. You can almost feel the heat, the sweat, and the grime, courtesy of the borderline-masochistic attention to detail in every frame of every scene of animation.Akira is all about hyper-reality, which later became known as bullet time. Animation, and more importantly imagination, allows impossibly kinetic and 'free' camera movement. The style rams home every car crash, explosion and death defying stunt. It's not the easiest film to watch in one sitting, nor indeed, at all, but you'll come away knowing where the inspiration behind so many late Nineties blockbusters came from. More importantly, you'll appreciate how mediums come to influence other mediums, and barriers such as language and culture can be hurdled with ease.It's not just an action-fest either. The main arc of the story is that of Tetsuo, who begins developing psychic powers but doesn't understand what is happening to him or the responsibilities that come with such godlike power. This opens the door to some genuinely moving scenes of film-making endeavour and artistic triumph, as Tetsuo wonders if he is losing his mind and eventually lashes out against anyone and everyone. The standout scene in the whole film, for me, should be mentioned about here. Whilst under observation in a hospital bed, Tetsuo hallucinates being attacked by childhood toys. Dreams and reality are folded into each other and so it remains for much of the rest of the film. Horizons peel away and reality itself seems to disintegrate, fragment after animated fragment, as Tetsuo battles his way to downtown Neo-Tokyo and prepares to face Akira, whatever that may mean.The only other character developed to this level is his best friend Kaneda, who in a number of small, well-judged scenes, comes across as bright, breezy, confident and heroic, and on hand to reason with Tetsuo. No matter what point Tetsuo's powers escalate to, and no matter how much he is wanted by the police and the military, Kaneda just wants his old friend back, and it is this hope of redemption which gives the film its emotional backbone.Other strengths include the intelligent use of sound. A minimum of scoring is used: mostly Japanese drums and percussion, and some voices during dramatic parts. More interesting is the use of silence, absolute flat silence, during key moments. It fits in very well with the themes of psychic/telepathic powers, and in a more general way, the vivid hyper-reality of the film's delivery. Put it this way - when you dream, you dream in a silence of implied words, and Akira knows this too.I thought the dialogue was excellent too. The street kids have catchy and sardonic street lingo ("Tetsuo's our friend! If anyone's going to kill him, it should be us!") The military are represented by a titanic general whose lines have gained a certain amount of hilarity during translation ("You hedonistic fools! Can't you see it is utterly pointless to fight each other!") I found myself eagerly awaiting the next punchy exchange between players, which is something that Hollywood has been missing recently. In seven out of ten films I see, the dialogue is truly awful. How difficult can it be to get two people to talk naturally? 'Akira' is not for everyone. In the first twenty minutes we have strong language, an attempted rape and the kinetic carnage of a fight between rival biker gangs. Some will simply not tolerate this in an animated movie which is, despite all efforts, going to be viewed by younger children. Even if you can stomach the unsavoury content, you might be beaten by the sheer oddness of Japanese culture. (They certainly have an unhealthy obsession with seeing Tokyo laid to waste.) But if you can skip over these points and see the overall genius of Akira, you may just appreciate Akira's place on the pantheon of modern culture.


                
To many, this is the movie that started it all. But what's interesting about Akira is that, while it is largely credited with introducing anime to the West, it barely raised an eyelid on its initial release. Most Japanese critics' lists from 1988 barely gave Akira a mention, instead deciding to concentrate on films like Grave Of The Fireflies or My Neighbour Totoro, at least as far as animes were concerned. But while these are perhaps (and in my opinion definitely) superior in quality, their success in western countries was more slow-moving and therefore not as much of a shock to the system as Akira was.When Akira was first screened in Europe and North America in the early 90s, most people had simply never seen anything like it. Distributors, unaware of the tradition of adult-orientated animation in Japan, didn't have a clue how to promote this feature (some billing it as a kids' movie), and equally audiences suffered from the same confusion (in some cases parents taking their children to a film which features scenes such as a person exploding before mutating into a garish cyberpunk mess of flesh and cables). This confusion resulted in Akira being something of an underground success, but it also ensured the movie cult status across western countries, though perhaps for the wrong reasons.Is Akira a hyperviolent, sadistic fantasy? Or an eloquent statement on modern civilisation run amok, with technology getting the better of its masters and planet Earth having its divine revenge on those who mutilated it? It's possibly both. Most aficionados of Japanese animation (and also some Japanese live action, witness films by Shinya Tsukamoto or Takashi Miike) are aware that stylised violence is nothing particularly new to the genre (for now wanting to avoid the age-old discussion of anime not being a genre in and of itself but rather a style of animation which incorporates several genres like horror, sci-fi, adventure, etc <U+0096> and indeed, it would do great disservice to the artistic integrity of many anime artists to simply lump them into one category). However, another fairly consistent, and perhaps ironic, feature of these "violent" narratives is the humanistic message inherent within them, and that, as opposed to many Hollywood narratives which use violence in a Biblical way (ie. the Good guys are justified in using violence against the Bad guy), a narrative like Akira, which stems primarily from both a Buddhist- and Shinto background, avoids lazy good/bad categorisations and instead uses violence to make a clear point - That it does not lead anywhere but tragedy. While perhaps the gratuitously stylised nature of the violence ends up clouding this message, the sheer fact is that, unlike in many mainstream narratives, violence is not rewarded in films like Akira. In fact, in Akira it culminates in the end of the world. Some resolution.As much as Akira has attracted attention for its violent content, so the convoluted narrative has caused accusations of it being confusing at best and incoherent at worst. While it's very likely that some of the Buddhist symbolism within the film (Tetsuo's final transformation into a new cosmos, as hinted at during the final credit sequence, being a case in point) will go over a few people's heads, the storyline itself is fairly simple: Tetsuo, a bullied and insecure individual, is subjected to a genetic experiment which unleashes a hidden power within him, and, in his anger, destroys the world which he feels rejected him. As well as being a somewhat abstract statement on disaffected youth (a rather appropriate topic, given that I'm writing this at the time of the Paris riots), I would regard Akira as a document of its time. Even though it's set in the future (but then any sci-fi is just an abstract futuristic representation of the time it was made in anyhow), Akira excellently sums up the blind and ravaging short-sighted materialism of our age. That aside, Tetsuo's mutation has been described by some as allegorically representing Japan's disproportionate wealth bubble of the 1980s, while Tetsuo himself is the product of a world driven by greed and avarice.I have to admit that Akira left a huge impression on me when I initially saw it 10+ years ago. In fact, as with so many others, it probably helped to start my fondness of east Asian cinema. I wouldn't be surprised if, ten or twenty years from now, Akira is widely regarded as one of the most influential movies ever made (if it isn't seen as such already, witness the influence it had on Hollywood films like The Matrix), and that future generations will justifiably view it as an all-time classic.
In 1988, Western audiences hadn't really acknowledged Japanese animation, despite the popularity of the Gundam franchise. Even so, that didn't stop the creation of one of the most acclaimed anime films to date - 'Akira'.The film is set in 2020, 32 years after the detonation of a bomb which wiped Tokyo right off the map. A new city was built there to take its place, called Neo-Tokyo (much like Tokyo-3 for Evangelion). Society at that time is at its lowest, and Neo-Tokyo is a breeding ground for anarchy and destruction. Shotaro Kaneda (Johnny Yong Bosch) and Tetsuo Shima (Joshua Seth) are bikers in a gang, who fight a rival biker gang called the Clowns. One night, however, Tetsuo sees a child on a highway, but before he can slow down he runs into him...but the child survived, and vanished. Tetsuo is injured, and lifted to hospital. Or rather, a research centre. It is assumed that Tetsuo carries a power very similar to what Akira had at the time of Tokyo's destruction. Kaneda and a few others have made the assumption that Tetsuo, if left to live, would potentially end the world, and it is left to Kaneda to kill Tetsuo before he can destroy the world.When this got an English dub some time in the late '80s, it was heavily frowned upon, and a second English dub was done in 2001, with the voice actors I mentioned a moment ago, as well as newer voice actors, like Michelle Ruff and Sandy Fox. This review is based around the later English dub.The animation is pretty old, but a lot of it is still amazing to look at. It's one of the most complex anime to have been produced; it used more colours than conventional anime at the time, and used three to four times as many frames as a conventional anime as well. It must have been an absolute nightmare to get the cels to make it.The voice acting in the newer English dub is improved greatly, in comparison to the first dub. While the film is still relatively better in Japanese, it's still much better than the original English dub from the '80s. And at least this dub has all the original scenes, as well as voice acting that fits most mouth movements, even though they all differ.The characters aren't very highly developed, though we can assume they are mostly orphans, Kaneda and Tetsuo especially, as they are both taken into an orphanage. We do learn a bit about them, but if you want character development, read the 6-part manga; it's much more developed. You can't get a 6-part manga into a 2-hour film. Hell, the manga hadn't even ended at the time of the film's production.The music was produced by Geinoh Yamashirogumi, a collective of workers by day, but spiritual Noh performers by night. The music is one of the best things about the film; it's enchanting, and fits many of the situations in the film. Even if you don't like traditional Japanese music, you can't really deny the music is beautiful.This film has perhaps some of the most bizarre scenes in anime, where Tetsuo breaks free from hospital with his girlfriend Kaori (Michelle Ruff), and ride on Kaneda's powerbike. Needless to say, Kaneda chases them, and gets to the scene of an incident where Tetsuo is knocked down to the ground and Kaori too, with her top ripped open. Kaneda arrives and stopped the Clowns from burning his bike. Tetsuo proceeds to brutally beat up one of the Clowns, but Kaneda intervenes and stops him. Tetsuo begins to suffer from a chronic headache, and ends up with hallucinations, first of the ground crumbling before him, and the seconds his internal organs simply falling from his body. That particular scene was excluded from the original English dub, and that gave the movie a 12 rating as a result. It's incredibly creepy when all is considered, and fairly awkward for Tetsuo, because his guts didn't spontaneously collapse from his body at all.While 'Ghost in the Shell' failed to popularise the anime genre to Western audiences, 'Akira' did introduce a lot of people to a lesser child-oriented form of animation, and with it came the path for other anime to be introduced to Western audiences; 'Perfect Blue', 'Evangelion' and even 'Ghost in the Shell'I will say there are very few flaws in the film. However, the film is a little too complicated for some, considering its apocalyptic story. And while at times there is a little humour, it's a little too serious whilst trying to be funny, which is very much awkward.Because of how much of a cult phenomenon it is, it gets 94%. It's one of the best classic anime to have been released, and still holds a lot of meaning to anyone around the world. Just...don't go crazy while watching it.
Akira is the greatest Anime film of all time, perhaps even one of the greatest Science Fiction titles. I haven't been the biggest Anime fan over the years, but this movie completely blew me away.Akira takes place in 2019 in a post WWIII Tokyo (Now Neo Tokyo), which was destroyed by a Nuclear Weapon in 1988 (the beginning of WWIII). A Tokyo plagued with government corruption, drugs, biker gangs, poverty, and civil unrest, where every day could be your last.Akira starts off looking like some kind of mad max Japanime rip off, but what unfolds goes beyond imagination. The Capsules are a gang in Neo Tokyo, who are at war with a rival bike gang.(The Clowns) One night on a high speed chase on the highway, young aspiring gang member Tetsuo Shima, collides with a strange looking young boy in an explosion, and is thrown off his bike. The army then lands and takes Tetsuo, and the mysterious child, arresting Kaneda (the capsules leader), and his members. Tetsuo is taken to a secret military facility and hooked up to all sorts of machines, and put through tests, as they figure out his collision with their project, (the child who he collided with) gave him ultimate psychic abilities, that lied dormant in his mind for many years. His power is to strong to be controlled by anyone, as they conduct the same brain modifications on Tetsuo, as they did on their first project, the project from 1988 that went awry with catastrophic consequences, the project known as Akira...The scientists keep Tetsuo on drugs, to hinder the releasing of the power, to experiment on him until they can perfect the ultimate power, but after attaining a serious injury at the test lab, (fighting with a giant monster teddy bear and bunny rabbit?) the power is released at an astounding rate to heal the injury quickly, and the drugs are partially made useless as he blasts his rooms door open, viciously murders 2 soldiers with a scientist, and sets out on a path of destruction to find the only one with a greater power then him, Akira.Fueled by envy and hatred, Tetsuo takes out his rage on a society that has done him wrong, as he makes his way to the abandoned Olympic stadium in the ruins of Old Tokyo, destroying everything in his path. Tetsuo has no idea what will happen to him if the drugs used to hinder his power wear off, and becomes drunk with power, driven insane by the brain augmentations, drugs and his own mind, troubled by a terrible childhood, where he was always in the shadows of others, and seemingly had no one in the world who loved him, Tetsuos only goal is to awaken the Akira project, sealed under the Olympic Stadium for many years, and destroy it, to take over the world.But as the drugs wear off, Tetsuo sees the error of his ways, as he can no longer control the power himself, and when Akira is released, Tetsuo is taken out of Neo Tokyo, to another dimension/universe, to have the only peace he can ever know, and sucked into this black hole with him is the city of Neo Tokyo, whose founders played god with humans, and suffered the most dire consequences imaginable for it...
akira is somewhat mind boggling. without the background of Japanese culture, and the more specific 'akira' backstory this film can get puzzling. but it's worth watching a few times to get your head around what is going on.more important than the tangly plot is the way this film looks & the atmosphere it creates. the characters are well presented, and developed. this helps to create the very dark atmosphere of the film. the animation is stunning, most of the film is at night, and artificial light & shadows are extremely difficult to render, it's achieved superbly.overall if you like your films dark it's worth a watch, if you like your films complicated it's worth a watch, if you're into animation it's worth a watch, basically it's worth watching.


                
You may think it's a bold statement to say this one film, all be it an animated one help mould today's modern cinema. But I really do feel without a film like Akira, people like the Wachowski brothers, Quentin Tarantino and Doug Linam even wouldn't have half the creative juices flowing in their head from the explosion of vivid storytelling, fascinating narrative (even if it was in Japanese) and amazing detail.This movie is ground breaking on so many levels its mind boggling, the story is a bit out their, but someone please tell me which Manga ain't, in fact you can't tell me Lord of the Rings or Star Wars aren't "far out there" stories either, at least Akira is set in Tokyo a real place ! With great characters you really feel immersed in the plot of the movie and Tetsuo's roller-coaster ride is portrayed beautifully. But this movie is all about Kaneda, what a guy, if a young teenager needs someone to idolise its this street punk, who has a chip on his shoulder throughout this movie and tries his best to keep his best friend Tetsuo from falling deeper into a black hole. Great storytelling Watch this movie at all costs and watch it WITH SUBTITLES otherwise you loose a lot of the essence of the movie the same way Crouching Tiger or house of flying daggers would be tarnished from a dubbing....... Enjoy


                
I know I'm a little late with this review but after seeing this movie I've got to say something about Akira. Directer Katshiro Otoma has made quite the piece of work. Akira has the most original story and captivating characters ever seen in an animated film and perhaps a real film too. Shotaro Kaneda ( Japanese voice by Mitsuo Iwata) is the leader of a Neo-Tokyo bike gang. Along his side as one of the other gang members is Tetsuo Shima (Japanese voice by Nozomu Sasaki). When a secret military experiment is thrown in the picture turning Tetsuo into a crazed psionic killing freak Kaneda and his gang must save Tetsuo and save Neo-Tokyo at the same time. This movie goes beyond any other anime film ever. Even the widely known Princess Mononke. The movie is fast paced and the characters are well thought-out. Akira goes down as the greatest anime film of all time. 9/10.


                
POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!I have no doubt that the first time most westerners watch this they will feel confused afterwards. I'm pretty sure that the first time they see it they will think the animation was very good. Maybe some will know they have just seen something special. Akira is probably the most famous Japanese animated movie, manga or anime, and is surely the most influential. it may not be an exaggeration to say it is one of the most influential movies of any kind ever, as many films, animated and not, have taken elements directly from it.I won't try to summarise the plot, i'm not sure if i can make it sound comprehensible, but it involves biker gangs, friendship, overpowering technology, and the apocalypse. The plot is confusing, especially for western audiences who had simply not experienced anything quite like this before, and the frantic pace and quick direction only make everything seem more chaotic (as if that wasn't the point to some degree), but the more you watch it, the more you will see this is not a flaw. The animation is some of the best ever seen, the picture it gives of Neo-Tokyo is stunning, and the last half hour is mind-blowing. Some parts are very touching too, as we watch Tesuo's struggle, and the multitude of themes are well worth thinking about when you can't sleep or are drunk, stoned, whatever.. 8 out of 10
I'd always heard good things about this. Even in "1001 movies you must see before you die," it was there. And let me tell you it didn't fail meeting my expectations.Beautiful drawings, excellent voice actors (please do yourself a favor and watch with subtitles, not dubs), this film was ahead of its time. Showing Tokyo at its worst, it also shows what good is alive. This movies is a classic and even if you're not an anime fan, you should see this one. For those who've read the manga and found the movie disappointing, well there's a good reason for that. It's a movie. It's rather hard finding time to fit in all that information. Although, I do recommend the manga also.Coming out of darkness and the end, there is light and a new beginning.


                
31 years after World War 3, two friends in a violent bike gang find themselves on two sides, albeit unwillingly, of opposing viewpoints in this epic anime of government conspiracy and genetic tampering. It's a rich, complex story if one chooses to watch it with an open mind. And while not without it's fair share of flaws, it's an extremely rewarding experience and ranks among the very best that you'll likely find in the Anime genre. It's extremely fast-paced, viciously violent, very bloody, and has a interesting message to boot. What's not to like? My Grade: A2-disc special edition DVD Extras: Disc 1) English translation of graffiti option (which is cool and all, but not really needed) Disc 2) A 48 minute Making of; Akira sound clip; Interview with director Katsuhiro Otomo; Interviews with restoration staff; Stills gallery; and Teaser & Theatrical trailers


                
I recently saw Akira for the first time, and I'm not a big fan of anime, but I must say this film blew me away. Set in Neo-Tokyo, a city built on an artificial island after a devastating nuclear war destroys not only Tokyo, but the rest of the world. A member of a motorcycle gang named Tetsuo has a chance encounter with a strange boy which unlocks secret telekinetic abilities within him. Tetsuo cannot control these abilities as they take him over in a ferocious rampage to find this enigmatic character known as Akria. Now, his friends, a group of psychics, and the Neo-Tokyo military attempt to stop him before its too late.Akira's art style is unlike anything of the genre, its colors and design is something you would see in a fever dream. The direction is excellent and the world is perfectly created to make a unique and amazing universe that quite obviously inspired many future films. The story is very complicated, the beginning goes by very fast, but it doesn't take away from the film, in fact, it demands a second viewing from you the moment ends. US companies spent over 1 million dollars to restore the visuals as well as adding an entire new soundtrack/sound FX, which was definitely worth every penny, as the film is spectacular to the senses.Over all, its a superb film that requires multiple viewings. Highly recommended.


                
I really wanted to see this movie a long time ago, now I'm happy I didn't do so earlier! now I tell you why. By the look of it's cover and seeing a couple of trailers you may say it's all about motorcycle gangbangers of Tokyo or something... well, partly, It's true. but what I really didn't know was the mind-blowing real script of this anime about life, existence and the very beginning of creation of everything, which is the part that will take you away. The moment that the Akira was risen in attempt to overcome the great power of Tetsou and defeat him, It was literally demonstrating of the "Big Bang" to the viewer itself. and even that mad scientist mentioned that for those to place no doubt it was a recreating of something meaningful and theoretical. Now that's why I'm glad I didn't watch it earlier years ago, cause I'm afraid I wouldn't comprehend the whole movie (not that I did already!). You come with a low expectations and go with a handful of meaning and questions at the end of the movie. It's like Spanish Inquisition and you didn't expect that! so just enjoy it.
I must admit I have not seen a great deal of Anime but having seen this I am keen to see more. The version I saw was dubbed into English, which made it a little easier to concentrate on the visuals which were quite stunning. The plot I found to be very inventive and quite enthralling, if a little complicated. Here's a brief summary before I give you my thoughts.After World War III, Tokyo is destroyed. It is re-built and re-named Neo-Tokyo. Parts of the old city still exist but are not inhabited. A biker gang lead by Shôtarô Kaneda, known as Kaneda for short, travels the streets, picking fights with rival gangs and generally doing what kids do. There are riots in the streets and anti-government protesters have broken into a secret facility and kidnapped a small boy. This boy has special powers and is separated from his kidnapper before he is involved in an accident with one of the bikers, Tetsuo Shima. The government people holding the boy come to pick him up and also take Tetsuo with them. His accident has released a power within him, one that he will struggle to control in the future. He becomes aware of another who had similar powers, Akira, and he makes it his mission to locate Akira. Many will try to stop him, including the boy and his two companions and Kaneda. Will they be able to stop Tetsuo from releasing Akira and possibly bringing about another catastrophe on Tokyo? Well, you probably guessed I'm not going to tell you here, those Spoiler Police are tough.As I've already said, the animation is first rate, I assume that there was very little, if any, work done on a computer, given when it was made, which makes it even more remarkable. I did find it a little too long and a little too drawn out towards the end, but it didn't detract too much from, what is, a very fine piece of work.The thing that struck me was, as with the majority of Anime I've seen, all the action takes place from the point of view of the young people. Personally, and probably because I'm older, I would prefer to see a more balanced point of view. It's only a slight niggle, I know, but maybe something the filmmakers might like to consider. Over all though, a rather excellent piece of work!<U+0085> Recommended.My Score: 8.6/10


                
I have always thought about Akira as one turning point in the history of anime and general animation as well. It was one of the very first animated movies to show gruesome acts of violence, people getting killed, and blood and gore all over the place. Of course, this is not the first time an animated movie directed to a mature audience was made. In fact, for me the first movie of this kind was Heavy Metal from 1981. I admit Heavy Metal is awesome but the movie wasn't that popular, and became more of a cult movie rather that something that completely redefined the genre. For me Akira was not only the movie that completely redefined the genre of mature animated films, but also was the movie that showed everyone that anime, and "cartoons" were not longer exclusive of the kids culture. When It came out, Akira made look animation for the first time as something cool. It was no longer something for a small group of followers of anime, but opened the genre and animation to a much more bigger audience, including the Media. I cannot think of any other animated film that made such a drastic revolution such as Akira. The movie is amazing not only for the mature themes, but also the story and the animation itself are the show stealers. The animation was fabulous, extremely detailed and extremely accurate into showing a "Cyberpunk" world. The city of Neo Tokyo stills being one of the most amazing things ever made in animation, and the action scenes were also pretty good. The Blood and Gore effects were also fabulous. Katsuhiro Otomo created a master piece of animation which will last forever as a classic and a total revolution in the history of anime and animation in general.


                
If you are a fan of animation, not seeing Akira is equivalent to not seeing a Pixar film or a Miyazaki film. Obviously Pixar and Miyazaki films are much more family friendly than Akira is. I would not recommend showing this to a younger audience at all, but I will argue that Akira is on the same technical level. The animation is truly groundbreaking, using cell animation to it's advantages rather than allowing it to hinder the incredible amount of detail put into this film. Any fan of animated works will no doubt be delighted to see the incredibly stylized steam-punk Tokyo lit up by neon lights. I don't want to get too much into the story, mainly because of how easy it is to spoil this movie, but I will say that the screenplay works to play on how we tell stories, and how we write/view protagonists.


                
As the credits rolled after two hours of sci-fi action, philosophy, and metaphysics, I just sat and stared at my screen. I didn't know what to think of this movie. I still don't. But it is one of the most starkly original and creative films out there, and it is certainly one of the most influential. Many Americans were first introduced to anime via this film and its graphic, dystopian, confusing spectacle. Watching this movie, it is clear how many things it has influenced, things that are probably a lot more well-known to a modern audience than it. Although I do doubt if many Americans understood it. It's a hard movie to really understand if you're an American. It's probably a hard movie to understand even if you're not.In fact, to some degree, it is the sort of movie that is not supposed to be understood. It is meant to be experienced, and experience it I did. I'm not even sure if I enjoyed it or not, but I do know I'm in awe of it.The animation is spectacular, particularly for its time. It doesn't look basic or simple or old-fashioned. It looks smooth, fresh, dynamic, beautiful, and above all, evocative. Not even Tarantino can make a mess of blood and guts looks so artistic, and Neo Tokyo is a completely believable futuristic city. It's hard to make a dystopian landscape that is equal parts terrifying and beautiful, but they managed to pull it off with aplomb.If I had to describe this movie in terms of other movies, I'd say it's a combination of Brazil, Contact, 2001: A Space Odyssey, and Blade Runner. But even that doesn't really cover it. This film is Japanese, through and through, both in the obvious ways, and in the less obvious, more cultural ways. If you have a fair understanding of Japanese culture and/or have just watched a lot of anime, you should be fine. If not, you might get lost pretty quickly.Speaking of anime, the second half of this movie is absolutely anime-tastic. It's as anime as anything I've seen. I've never been a personal fan of anime tropes, but they are done really well here, and they make a sort of sense, not a particularly logical sense, but a thematic, philosophical sense.The story is interesting. It's too long and complicated to describe here, so suffice it to say it revolves around two boys, Shotaro Kaneda and Tetsuo Shima, and a girl, named Kei. I wish the story had gone more into the three of them as people, but what we get is all right, if a bit generic. The story itself... if you love anime, you'll love it; if you don't, you might not. It certainly gets more abstract and dramatic and less based in reality as it goes on. The disconnect between the first and second halves is one of my biggest problems with the movie, but it doesn't ruin it or anything.Check out this movie. It is a building block of so many genres and the animation medium in general. Maybe you'll end up as speechless as I was. But hopefully, you'll be as blown away as I was too.


                
Akira is a film that will live long after it's initial hype and praise. Akira is a shoe-in for the Criterion Collection, if it's not already being considered. Lauded as the anime to start all of the current anime's success, Akira holds firm onto it's iconic violence, cyber punk and dystopian elements to this day. An anime that is as advanced as it was the day it was released, that's something to be heralded.The facets of the film that make it timeless are the same key points that are emulated by other titles. The psionics, kids who are psychic, clairvoyant and not allowed to age into adults, are copy pasted into everything to Pokémon. These entities are not only important in Akira's plot, but are also exemplary exposition units for unraveling the plot behind what's happening in the film. But they're more than just exposition, they are the reason why the protagonist and antagonist are dueling it out to begin with. The psychic archetype owes everything to these guys, and little kid espers as we know them wouldn't exist the way they do now if it weren't for Otomo's vision of how they would act and appear.The protoganist, Kaneda, and his tongue in cheek adopted little brother, Tetsuo represent two sides of the same coin in Akira. The two are compliments to everything a young man has to contend with. Tetsuo's seriousness is mirrored by Kaneda's boyish humor. Where Kaneda has a girl that's crazy about him and he's "devoted to", Tetsuo acts the fool to impress whatever's in front of him. Where Kaneda can effortlessly impress, Tetsuo struggles to impress with limitless effort, even as the film goes into it's third act. Their relationship is Goku/Vigeta, Asuka/Rei, Cloud/Zack and any other anime dual hero archetype you've ever witnessed.The cyberpunk genre owes its entire earnings to Akira. Where Otomo may have looked at previous futuristic robot mangas like Astroboy for inspiration, Akira sets the stage for cyber meets biological in a whole new fashion. For example, at one point a character must fuse their limb with discarded rubble, creating a synthetic metal arm to use as a prosthetic. Not only does biological meet metal, soul enters the equation at one point. Is Akira a mecha suit anime, no. Does it dabble in futuristic Tokyo cyber principles via vehicle, lasers, big gun and robot appendages, like no other.Where Akira really shines however, is in it's underlying metaphors of control of innocence, totalitarianism, religion and big government. Everybody is under someone else's thumb in this film. Government is facing riots for fascism and corruption, the army is being thrown a coup via political muscle flexing, gangs are being chased and persecuted, the residents of Neo Tokyo 3 can't move without riot police involvement or being sanctioned by barricades, even the Psionics are told they cannot leave quarantine. The entire subplot of Kaneda telling Tetsuo what to do, and Tetsuo's revolt are all key to this same principle that the only one who's truly free in the film Akira is, well, Akira! If you're feeling personally exploited, watch Akira. You'll suddenly feel better about your own 1st world problems.Akira stands the test of time visually, metaphorically, literally, and of course audibly. The film is just as detail driven from every angle as it was when it came out in 1988. If there's ever an anime to connect correlations to every existing anime genre, it's Akira. You'd be plain ignorant to think otherwise.


                
Akira is the kind of anime film that even people who don't really like anime can watch and enjoy. It's visually breathtaking and has a very creative and interesting story that will keep you engaged. There's a lot of different elements involved in this story. A futuristic Tokyo, biker gangs, secret military operations, kids with powers, and even some blood and guts. It's certainly a story that you haven't seen before. I found myself quite engaged in the story and constantly was wondering what exactly was happening. Not to spoil anything, but even in the end there are some elements that are left for you to interpret yourself. But it will certainly satisfy you once things come to a close.Visually, this movie is a feast for the eyes. I watched it on Bluray, and it's gorgeous. The colors pop, and everything looks great. I haven't seen many other animated films like this on bluray, but i'm sure this is one of the best looking ones. Another element of this film that I really have to commend is the audio. I watched it with the remastered Japanese audio on the bluray, and it sound phenomenal. It blows away the English dubs that are also on the disc. Every little sound is audible, and it all comes together to be a perfect audio experience. I also LOVE the soundtrack. It totally fits the mood of the film and is great to listen to. I usually don't notice audio in a film as a whole, but you can't help but notice it here. It's perfect.Akira is quite an experience. Its highly original and should certainly be watched. I would recommend buying the Bluray from Funimation, because it looks and sounds absolutely top notch. You won't be disappointed.


                
This film is weird in a way that makes you think and is interesting. It creates a new world with new rules and it's exciting to see how that world is going to develop and to uncover it's past. It is one of those films that was enjoyable to watch, with the regular action and all that, but also great to remember because it was so novel. There's a moral but it's done in an artistic rather than preachy way and so the moral remains open to interpretation.Another thing I liked about this movie was that the main character is a kid from an alternative school. Actually both the protagonist and antagonist are from alternative schools. It made me think, "lots of people are just regular, like these kids from alternative school," and it was cool to see a regular person, exceptional in some ways as we all are, be a hero.There was also the military guy and the scientist, they were less regular (not in a bad way). I liked how the military guy said he was more concerned with action than with knowing, while the scientist made mistakes because he was so concerned with knowledge above practicalities. That was cool.
Firstly, Akira was originally a comic book series in Japan aka a manga. To finalise the texted series the makers decided to convey this by animating it.The story's setting is in the year 2019. Its post world war 3 & a year before the Olympics in Tokyo, which interestingly Tokyo was actually granted to host the 2020 Olympics just recently. Kaneda and Tetsuo, who have befriended each other since school make part of a motorbike gang during their high school years. After riding one night, Tetsuo notices a mystifying child and shortly after the government hospitalises Tetsuo. This intrigues Kaneda, and he searches for his friend while acquainting Kei who is grouped with others in investigating the government. The plot tends to thicken, and the themes multiply once Tetsuo is found.The makers animated this with such detailing it can remind one of Disney. From the multiple framing that makes it flow to the colouring that enlivens the scenes, it makes for viewing that amazes. This was done in a time before computerised imaging thus it was drawn and coloured by hands.The Japanese styled music was pronounced in the film. This appears to have been done to articulate that the traditional Japanese culture thrives in the maker's futuristic setting. It also tends to contrast two time periods and balances the urban environment with country music.Parts of the story seem to be open for one to speculate, consider and discover. As moments of the story tend to bewilder and encourage partaking and interpreting in the story. Segments of the timing of the story are mixed so it tends to move in ways that vary and asks for the viewers to join it. Thus different parts of the story's timing become revealed as it proceeds.Akira looks to be a fantastic journey of imagination, anticipation, thrills and wonder. Its very likely that this animated film exemplifies for making riveting animated films and even came to inspire other films of its type to surface. On DVD (definitely) or Blu Ray (maybe) the making of the movie can be found hence uncovering of its detailing, planning and recording which can interest and savour viewers. A film of 1988 and thus a hidden wonder to be discovered and to ask what other wonders are about from here.Enjoy!
Now granted that when I was a kid, I enjoyed "Pokémon" and "Dragonball Z" immensely. Growing up I've became more aware of anime's many genres and sadly the majority I found were nothing but goofy, repetitive drawing styles & unprovocative story lines. Now I come across "Akira", A manga that apparently matured a way of storytelling the same way Alan Moore did with American comics in the 1980's. Suddenly after a little research shows that "Kill Bill" (2003), was influenced by the manga "Lady Snowblood". "The Matrix" (1999) was pretty much "Ghost in the Shell" with a fresh coat of paint, and practically anything from Studio Ghibli shows that Anime can be as provocative as anything Disney has to offer.Tokyo is in the year 2019. Teenage Gang Leader Shotaro Kaneda, pretty much spends his time harassing other gangs in extremely high speed chases. Eventually teenage biker Tetsuo Shima is caught in an accident leading to his abduction. What follows is the gang trying to find their lost friend, and the consequences of what Tetsuo could soon be capable of.Many who can sit through this two hour adaptation of a 1000 page Manga can luckily look forward to being treated like adults, as well as a VERY detailed animated feature consisting of more than 160,000 cells of animation! Featuring a neon lit Tokyo as stunning as the look of "Blade Runner" (1982), this film is literally eye candy. Every explosion looks detailed, every street corner has immense depth and overall every crowded place just looks consistent. The story I won't spoil for you, but it features everything you could want to revolve around a Cyber-punk futuristic city. Crazy vehicles, militarised areas and psychic powers from the most bastard kid ever drawn, all in all you have something that you can be proud to call "Influential".Final Verdict: It's not for everyone and believe me when I say that, but for those who can sit through it all may be pleasantly surprised and optimistic in checking out similar works. 9/10.
If Princess Mononoke is The Star Wars of anime, Akira is its 2001: A Space Odyssey. Although Akira went bankrupt at the cinema, its heady, pulsing, fever dream stands the test of time.
Herald of a new era.


                
Akira personifies what makes animation and the cyberpunk sub-genre of Sci-Fi great. The imagery and storytelling are fantastic here and we really feel the intimate effect of disasters on the movie's characters and the people within that world. It looks at the past and future and looks at the effects of the nuclear devastation of Hiroshima. Many Science Fiction themes are presented and in a great way even though some of it feels very condensed due to the story being adapted from a Manga series (Japanese comicbook).This is what I love about Akira, it's just a true testament to visual storytelling and the creating of a fully developed world with interesting and developed characters that seemingly have basic personalities. It's a film that feels timeless, feels like something that could easily be made today with a distinct form of visual presentation. If you haven't checked this film out and read this, please give it a go, even if you aren't a fan of anime or animation.


                
Greetings from Lithuania."Akira" (1988) is a surprise to me seeing it for a first time in 2019, 31 years after its release. I did not expect for this movie to be such a deep and effective. Animation itself was simply amazing - terrific attention to smallest details. Story itself was epic, deep, dark and brilliant. The storytelling was superb - this movie did not dragged for a second (well, maybe a bit by the end). The world itself was amazing and dark.Overall, "Akira" is an amazing movie. I'm not anime fan, haven't seen many of them, but this movie i simply loved and admired - every frame of it. Its not perfect, but its great.


                
