This was a great show last season but the second season has gone from bad to worse. The episodes are childish and not funny at all. The messages conveyed are highly political and not necessary. It has really become a HUGE disappointment!The plot lines are silly. The characters are immature. The subjects are ridiculous. Worst of all...it is not funny anymore. I was looking forward to the second season because the first one made me laugh so much, and after two episodes I was angry at how they had destroyed this show. If you enjoy political propaganda and silly comedy this is your show.


                
I've just started watching season 4 and since it was really bad and almost dreadful to see how the show went way more downhill I thought it was time for me to write something. At first I'd say that the high ratings and synopsis (a narcissistic lawyer enforced to go back to school looked interesting and really funny. The idea was good) made me hit the "Play" button. It wasn't bad, it was watchable because at least nearly all characters were endurable, thus I went really curious about the high ratings and thought within the end of the first season that Community didn't deserve more than 5 starts ; It's just another average and uninteresting sitcom ; it's one of these sitcoms where you don't care about characters and how would plot-lines be "solved", for the only reason you're watching it is to spend twenty minutes by waiting for someone to get out or something like dinner.Every episode has the same and identical structure so after few episodes you're able to predict how it would end and what each character is going to say and learn (yea there's some kind of a lesson or a moral at the end of almost very episode), moreover the plot-lines are totally unrealistic but let's just get over it because, well, it's just a TV show. So, the study-group get involved into something crazy and stupid, we all know how they're going to team-up, someone doesn't wanna being in and then says something like "They're my friends, I love them and even if it's outright dumb, let's do it!" and during the middle of the episode they all blame and hate each others - but wait, by the end they just all reconciled because you know, friendship, life is beautiful, everything is good! So it's really really rare for an episode to influence another one, or it might be but just slightly.This isn't fun owing to clichés (too many jokes are predictable and some characters are really boring and some kind out of the comedy such as Shirley), and it is plain stupid and unrealistic because of the nerd Troy-Abed duo (Abed killed even more the show). I still could go with the characters being one-dimensional, even after four seasons but I just don't wanna argue more about something that doesn't deserve more than few minutes.But I will conclude in the same way Community episodes do. Some episodes are actually good and very interesting and I do not need to say which ones since we all know them. Here's why I summarized this review as "25 %".2.5 stars.


                
This show can be hilarious, often, but it's got an ISIS-like attitude underneath that rears its head occasionally. One of the best (or worst) examples is the "Glee" episode where they argue for getting Jesus into public schools. Even worse was the documentary episode where Abed took over Shirley's idea and played Jesus in his own film. At the end Shirley stormed in and smashed thousands of dollars worth of equipment in the name of the lord. Some people claim they want to fight against Sharia laws but then when it's Christian laws they are gung-ho about it. Well, institutionalized, politicized religions are repressive by nature.When a TV show endorses destruction of property and violence for religious reasons, we are in dark times.


                
