The first seasons of Community were an absolute joy. The writers managed to create an intellectual and off-beat sitcom, which is a welcome change in a genre that has seen tons of generic titles come and go. By blatantly calling out their own clichés for what they were - usually through the character Abed - they were a very special kind of comedy. One that made you mockingly laugh at something you were thoroughly enjoying at the same time. Perfect examples are of course the paint ball episodes, in which external influences force the school into an absurd mayhem.As Chevy Chase, the actor that portrayed Pierce, mentioned in various interviews and a disturbing voice mail (look it up!), over time Community has fallen into its own trap. By focusing more and more on predictable sitcom story lines, such as those regarding love interests within the group and the pregnancy of the character Shirley, it slowly turned into another one of those shows. We do not care. We just want to laugh.The reboot at the start of the fifth season looks promising, but the forced nature of the fourth episode is a terrible sign. It is abundantly clear that the writers wanted to do another paint ball-type episode, because they know we enjoyed the others. But the thing is, we didn't enjoy it just because of the blazing guns and outright craziness. We enjoyed it because it poked fun at the action genre - and most importantly, at itself. This time the premise was weak and the execution was predictable. The joke was gone.If you enjoyed shows like How I Met Your Mother and The Big Bang Theory for more than a couple of seasons, you may or may not appreciate Community. But if the repetitiveness and lack of innovation of those shows bothered you, this is a show you should not miss.I'm just sad that this show no longer deserves the A+ it once earned. Community has become the type of series it once mocked. Perhaps in an attempt to gain a wider audience, it has lost its heart.Let's hope Dan Harmon manages to find it again, before it is too late.
Let's face it, the sitcom genre seems to be on life support. But there is good news, it appears that fans and viewers prefer the non-audience taped programs. That's fine but how do you know if the show is funny without the audience. Well, shows like Community with a first rate cast featuring Joel McHale from E! and the legendary Chevy Chase as well as Danny Pudi and others help make this show worth watching. I love the actress who plays Shirley, a divorced mother of two at Greenvale Community College. If this show inspires those out there to check out their community or county college or adult school program, it's worth having on the air. This show isn't to inspire people but to make jokes about a bunch of adult students in college trying to grow up and get an education.


                
"Community" is a show about an odd Spanish class study group. There's not much Spanish or studying, it's just an excuse to bring the cast together. Each character has his or her own issues and personality quirks. Being set at a small-time community college allows for the unlikely mix of students, old and young, from all walks of life.Joel McHale (E!'s "The Soup") capably handles the lead, playing Jeff Winger, a shrewd ex-lawyer thrown back in school after authorities found out about his bogus law degree.Also in the group are Abed (Danny Pudi), an eccentric social outcast; Troy (Donald Glover), the star athlete and big man on campus at his old high school, now trying to fit in in a new environment; Shirley (Yvette Nicole Brown), a single mother continuing her education in adulthood; Annie (Alison Brie), a preppy high school dropout; and Britta (Gillian Jacobs), an outspoken feminist with some experience in the real world.Chevy Chase is part of the group as well, in a comeback role as Pierce, an older and slightly delusional business man. A pudgier and grayer Chevy Chase than viewers might remember, but he's still a funny man.The Spanish teacher (Señor Chang) is played by familiar-face Ken Jeong (popular nowadays from his roles in films THE HANGOVER and various Judd Apatow productions). I remember him in low-key roles on "The Office" and KNOCKED UP, but here he unleashes his wild side.Also thrown into the mix is the scrawny, bald-headed dean (Jim Rash), an overall inept administrator put in charge of the small-time Greendale Community College. He comes up with strange ideas to better the college (like changing the team name to the Human Beings and developing a racially neutral mascot that won't offend anyone) and envies Jeff's popularity.The show is about the different characters and how they interact, as well as the wacky goings-on at Greendale. The study group becomes like a little family for the misfits as they try to survive the farce that is community college. It's about the characters bettering their lives and coming together to support one another, with hilarious twists and turns along the way.A big part of the show has been Jeff's attempts to win over Britta, the girl he has a crush on. (In fact, the whole study group was originally a ruse in order for Jeff to get to know Britta.) It's not a romance like Jim and Pam (from "The Office"), but Britta always gets Jeff to be less sleazy in order to impress her. Jeff is not a great human being, but in his attempts to get closer to Britta he becomes a better person. For a while, at least.Joel McHale shines in the role of the sarcastic and cocky manipulator, and the ensemble does a good job backing him up. (Chase holds his own in a supporting role, Pudi is a fan favorite for his unusual behavior and pop-culture references, and the others have their moments as everyone shares screen time.)The show is also pretty funny. There are a few different styles of comedy at play, and the show is good for the occasional witty retort. While not side-splittingly funny, the jokes do come early and often within the half-hour airtime. Some are hits, some are misses, but the jokes keep coming. And with so many different characters to follow, things stay fresh."Community" is a good new comedy. I think it has a chance to stick around. McHale and Chase provide minor star power and the show offers an interesting cast of characters who work well together.It's not my favorite, but the humor should appeal to a lot of people. It does have its moments. "Community" is as decent a sitcom as any nowadays. Not one of the elite, but it's pretty good. Check it out for yourself.


                
There is no doubt that all the cast departures are felt during the thirteen episodes on offer here (that table just seems so empty) but Community's sixth season still mostly makes for an entertaining watch, just don't expect it to live up to the standards it set in its first few seasons.


                
The show's appeal is its quick-paced surrealism. It literally smacks you out of left field time and time again. Whatever Harmon brought to the table with wit or mania (you choose) is missing in the later episodes. The show is becoming too paced, too deep, and too ordinary. It's shifting gears into a silly "Scrubs"-type show when the fun of "Community" was its defiance of any conventional genre. It HAD A style all its own, an that seems to be slipping away. Maybe it's just getting long in the tooth, but I'd love to see it return to its roots. The paint-ball episodes, for example, were extraordinary! Regardless of the show's ability live up to its roots of being unbelievably random, there's also the problem of making some of the characters too farcical; primarily the dean and Chang. The dean's character has become too incredibly 1-dimensional for the show, with his cross-dressing and Winger-lust, and frankly, nothing else. While Chang is the token fringe character that is wholly under-utilized and so periphery that it begs the question "why is he even in the show at all?" I think Chang needs more connection and more screen time, or cut the poor guy loose.


                
I love the cast of this show, I loved them in the pilot and I love em even more now.I just wish the show wasn't on network TV because network comedies tend to become redundant after a few seasons; Family Guy, Friends, The Office, The Simpsons, Scrubs, etc. Plus network shows rarely push the envelope once they have formed an established fanbase. However I do think this show will be good for at least another 2-3 seasons because of the strength of the cast alone.So far my favorite characters on the show are Abed and Pierce although any of the scenes with Abed and Troy are gold. My favorite episode so far was the Goodfellas parody where Abed becomes the chicken finger kingpin.Honestly, I hope that this show doesn't run for the next decade and die a slow death I have too much respect for the cast.
By most of the time I mean it started out very well, but after the seasons where they are really attending school it does become a bit too much and the story is not really sticking to itself even though it has always been a bit silly, in the last seasons it seems like they can't let it go and stop, since the series have had a lot of success, but in my opinion they should have.There are quirky characters, maybe put a bit on the edge, but they all fit into the stories and it is really fun most of the time. I especially like Abed and Troy, they just have these very nerdy and special episodes and come up with ideas that are just crazy, but they fit into this strange universe of a school :)


                
