The first time I've heard about community was this summer when I was taking the 'Paramount' studio tour. When we where walking around the decors I was amazed about how real it looked! Since I work for TV in Belgium I know how decors look and how it's been shown on TV. But when you walk around in the studio it's like you're really walking in a school! But most of all the way that the Director shows it on TV is just amazing! the lighting also plays a great part of creating the mood and weather which looks like real! GREAT JOB! "side note"- in the episode with the paint ball competition I really don't want to be the decor staff because what they did with the decors, It blows my mind! (and it's a lot of cleaning work)The first episode should be the best one where the audience gets caught in the series. But this was not the case! you get to know all the characters in the first episode but you don't get an real story like in the other episodes. It even looks like it is a drama show where the guy hopelessly falls in love with the girl but just can't get her!Further the acting work is great every character has is own personality and the way that the actors show it to the screen is just like there being them-selfs! (which in Chevy Chase's case could be real ;) ) It's amazing how you can get so caught up in the story when it is everything except real.Also amazing work for the screenwriters because they can come up with amazing new out of the box story's! While we are used to see them like on The Simpsons,..I a really looking forward to the new episodes of this season and maybe a third season?


                
I started watching this show late in the season, and accidentally came across it by accident on Hulu (I meant to click on something else). I am glad I did.What I like about this show in particular is that it is primarily concerned with the platonic dynamic among the members of a mish-mashed group. For me, that is really refreshing. I have never been a real fan of major network sitcoms because of what I perceive as a complete lack of ingenuity and a revolution around unoriginal themes (I actually started tuning into the Disney show, Suite Life of Zach and Cody for the reasons stated herein). There have been a few good ones here and there, but most friendship-oriented sitcoms geared towards adults seemed to develop the over-used story of a group of friends sitting around crabbing about their love lives and how to fix them, i.e. Friends, Will and Grace, O.C. (not exactly a sitcom), Sex and the City, even 30 Rock to a certain degree. I realize the bulk of those shows are from a few years back, but it was those sorts of shows (not to mention the devil-conceived reality shows) that really turned me off from major network programming. I enjoyed them at the time, but they all seemed to grace the same themes: we're such close friends and we're going to help each other find boyfriends. Puke! I got so sick of seeing friendships revolving around getting someone laid. Then I came upon Community. I've watched every episode thus far in the first season and I really appreciate its commitment to focusing on the core relationships among the friends. Of course they delve into the sexual tensions that naturally exist, but it always remains focused on the friendships, and through funny means. I think this kind of theme is so necessary in today's programming. It's OK to "just be friends" with someone. It's OK to be yourself, to be dorky, funny, fussy, uptight, bitchy, whatev. There are still people out there that can care about you. It doesn't have to be about finding love or sex, being sexy, or being desired by the gender from which you seek attention. That is what I like about Community, it just shows friends being friends without pretense. As far as the show goes substantively, I think it is quite funny. It sometimes misses the mark, but I think those moments are rare. Some episodes are funnier than others, some characters are funnier than others, but everyone has their moment. I love Joel McHale, I think he's a riot, and Chevy Chase is really great. Someone else mentioned how they were glad he wasn't over-taking the show's humor elements and I also appreciate that. His humor is well- spaced throughout the show. The guy who plays the dean is a riot as well. I love his scenes.I also really enjoy the community college setting. It's a very appropriate setting for a show about a diverse group of friends that each have their own special and interesting reasons for being there. I know some people dislike the overt, "politically correct" representation in the group. There are some stereotypes, the culturally- insensitive older person, the fabulous African-American woman, the WASP-y, pretentious brat, the hipster, the cool guy, the nerd, etc. It can get a tad clichéd, but I think it works specifically because the community college setting is a place where you might find that mixture of people. It appeals to people from all walks of life: younger, college-aged students, people who have time on their hands and want more education, people trying to make a new start in life, etc. I think it's a great and interesting setting to use in a show about a unconventional group of friends. I really think the creators planned it out well. So yes, if you are like me and enjoy seeing shows about friends being just friends, and developing those platonic relationships, its definitely worth the try. I certainly plan on continuing.


                
I was a little skeptical when I first watched Community because of all the pro-mos that were done. It seemed like every commercial break had a pro-mo saying how great this show is going to be...which usually turns me off a program.I missed the first episode but caught the subsequent ones and they were funny. Chevy Chase does a good job at not taking over as the lead in what is essentially an ensemble cast. McHale does a good job at being a guy that does not want to be involved in other peoples' lives, but ends up getting dragged in anyways.The Spanish rap that was done at the very end of episode 2 was just hilarious and the dance at the end last night was great. Silly but still funny and entertaining.


                
There are six seasons of Community, and I think the first two are essentially perfect. Featuring a rag-tag team of 7 individuals who have enrolled in community college after their lives didn't go as planned, this is an excellent, charming comedy made by people who clearly love TV and aren't shy about playing with tropes or even flat out mentioning them. Unfortunately, like with all TV shows, there were behind the scenes push-pull between the studio and the creatives. And not everything can stay perfectly flawless forever. In later seasons behind the scenes drama shows up on screen and characters rotate out to be replaced by new ones. That said, even as the creative juices dried up a little and the show kept revisiting past glories by making sequels to their most successful episodes, the show still remained incredibly watchable. A great comedy show with lots of laughs that always cheers me up.


                
When I first started this show, I was loving it SO MUCH, enjoying every character and their silly humor. All the nonsense and the cartoonization they suffered throughout the seasons reminded me a lot of Scrubs, which is my favorite show of all time. The world they built for the series is inspiring and it activated my imagination to the point the characters and that reality kept living on in my head.But then I got to the monotonous and forced season 4 finale, that I believe it was the moment when they jumped the shark. In season 5, the show seemed superficial and not funny at all, especially with characters leaving for no reason and things coming out of nowhere, so I dropped it.Still, Community holds a place in my heart and I'm glad for all the laughs I had with it, a great show and I'd recommend it to anyone!


                
At first, this show was enjoyable but never really made me laugh out loud. I appreciated the humour and the almost clichéd but we know its clichéd jokes but I still felt the show hadn't quite found it's footing. However each episode gets funnier than the last, and the past few episode have been hilarious! I really suggest watching it and watching past the first few episodes to see how funny it is. I hope it continues to progress and gets more a chance to improve on its already solid foundation.Also the last minute or so of each episode with Troy and Abed are just too funny! Their relationship is definitely my favourite.


                
This show has me at a loss. It seams to be doing all the things I hate about modern TV like trying way too hard to look like it's not trying to be cool, like being a collection of stereotypes of people who only exist on bad TV shows, like trying to appear to not be adhering to a formula by having a character break the fourth wall and acknowledge that they are adhering to a formula. The list of things that Community dose that really bug me in other shows is extensive. But for some reason, it doesn't bother me when Community does them, in fact, I love it. It could just be that Community has actually found a way to do these things right, or maybe that it's just tong in cheek enough to get away with it. What ever the reason, the result is clear; I love this god awful show. This is the only program since MST3K went off the air that makes me laugh out loud. I doubt that it will be around very long, but I'll watch it for as long as it is.


                
Considering our day and age, it isn't surprising that most decent comedy on TV these days is dark, ironic, and satirical. Shows like Weeds, Californication, Shameless etc. are definitely not for the faint hearted despite their brilliance.But I'm pleased to announce that Community manages to avoid a jaded worldview and succeeds at being genuinely funny. The dialogue is sharp and quick, the acting is top-notch, and everything is very colorful. The humor has wonderful range from childlike physical comedy to lightning fast witticism. You definitely get the feeling that everyone involved with this project is having a great time.Other modern comedies that have attempted to be this cheerful have never quite been able to hit the spot between too much sugary sweetness (Glee) and a crippling emotional weight (Scrubs). Yet Community achieves a perfect balancing act of presenting unique characters who develop in believable ways, without killing the mood with teary scenes or a rampant lack of realism. Even at its most serious (which is rare) you can always expect a great pick-me-up joke just seconds away and this is extremely refreshing.I highly recommend this show to everyone. Its a fantastic comedy that will not let you stop smiling!


                
Abed (Danny Pudi) steals the show. He has Asperger's syndrome. It's a very serious disorder. It'll have you in stitches.Chevy Chase is back from obscurity, which is awesome, because, let's face it, he's Chevy, and we're not. You can hate the man for his massive ego if you want, but you can't deny that when he's on screen, he's still a comedy legend. Joel McHale is a fish out of soup. Soup? Yes, soup, because it's better than salt. John Oliver plays John Oliver sans Jon Stewart (a.k.a. "The Dean"). He and Joel's character (a disbarred lawyer seeking redemption) go way back. Just not far enough, apparently.It's about a group of semi-middle-aged community college students who form a "Breakfast Club" style study group, but that's not important. What's important is that you'll be cracking up, and most of the time, it'll be because Abed did or said something in all his Asperger's awesomeness.RIP John Hughes (1950 – 2009) RIP Patrick Swayze (1952 – 2009) RIP "RIP Chevy Chase" jokes (1990 - 2009)


                
Community is one of my favorite shows on TV right now.The Episode ideas are just brilliant. They try to spice it up. There not just going to classes everyday. For instance. One episode the whole school had a paint ball war.Another one was when the gang found a KFC space simulator in season 2. That episode was great.This show it a MUST SEE. The writing and acting is really just great.It doesn't have a bland comedy like The Office.The cast featuring Joel MChale.Gillian Jacobs Danny Pudi Yvette Nicole Brown Alison Brie Donald Glover Chevy Chase Ken Jeong


                
Great characters. Great chemistry. When i first watched this I was in a mood of somewhere along the lines of "I need to start watching some newer shows and take a break from catching up on the classics that I haven't seen yet (ie currently on 3rd season of Simpsons)" The overall writing is quite clever. I'll be shocked if this show doesn't get a second season. On the other hand, I will be shocked if Parks and Rec gets a third season.When I first saw the stupid NBC promos calling it "its like the breakfast club.. without the breakfast" - my reaction was basically: - stupid, stupid, stupid NBC. But then again I also feel sorry for the guy who also has to make jimmy failon seem interesting.Anyway - if you don't like some of the characters at the beginning of the show you will once the season moves along when they actually have their own special "moments" or even episodes about them.This is a show that has great writing, maybe not top quality but better than the mess that Heroes is in and keeps the humor going unlike Parks And Rec.I don't like to watch it live but thats cause I hate commercials and want to watch it at like 2 or 3am when I'm working on homework (night owl) if I want to. I could said I could easily watch this through various means of the internet, which shall remain nameless, but I like watching it on the tele most of the time.And now after having woken up, time for a live Chelsea game.


                
This show is one the greatest shows that I have ever seen in my entire life. It has the most funniest sayings and I seriously don't know how someone could hate such a hilarious TV show. Abed Nadir and Troy Barnes are by far the greatest characters in this show and I love them both. I recommend this show to every single person because it can make even the most up-tight people laugh! Even though most of what Chevy Chase says is most usually racist and sexual, he is still pretty funny. Pretty please watch this show!! You will so not regret it!! But like, if you find Racist jokes extremely offensive then maybe this isn't quite the show for you but... To everyone else... Currently Seasons 1, 2, and 3 are out on DVD 08-08-13 Cheeeerioooo!! xoxo


                
this show is fantastic, just been reading why is has not been on the screen for a while. it seems that the network have truly got this wrong the slot the running of it losing people getting them back. this show does well across the board little coverage if any in england. now to here cast are leaving just confirms with me that the wrong people have been in charge, this had such potentcial (sorry for the spelling been drinking and never good at it but this is the only time i feel strong enough to state a view)any ways see if the season 5 can come back with what the show is about but without troy will be close to impossible as he has such a story line with abed and the plumber scene. am thinking that this might bot even happen or will not finish as they have let there viewers down. was there better shows ,more gritty yea sure, but this form and that was rare and will be gone and truly missed, think a change in the office is needed not the show but hey hoe there she goes . piece and am out as my boy kid says. told ya was drinkin......


                
This is truly the very best show I have ever seen. Every joke mad, every punchline spoken is dead-on. Everything is gold, the characters the stories, just everything. And all that combines, of course, makes for a golden show. I will NEVER get tired of this show, so of course I hope this show will go on forever. In my opinion this show is the only show that is a ''must watch''. So why is that? Only way to really find out is to watch yourself, but to convince anyone to do so, I'll say: ''This show is really funny, but not in a simple way (f.e. family guy), all the jokes are thought about. Every episode has it's own awesome story, but yet all the episodes fit together in a bigger picture really good (the opposite of CSI). And then when you get further in the episodes and seasons there will be some inside jokes referring to earlier episodes which will make you an addict to the show.


                
Community is my favorite show (barely) on TV. This series has a lovable group of misfits thrown into the most interesting, quirky, and goofy situations, and they always emerge (almost) on top. From the star studded cast displaying some fantastic acting chops (Donald Glover, Joel McHale, and Alison Brie particularly shine) to the upbeat writing and great pacing, this show is a must see. It understandably has earned a strong following with a small, but dedicated group of fans. The largest pitfall of Community lies within its tendencies to over indulge in itself and content occasionally, leaving a slightly off-putting taste in your mouth. This small criticism aside, Community is a wonderful time, and deserves yours.


                
You got to love the characters, it a show about nothing. And yet it contains so much, it is super funny. Not always for the story, but always for it's characters.


                
My original rating for Community was a perfect 10. I had watched the first four seasons on DVD, when the show was still on the air and it's prime. It was one of those shows where I could watch over and over again. Recently, I re-watched the entire six seasons of Community on Hulu, with my fiancee Diane and that's when I realized I had to change my rating. Yeah, it was still a good show but it wasn't a great show anymore. Seasons five and six took the series down. Season five was tolerable but by the last season, everything had changed. The characters were no longer themselves. The gags weren't there. Half the original cast was gone. The spirit that made the show special was deleted. Honestly, it made me feel kind of sad. I keep thinking, had I stopped at season four, I would know this show as a perfect series that went out in glory. Instead, I now know this great show lost it's charisma overtime and went out kind of meh. I think my biggest complaint is that once Troy was written out, the character of Abed suffered. Season One and Season Six Abed are vastly different. I know that characters need to grow and what have you; and that's fine, but they took the core of a character and changed it for no reason. Abed was special because he saw the world differently. He was weird and wasn't ashamed of it. By the last episode, he wasn't unique anymore. He was just this quiet guy that sometimes liked pop culture. To take it a step further, once Troy, Pierce and Shirley were written out, the show became a vastly different show. It wasn't this comedic mastermind, that was just laid back and goofy. It got way too serious. I found myself thinking things that I never thought I would think would be important like, "Why isn't the Dean wearing costumes anymore?", "Shouldn't they actually be in a class or at school?", and "Wasn't Garret with Vicki? Who's this new girl he somehow is engaged to now?! Where's my continuity?!". In conclusion, the series is great until the fourth season. Season 4 was the lowest rated season, but I felt it was the last good one. The first four seasons were fast paced, funny, wacky and made you love the characters. The last two were slow downed and didn't have the same heart or magic anymore. The characters were depressed and even when they tried to be more creative again, they didn't try very hard. Chevy Chase might be hard to work with and out of touch, but I think he was correct in saying that the show, Community, needed to be wacky and out there. Not some ordinary drama show...
Resurrected by Yahoo following its cancellation by NBC, Dan Harmon's passion project returned here, having lost much of its budget and cast along several commercially under-performing seasons. The show acclimatizes itself fairly quickly to its new surroundings and realities, but creator Harmon's infamous emotional immaturity and insecurities all over the screen. It makes for a distracting viewing experience when the show's creator's personal flaws bleed onto the screen so obviously, with nearly every character here waxing poetical about what it means to grow and mature, as though accepting mature responsibilities is an insurmountable challenge. Nevertheless there's enough good will left over from the first few seasons to carry the viewer through, not to mention that the remaining cast remains as pitch-perfect as ever.


                
I'm new to this TV show, but I already like it. It's not only laugh, but also full of social critics. First from the characters themselves, they're really picturing all kind of people in this world. I like it the way they told us to unite to the differences. even if it seems impossible to cooperate with racist and close-minded believer (those are people I dislike so much in this show). Nice shot Community! Go Jeff and Annie! Oh, I really hate attention-whore-racist-inconsiderate-capitalist-Pierce and closet-gossiper-hypocrites-way-over-the-top-close-minded-believer!


                
Community is a great show, not just okay but great. The way they change the shows theme in different episodes such as making animated specials or spoof other shows and movies is really great and makes the show what it is. Each character all have a different type of background or in other words are not all the same character if that makes sense. For example one character is very religious while on the other hand one is an activist and atheist. The diversity of the show is entertaining to see play out and to see how the school they go to "Greendale" is in words very unusual and weird. From the people who go their to the staff and the mysterious backgrounds they have. Community is a must watch show and you should literally start watching it now, like right after you're done reading this. All in all I give Community a 9/10.


                
First off, I want to say that I am a huge fan of the show and love almost everything about it... except for season 6. This show is a true celebration to nerdism and almost all the characters are both lovable as well as irreplaceable. There is a level of excitement that just makes it so addicting to watch that I can watch it over, and over again with the same level of enjoyment. In the end, I would happily give Community Seasons 1-5 a 9.That being said, the majority of this review is strictly targeting Season 6. In my opinion, Season 6 BLOWS! Let's be honest, the majority of us loved Community for it's character roster and what that roster brought to the atmosphere of the show. Could we have replaced Troy, Shirley, and Buzz Hickey? Sure, but the characters chosen weren't the greatest. Although L. Roy was okay, Frankie was not only useless, she was annoying and boring. Sure she had some moments, but she had no real personality that was in some way interesting, or lovable like Pearce, Troy, Shirley, Dunkin, or Buzz Hickey. Plus, Abed and Chang might as well have left the show too. Why? Because they were by no means the characters we loved! Abed is supposed to be quirky, fun, socially awkward, and imaginative. Chang is supposed to be psychologically insane who was living with a monkey and tried to take over Greendale. Also, what happened to the romance between Annie and Jeff that was slowly developing over the last 5 seasons?! In the last episode of Season 5, Jeff clearly displayed strong feelings for Annie that grew over time and then suddenly in Season 6 those emotions were completely absent. At the end of the day, we have a show inserting boring characters, and less interesting plots while stating in the first 3 episodes that fans may not respond well to the changes. At least Season 5 came back with a bang, but Season 6 "Frankly" killed the show for me and ruined a lot of amazing potential brought to us in season 5. Finally, where was the imagination?! Every season had some memorable wild adventure like blanket forts, 8 bit video games, themed paintball games, zombies, Inspector Space Time, claymation, cartoons, etc... Even Season 5 had Dungeons and Dragons, Lava World, and G.I.Joe. Season 6 had.... well.... a semi interesting episode of paintball. If a 7th Season is made, Dan Harmon really needs to rewatch seasons 1, 2, 3, 5, and give the fans what made them love the show in the first place! In the end, I give Season 6 a resounding 2!
In few words, it is nice show. The only horrible thing is Abed and his Father, both are talking in really bad Arabic ( because the actors are actually of Indian and Pakistani origin rather than Palestinian). It is better if none of them talk in Arabic at all to avoid that. The other thing is that the father English accent is no way to be spoken by an Arabic. The Arabic accent of English is totally different.It is better to have Arabic actors to represent Arabic character. If non Arabic used an Arabic character, it is better not to speak in Arabic at all.Despite all of that the Show is really nice and entertaining.
No matter what happens, I'll always be excited for a new season of Community.
This season feels different, but in a good way. Shirley has left the group and Troy now being long gone, Community has added Frankie (played by Paget Brewster) and Elroy (played by the amazing Keith David). These additions are great and I'm very surprised how much I actually liked the Frankie character. She adds "the straight man" (or in the case woman) view that is missing from the group since... ever. And no matter what he is in, I love Keith David (Gargoyles ftw). The first two episodes were funny and full of Community-esque shenanigans.


                
Following the public falling out between "Community" creator Dan Harmon and Chevy Chase, which resulted in Harmon's departure from this season, it's not surprising that there are some growing pains here and there in this season, given the abrupt nature of the creative changes. Most of them are negligible but it's undeniable that there's a bit of an adjustment period, although luckily the show eventually acquits itself well to its new Harmon-less creative process. The characters remain consistent yet surprising, while the comedic acting is never anything less than remarkable. For a season that was so thoroughly compromised behind the scenes, this is almost better than it has a right to be.


                
The third season of Dan Harmon's unique network sitcom is a bit weaker than the first two, but given how extraordinarily good those two are, it's not meant to suggest that this season isn't excellent itself. The ensemble acting is as remarkably cohesive here as the other seasons, and the writing is still crisp and multilayered. However, some of Harmon's grasp of the show seems to have slipped, with extended diatribes about pillow forts and nostalgia-tinged video games, which, while amusing, tend to distract from the central dynamics at the show's core. That being said, Harmon's brilliant, strange creation gets a pass on its less successful asides thanks to everything else it does so well.


                
