..with delight. A brilliantly written, well acted programme. Well done to all concerned. The story had me hooked from the start.All the elements of Holmes are present and correct. So far most of the original characters have appeared, with hints of more yet to appear. It is suspenseful and sometimes genuinely funny. I have read all the original stories, and after the late, great Jeremy Brett, despaired of ever seeing another top notch Holmes film. This is it, Brought up to date into the 21st century, but done with affection and respect to the original. Nice to see the writers have continued the theme of an intelligent (slightly bemused) Watson. CAN WE HAVE A FULL SERIES PLEASE. If not this is one I will return to again and again.


                
It's after 2am and I have just registered on IMDb after watching the first ep of Sherlock as I was compelled to get it out there that this show presents some PURE BRILLIANCE in its delivery of my favourite fictional detective. Hard to believe they could create a setting in modern times where the illustrious Holmes and Watson set off on their adventures and absolutely GET IT RIGHT, in every aspect. Sir Arthur would, I believe, approve of this adaptation and be pleased that yet another generation is able to live the thrill of the chase, the connection of obscure yet obvious (to a genius) clues... the little things that have a far greater relevance than you would normally perceive. For a first episode... BUGGER ME, I am more than hooked and now await more installments and hope that each episode is as brilliant as the last... I have a feeling it will continue from strength to strength as we delve deeper into the darkness that is the mind of Sherlock Holmes. if they had an 11 out of 10 rating... that's my vote. The game is definitely on my dear Watson!


                
To my surprise they absolutely nailed it. Cumberbatch is a fantastic choice for Sherlock Holmes-he is physically right (he fits the traditional reading of the character) and he is a damn good actor. Martin Freeman, about whom I wasn't sure at first, is an excellent foil for Holmes without being the dumb sidekick that Dr Watson has often been. I thought that this series would not work, particularly after Robert Downey's interesting take on Conan Doyle's characterisation. I have been proved so wrong-it moved along at a good pace and held the attention brilliantly. My wife started by saying she didn't like it but by the end of the episode she was as enthralled as I. We are both looking forward to the rest of the series, if it is as entertaining as the first story. I was disappointed to read some reviews here that did not love it. Methinks they are too jaded to enjoy anything.


                
I have been an avid fan of Sherlock Holmes from a very young age, and my first reaction upon hearing of a modern TV remake was "oh bugger, they are so going to screw this up". However, i am glad to report that, unlike so many other TV adaptations and especially ones that modernise, i found it witty, clever and above all, entertaining. It was extremely reverential of its considerable pedigree and included a large number of coded references and callbacks for the more avid fan, e.g. the use of scratches around a persons mobile phone charger port to indicate a drunkard rather than a pocket watches winding keyhole. I imagine many were irked by this and as i can see from the ratings many did not care for it at all, but for me it was simply sublime, and well deserving of a 10 out of 10


                
I think it is always a bit uncertain and tricky when a 19th century series or film is modernised and most of the time it doesn't work, especially if it is well known and liked but I was very very impressed. Benedict does a brilliant job portraying the famous sleuth and made a 19th century character and modern day London merge beautifully. Martin Freeman was also great as Dr Watson. Rupert Graves made a brilliant Lestrade. It was sharp, quick and kept you on your toes and you just couldn't wait to see what happened next, this was of course completed by brilliant acting from the actors. I'm so pleased it got favourable reviews from the critics, roll on the next episode!!!!


                
What we have here is a very interestingly rendered modern version of Holmes' first appearance, A Study in Scarlet, in which he meets Watson, they take the rooms in Baker Street and successfully investigate a series of murders. The story is rarely adapted for two reasons. The first is that the murders don't make sense without the dull, rambling back story which no one wants to dramatise. The Valley of Fear has hardly ever been dramatised for the same reason. The second is that this is Conan Doyle's first attempt and he introduced significant character changes to both Holmes and Watson in the short stories. Holmes, in A Study in Scarlet, is rather more deranged, more like Cumberbatch's Holmes than Brett's, much more an aggressive, painful thorn in the side of the police rather than the unseen assistant of later stories.So people who haven't read the book or have only seen Holmes on screen need to give this a bit of time. 21C technology aside, it's actually quite a faithful adaptation, even though they ditched the back story and gave the murderer another, more credible motive. Knowledge of the original isn't at all necessary, but it does change the viewpoint. While some were congratulating themselves on beating Holmes to the punch in spotting the profession of the murderer, readers of the original were being conned into believing that his next victim was going to be the American he was driving (the victims in the original are all American). In the original, the word 'Rache' appears at the crime scene, also in an empty house in Lauriston Gardens, written in blood. The police jump to the conclusion that the victim was trying to write the word 'Rachel'. Holmes knows that 'Rache' is German for revenge. Moffat turns it neatly and humorously around. In the original it's a red herring, in the new version, it's a vital clue. These riffs on the original abound and are almost always imaginative and amusing and often more than that. Mycroft as Sherlock's Big Brother, for example.Moffat and Gatiss treat the characters with all the loving respect that an author could wish for and serve up an adaptation which re-imagines everything that Conan Doyle put into his plots and yet delivers something very close to to their original purpose and effect. Holmes and Watson are products of their time, as they should be, but they are recognisably the descendants and inheritors of the originals. The baby is still gurgling happily in the bathwater.There's a lot more here than initially meets the eye and I have a sneaky feeling it'll get better.If it does, it's going to be very, very good indeed.
I've been a Sherlock Holmes' fan for what feels like forever, and, like others, was concerned that this modern version would be a disaster. I needn't have worried. It was a terrific, fast-paced, edge-of-the-seat adventure. Benedict Cumberbatch (what a name!) brings a dark edginess to Holmes that gives the whole piece a delightful 'gothic' feel, while Martin Freeman - if the first episode is anything to go by - will make a perfect foil as Watson. Casting is so important and this combination feels just right.I'll always have a soft spot for Basil Rathbone's Holmes, and, on the small screen at least, I can't see anyone displacing Jeremy Brett as the definitive 'Victorian' sleuth. But maybe, just maybe, the writers have created a Sherlock for the modern age who will stand the test of time and join a handful of other portrayals in the Pantheon of the greats.Moffat's pedigree as a comedy writer has added a new layer to the Holmes' scenario, and though there were several in-jokes in the first episode that only Holmes' aficionados would appreciate, there was enough general humour to lighten what might otherwise have been a dark canvas.Of course, I shouldn't have had any doubts. Steven Moffat is, after all, the man who rescued Dr Who from the self-indulgent, soap-opera obsessed, poorly scripted, moribund years of Russell T Davies and turned it back into a fun-packed joy to watch. He's done the same with 'Sherlock'. The man is a genius. I can't wait for the next instalment.


                
As a die-hard fan of the source material, I have tracked down and went through nearly every radio, television, film, and comic book interpretation of Sherlock Holmes - which run a mean gamut regarding quality, as you probably already know - and so I approached this incarnation skeptical but sanguine. Doubtful it would match the eminent Jeremy Brett series in quality, but hopeful it might preserve Conan's tone - something I think that series did well and the Downey Jr. movie did not.To my surprise, and delight, this show just so happens to be the bomb-diggity. Let me explain.Ever notice how lots of Agatha Christie fans complain when screenwriters change Poirot and Marple stories? I'm not one of them. I like new and different interpretations of those stories because otherwise, in the case of literary characters brought on screen, what's the point? What's the point if we film and re-film the same story, the same story which we've already read once, twice, maybe three times? Especially in many cases, what's the point when it's been done so perfectly before? In the case of Sherlock Holmes, The Hound of the Baskervilles has been filmed at least 24 times according to Wikipedia. So another iteration won't thrill me. However, one that takes liberties with the source material, i.e. bringing the characters into the 21st century, I'm all for it. Surprise me. That's what I say.And there are two things I really love about this series. 1) For longtime fans there are many, many "Easter eggs" to discover in each episode. And, best of all, 2) My boyfriend loves this series. And I can't pay him to watch a Jeremy Brett episode. He did enjoy the Downey Jr. movie (as did I, I just prefer a less swashbuckling Holmes - one reason among many that I didn't love the film), but he's never excited to watch Sherlock anything. This series is different. He loves it. For any Sherlock fan that would like to get their significant others on the band wagon, this is a great gateway. (And my boyfriend's actually a very good barometer for high-quality mainstream television shows. Usually, if something's firing on all cylinders, he knows it. More risky fare - he's off-put.)And, you may rightly ask, why should I give a crap what my boyfriend likes? Good question. I happen to be of the mind that TV and film can accomplish what my favorite art form - literature - cannot. The TV and film experience can be enjoyed by a group. Sure, book clubs discuss books, but with TV and film you and whomever you want to hang out with, experience story at the exact same time, in real time, and you can easily observe each other's initial, unguarded reactions. Plain and simple, it's fun to enjoy the mediums with others - to laugh together, to be scared, sad, thrilled, etc. It enhances the experience. I think literature's strength is the opposite. For me, the best thing about settling into a good book is that I'm alone. Just me and the test, together making up a story.Well, if anybody has read this far, I apologize for the rant. But if you're on the fence about buying the DVD or renting it or whatever, take a chance. Take a tip from me. You'll be pleasantly surprised. The more things change, the more they stay the same.
One word to describe this show..'excellent'. A true master piece. I am a huge fan of the original Sherlock Holmes books and TV shows. When I sat down to watch this, at the first glimpse I was a bit disappointed. The show started in a somewhat different way than I imagined. Few minutes later, I found out that the 'difference' I experienced is what makes this series unique and brilliant. The cast is spot on. Couldn't have picked a better guy for Holmes or Lestrade. Yet, Dr. Watson doesn't match the original picture.Who cares hey? The story is full of twists and turns and fascinating to see the techniques of deduction. The merging of old reasoning and new technology has been done magnificently. So, its a Holmes with a laptop and a smart phone.that who we see.and that can be easily related than those 1800's detective.Hope this show will continue for many full seasons.


                
"Sherlock" is a BBC mini-series which is based on the books of the Scottish writer Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and released in 2010. This police drama is the modernized version of the world famous detective.This well-known series is about the famous private detective Sherlock Holmes and his friend, the military doctor John H. Watson. Located in the 21 century in London, this witty series begins when Holmes, a strange but charismatic genius, meets his new flatmate Watson, an invalid war hero. Little by little they became really good and close friends, as well as detective partners. This engaging series, has a witty and gripping plot, not to mention the fact that it also has an amazing and talented cast, such as Martin Freeman (John Watson), the Oscar nominee actor Benedict Cumberbatch (Sherlock Holmes) and a lot of more exceptional actors. Acclaimed by the public, this well-crafted TV series won many important awards like "The Golden Globe Awards" as well as "The Emmy Awards". Taking everything into account, I believe that this truly original series is one of the best I have seen so far, I couldn't stop watching it! An absolute must for everyone that enjoys watching mystery, crime and drama series. If you want to spend a great time, this is the series for you.


                
I must admit I was apprehensive about this show at first. I am an avid Sherlock Holmes fan, have read all of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's stories over and over again. But after the first few minutes I was hooked. The only downside is that there are only three episodes out so far. I can't wait for more!!!! Benedict Cumberbatch and Martin Freeman are excellent in this show. It works! They pull it off perfectly without losing the essential qualities of the characters. To all of you out there who love a great mystery you will love this show. Fast paced, believable and funny. I haven't enjoyed a show this much in a long time. Good work to all involved, it's wonderful!!! The Game Is On!!!


                
The first three seasons? An absolute masterpiece. That being said, do NOT watch anything after that. Season 4 gets a 2/10 in my book, it's that bad. Their little "Christmas special" between seasons 3 & 4 gets a 6/10.


                
I have read every Sherlock Holmes story multiple times, so I am very familiar with the characters and the original stories. I am blown away by the ingenuity of this series (hoped-to-be series). Who would have thought Sherlock could be plopped down in the 21st Century, not just totally intact, but attuned to cellphones, computers, GPS? How cleverly this beloved character has been remodelled whilst retaining his 19th Century charm. I cannot rave enough about this engaging, fast, intelligent dialogue, plot construction and beautiful filming. Amazing. The actors are already so embedded in my mind as the true characters, they cannot possibly be replaced! (Excellent, Excellent Casting!!) I've TiVo'd the three episodes and have to be content with watching them over and over.Please, please, please, give us more!


                
For those of you that have looked at my previous reviews and asked, "Wait, I thought you were a science fiction fan?" Well, my friend, I would say that I'm a fan of great works of art. That's why I not only review when I believe a work has merit (or when it's a piece of schlock that needs to be revealed... *cough* "Fahrenheit 911" *cough*) and I can honestly give a 10 out of 10 rating.To not give a rating of such to "Sherlock" would be a disservice and a slap in the face to a great literary character legend. And to do so, even in the venue such as this, is a great honor and pleasure.In first viewing this, it came totally by the suggestion of a great friend of mine. She called me one night - along the same lines as she did with another BBC show of the same caliber, "Doctor Who" - and told me that I needed to see this because I was "a book geek." Knowing that she tuned me into a great show once, I figured to take the hit and do it once again.Thank you, Hannah, for showing me a great series...For those of you who may not know, Sherlock Holmes was conceived by the great author Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, who also pinned "The Lost World" and several spiritual-based and non-fiction novels. It was only shown until now (with the exception of the heavily-bastardized version "Elementary" on CBS) as period pieces that starred some of the greatest actors of all time, like Sir Christopher Lee, Tom Baker (the 4th Doctor in the "Doctor Who" series), and Peter Cushing (who played Grand Moff Tarkin in "Star Wars: A New Hope" and Doctor Who in the only two films based on the franchise). The updating of the Sherlock Holmes mythos into the 21st century didn't come without doubt from me. However, the truth was that the characters work so well in the modern day. Afghanistan war veteran Dr. John Watson (played masterfully by Martin Freeman of "The Hobbit" trilogy) meets Sherlock Holmes (expertly and beyond-words greatly played by Benedict Cumberbatch of "Star Trek: Into Darkness") in Holmes' lab. Afterwards, Watson is taken on a ride that not only helps him readjust to returning from deployment but also allows him to have a friend in the very hard and beyond obsessive-compulsive consulting detective.The series, although short by American standards, recreates some of Holmes' best literary adventures. My favorite of the entire series was "The Hounds of Baskerville," the updated version of the novel "The Hound of the Baskervilles." I loved how they took the story and turned it on its head, even for those who love the novel. The executive producer and co-creator Steven Moffet (in the same roles as with the "Doctor Who" series) brings his great writing chops from the Doctor to Sherlock and makes the character alive with real-world humor and suspense.The series, which was shown on both BBC and PBS stations in "Masterpiece Mystery", is a great gem of television that shouldn't be discounted. It's for fans of action, dark humor, and mystery alike, and is a great piece of art that would perfectly work in English or literary classes as great representations of their adapted novels.It gives those who are fans of literature something to hang on to, especially when some of the greatest quotes in the history of writing returns with great life. "When you have eliminated the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth." - Sherlock Holmes (Benedict Cumberbatch), "The Hounds of Baskerville"
I've never been more thankful for British TV. Benedict Cumberbatch makes the perfect Sherlock Holmes. I could not imagine another actor in that role.


                
In this modern rendition of Sherlock Holmes, a stylish Sherlock Holmes, excellently played by Benedict Cumberbatch (Atonement, Amazing Grace), appears much like his description in the novels and stories written by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. He's tall, dark, and lanky, a much better fit than the talented, yet not-quite-right Robert Downey, Jr. Cumberbatch definitely includes some of Downey Jr.'s smarminess, but his Holmes, along with the correct look, has an authentic British accent. His comic timing is impeccable, as is Dr. Watson's. Martin Freeman (Love Actually, The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy) portrays Dr. Watson as the books also describe him, a soldier trying to fit back into civilian life. Freeman captures the soldier perfectly, allowing him to tolerate Holmes in a way that no one else can and yet having him get as annoyed with Holmes, at times, as the rest of the characters.The contemporary setting of Holmes and Watson's adventures does nothing to hinder the intrigue. In fact, the technology helps tremendously. More than one episode involves cell phones, specifically texting, and Watson keeps a blog rather than a journal. Holmes tracks killers down with lab tests and computers combined with his previous, seemingly endless, knowledge. The towering skyscrapers and rush of traffic places Holmes in a dazzling London, a contrast to the older feel his and Watson's flat gives off, the wallpaper especially exuding a distinctly Victorian feel. The modern-day setting also allows for more gay jokes at Holmes's and Watson's expense, their sexuality often a speculation among fans of Doyle's work.However many changes there are, the fans of the original work will not be disappointed. The show constantly references the literature, often in small remarks that could be difficult to catch. Sherlock once tells Watson, "I'd be lost without my blogger," a smart reference to a very similar line in the stories in which Holmes refers to Watson as his "Boswell." Also in the stories, Watson has a brother, named H. Watson, who is an alcoholic. Sherlock smartly twists this so that John has an alcoholic sister named Harriet, but called Harry, for short. In the stories, Watson is wounded first in the shoulder, but Sir Arthur Conan Doyle later, mistakenly, changes this to the leg. The show refers to this by creatively giving Watson a psychosomatic limp in one of his legs. He later relays to Sherlock that he was actually shot in the shoulder. In the second episode, "The Blind Banker," Sherlock makes a small mention of a bullet being shot through an open window. In the story "The Adventure of the Empty House," Sherlock deduces that a man is shot through an open window. Professor Moriarty, originally named James, calls himself Jim in the series, a clever update from the text. Thus, the series satisfies new fans, as well as old ones with these inclusions.All in all, Sherlock remains a successful vision of a modern-day Sherlock Holmes. It illustrates the strong bond between Holmes and Watson as they solve mysteries together while including humor, romance, and a fast-paced London. Holmes's quick deducing keeps the viewers guessing why so many people dislike such a brilliant man. His inhuman genius creates a perfect foil for John's undeniably human qualities. The duo, expertly played by their respective actors, brings Holmes into the 21st century with an elegance rarely seen in adaptations of classic literature.
I have been a fan of Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes since I was a child and have read the original canon countless times.I have watched many incarnations of Holmes on both the big and small screen, and had come to the conclusion that no Sherlock Holmes series could live up the the late and great Jeremy Brett.Well ... and then there was Sherlock.I was hooked by the first episode and have watched all the episodes several times. The writing and dialogue is sublime, the actors sensational and the direction flawless. Best of all: The series is truly loyal to the original canon, and it is packed full of wonderful insider references and jokes.It is simply a joy to watch.


                
The sacred texts are dragged kicking and screaming into the 21st century in a BBC production so brilliant that it almost makes me regret some of the terrible things I've said about the Corporation in the past. The hansom cab,the 7% solution,the gasogene have been consigned to history at last,the horses' hooves,the shouting newsboys,the London Omnibus no longer provide the soundtrack. The Marylebone Road now echoes with police sirens and "Bradshaw" has been replaced by the internet.Congratulations are due to the writers who had the courage to perform this long overdue procedure. The Ulster and the deerstalker were becoming just a little fusty,I fear. Much like "Bleak House" in 2005 "Sherlock" is slightly afflicted by differential focus and B.C.U.s perhaps best suited to selling expensive motor cars,but it's a small price to pay for 90 minutes top quality television. Mr Cumberbatch's Holmes is as tricky as a bag of weasels and showboats like a circus pony but he's just a little camp,damned clever and not at all prone to the English disease of self - deprecation. It's a bravura performance. As Watson,Mr M.Freeman presents a grand set of facial twitches,tics and moues - to the extent that in many instances he doesn't actually need any dialogue.He is well on the way to becoming one of the most idiosyncratic of the younger generation of British TV actors. A harder task faced Mr R.Graves who had to alter our perceptions of the bone - headed Inspector Lestrade and re - invent him as an intellligent and tolerant man who likes and respects Holmes instead of simply using him as a court of last resort. Writer Mr Mark Gattis plays Mycroft Holmes as a dandy,almost a shade of John Steed with his furled umbrella and apparently casual demeanour. Aptly enough,his Girl Friday bears a resemblance to Emma Peel.I look forward to seeing how their characters develop during the series. I hope the lovely Miss L.Brealey will be given a chance to put herself forward a bit as the lab assistant with a bit of a thing for Holmes but towards whom he is completely indifferent. Odffered as an alternative to the alphabet soup franchise of American cop shows that crowd out our schedules,"Sherlock" is wildly different,ambitious,funny and very entertaining.Surely it must now really be time for "Trebles all round" at the BBc bar?
This is my first ever review on IMDb so let's see how it turns out.I've now seen the first season of Sherlock and I really enjoyed watching it. Before I watched it I wasn't completely convinced of the idea of bringing Holmes, Watson and the other characters to the modern day. I mean, it is a risky thing to do especially when you're playing with a very classical old character who has many devoted fans. But the show completely exceeded my expectations. I fell in love with it the moment they showed the character of Sherlock Holmes. The script is very well-written so that you don't really even notice that the characters are originally over a hundred years old. They blend in with modern day nicely and the writers have not forced anything.The characters are well-played and the humor is clever. Cumberbatch is a great actor and he really brings this smart craziness to the character of Holmes. But I especially liked Freeman's Watson because he kind of brings this calm balance to the more untamed Holmes. And there is definitely some character development happening during the first season! All the other actors were also really good and I didn't notice any poor acting at any point.The writers have really done a great job. In my opinion Sherlock does not underestimate the viewer like some shows do. You really have to pay attention but luckily the plot is a nice variation of calm and more intense moments which keep the viewer watching. Of course the episodes are quite long but it didn't bother me.I also really liked the music in the series. I don't know why but the main theme that plays whenever the main characters are up to something really suits the show. It brings this vibe of old times Sherlock Holmes but it sort of suits the modern day setting as well.This is very different from the recent Sherlock Holmes movie where Robert Downey Jr. played the main character. I actually fell asleep while watching that movie (though, I was very tired then). This version of Sherlock is something else. More down to Earth maybe. Maybe more British? Definitely more realistic as the setting has been changed to modern day.The only negative thing I can come up with is that the first season had only three episodes. And the cliffhanger between the seasons just makes me wanna see more! Unfortunately I have to wait some months for the next episodes...


                
It's the best Sherlock Holmes films of all time. Although it takes the same time as movies for an episode of a show, it's totally not long. While you're watching it, you won't even feel boring or get the feeling of want to finish soon. Benedict Cumberbatch is the right choice to play Sherlock Holmes. Martin Freeman has done excellent work but I prefer Jude Law as Dr. John Watson. But Martin Freeman is also good at John Watson too.
The show itself is really great. Elementary cannot compare with this. If you are planning to watch Sherlock Holmes TV show, I recommend you to watch this. It's the best of all.


                
I dont get how it is so low on the list of shows. 91? I think it should definitely be in the first 10/20 best shows at least. Everything about it is just wonderful and i cant say a bad word. 
Only watched it for the first time maybe last year or 2 years ago and loved it from episode one. The only bad thing about it is how little episodes come out in such a long time.


                
This series is a rollercoaster of suddenly emotions, i cannot say enough times how much i liked this show, since the beginning in episode one i fall in love with both principal characters. Everything is so perfectly made,directed, produced, written and acted, everything just clicked with everyone's work, i'm about to do a deep searching of the screenwritters because i'm totally impressed by their abbilities in plot-twisting, and the development of our characters relationships, it's was so sweet to see two strangers become best friends and then becoming family in a very peculiar way, and the actors should be proud!
I feel Sherlock's character went so well with the audience because people love good and BAD people, and he's both, he was tough and then they let us see him vulnerable, what it gave us the feeling of empathy. And its not a big surprise that this show got lots of fangirls, they got the perfect formula of a hard to not love character: confidence, intelligence, badass, mysterious,and more.
Another thing you are going to love if you haven't watched the show, it's the villian and this is quite strange to think because most of the time when people connect with a villian is when the villian shows he actually has human emotions etc. but with Moriarty it's not like that, it's the way they show him, he is presented with all this rebel, and crazy vibe that you want more from him, Andrew made an amazing job at portraying him, he rocked the world in his scenes!
And for the "END" of the show i want to say:
It was made spectacular as always BUT i feel like there is still not conclusion for the characters, i understand if you want to make a open ending but this characters need a more conclusive episode, where they are out of solving cases, they grow in their life out of the cases. I really hope they agree to make a fifth season but if they don't it's okay because they would have their reasons... Nah do a fifth season!


                
Jacob TeetersMs.PignatelliEnglish 1017 January 2018 The Transcendental Man In a world full of crime, it takes detectives ages to find the evidence needed, but for this man and his sidekick... its child play. It's not your typical Batman and Robin kind of duo, but unique in its on way. Sherlock Holmes (Benedict Cumberbatch) and Dr. John Watson (Martin Freeman) teamup to thwart these evil doers, and do everything in there power to bring justice to the victims. It couldn't of happened without the the direction of, Mark Gatiss and Steven Moffat.In this episode "A Study In Pink", it starts of with Dr. John Watson recovering from the war he had just been in, and is recovering from being shot in the leg. He meets one of his old classmates, and they got to chatting about troubled times and that's when this friend introduced Dr. Watson to Mr. Sherlock Holmes. They soon move into to a flat and start their expedition from there, when they take on a serial killer case who kills people without being noticed and in a peculiar way. Then something interesting happens, the last victim left a clue to whom this crazed killer could be and they could finally avenge the 4 victims. But one needs to watch what happens if they encounter this cunning genius.
If you like a "high functioning sociopath" then you'll love this series! A comical genius who is blunt and cuts right to the chase is something that gives everyone a good laugh. This is the type of T.V. series that can cheer you up, as well teach you a thing or two about life. It is highly recommended that you watch this series because it's funny, reasonable and will never fail to surprise you.
This series is excellent because the action never ceases and it hooks you right from the beginning. I would highly recommend this to kids, aged 12 and up. I think how they allowed Benedict Cumberbatch to take the role of sherlock was the key to success because he brings life to that specific character, as well as Martin Freeman as Dr. John Watson. I give it a 10/10.


                
As a Sherlock Holmes fan, I approach any adaptation with trepidation. Fortunately, I was pleasantly surprised and thoroughly entertained.Steven Moffat and pals once again show that they have a suitable finger on the pulse of modern, accessible drama. Although (and because) many attempts have been made, the Sherlock Holmes work is a notoriously difficult piece and genre to translate for a modern audience while remaining true to the elements that make it so popular. I think the team made some bold creative choices and pulled off the additional challenge of establishing world, characters, and back story while getting into the action as soon as possible.Cumberbatch does a masterful turn as the complex Sherlock, playing the fast-paced script with believable eccentricity and mastery. Freeman's character was the ideal counterpart to this, if a little unresponsive at first. The interplay between these two and Lestrade (Graves) was nicely and humorously set-up without falling into a extremely well-trodden three-character path in this genre.The script was sharp and efficient, moving fast but with pauses to catch your breath, and the story had good twists and turns to keep you guessing. Those who are used to an obesity-inducing diet of gritty crime thrillers may see this series as tame but I think that the team delivered a first episode that achieved a great deal and, most importantly, was hugely entertaining. Can't wait until the next episode...
Okay but honest talk here though, what the actual bleep was Moffatt thinking?To put it straight, (like the show is heavily implied it isn't) after seeing all four seasons I feel confident concluding it's an a b s o l u t e mess. Even though this is my absolute favorite show of all time, the last episode and the reveal of a secret sister is ultimately ridiculous. The extreme contrast between tfp and tld is the great shift in focus. I thought the series was going to be all about friendship and the bromance, the way they always would do everything for each other and the heavily implied subtext. tld (the lying detective), was yet another example of a great episode, whereas the season finale was utterly awful. The plot is very "Saw" meets some "wannabe heroic blockbuster over the top" shi*. It's again all about Sherlock, diverting completely from the original acd stories. Whereas in season one we got very simple strong mysteries with a nice buildup for Moriarty. Even though we get a flashback, the character he is set to play this final episode is lacking. He is basically Thomas the tank engine. I could go on and on talking about all the mistakes, plot holes and how much Moffat mocks his own fan base, but honestly it isn't even worthy of my time. After all this time and waiting I hoped that all the suspense Moffat was building was worthy of something, but no it was all for nothing. So yeah, if you are contemplating if you should watch this show, yes you should it has some of the most amazing characters but the ending really ruins the allover experience. So all I have to say is peace out, enjoy but be prepared for disappointment.
