OK, Sherlock has always been a geek & Watson was a perpetual dork & now we have the most recently updated versions which, granted, are a huge improvement on the Downey/Law BAM/THUD releases. (Get it? Version vs. Release.)Oh, boy, now we get lots of Blogging & Texting & Passwords & Ringtones. Cool overlay screen graphics & analytical dialog delivered at news- anchor 300 wpm. That should really bring in the 18-45 demographic fan base. Problem is...as clever as this concept is, it still all comes down to creaky & overly complicated victorian plots solved with the latest gadgets. (Let's not even discuss the comic book "sex".)At the speed technology changes, this series will be more interesting in a very few years for its gushy view of a rapidly obsolescing set of quaint tools & antique techniques.


                
Over acting galore in this tripe. This is like the school play but worse. Read the lines off a script and ham it up as much as poss. Arthur CD must be turning in his grave. Some decent actors here you'd expect , but it panders to modern mediocrity. I was comatose after 20 mins but this series seems to go on for ever and it doesn't get any better. The only one who can act is apparently Una Stubbs who must have be wondering how the others ever got into acting, because quite frankly its embarrassing. The normally excellent Martin Freeman struggles to mix it with the over the top behaviour of whatever is going on around him. If this is the future of TV then heaven help us


                
This is a well written, well acted new take on an old theme. So why the low score?Well it just doesn't work for me. The whole genius of the original books was that Holmes used scientific and analytical skills to solve crimes that the conventional methods of the time could not. He was an innovator, and his eccentricity of personality was evidence of his single minded determination to use any method to achieve his solutions.Much of Holmes' personality stems from Conan-Doyle's experience of the medicine and forensic techniques of the time. Transposition into the modern era has lost this vital aspect to some extent. Whilst Martin Freeman has nailed the down to Earth, straightforward personality of Watson, Benedict Cumberbatch is far less successful as Holmes. But once you've seen Jeremy Brett do Holmes, no other actor, even one as talented as Cumberbatch, has much chance. Brett became Holmes and Holmes became Brett.To summarize, this is a reasonable series, but Sherlock Holmes it is not.


                
Not the kind of thing I would usually give the time of day to, but was given the box set of season 1-3 as a gift.Verdict? Predictably shallow, cosy, unrepentantly middle class and totally implausible self-satisfied claptrap which obviously assumes that as a viewer I'm so dumb I need "WRITING" to appear on the "SCREEN" to tell me what Cumberdict Bendibatch is actually "THINKING" when he's solving crimes. What the hell? That has to be the most patronising gimmick I have ever seen on a TV show. That wildly offensive faux pas combined with the smart assed yet also bland script and BC's aloof, arrogant approach to the role of Holmes meant I was more than happy to bail out after the first episode. Apart from that I thought it was great!


                
Sherlock is perhaps the most overrated television program of recent history. 8 years on its surely time to admit that Moffat and Gattis wasted everyone time and license payer money with a show that consistently promised much only to continually disappoint. After a decent but flawed first episode I hoped the show would use its talented cast and strong aesthetic to grow into a good modern realisation of the classic stories, little was I to know that it would be all downhill from there.
The show is irritatingly overproduced by a crew that clearly feel that if they can throw enough flashy graphics, transitions and sounds at the audience as possible they won't notice that no actually realistic and engaging deduction and reasoning is going on, just Sherlock running around pulling answers from nowhere and expecting to be lorded as a genius for having worked something out the audience were never given a chance to think about. This shows a clear disdain and disinterest from the show runner Steven Moffat for the source material, still the summit of the detective genre, all so Moffat can play out his obsession with the hyper intelligent messiah character he has consistently created in his previous shows like Doctor Who and Jekyll.
When you strip everything away, all you find at the heart of Sherlock is not a mystery series, but a character study of a irritating narcissist who doesn't grow over 4 series. 
Don't waste your time.


                
I enjoyed the first few episodes of the first season/series but by the time they "kill him" I was losing interest already. I stayed on until he was reborn (as if we didn't see that coming) and for a few more but I never bothered to keep track of any episodes after they ran out of them, I really can't say when that was. So the wife started watching the series and enjoys the dysfunctional detective concept, a disturbingly common theme in media. I am dreading the point we have reached where he is about to "die" again. She gets so attached to fictional characters. Of course what I dread more is watching through further seasons of the same defective detective. It's a theme that is so overdone I am tired of it. Can't the writers be more creative? PLEASE!
I was morally disappointed by Sherlock. I have read Sherlock Holmes many times, and although wary of updates, throughout Sherlock (I speak only of episode 1) I enjoyed clever ways in which the authentic Holmes has been mined for data. Eg Sherlock updates the watch from Watson's postmortal brother, to a mobile of Watson's mortal sister. And the term, Rache, thought by the police in the authentic setting (Study in Scarlet) to mean Rachel, is switched to Rachel as the intended clue, not the intended blind. Clever twists, and plenty of clever new deduction. Sherlock & Watson seem to me pretty close to the real deals – although covering up Watson's questionable killing (Watson would fail the Men in Black test) might reflect the moral drop between C19 & C21 setting – the postmodern factor of Relativism.From the start of 'Sherlock', Relativism was apparent. In today's Correctivist dominion, homosexuality must be post-Wolfenden and actively celebrated, or else. Anyone thinking the concept, same sex marriage, to be an oxymoron, must be name-called 'moron' and shouted down: the emperor is not naked, or we're all nudists here. Sherlock reflects Relativism, and needlessly hammers in the nails. Mrs Watson must fancy that Watson might be a homosexual lover of Holmes, as some café manager assumes. Watson himself asks Sherlock if he has a boyfriend, saying it's fine if he does – Relativism. Watson's sister has, if 'homosexual marriage' is a valid concept (in which case marriage is merely a human construct of convenience and no god sanctifies it – there is no sanctity), 'divorced' the woman she lived with. Presumably divorce is equally fine, and marriage a state contract, not a covenant involving God – as The Beatles sung, Back in the USSR. Relativism assumes we create truth, so logically it cannot condemn crime any more than it can commend the law – each individual has their own 'bag of truth'. If logically consistent, 'Sherlock' must equally praise Moriarty and Sherlock. In fact, since praise, like censure, assumes an absolute, Relativism should neither commend nor condemn, for there is no right and wrong, simply, while convenient, 'human rights', at the whim of whoever gets monopoly power.This is my disappointment with Sherlock. It's not the homosexualism thing - let those who choose that enjoy, whether morally right or wrong. It's the bigger picture, the propaganda of Relativism, which as C S Lewis wrote in The Abolition of Man, if ultimately pursued has only one logical end, the destruction of humanity. If there is no absolute by which we judge and are judged, there is no moral reason why one with the power should not end all human life, as Alister MacLean's The Satan Bug so cleverly scripted. I fear that Sherlock reflects and therefore reinforces that philosophy: film is propaganda.


                
