At only 29 years of age and in only his second major studio release, Stanley Kubrick showed the world that he was a force to be reckoned with. By the time he died 42 years later his films were epochal events waited for breathlessly by his large band of devotees who considered him a director without equal. He seldom disappointed them.This movie is set in World War I amidst the incredibly destructive and futile trench warfare between France and Germany. Kirk Douglas plays Frenchman Colonel Dax, who is ordered to make an impossible assault on a heavily-fortified enemy position. The only reason this charge is being made is that his commanding general, played by George Macready, believes that capturing the position will earn him a promotion. When the assault does not go forward under heavy enemy bombardment, the general is infuriated and demands that three men be arbitrarily chosen to stand trial for cowardice, an offense punishable by death. Col. Dax defends these men at their court-martial.The battle and trial scenes are about as good as have ever been filmed and the high level of tension is sustained throughout the movie. After the film's climax has occurred, Col. Dax goes looking for his troops and finds them relaxing at a cafe. What he and the viewer witness there is possibly the most affecting scene I've ever seen on screen.Looking at this film in perspective, it's easy to see Kubrick's trademarks even at this early stage of his career. The attention to the composition of his shots reflects his background as a still photographer and foreshadows his other great films to come. I find myself most impressed today with the way he could handle a dramatic story like this one without any innovative techniques or unusual special effects to hide behind, then turn around and make such totally different films like '2001...' and 'Dr. Strangelove...' Other films like 'The Shining' and 'Barry Lyndon' combined a strong story line with breakthrough film techniques. His versatility astonishes me.Adolphe Menjou also stars as the general who convinces Dax's superior officer to risk the ill-fated charge. Ralph Meeker, Timothy Carey and Joe Turkel give strong performances as the men on trial. Turkel turns up 23 years later in another Kubrick film, 'The Shining,' playing the bartender.You can take your pick: 'Paths of Glory' can rightly be described as one of the greatest war movies of all, or one of the great anti-war films, or as one of Kubrick's best. Or simply one of the best, period.
I consider Paths of Glory as one of the most memorable of Kubrick's entire output. The most remarkable aspect of this pioneer anti-war film is the complete absence of any persons depicting the "real" enemy. Therefore, the significance of the film lay not so much in its anti-war message, but in its brilliant expose of the "monsters within" the general staff, superbly acted by Adolphe Menjou and George Macready. The message here is that the enemy lurks much closer to home. In most war films, whether they glorify or condemn the carnage, there is rarely any venturing at all into the darker side of the politics. This film is a tour de force in its unabashed depiction of just how misguided is the quest for glory as an end in itself; and in the portrayal of the leaders who would shamelessly sacrifice others for their own self aggrandizement. Truly, one of my all time favourite movies.


                
Almost one hundred years later the concept of that static war of the trenches that was the Western front of World War I is almost unfathomable. After the French army stopped the German offensive at the Battle of the Marne, the French and British armies faced the Germans in a line of trenches that stretched from Belgium to Switzerland. About a quarter of France was occupied for four years in that time. The casualties ran into the millions in that stalemate that gains were only measured in meters.It was always just one more offensive over the top charging into automatic weapon fire that would break the other guy. Just such an offensive was planned one day in 1916 against a German stronghold dubbed the ant hill. General George MacReady, promised a promotion by his superior Adolphe Menjou, orders a beaten and tired battalion to charge the ant hill. The attack flops and MacReady looks for scapegoats. He decides after coming down from shooting 100 men to a selected three drawn by lot. The unlucky three are Joseph Turkel, Ralph Meeker, and Timothy Carey.The commander of the three Kirk Douglas asks to serve as their counsel and he makes a good show of it at the kangaroo court martial they have. But the fix is definitely in.Except for Spartacus, Kirk Douglas rarely plays straight up heroic types in film. Even his good guys have an edge to them, a dark side. But as Colonel Dax, Douglas is at his most heroic. He may be one dimensional here, but he's great. Especially in that last scene with Adolphe Menjou when he tells the man off in no uncertain terms, mainly because Menjou has misread Douglas's motives. Menjou and Macready portray two different military types. The arrogant MacReady as versus the very sly Menjou. Not very admirable either of them. Menjou was not very popular at this time in Hollywood because of the blacklist. He favored it very much, his politics were of the extreme right wing. Nevertheless he was a brilliant actor and never better than in this film, one of his last.The enlisted men are a good bunch also. They're kind of like the posse in The Oxbow Incident, just an ordinary group who become ennobled in martyrdom as they go to the firing squad for the sake of politics.Paths of Glory is one of the best anti-war films ever made. It ranks right up there with All Quiet on the Western Front which showed the war from the German point of view. Both will be classics 200, 300, a thousand years from now.


                
I think that Stanley Kubrick is the greatest of all film directors, and in my opinion "Paths of Glory" is Kubrick's best film because:1.  It is FAR AND AWAY the most realistic, most emotionally draining, and most beautifully photographed movie ever made about trench warfare in WW I, which has to be considered to be one of the significant episodes in all of human history.    The story is fiction, but the events are patterned after some actual mutinies in the French army that took place in 1917.2.  I first saw this film 46 years ago, and it not only made me an avid Kubrick fan for the rest of my life, it made me want to watch it over and over again -- more than 250 times over the years, and every time I see it, I cry at the end (when Kubrick's future wife, and the only woman in the film, sings "The Faithful Hussar", causing the audience of French soldiers to change from a jeering crowd to a hushed, teary-eyed group of lonely men).3.  Everything about the movie is PERFECT!!  There are no flaws in the acting, the pace of the movie, the photography, the dialogue, etc.  Scene after scene is more powerful and ironic than the preceding one, building to a shattering climax.  It is simply a gem.4.  Try as I might to think of actors that could have been substituted in their places, I think the casting for each and every part in the movie really could not have been any better.   No one could have been better in their respective roles than George Macready, Adolphe Menjou, Kirk Douglas, Ralph Meeker, and all of the others.   Many of these actors appear in Kubrick's other films.5.  Has there ever been a better scene than the one in which one of the condemned soldiers (Ralph Meeker) stares at this cockroach and cries that tomorrow that bug will still be alive and he will be dead.  Whereupon one of the other condemned men (the fatalistic Timothy Carey) squashes the cockroach and says "Now you got the edge on him".6. You could probably change a few things in most of Kubrick's other masterpieces to slightly improve them, but I DEFY anyone to single out anything in "Paths of Glory" that could be improved upon.  I could go on and on raving about the beauty and pathos of this film, but I think I will stop here.
"Paths of Glory" (1957) (and this is personal opinion of course) is Stanley Kubrick's first real masterpiece in what would be a long line of subsequent masterpieces.  I know that Kubrick had a reputation for making cold, unemotional films (which is a false impression, but that's the subject for another essay) but I don't believe there are many people who can deny how powerful this film is.  Through the editing, camera movement, incredibly realistic dialogue, and a now more fully realized use of irony, Kubrick creates an unforgettable anti-war parable.  I realize that my love for this film is incredibly obvious, but I'll try to focus on an analysis of the film rather than a review, but the movie is just so good!       Francois Truffaut once said that there is no such thing as a true anti-war film because the battle scenes make the war look exiting.  "Paths of Glory"'s scenes of battle are certainly gripping, but gripping in the way that a nightmare is gripping.  There is no way a person can see these scenes and wish they were participating (like the action scenes in say, "The Dirty Dozen").  I vividly recall the scene where three men try to sneak behind enemy lines in the middle of the night.  The battlefield is cloaked in darkness.  Someone shoots a flare.  Silently, a brief burst of light illuminates the field, revealing several corpses strewn over the ground. Darkness quickly covers them up again.  Kubrick uses silence and sparse sound effects in this scene like a musical score.  Any actual music would be intrusive and rob from the moment, a flaw found in too many otherwise good films of the nineteen fifties (personal opinion of course). 
     Point of view is used very well in the film to illustrate the inner concerns of the major characters.  We see General Mireau's Point of view when he looks through the binoculars at the ant-hill he wants his men to take.  When he hands over the binoculars to Colonel Dax, we don't see his view of the ant-hill.  Later however, when Dax walks through the trenches before the big battle, we do see his point of view looking at his men.  This contrasts with an earlier scene when Mireau walked through the trenches and we did not see his point of view.  This clearly illustrates what is important to each man.  For Mireau, it is victory at all costs; for Dax, it is the welfare of his soldiers.       For me one of the most impressive things about "Paths of Glory" was it's realistic, yet still poetic, and sometimes even chilling dialogue. This is in sharp contrast to the clever yet purposefuly stagy dialogue of "The Killing".       One scene sticks out my mind where a soldier is nervously rambling about what it would be like to get shot: "Most guys say that if they got shot they'd want to die quick.  So what does that tell you?  It means there not afraid of getting killed, they're afraid of getting hurt.  I think if you're gonna get shot and live, it's best to get shot in the rear than in the head.  Why?  Because in the rear its just meat, but the head, that's pure bone.  Can you imagine what it's like for a bullet to rip through pure bone?"   When I first saw this film in a theater, there was some nervous laughter in the audience during this scene.  It's true, the scene's dark humour helps illustrate the insanity of the situation. 
     In my introduction I stated that there was great use of irony in the film.  Perhaps the greatest irony is the title.  In the end no one finds glory.  Dax, although he nobly fights to defend his men wrongly accused of treason, loses the fight.  Even though he is later offered a promotion, he turns it down because of his disgust for the army.  Mireau is found out to be the cad that he is for ordering his own troops slaughter, and is court marshalled.  The film successfully states that in a war even the supposed victors lose something as well.


                
Paths of Glory is one of the best movies ever made, and possibly the best "war" movie, period. Paths of Glory does not portray war as conflict between armies or individual soldiers arrayed against one another on the battlefield.  Nor does it portray the acts of great leaders and heroes of war. No this film takes a different tact. The setting is the Western Front of 1916 in the trenches with French soldiers faced off against an invisible German force across a barren No Man's Land. The German's are never seen and the dramatic "combat" is between vain French officers as they vie for prestige and honors.  The victims are the innocent French soldiers under their command who suffer miserably because of their arrogance and ignorance.Brilliant, gripping, and definitely a "must see".


                
In France, in the First World War, the insane and ambitious general Gen. Paul Mireau (George Macready) orders Colonel Dax (Kirk Douglas) to lead his men in a suicide attack against Germans in the unattainable Ant Hill. After a massacre of the French soldiers, Gen. Mireau orders his artillery to drop bombs between the French front line of attack and the trenches, to avoid the soldier to return to the protection of the trenches. The commander of the French artillery refuses to accomplish the order. Gen. Mireau asks his superior, Gen. George Broulard (Adolphe Menjou), to send three men to Court Martial and execute them for cowardice through shooting, as an example to the other soldiers. Colonel Dax, a former lawyer, defends his men in the unfair trial. Yesterday I watched this outstanding masterpiece for the first time and certainly it is among the best movies of the cinema history. The disgusting story shows the insanity of a war, where men are treated like numbers and not as human beings. The reality of the battles scenes is amazing. The cast has a stunning performance, highlighting the trio George Macready, Adolphe Menjou and Kirk Douglas. The lack of sensibility and respect for the human life and the cynicism in the dialogs of the two generals are fantastic. Two other points that called my attention are the fancy reception for the general staff, while their subalterns are fighting in the front and the misunderstanding of the real intentions of Colonel Dax by Gen. George Broulard. A must-see movie! My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): `Glória Feita de Sangue' (`Glory Made of Blood')


                
Paths Of Glory is a masterpiece without doubt. Usually a masterpiece is the pinnacle of a directors career. However when you are talking about Stanley Kubrick, you are talking about genuine genius. This is just one of his many masterpieces, but Paths Of Glory is probably as good a film as any of Kubrick's other best works. I have seen tons of war films in my life, many great ones. Honestly, this is my favorite of them all. When I first saw this film I didn't expect it to blow me away. After all it is an early Kubrick film, however it blew me away constantly, and completely. This is not only one of the greatest war films ever made, not only one of the greatest black & white films ever made, it is simply one of the greatest films ever made bar none. The film screams integrity, in each and every way. This film is a joy to watch, and in my estimation, Paths Of Glory will remain forever as one of cinemas greatest accomplishments.10/10


                
If you can watch this movie all the way through to the final scene in a bar in which a German girl (played by Kubrick's wife!) sings a song and all the grizzled veterans in the room cry--and not cry yourself--then something's wrong with you. This is one heck of a powerful film and makes a better statement against the senselessness of war than many films with vastly bigger budgets. It blew me away the first time I saw it.
It really is a testament to the power of the story told by this film that it stars the French army and they all speak nothing but English, and yet it is still be incredibly moving and compelling. On the other hand, the movie is not really about war but about the soldiers, kind of like Full Metal Jacket. It is structured almost exactly the opposite, with the first half of the film taking place on the battlefield and the second half off. Kirk Douglas plays Col. Dax, whose platoon is ordered to take a hill called the Anthill against staggering odds, almost surely a suicide mission.As the men rush out of the trenches in an attempt to complete the mission, I was reminded of Gallipoli as they were all mowed down within feet of exiting the trenches. It becomes clear that the mission is, ahem, impossible, and is abandoned. Where the movie is truly great is in its characterizations and the complexity of their relationships with one another. Watch, for example, the roles that certain characters play at the beginning and where they end up near the end of the film, such as the General who ordered soldiers to fire on their own men and the man who abandons two of his men on a watch, resulting in one of their deaths and the subsequent court martial and trial of the other. The situations that they end up in are what make the movie powerful.Clearly, the accepted forms of punishment for failing to accomplish a mission are frightening. I have no idea how accurate they are as to French military practices at the time, but for three soldiers to be taken at random and tried and sentenced to death because their entire platoon failed in an impossible mission is scary indeed. I wonder how they would have handled a few soldiers who refused to go on a mission to deliver contaminated gasoline because the vehicles had almost no armor on them whatsoever.What is truly amazing to me is that Kubrick was able to make a movie about massive military injustice and still make the audience laugh at certain times. The cockroach scene, for example, is wonderful comic relief. You get a good laugh without losing sight of the drama and the importance of the rest of the film.It is not uncommon to read that this is the greatest anti-war film of all time, and while there are other anti-war films that I think rank right up there with Paths of Glory, this certainly is one of the greatest ever made.
This movie, along with the original screen version of "All Quiet on the Western Front" must rank as one of the most tragic versions of what war is really like. The arrogance and total disregard for the welfare of the soldier as beautifully portrayed by Menjou and McReady, in opposition to the care and concern of the Colonel so humanly portrayed by  Douglas adds to the reality of what the world was like in the days of the "Great War." Additionally, the roles played by Wayne Morris, Ralph Meeker and the self serving aide to McReady add to the greatness of this memorable motion picture. There is no "Viva La France" here.


                
"All Stanley's life he said, 'Never, ever go near power. Don't become friends with anyone who has real power.'" - Christiane Kubrick"Paths of Glory" begins with the playing of the French nation anthem - an ironic touch - and then quickly introduces us to its key players: Colonel Dax, a well intentioned military man, and General's Broulard and Mireau, two elderly careerists who treat the soldier's under their command with callous indifference.As the film progresses, director Stanley Kubrick will use two recurring visual motifs - men in trenches and men affixed like mere pawns to a chessboard - to hammer his dour view. The film's soldiers are always trapped, not only constrained by duty, class and national responsibility, but by physical, political and cosmic forces. When they try to rise above or beyond the filth, they're promptly shot down. Dax, the film's hero, is himself ultimately impotent. All his protests mean nothing. Whether he leads his men to success or failure, they still lose. The end of the film has Dax standing helplessly on the sidelines, watching as his men are executed for failing to take an insignificant Ant Hill. This is WW1 in microcosm, aristocrats, monarchs and burgeoning "democracies" risking lower class limbs for land and hoping desperately to cling onto whatever power is available come the 20th century's new order.Even as far back as "Paths of Glory", Kubrick's form reflects content. Plot and character coalesce into a very concrete, very formal image of the world. In "Killer's Kiss" and "The Killing" this was strictly a generic world, but "Paths of Glory" launches itself in a different field, that of history, warfare and army politics. The film's subject is unambiguously visualised in its main setting: a huge château converted to an army command post. Because the decor becomes the story, Kubrick's actual story is not simply told, but barely told. Given a narrative context that is so simple, characters are also defined in very basic ways. The pawns live in the mud, the kings in the ornate château. The kings scapegoat and shift responsibility, the drones take the blame and bullets. Everything else becomes a manifestations of decor or camera movement. Characters are imprisoned, parodied, paired off and squared away. The prime examples are the generals, Broulard and Mireau, lookalikes in uniform, two ruthless men who toy with each another and who lead each other on in the guise of concern for their troops. Luis Bunuel, himself fond of satirising the ruling elite, would adore the film.Whilst discussing taking the Ant Hill, a series of brief tracks follow our players as they pace marble floors. Each character pursues a different path, but they all arrive at the same end. Broulard proves to spin the more effective web because he is the more clear-sightedly cynical. Mireau in the end becomes a zealot of self-deception. Dax is the liberal-humanitarian shuttlecock passing between them, he has no double but is himself "doubled", negotiating his superiors' ambitions first as a commander on the battlefield then as a lawyer in the courtroom.Dax, as officer and battlefield soldier, is also a hero of two worlds, the château and the trenches. As "hero", his function is to serve as the meeting point of two perspectives: the objective vista of history and the subjective confusion and terror of trench warfare. Significantly, Dax is Kubrick's only conventional hero outside of "Spartacus" (also starring Douglas). Kubrick's later films would abandon conventional protagonist/antagonist dualities.Camera movements are clear but subtle. When Mireau inspects the troops in an early scene, Kubrick's camera tracks backwards before him, down an interminable trench. When Dax later tours the trench, the same objective track is inter-cut with one from his point of view as he passes through the ranks. Kubrick's point is clear. Dax sees outward and is aware of, or empathises with, the men around him. Mireau sees inward, fixated on himself and his own goals. Later, he will fire upon his own ants.This interplay reaches its zenith with the execution of three soldiers. Here the anguished perspectives of the victims, one of whom is played by the always brilliant Timothy Carey, are inter-cut with a tracking shot which itself seems to shift in intensities as it passes in front of a hierarchy of observers: from the indifferent troops to the press corps to Dax and the guilty corporals. Kubrick's extended tracking shots have usually been put down to the influence of Ophuls (to whose death Kubrick dedicates one scene in "Paths of Glory" to), but the articulation of point of view through tracking - an emotional montage - is closer to Hitchcock. This form of emotional dialectics is present throughout the film. Watch how the generals play number games, tabulating the statistics of probable causalities before battle, bargaining over how many "examples" should be shot, whilst the men below them cry in the trenches and prison houses, vividly aware of their own fickle lives. Unlike Kubrick's later works, "Glory" is resolutely unambiguous. His dialogue is caustic, blunt and his images likewise, impeccably composed, with stark lines and fluid but muscular tracking shots. Elsewhere, the film is almost robotic, marching towards its climax like a relentless machine. "Glory" was also the first feature to utilise an all percussion sound-track, a fact which lends Kubrick's imagery an even greater sense of foreboding.10/10 – Masterpiece.
Although he did the wonderful crime film THE KILLING before he did this, it was PATHS OF GLORY that brought Stanley Kubrick's talents forward. After PATHS OF GLORY he would make all types of films, but he would basically make them as he wanted to (although when working with his star here, Kirk Douglas, on SPARTACUS he would have such friction with Douglas that they never made any other films together afterward). So if it had not been for PATHS OF GLORY there would not have been LOLITA, DR. STRANGELOVE, 2001, BARRY LYNDON, and the other films. The Kubrick stamp of film artistry was born here.The plot of the story is simple. Due to the system of trenches on the Western Front (that have France and Britain on one side and Germany on the other) the war has bogged down to a mutual bloodletting. It shouldn't been this way, but nobody that was sent to the Western Front through 1917 was a good commander. Von Falkenheyn, the German Commander at Verdun, was unable to hold onto early gains in that long, long battle. The best French General was Joseph Gallieni, who won the First Battle of the Marne by commissioning the famous "taxicab" army that drove the French troops to the front. But he retired. The actual Commander, "Papa" Joffre was popular with the men, but had a tendency of falling asleep at military strategy sessions. As for the British, Douglas Haig was saddled with planning global strategy for British forces in Africa, the Middle East, and India. His acceptance of the stalemate on the Western Front bordered on the criminal - he reduced the monstrous casualty rate to a simple war of attrition. With Commanders like Von Falkenheyn, Haig, and Joffre the war was hopeless. The suggestion of one more push "over the top" was repeated endlessly - and bloodily. In 1917 units of the French Army had enough. The French Mutinies were long known, because of the trials and executions of hundreds of mutineers. One good result was the arrival at headquarters of General Henri Petain. His reputation is besmirched by his treason in leading the Vichy Government in World War II, but Petain was a senile old man when made a figure-head (a fact his old friend General Charles DeGaulle knew, so that he reduced the death sentence against the old man to life imprisonment). One generation earlier, Petain saved the army and France - a debt that really should not be forgotten. Yes he tried the ringleaders, but he also improved the lot of the poilu (common soldiers) so that they were not living like moles or rats all the time. The regeneration of the French armies that Ferdinand Foch would lead (with Haig and Pershing and their men) to eventual victory began when Petain took charge.SPOILERS AHEAD:PATHS OF GLORY looks at the situation that led to those mutinies, and to one of the drumhead courts. Adolph Menjou is a leading general, who realizes that a victory is required for appearance sake (i.e., the politicians are breathing down the back of the French High Command). He invites his old friend George Macready to lunch and drops a hint that if they could find a nice victory Macready may get promoted (Menjou says this very carefully - no fool he if he has to deny it). Macready can just taste the promotion. He promises the men will do the job.They don't. The job is to capture a well protected salient called "the ant hill", because whenever men are fighting over it they look like ants fighting each other from a distance. The leader of the men who are to charge is Kirk Douglas. In peacetime he is an attorney, so he has enough brains to question the intelligence of the so-called army brains.Macready is watching the attack from a bomb shelter, and notices the men will not leave the trench. He orders an artillery barrage on his own men, forcing them to face the Germans. This will turn out to be a disastrous mistake on his part. After the disaster Macready picks three soldiers to be representative of the troops. One of them is selected by a Sergeant who is a real coward, and who is aware the enlisted man knows he is a coward. Douglas defends them, but the court is controlled by Macready and his flacks. The three are convicted. We watch their last night , with one (Timothy Carey) certain that a pardon will come for him at least. Another gets badly injured in a mishap. When the time for the three to be shot occurs (they are set up like Christ and the two robbers at Calvary), the wounded man is slapped out of unconsciousness to see the firing squad getting ready to fire.Douglas has been discovering what Macready did - and reveals this to Menjou. He hopes to do this to force Menjou to overturn the death sentences. But Menjou holds back, and lets the executions go on. We see him dancing at a dinner party while this is going on. The next day, when Macready is having breakfast with Menjou (and Douglas shows up), Menjou brings up the illegal act of firing on his own men. Instead of a promotion, Macready is being thrown out of his command, and probably prevented from getting further ones. Pulling his shredded dignity together as best he could, he pointedly states that at least he was a soldier (unlike the courtier - general Menjou). After he leaves, Menjou offers Macready's command to Douglas. And Douglas tells him off very memorably.PATHS OF GLORY is a fantastically good look at military incompetence, corruption, and those shafts of decency that the common soldiers and Douglas represent. Although set in time and place in 1917 France, it's message is universal. It is a great movie.
www. ourfilmreviews.comWith classics like "Dr. Strangelove," "2001: A Space Odyssey," and "A Clockwork Orange," Stanley Kubrick was long ago canonized as a filmmaker of the highest skill and intelligence. One of his greatest skills is not allowing his films to be watched passively. He forces his viewers to respond both emotionally and intellectually. "Dr. Strangelove" does so with its black, disturbing humor and its comical treatment of one of modern man's most penetrating fears: nuclear warfare. "2001" does so by immersing us in its sweeping visuals as it follows mankind from the dawn of time to a place beyond time. "A Clockwork Orange" does so by forcing us to confront the inescapable violence and evil inherent in human nature and society's casual indifference and at times subtle encouragement of such. "Paths of Glory" is Kubrick's first masterpiece and while it is often forgotten in comparison to the three films mentioned above, it is just as compelling as any film he or anyone else has ever made.The film's running time is only 87 minutes, yet it is deeper artistically than most films that carry on past the 120-minute mark. The reason for this shows Kubrick's superiority as a filmmaker. Every scene and piece of dialog is instrumental in forming the film as whole. Nothing is wasted. Every aspect of the film coalesces with every other aspect. This is seen in the coming together of the overall narrative of the French army's suicidal mission and the storyline of two individual soldiers within the army. Before the failed attack on Anthill, three men embark on a reconnaissance mission to scope out the territory. The subordinate officer, Paris, witnesses his commanding officer, Lt Roget, accidentally kill the other soldier. After the failed attack on Anthill, when the commanding officers are forced to pick one man from their troop to be tried at the tribunal, Lt. Roget chooses Paris, in an attempt at silencing the one man who knows his secret. But after Paris, along with the two other soldiers, are condemned to be shot, guess who Col Dax assigns to lead the execution? Roget.Roget cannot hide from his guilt. He is forced to face it. When he asks Paris if he wants a blindfold for the execution, he cannot look him in the eye and asks for forgiveness. It is a powerful moment. This smaller narrative of Roget and Paris is interwoven then with the greater narrative. A lesser filmmaker might have had the Roget and Paris subplot remain a subplot with its own separate conclusion. The Kubrick, the conclusion of Paris and Roget is wedded to and made more powerful by the larger narrative.Roget needs to be forgiven by the only one who knows his secret. His guilt is genuine and his desire for redemption private. Roget's private guilt is contrasted by General Broulard's complete obliviousness to the blame he deserves (taking the Anthill was his idea to begin with) and his desire to set things right only in the eyes of the public. He does so by telling General Mireau that he will be investigated for misconduct. After Dax tells Broulard of Mireau's order to fire on the battalion, Broulard must investigate Mireau not out of any sense of justice, but because Dax threatens to go public with the information. Boulard offers Dax Mireau's position, implying that Dax revealed Mireau's misconduct only to further his own career. Dax is outraged that Broulard is incapable of comprehending the injustice and his indignation. Thus, the one who is most responsible for the failed attack and the numerous deaths is also the one who has the power to blame and punish others for his failure.The scene of Dax's indignant outburst against Broulard shows the nature of true evil. Mireau may have ordered his own army to shoot at the battalion and he may have vehemently argued for the battalion's execution, but he was acting on a set of principles, albeit a very twisted set or principles, but principles non the less. Broulard has no principles, only a desire to elude blame and preserve his own appearance and position of power and respect. This is the truer, more subtle evil.Kubrick's screenplay and direction and Douglas's perfect performance make Dax's indignation our own. The injustice is painfully felt. We understand so clearly that these soldiers would have died if they left the trenches and are condemned to die for not leaving them. As we see the three condemned soldiers walk to their execution in a wonderful and classically Kubrickian tracking shot, we realize that the only two options these soldiers had were to die by the bullets of their enemies or by the bullets of their own countrymen. Either way, bullets will pierce their flesh. The nature of war makes living impossibleThe movie ends with one of the most beautiful scenes I have ever seen in any film. In a tavern full of rowdy French soldiers, a German girl is brought on stage to be mocked for the entertainment of the soldiers. She is ridiculed because of her sex and nationality. Terrified, she begins to quietly sing a song in German. The whistling and hollering of the soldiers slowly abates and we see in their faces a look of such anguish, regret and sadness. A few of them wipe tears off their faces. Not knowing the words or the language, they begin to hum the song with the German girl. They are reminded of their humanity and it hurts. After showing us the darkest side of humanity, Kubrick ends his film with this scene of hope. Even in the midst of a war, these soldiers are capable of overcoming their brutishness and acknowledging their own humanity and that of the opposing nation. Kubrick allows us to see the entire range of what humanity is capable of, from the cruelest of injustices to the most beautiful of moments
There is no glory in Stanley Kubrick's PATHS OF GLORY, a devastating anti-war film that looks at the Generals who command soldiers as cowards themselves.  How dare these pampered men who will leave the war without a scratch practically order their soldier's slaughter?  This is the conflict posed by Kubrick with the help of Kirk Douglas, who quite frankly is mesmerizing as the Colonel of the 701st Division ordered to take an anthill they probably have no chance of taking.  Adolphe Menjou is the sadistic General who Douglas must fight for the right of his soldiers' souls as well as his own.  We are able to take an introverted look at the madness of war. Cowardice is frowned upon by governments, but how do you decide what it is in such inhuman conditions.Kubrick shows his talents as a master of atmosphere and looming death in this classic of WWI.  The French are the symbol and a possible execution is the tool with which Kubrick stirs our emotions.  Unlike his later films, we have some pretty realistic characters here.  Douglas is the only man with a head on his shoulders and is so passionate about the cruel injustice proposed by the spiteful General he seems willing to die himself. The court scene contains some of the movie's most memorable emotional moments, but check out the 1957 war sequence.  Kubrick had a definite vision as to how he was going to pull this off.  Shot in Germany, the French soldiers go through a frightening, revolutionary experience.  Deep explosions pulsate the soundtrack, soldiers are blown to bits, and cowardice is nowhere to be found.  The mere possibility of a soldier's "recollections" under such hellish conditions cannot be taken as gospel.The attempt on the German anthill is truly something to see, another feather on the cap of Kubrick, who would create the most amazing boot-camp sequence in film history roughly 30 years later in FULL METAL JACKET.  Compared to that film, PATHS OF GLORY is much more effective at portraying a precise vision of the abomination of war.  Whether its the French, or the Russians, it is all the same.  Worthless when unnecessary, tragic when waged.  Ralph Meeker is great as one of the Corporals on trial for "cowardice" in the face of the enemy.  At one point, he asks a priest to leave him alone and basically betrays the thought of God in the face of what he is going through.  Pretty deep stuff, I must say.  PATHS OF GLORY is one of the best war films ever made.RATING: 10 of 10


                
War films are a Hollywood staple starting somewhere back when All Quiet on the Western front gained prominence for being a great adaptation of the famed novel by Erich Maria Remarque. This 1957 film continued that great tradition with another look at the insanity aroused by war. In this instance it explores the insanity that can be aroused within an armies own ranks and the blind obsessions and principles of some individuals. Kubrick is never one for pulling punches in his films and with a classic star at his disposal in Kirk Douglas; he goes for the jugular of the issue. The humanity of the issue and corruptness, but the great aspect of the film is that it never loses site of the fact that everyone can make mistakes and that humanity of everyone in the army is necessary.The backdrop of this film is based in fact. A certain General George Broulard, played with his usual air by Adolphe Menjou, comes to another commanding officer whom he manipulates into ordering a suicide run on the enemies' position. General Paul Mireau, played with a particularly hateful attitude by George Macready, then carries down the orders to his brilliant Colonel Dax, Kirk Douglas. Mireau in turns forces Dax to ready his men for the insane attack run. This is the setting, what follows of course is the utter failure of the attack and the anger of the superiors especially Mireau. Mireau wants to kill some hundred troops as an example of the men's cowardice, because during the attack he sees about roughly half of Dax's troops refusing to advance out of the trenches.The film's strength is not in the message so much as the human face Kubrick gives the soldiers zeroing first on a moment of true cowardice committed by Lieutenant Roget. The Lieutenant is ordered to go on a reconnaissance mission the night before the attack by Dax, and, whether out of fear of going into No Man's Land or just a bad drinking problem, he gets drunk before going out with two of his men. As the trio goes out, he makes rash decisions, splitting up the party and fleeing at the first signs of trouble in the process letting fly a grenade that kills one of his men. The other man on the mission stays behind to see this and makes it back alive. This seemingly smaller story inside the big story is key though I think because it shows the humanity of the issue. What gives the commanding General up in his safe booth the authority to call his men cowards? He cannot possibly have a feel for the issues of the moment as Colonel Dax does in seeing his men bottled up in the trenches because they will be slaughtered upon going over the top.The last third of the film is devoted to the court-martial of three of Dax's men over the issue of cowardice because Dax has managed through his form weight of being a premier lawyer to get the Generals to agree to settle for just three men's life at steak instead of the hundred originally discussed to show an example. The three men in question are either chosen by the commanding officers by random of because they are generally in disfavor as is Corporal Philippe Paris, the man who witnessed Roget's cowardice. Each falls apart as the date of their never in question execution approaches.I will not reveal much more about the plot and the ending, but I will say that this film stands as a stellar war film dealing with great issues of warfare and the horrors it creates. The performances are gripping and the story gives a fair tone to the whole issue although as is usual of a Kubrick film the protagonist is generally in opposition to the authority throughout the film a effort that Kirk Douglas does with his usual ferocity, nobody can quite getting as seemingly hot tempered as Douglas. He is a yeller of extraordinary talent. Despite being roughly 51 years old this film still holds up quite well with great cinematography work and art direction.
Paths of Glory is one of the two war movies Stanley Kubrick directed throughout a splendid career (the other being Full Metal Jacket). And though at first sight these films may seem very different, they share a vital key theme: the futility of war and the monstrous effects it has on the human psyche.In the case of FMJ, the monstrosity is shown through the actions of Pvt. Pyle (Vincent D' Onofrio) and Joker (Matthew Modine), both mentally scarred by the teachings of sadistic Sgt. Hartman (R. Lee Ermey). In Paths, however, the dreadful actions do not take place on the battlefield, but in a courtroom: it is in that courtroom that three randomly selected French soldiers (the context is WWI) are to be court-martial-ed, the charges being cowardliness and refusal to accomplish the mission assigned to them. What the prosecutors don't know is that the mission in question (attacking the Anthill) would have resulted in a bloodbath on the French side and that Gen. Mireau (George MacReady), who ordered the attack and also insisted on holding the trial, was so disappointed he actually asked one of his men to shoot the retreating soldiers. The only person who seems to understand what is really going on is Col. Dax (Kirk Douglas), and it is his difficult job to convince his superiors of the necessity of the squad's behavior.Anyone who is even vaguely acquainted with Kubrick knows this is not going to be a fairy tale: Paths of Glory is one of the most effective anti-war films ever made because it is not afraid to expose the more rotten aspects of what happens in these situations (and it invites comparison with the M*A*S*H episode where Alan Alda makes a documentary and says :"This is no way to end a movie, I know that, but war is no movie"). The director openly criticizes the very nature of conflict by immediately taking Dax's side, showing that he, unlike Mireau who admires the size of the trenches (one of the most beautiful of Kubrick's many tracking shots) and only wants to be remembered as a great general, is more concerned about bringing his men back home as unharmed as possible, putting glory aside.One scene in particular supports the filmmakers'point more than anything else: the trial. While the prosecutor just wants to have the three soldiers sentenced to death and barely pays attention to them, Dax (played with solemn authority by Douglas) allows them to explain what actually occurred during the attack and uses this to openly express his contempt for what the war has done to everyone around him, depriving them of any reason and consideration for human life. That one powerful and upsetting sequence proves beyond any doubt that any war, no matter how noble it may be in its organizer's intentions, is totally and utterly incapable of bringing any real profit: all that results is hatred and greed.Kubrick directed nine more pictures after this one, and all of them dealt on some level with the frailty of humanity and its inevitable decline. Dr. Strangelove, A Clockwork Orange and Full Metal Jacket aside, though, none of them, however perfect, resonates with as much anger and relevance as Paths of Glory.


                
This is a wonderful film and for those who are looking to see a Stanley Kubrick film that the average person can relate to, this is a great initiation to the director's work. Some of his films are a bit hard to understand or frankly make my head hurt (2001 is a great example), but this one is much more straight-forward and conventional than most of his other films while still being a great film.The movie is based on a real incident in WWI. When a squad of French soldiers were ordered "over the top" (i.e., to crawl out of the trenches and charge across the battlefield while being shot down like dogs--the standard way of fighting on the Western Front), the men were so sick of the pointless fighting that they refused. As a result, the officers (who are shown sitting many miles behind the lines sipping sherry and living a life of opulence) order that some soldiers randomly be taken out of the group to be executed as an example to the others! The complete unfairness of the punishment, the futility of the war and the fact that the leaders were a group of soul-less fiends were the focus of this intensely interesting film.The lead was played by Kirk Douglas. His job was to defend these poor men, but it soon becomes obvious that the trial is a show trial--the men are doomed from the outset. In some films, Douglas' style of acting is not very appropriate, but his bigger than life acting style and the way he ultimately explodes at his superiors is a wonderful addition to the film. He single-handedly acts like the conscience of the nation--something that was clearly lacking. A wonderful and intense performance on his part--perhaps only surpassed by his lead in the film LUST FOR LIFE.This is a wonderful film about this war--a wonderful film to be seen along with ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT. Any true fan of film should see this movie.
PATHS OF GLORY is an anti-war film based on the novel of the same name by Humphrey Cobb. This is a shocking film, which is inspired by real events, about the shameful incident on the Western Front in the First World War. We've seen the terrifying battleground in the grip of corruption and cynicism.Kubrick's style became known after this film. Extremely long shots emphasize the importance of a particular scene, a part of the story or some locations. Black and white photography goes well with the atmosphere and themes in the film. The dark tones, night scenes and human expression provoke strong feelings of anxiety.The story begins with the agony that goes into the public injustice and ends with the tragedy. One general, on the suggestion of his superior, sent his division across the no man's land in a suicide assault that is bloodily rejected. Three soldiers must pay with their lives for alleged cowardice. However, their colonel reasonably rebelled.... The story of human intrigue, courage and fear of soldiers is honest, direct and explicit. Scenery, referring to the cold, wet and bloody trenches, is amazingly convincing.Kirk Douglas as Colonel Dax is a passionate idealist. However, he is only one link in the chain of orders. His character is not a rebel. This is a natural reaction to the apparent injustice. Adolphe Menjou as Major General Georges Broulard is the embodiment of a cunning and ruthless war policy. George Macready as Brigadier General Paul Mireau is a kind of a grotesque. A vindictive character, who is a slave of his own ego.The end of the film is somewhat cathartic. The soldiers revive forgotten feelings in inhumane conditions of war.The future is pessimistic, but the struggle for humanity is visible. War is hell, and it is part of one's everyday life. Rotten people survived the war. The innocent are dying. Nothing changes.Mr. Kubrick is a true master.


                
I must say that I don't normally comment on movies on this site but with "Paths Of Glory" I must make an exception. Where do I start - the opening scene between the two General's is an exceptional piece of character study- George Macready is brilliant in his role as the unwilling but then fanatical leader. The scene's that follow have been analysed many times but the scene that I think stands up so well is the final scene between Col Dax and Gen Broulard where Dax is accused of engineering the situation for his own personal gain. Kirk Douglas is excellent in this scene and further enhances his reputation in the final scene which is probably the most moving scene in movie history.No dialogue is required but Douglas's face tells a story from initial disgust to hope in the human spirit to finally resignation to what lies ahead.
Let me preface this review by stating that if anyone has seen Paths of Glory and afterward is unable, for whatever cockamamie reason, to give the biggest kudos to Stanley Kubrick's writing and directing work, then he/she quite simply is swine before whom those of us in the know ought not to cast our pearls.The film is a masterpiece.  From the brilliant choice to shoot in black and white cinematography (thus giving a gritty, darker feel to the entire story, and refraining from sugarcoating the absolutely hellish experience that trench warfare must have been), to the effective use of zoom-ins, to the short, poignant dialogues, and to the generally minimalistic approach to the anti-war message of the screenplay--it all mixes together incredibly. Kubrick could have spent hours of celluloid on the finer illogical points of military court martial trials as well as on the horrors of battle. Instead he wrapped the total package in some 87 minutes, credits included.
Though there were several memorable scenes (the battle in question itself, the kangaroo court, the priest's trite comments while administering last rites to those sentenced to execution, the conversation between Col. Dax and the commanding General), the shot that sticks in my mind occurs soon after the lovely German acquisition has very reluctantly and almost inaudibly began to sing "The Faithful Soldier".  Kubrick cuts back to the previously heckling, boisterous crowd of French soldiers.  On their faces the spirit of superficial revelry fades away to a much stronger force--that of human understanding and compassion--and the appreciation of innocence and beauty. The things good and true for which these men thrust their lives on the line to defend.  Such evocative images are what make the many sins committed by the modern motion picture industry tolerable--perhaps even forgiveable.


                
First off, Paths of Glory is my second favorite film of all time, a feat that is not easy to accomplish with my amount of movie-seeing. This movie is so powerful and brilliant that words cannot even express it. All I can say is please see it if you haven't. If you see no other movies in your entire life except Paths of Glory, then you would have done a good job. This masterpiece will not only not let you down, but it will force you to stand up and take notice to the horror of humanity and the heroism of one man.I am truly not over-doing it in this summary, words simply cannot explain how beautiful every part of this film is. You just have to see it for yourself.
It took a while to see the film that put Stanley Kubrick on the map as a force to be reckoned with. Paths of Glory was a war film with an interesting premise and has the reputation for being an "anti-war" piece on the dehumanization of soldiers. With Kirk Douglas as the star, the plot centers around prideful and power-hungry French military officers who order an impossible mission from a battalion who fleas upon defeat and is accused of cowardice. Many other films by Kubrick shows his powerful and masterful filming style and Paths of Glory is no different. The focus is strong and it's difficult to take your eyes off the screen throughout the picture. Good use is made of these phenomenal actors who give heartfelt performances and deliver strong and emotionally piercing lines. The film is a short and crisp 88 minutes so it's easy to watch anytime. This also makes the pacing clean and the viewer will know every scene, shot, and frame is completely intentional and justified. Not a single moment of this fascinating and well done film is wasted and the talented actors are utilized to their fullest. Perhaps any downside to this film is the first 20-30 minutes in which the viewer may be wondering what kind of film they're watching and for what purpose. It's easy to see how upon release, however received with high regard, was met with some confusion as to the substance of the story and what it was trying to say. It's not a film that glorifies war or conflict; in fact, the concept of battle (physical or psychological) can cause some irritation for the viewer. This was most likely intended and it was probably a good move in the long run.Personally, I enjoyed Paths of Glory throughout the picture and found it as important as it is beautifully directed. However, the most impactful piece of the story is the final scene in which a woman is singing to a group of soldiers in a bar. Not many other scenes have had so much emotional impact and beauty that it truly made Paths of Glory a personal favorite. Really no complaints about the quality of this film or the personal pressure points it wasn't afraid to touch. It's also amazing how those emotions can be pierced so powerfully more than 50 years after this was released. It's a grand milestone in filmmaking that deserves much more attention and is highly recommended to anyone who has the chance to see it. It's simply amazing!


                
'Paths of Glory' is one of those rare films that you can come across on TV halfway through and be gripped to the end no matter how many times you have seen it. Easily Kubrick's best film, his later pictures were brilliantly shot but emotionally empty, it also features career-best performances from pretty much everyone concerned. Even Kirk Douglas, not the world's greatest actor, is highly effective in his role as the compassionate Colonel Dax. George Macready and Adolphe Menjou, two fine actors who were only rarely given worthy roles, are excellent as the two despicable Generals. Of course the film is unsubtle but with a story such as this subtlety is not really possible; the message is obvious but no less moving for that.


                
Pure perfection. Paths of Glory is under 90 minutes is a great war movie, a riveting court room drama, a study of cowardice and heroism, and an expose of the moral rot that permeates most bureaucracies.
Kubrick's tracking shots influenced filmmakers for decades to come. An absolute masterpiece that is essential viewing for everyone


                
