We're still wondering where Stanley Kubrick wanted to go with this Paths of Glory.Even though the historic facts on which it relies on are far from being uninteresting, the plot is, the dramatic tension is almost non-existent and the story goes from one subject to another from scene to scene with not much coherence.As for the form, granted the cinematography is beautiful with some excellent tracking shots in the trenches and an exceptional travelling shot in the no man's land, but the mise-en-scène is sometimes almost ridiculous when for example two characters are climbing stairs, then stop halfway through, then separate in opposite directions.To sum up, it's hard to grasp Kubric's logic, what he wanted to tell, the level of analysis is superficial and even though the movie is barely an 1h30 long, you just want to get to the end of it.


                
The occasional standout performance (none from the principals) can't change the fact that, as a whole, THIS MOVIE IS BAD.The story is true, and deserves a better telling than this.  Kubrick is so hamfisted in this picture, I'm tempted to theorize it was actually directed by his Evil Twin Skippy(tm).War is hell.  This movie is almost as bad.


                
I heard from a few people that this was a good movie.  Then I saw it, and I was very dissapointed.  I thought the acting was very average at best.  It seemed they were all over acting!  The plot was simple, very easy to follow. If you are looking for a good WAR movie, don't look here.  There are alot of movies out here that are a whole bunch better than this.  It got to the point, in the movie where I am thinking this has got to get better than this, but it doesn't.  I wouldn't recommend this to anybody. I would give it a 4 out of 10.


                
Honestly I don't get the meaning of the story the movie is trying to deliver. The opening talk about the order to carry out the assault takes too much duration and done simply quite about stupidly. The trench scenes are done quite adequately nice considering the technology at the time of the movie's production. It has a nice effort of sound effects. But the story just goes on and on without any real focus, from the talks, to the half baked assault scene where there were no German seen, to the court marshal. Besides the story building talks up front, the sequences show only failures, cheats, treacheries and stupidity. Kirk Douglas is the only actor doing a decent job in this movie. His character is the only one enduring the story quite unscathed. For me, the lack of sufficient technology made the assault sequence quite stupid, where the soldiers just drop dead without shown any blood splattered or bullet wounds opening up.


                
