I was very disappointed by this film, given the accolades it generally receives.It's not a terrible film, but it seems to me that it probably gained its reputation by dint of the fact that it had an original and very daring take on the military for its day. Obviously it is a matter of personal taste, but for me, I think it wrong to call a film "great" when its "greatness" is closely tied to the particular period in which it was first released. Some films are very much of their time, and "Paths of Glory" seems to me to be one of them. In this day and age, a movie that basically says "war is hell, and many of the men involved in making war are immoral and commit evil acts for selfish reasons; these men appear particularly awful when compared with those courageous men who behave nobly in the face of war" doesn't have the shock value that it did 50 years ago.Given the lesser impact of this larger message, it is easier to see the seams and flaws in other aspects of the film. To a great extent, the story seems simplistic. The villains are terribly villainous and the victims are terribly noble. We know from the first 2 or 3 scenes everything we are every going to know about the nature of the primary characters. No one really grows or changes. Instead, the story plays out mechanically. The acting is not bad, but it's a bit old-fashioned and stage-y. Similarly, the technical aspects of the trench and battle scenes, while very good for the time, have a dated quality that undercuts the viewer's involvement in the film. Even for a kangaroo court, the trial scene is silly in the grandest tradition of bad, illogical Hollywood trial scenes. (For example, the defendants are being tried for retreating in defiance of their orders. Yet, when one defendant mentions that he retreated because he was ordered to, no one, not even the noble Colonel trying to defend him, picks up on that fact, i.e. that he was, in fact, OBEYING orders.) In the final scene, a captured German girl is paraded and sexually demeaned on stage in front of a group of rowdy soldiers who seem likely to jump her; instead she's asked to sing a song and the soldiers begin to cry and hum along like the nuns backing up Maria in "The Sound of Music." I recognize that this is a movie and that perhaps it was a more innocent time, but in a movie that purports to show us the nasty reality of war, I found it more silly than affecting for Kubrick to suggest that this scenario would end in choral tears rather than assault.I'm not taking issue with the themes of this film, which are as relevant today as they ever were. Nor am I saying the movie is worthless today. But I am simply unsure that it deserves an on-going reputation as a GREAT film. Some films are born great and stay great, other become great over time. But some films may be born great and then gently fade away -- like old soldiers.
I had read all the hoopla about this being one of the seminal anti-war films of all times and, upon finally seeing it, was astounded at how overrated and poorly done it is. The movie is less a drama than a Victorian melodrama. All the generals and officers are the mustachioed villain and all the soldiers are the sausage-curled maiden tied to the railroad tracks. The dialogue is farcically unrealistic; General Mireau's lines, in particular, are of the "Aha, my pretty, at last I have you in my clutches!" variety. One almost thinks that the director is trying to make the audience hiss. Character development is non-existent, as is subtlety. The ballroom scene, in particular, with the grandly attired generals dancing to Strauss waltzes in luxurious surroundings with elegantly attired women is - get it? - supposed to be a contrast with the misery of the soldiers; the point is made like being hit on the side of the head with 2-by-4. Kirk Douglas does the best he can with a limited part. The denouement with the German girl (a prisoner? a prostitute? a lost civilian? just who the hell is she?) singing is both baffling and unconvincing. One keeps waiting for some kind of closure and - bam! - 'The End' comes up. This is not a quarrel with the theme of the movie, just its execution. For a truly brilliant treatment of the same theme - the scapegoating of soldiers by an uncaring and expedient power structure - see 'Breaker Morant,' a movie with complex, fleshed-out characters, realistic dialogue, and true emotional and dramatic depth. And, for good measure, a court martial that puts the one in "Paths of Glory" to shame.


                
I was not drawn into this movie at all.  The acting was stiff (no, not stiff like you would expect soldiers to be) so I really did not find myself caring that much about the characters.  I have no idea how this movie is ranked above "Bridge on the River Kwai."  It isn't even in the same league.


                
"Why didn't you attack the anthill single-handed?"This is the story of... well... I don't know what the story is here. The movie has strange directing, average acting, an intriguing script and low production value.Director Stanley Kubrick directs this movie in a weird and strange manner. The camera does strange things, the metaphors are predictable, the angles are also predictable, and the battlefield scenes are average. Sometimes even below average. The only scene that really stood out for me was the night recon mission: the atmosphere was very well done, and the landscape could very well be from the Moon.The acting is average. Kirk Douglas has a subdued role, the three patsies are interesting but completely unrealistic, the french generals are nothing more than caricatures and the rest are there just to make the numbers. There are no enemies, but with friends like that, who needs them?The script is quite intriguing. It certainly kept me interested, but for the wrong reasons. I couldn't believe where they were going with it and I was anxiously waiting for something to happen, to change, to contradict what I was seeing. The very odd subject caused a huge controversy and the French banned the movie for it, and I can't say I blame them. The way they were portrayed in this movie was simply despicable. The subplots were also predictable and even annoying, at times.The production values are very low. There are only a few sets and a handful of soldiers. On a positive note, there are a lot of explosions.Paths of Glory. Artsy and pretentious war movie wannabe. 4/10.
Paths of Glory isn't much of a war film, yet it doesn't give the viewer enough to care about to be a drama.Seems we are supposed to be invested in the fate of these three men on trial, when we aren't given any character depth and spend little screen time with them. Only to hear them whining "I don't want to die I don't want to die". I found many of the characters to be rather cartoonish, Mireau in particular. Kirk Douglas is terrific in the main role holding the film together.
