Although Kubrick's films are marked by their massive variation of genre and tone, one theme that crops up again and again is a strong anti-war sentiment, and this was never stated more strongly than in Paths of Glory. A relatively early Kubrick picture and, despite coming before what is considered his classic period, it is one of his best.In contrast to his previous picture, The Killing, a definite Kubrick style is beginning to emerge now. One notable example is the scene in which General Mireau tours the trenches, walking towards the audience with the camera retreating away from him. This technique would be repeated years later in Kubrick's other war film, Full Metal Jacket. There is also something about the arrangement of objects in the frame, as well the tracking and dollying which hints towards his more familiar later style. His recurring chess motif appears as well, albeit subtly. At the court martial the floor is chequered, and the soldiers on trial are seated with guards standing behind them as if they are pawns about to be sacrificed.The light and contrast in this picture is put to good effect. The palatial officers' headquarters is light and airy with few shadows. The trenches are gloomy and cramped. Kubrick was becoming a real master at contrasting locations and getting the look of a place just right.The use of music in Paths of Glory is bold and brilliant. The pre-recorded score is almost entirely percussive <U+0096> all rhythmic sounds with no melody. A weird kettle drum track is used to help build tension in the night patrol scene, while in the climactic scene the funeral march drumming instills a sense of dread, further heightened by having the shots edited in time to the beat. In the emotional final scene we get the complete opposite <U+0096> a beautiful vocal melody. This has all the more impact after hearing nothing but militaristic drums for the rest of the film.The casting is absolutely flawless. While there are no big names apart from leading man Kirk Douglas and the now elderly Adolphe Menjou, there isn't a single weak performance. The despair and resentment of the condemned soldiers feels so absolutely real. In contrast the smugness and fake sympathy of the upper class officers is brilliantly portrayed.Throughout his career Kubrick never seemed to be particularly keen on blatantly emotional moments. Paths of Glory is the exception. The later scenes are incredibly poignant and moving, and the final moments in the soldier's bar are what makes it a masterpiece more than anything else <U+0096> the icing on the cake. However it's quite probable that Kubrick regretted this as an overly sentimental approach, as woolly sentimentalism was a major gripe of his when he worked on Spartacus. Whatever the case, he certainly reined in the stirring stuff considerably after this, to the point where his later films became characterised by their understatement of emotions.


                
An arrogant French general (a superb George Macready) orders his men on a suicide mission and then has the gall to try to court marshal and execute three of them for cowardice in the face of the enemy. A former lawyer turned colonel (Kirk Douglas in his prime) is the voice of reason against gross injustice. This excellently staged and wonderfully acted production is as much an acting showcase for Douglas as it is a directorial masterstroke by a young Stanley Kubrick who adapted this to the screen from a novel based on actual accounts.Kubrick displays a great control of sound effects and camera movement in the brief but effective battle scenes that expertly depict the controlled chaos that was trench warfare during WWI. Things get juicier during the ensuing courtroom battle where the deafening disparity between the elite who propagate and profit from war and the common citizens who suffer and die in war is shown with great lucidity.Unlike later Kubrick epics, this runs at a crisp 90 minutes, though suffers briefly from a slow and awkwardly staged opening ten minutes before Douglas comes on screen. Ultimately, this holds up very well to modern scrutiny thanks to the flawlessness of Kurbick's craft, the amazing ensemble acting, and the surprising depth of its philosophical and psychological pondering. "Paths of Glory" is more anti-arrogance than anti-war, and is unapologetically sentimental and pro-soldier. As such, much can still be gleaned from its message.


                
I watch about 100 movies per year, but I NEVER heard of "Paths of Glory" until I recently saw it on a list of great movies.It is the BEST movie that I have never heard of and one of the best movies I have ever seen!! I'm stunned that I knew nothing about it.As an anti-war movie, "Paths of Glory" rivals "All Quiet on the Western Front" and "Dr. Strangelove." It has one great scene after another. Most of the scenes consist of two- or three-person conversations that include very smart dialogue, sharp character portrayals, and conflicts that induce viewers to root for some people and root against others.During the movie, I became depressed when something bad happened to the good guys and happy when something bad happened to the bad guys. I can't think of too many movies that were written so well that I reacted this way.I know many people, including myself, don't like military movies with so much action that you can't follow who has been killed and who is winning. This movie wisely has only about 10 minutes of (World War I) battlefield scenes and the result is crystal-clear.Instead of scenes of mass killings, the writers and director Stanley Kubrick focus on the confrontations between high-level and low-level officers, an unfair court martial, and a farcical trial. The results of the action convey vividly how military leaders care more about themselves than the heroes who fight for their nation.The movie also wisely has one central character played by Kirk Douglas. He is outstanding as a very principled and strong mid-level officer who essentially represents the perspective of viewers like ourselves. Like Douglas, we want to express moral outrage as the plot unfolds.I almost gave this movie a 10, but I thought the ending was too sudden. I wanted it to continue. I'm also on the fence about whether I preferred this movie to either be about English soldiers or French soldiers with French accents or left as is with French soldiers who are clearly not French.I swear I'm not normally a cheerleader for movies. In fact, I think I gave a movie that came out at about the same time a 1. The fact that Gigi won a Best Movie Oscar and "Paths of Glory" received zero nominations is a stain on Academy Award voters.I gave "Paths" a 9.ZWrite
Stanley Kubrick is releasing a film denouncing an injustice during the First World War, two French generals send their troops in a suicide mission to take a point to the Germans, faced with the impossibility of advancing before the enemy bullets, French soldiers don't advance. This film shows the devotion of a simple colonel, Colonel Dax interpreted by Mister Kirk Douglas himself, trying to defend French soldiers who listened to their instincts of survival against French seniors officers thinking only of their careers, Kubrick shows the human (and maybe the French, who knows?) stupidity to want to make examples where those who should be killed are those who send their troops to die without any mercy and not those who are sent as cows to the slaughterhouse. The film is animated by special effects of time, but neither the latter nor the black and white are disturbing, on the contrary, it brings authenticity to this masterpiece of Stanley Kubrick who deserves his 9/10, almost a 10 ! Glory to M. Kubrick for this masterpiece!
In reading other reviews I see a lot of them saying this was one of the finest "war movies" ever made. I agree that it is one of the finest movies but I do not believe it is a war movie. The war is merely the backdrop for the drama that is human politics, selfishness and greed. The backdrop could be a corporate board room, any place in government, anywhere in which a bureaucratic system is in place with little accountability at the top. The lessons in this film extend far beyond the battlefield. I would say it is a must see to anyone interested in movies about moral inconsistencies, abuse of power, and the realities of the way the world operates.


                
Who'd have thought that at such a young age, and coming after the decent but largely unremarkable heist noir of THE KILLING, Kubrick had it in him to deliver a flat-out, stonecold war movie classic? Had Kubrick decided to renounce the aesthetic grandeur and epic scope of his later films, he could always have had a brilliant and successful career as a genre director. His visual sense is certainly competent at this point but his directing is still very much that of a genre director.He's not trying, possibly not even caring or daring to at this point, to break the norm but rather work inside it the best he can. It is however the mark of a director well on his way to greater things that he nails the themes, conflicts and most striking images of the movie with just five tracking shots - General Mireau inspecting the shellshocked soldiers inside the trench, Col. Dax moving through the trenches before the attack, Col. Dax and the division moving through the wartorn battlefield full of ditches and old fenceposts, the guests of General Broulard dancing, and finally the three soldiers being escorted to their deaths.Interested more in the moral dilemmas pertaining to war and those who wage it as opposed to the physical act of war itself, emphasizing the absurdity and futility of sending out men to die by the thousands for a couple yards of shellshocked dirt, perhaps the best observation on the human nature Paths of Glory has to offer is that idealism has no place in the act of war. War is so far removed from notions of decency and common sense that bringing idealism in it as an afterthought appears out of touch with reality.Although Kirk Douglas portraying Col. Dax, and doing a formidable job at it, is presented to us as the hero in a conventional sense, the selfsame idealist in the heart of darkness that has been the driving force of many a war movie, and he does raise some interesting questions, he is essentially a man deeply contradictory to his own nature and his own choices within it: can a man sworn to service in the army call issues of a moral nature? At what point are any and all such questions deemed completely irrelevant? Is for example Col. Dax in the end any less responsible for the deaths of his men than the generals who ordered this futile attack? I believe some answers are to be found in the philosophy of Judge Holden from Blood Meridian, perhaps the most frightening of literary antagonists ever to be summoned on paper. What this gnostic archon, war everlasting, tells us is that war is the ultimate form of divination because it allows for the individual to be completely susbumed in the whole, the obliteration of will and ego. Reading the scanned pages of an old book from the Civil War-era, written by a Confederate army surgeon, I remember coming across a passage that referred to amputations to be carried out at the field of battle; as the surgeon explained from his own experience, not only are even the most coward of men consumed in the pandemonium of battle and capable for the most heroic deeds, but wounded soldiers will more easily sit through amputations when the battlefield is sight or the sounds of battle can be heard.


                
"Paths of Glory" is the film that officially transformed Kubrick from a talented young director to a genius in the eyes of the public. Although I consider "The Killing" an already stellar film, I see why this one would get so much love: its anti-war themes are splendidly developed in Kubrick's unforgiving way, giving the viewer every reason to keep his hopes high, but regularly smashing them in his face, showing how the world actually works and not how the classic movies would like to make us believe. The character of Dax (a performance that Kirk Douglas grows into as the movie progresses) seems to be the only reasonable person in a maddened system where human lives matter less than the career of the powerful. The natural instinct of survival (showed by the sentenced soldiers as they approach the end) is labelled as "cowardice" and reprimanded by those who are not in danger, of course. But the scene that may have moved me the most is the ending, with the French soldiers first taunting the German girl but then getting emotional as they realize that they share the human nature, and all the mad orders they follow have no meaning at all.
The film is beautifully performed, staged, photographed, cut and scored. In 1916 in the French trenches, three soldiers are court-martialled for cowardice by officers who want to use their case to instil discipline into the ranks.Paths Of Glory is an incisive melodrama chiefly depicting the corruption and incompetence of the high command; the plight of the soldiers is less interesting. The trench scenes are unforgettably vivid, and the rest is shot in genuine castles, with resultant difficulties of lighting and recording; the overall result is an overpowering piece of cinema.
Stanley Kubrick's potent anti-war classic comes down super hard on the intrinsic cruelty and unfairness of the bleakly efficient military machine in which the arrogant top brass are more concerned about enhancing their lofty statuses and saving face with the public than they care about the grim plight of the hapless common foot soldiers who are sent to certain deaths by being forced to carry out mpossible missions for the sake of said top brass's own overinflated egos and self-advancement within the ranks: One can't help but feel infuriated when the ruthlessly ambitious General Paul Mireau (a marvelously haughty portrayal by George Macready) orders his own men to be shot when they fail to follow through with taking a heavily fortified area. Indeed, Kubrick astutely captures not only the brutality of war, but also the frequent absurdity and futility of same in both the harrowing combat scenes and at the shattering climax in which three innocent men are executed just so those in charge can prevent themselves from feeling disgraced. Kirk Douglas contributes a wonderfully impassioned performance as the idealistic Colonel Dax, who makes a game, albeit fruitless attempt to defend several men under his command when they are brought up on charges of cowardice. Moreover, there are strong contributions from Ralph Meeker as the sarcastic Corporal Philippe Paris, Adolphe Menjou as the smug and calculating General George Broulard, Wayne Morris as craven drunk Lt. Roget, Richard Anderson as hard-nosed prosecutor Major Saint-Auban, Joe Turkel as the noble Private Pierre Arnaud, and Timothy Carey as sniveling undesirable Private Maurice Ferol. Kudos are also in order for Gerald Fried's rousing score and Georg Krause's beautifully fluid black and white cinematography. Essential viewing.
...as on the military hierarchy, at least in the French Army during World War One. A high-ranking French general is seeking further promotion, and he sees an opportunity to do so by having his regiment take a German position known as "The Anthill". Trouble is, he normally spends his time way behind the lines, and when he makes a front-line inspection of his troops, it is clear he lack a real understanding of what life is like for them.He orders the attack anyway, despite the warnings from the officers below him, and the enemy repulses the initial attackers so quickly, the remaining infantry mutiny and refuse to press the attack. The frustrated general finds three scapegoat soldiers to court-martial, and though they are represented by an officer who is a real lawyer, he is helpless to save them.We see the emotional damage the incompetent general has put others through-not for the glory of France, but for his own purposes. He might eventually be brought down, but his evil lives after him.
In 1916 a French regiment is ordered to attack "the Anthill", a strongly fortified German position. The attack proves a disastrous failure; the French suffer heavy casualties and none of their soldiers succeed in reaching the German trenches. When a second wave of troops refuse to attack, their commanding officer General Mireau desperately orders his artillery to open fire on them to force them onto the battlefield. The artillery commander, however, refuses to do so without a written order. To try and deflect blame from himself for the failure of the offensive, Mireau orders three soldiers from the regiment, chosen at random, to be tried for cowardice. The task of defending the accused falls to Mireau's subordinate Colonel Dax, a lawyer in civilian life.The film was controversial when it was first released in 1957; it was banned in France, where it was regarded as a slur on the honour of the French Army, until 1975. It was also banned for a time in Switzerland and Franco's Spain and (remarkably) in West Germany. Films with a strongly anti-war theme were perhaps unusual in the fifties, a period during which American (and British) war films were mostly set in World War II and were generally patriotic in tone, with war shown as something heroic. World War I, which could not so easily be turned into a glorious fight for freedom, was largely ignored."Paths of Glory", however, was based on a novel by Humphrey Cobb which had been written in the very different political climate of 1935, when following the slaughter of 1914-18 pacifism was more in fashion. At first sight, Cobb's title looks deliberately ironic because he depicts war as something far from glorious. To those who recognise its source, however, it appears not so much ironic as grimly appropriate. It comes from Thomas Gray's poem "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard", and what Gray wrote was "The paths of glory lead but to the grave".The film makes its case against war in two ways. The first is by emphasising the futility of war. The only German we see is a female civilian captured by the French; no German soldiers appear at all. I think that this was a deliberate decision by director Stanley Kubrick; the French soldiers seem to be fighting not against men like themselves but against some nameless, invisible and inexorable force of nature, able to cut them down at will. They appear to have no more chance of capturing the Anthill than they would of capturing the moon.The second way in which Kubrick makes his case is by emphasising the gulf between the generals and the man under their command. This is not just a difference in social class- indeed, this element is not emphasised as much as it is in some British productions about the war. It is more a gulf in the way in which they experience the war. The general staff, safe in their chateaux away from the lines, have no real idea of the hardships and dangers confronting those under their command.Moreover, the generals do not even seem to be motivated by patriotism or a belief in the rightness of their cause. They are much more concerned about self-advancement and their own brand of office politics. When Mireau is first ordered to take the Anthill he demurs, believing that the objective can only be attained, if at all, at an unacceptable cost in French lives. It is only when his superior, General Broulard, intimates that a successful attack might be rewarded with a promotion that he changes his mind. When Dax complains about Mireau's behaviour, Broulard assumes that this is all part of a ploy to obtain Mireau's job; it never occurs to him that Dax might be sincere about trying to save the lives of three unjustly accused men.This was not the first film to be directed by Kubrick, but it was perhaps the first to bring him to public notice. The battle scenes are well done, even if they lack the realism of more modern war films such as "Saving Private Ryan" or the recent "Dunkirk". The trial scenes, during which it becomes increasingly uncertain as to whether Dax, for all his forensic skills, will be able to save the three accused. Kirk Douglas is excellent as Dax, a sane and humane man in an insane and inhumane world, and he receives good support from the rest of the cast. Particularly good is George Macready as General Mireau, a man driven literally mad by unbridled ambition to the point where he is prepared to sacrifice hundreds of lives, not for the honour and glory of France but for the honour and glory of General Mireau.The film is perhaps less well-known today than some of Kubrick's later efforts, but I would regard it as his first masterpiece, equal or superior in quality to virtually anything in his later work, including his two later anti-war films, "Dr Strangelove" and "Full Metal Jacket". Douglas was also to collaborate with Kubrick in his second great masterpiece, "Spartacus". 9/10
There's not much one can add here to what has been said regarding this excellent and classic War World I film based on actual facts.Perhaps just point out that in a brilliant cast (Kirk Douglas renders one of his best performances ever and George McReady his best), the one who steals the show is Adolph Menjou in my opinion.In his General Broulard character Menjou shows superb acting. He is a cynic and egocentric man who doesn't seem to care much about his men but a lot in his career and position, yet in his calm and at he same time strong manners he shows he will let some things pass but will not tolerate others. His meeting with Douglas while a party is going on downstairs is an acting class; he brilliantly avoids a serious conversation until he is told about MacReady's order to open fire against his own men. Menjou is perfect also when -while having lunch with Mac Ready- and with a sort of total lack of interest informs the man that there will be an inquire to judge for his behavior but you notice his eyes look clearly to see the other man's reaction and enjoy it. But mostly, in such a complex and unlikeable character (he goes along with the three soldiers shooting knowing perfectly it won't serve justice) his General Broulard transmits a sort of dignity and sympathy to the viewers.And incredibly natural performer, Menjou died 5 years after this film at age 73. A great actor indeed.


                
I have seen "Paths of Glory" after having learnt that it has similar similar themes and storyline to "All Quiet on the Western Front". After this one there are only two featured Kubrickian movies for me to be seen: Lolita and Barry Lyndon.Since these two movies were adapted from two known world classics one should first know the book before seeing the movies in my opinion.Paths of Glory is loosely based upon the true story of five soldiers who were prosecuted for the cowardice in the face of the enemy. The movies uses three soldiers for the storyline.On a time when the French and German army developed into a continuous line of heavily fortified trenches a selfish overambitious French general during World War I orders a regiment on a suicidal mission to take the Ant hill to get promotion he has been promised. When the soldiers are under constant artillery fire the regiment refuses to leave the trenches with the third of men are dead. The general's order to open fire on his own squad and his accusations of mutiny of the simple soldiers display how Paths of Glory,with a masterly finesse, is making a mockery of the idiocy of high-ranking officials in the army.It depicts the wanton characteristics of the homo sapiens who could just rule out his entire nation for his personal ambitions.Kirk Douglas as the Colonel Dax, who leads the soldiers in the attack and is the counsel of three soldiers before the court-martial is totally great. His lines and cross-examination in the farce court make a laughingstock of war,the judiciary system of the army and the ambitions of the ignorant higher-ups. After having seen this one and Full Metal Jacket I said to myself I wish Kubrick could have done more war movies instead of involving in film-noir or a space flick.


                
Everyone else will tell you about the story over and over again. So I won't need to do that. But, what description I'll give is one in its most simplistic form. One that summarizes the overall feeling, because to put into words such emotion for each scene is not possible. You will understand what I mean once you see this masterpiece of heartache. For it is just as impossible to put into words the emotions of any soldier during wartime. I should point out that I saw this movie on an old B/W set and give my review from this standpoint. To me it was seeing this movie minus the color that really maked it stand out. What makes it timeless. Anyway, to give you a feel for this movie here is one simple sentence. Black and white, and red throughout.


                
This is early proof of why Kubrick especially loved the topic of war -- it inherently gave him two levels of directorial control: the 'normal' one at the director-over-the character level, and the implied one at the director-over-actor level. Douglas would later give profanely grudging praise to Kubrick about his methods.The best part of this is the meta-level of conflict: that of rogue director against studio bosses, which is mirrored in the story narrative. Kubrick exploits this meta-narrative to get some fine performances from the battle within between Douglas and Macready.Along the way, we get the nascent Kubrick visual treats centering on his trademark use of camera inertia - he would later build entire cinematic worlds on this notion (after gaining full auteurship). Especially striking is the first sight of no-man's land when the flare briefly illuminates a landscape from hell. Also a striking effect, on the macro scale, is the jarring relocation of the story from the obliterated battlefield to the court-martial in Schleissheim castle, a neo-Classical beauty.


                
I saw this film for the second time when I lived in France on an exchange. I had seen it in High School, and I honestly paid no attention to it. It was a whole different scene when I saw it the second time. It is really amazing how relevant this film is to today. I was absolutely amazed that this film was made in the glory days of the Hayes system, because the ending is not a happy one. It isn't violent, but it is disturbing. That is the great thing about Kubrick's films. I find it unbelievable that the story takes place almost a century ago, but the story is exactly the same. There will always be highly placed authority figures who make huge mistakes, and there will always be someone else who will pay dearly for it.
A plausible antiwar film,  considered a top film at imdb and theyshoot pictures.com (229 out of 1000 on their list), but snubbed by the AFI's top 100, despite being called a "miracle" by Jonathan RosenbaumWhy?  Its about how a grave injustice is carried out because of political expediency.  Made somewhat more believable by casting it in the French Army in WW1 (where in that legal system the presumption was guilty until proven innocent), and perhaps to partly side step the blatant antiwar message for Hollywood bankrollers and the American Audience. A futile attack is engineered playing on the ambitions of an unscrupulous officer, and when the attack on a strong enemy position, with a depleted force, is predictably repulsed, scapegoats are identified to be tried for cowardice.  Not only a good performance by Kirk Douglas as the righteously indignant defense attorney, but the villains in the film are totally despicable, which they are supposed to be. Kubrick's portrayal of trench warfare is every bit as good as All Quiet on the Western Front,  and his contrasting of the  circumstances of the officers' lives and of the bizarre trial standing next to the brutality of the war and the insanity of the majority of the frontal assaults is pure Kubrick.  One sees the seeds of Dr. Strangelove.


                
Spoiler!!!!!!All I ever heard about this film was how it was a "great anti-war film" and whatnot. Truly, war is not glamorized in any way here, but I find this film to be more of an indictment against excessive ambition and general injustice. War merely serves as a back drop to the true conflict at the core of this picture.The story centers around the attempted assault by French troops on a heavily fortified position held by the Germans during WWI. The French general in charge is looking to advance himself by taking the "ant hill" as it's called, even though it looks like at best he'll lose over 50% of his men in the assault. Once the assault fails, the French commanders try three soldiers for cowardice to make examples of them, and show the others that failure is unacceptable. The three soldiers are tried with no evidence what so ever and convicted in a ridiculous trial, despite the efforts of their colonel (played to perfection by Kirk Douglas). Kubrick actually gets to the point rather quickly in this early effort of his. Those of you who dislike the plodding pace of his other works like BARRY LYNDON and EYES WIDE SHUT will find this film a welcome relief. Kubrick's technical mastery can be seen even in this old b&w vehicle. He knows how to shoot a battle scene, it's safe to say. SPOILER!!!!The ending took me a little by surprise. I was hoping and expecting the three soldiers to somehow get off the hook and not be executed. I guess a happy ending would have killed the point, though. The execution scene, and those leading up to it are VERY powerful!Overall, this is one hell of a film. SEE IT!!!! You don't have to love Stanley K. to appreciate this one.By the way, just what in the hell was WWI all about, anyway? What a damned waste!9 of 10 starsSo sayeth the Hound.
awesome actors story.   brilliantly directed.   strongly beside the shining, clockwork and strangelove as his best films.   choosing paths of glory in an argument as his best work ever is a safe choice.  more obviously than the killing his genius as a filmmaker is on full display for the first time.


                
I show this film each year to high school history students.  While I disagree strongly about it being "an anti-war" movie, Its impact is shocking and frightening to students.  It does not decry war, but rather laments the frequent stupidity of those who navigate the waters of war.


                
It's easy to snare an audience by making a movie about an execution, which is why such movies seem so common -- "Ted Bundy," "I Want to Live", "The Book of Daniel." Sometimes the whole story is about the technical aspects of the execution -- "The Execution of Private Slovick." It may be easier for an audience to identify with someone about to be executed than it is to identify with someone in a particularized conflict. Should Marlon Brando squeal on his friends and employers in "On the Waterfront"? Well, yes, but none of us have ever been in Terry Malloy's shoes nor will we ever be, whereas we are all going to face execution some day. In a sense, the audience is gripped and watches with fascinated horror because it's their own deaths taking place on screen."Paths of Glory" centers around the execution by firing squad of three French soldiers during World War I for cowardice in the face of the enemy. They are picked at random from three companies, on the order of a general (George MacReady) and defended in court by their regimental commander Col. Dax (Kirk Douglas). MacReady blames them, instead of himself, for a failed attack against an impossible German position and wants to set an example for the rest of the French army. "If those sweethearts won't face German bullets, they'll face FRENCH ones." And anyway, killing a few of the troops now and again is a boost to their morale.Kubrick takes full advantage of the dramatic elements adumbrating the three deaths. One soldier is simple-minded and desperate, and he turns to religion, blubbering with fear. One is bitter and combative and gets his skull fractured, so he must be propped up unconscious on a stretcher to be shot. The third is frightened but faces his death with dignity.That's about as far as the conventional elements go in this superb movie. Facile clichés are avoided. Here's an example of what I mean. One of the prisoners (Ralph Meeker) has been chosen to die by his company commander (Wayne Morris) because Meeker has seen Morris behave like a drunken, murdering coward on a night patrol. Douglas suspects this, and chooses Morris to head the firing squad. Morris, deeply humiliated and remorseful, offers Meeker a blindfold. Meeker says nothing, just snorts in the negative. Morris mumbles that he's sorry, then leaves. A less original treatment of this incident would have Meeker delivering a speech to the cowardly Morris. "I may die now but you'll be dying every day for the rest of your life." (Hey, that's pretty good!) Or maybe, "Forget it, Lieutenant. You'll be joining me soon enough." Something like that, anyway. Instead, Meeker neither absolves him nor heaps calumny upon him. Meeker has something more important on his mind than dealing with this quivering moron and his guilt.Well, one more example of what I mean by the avoidance of clichés. The court martial adjourns to consider a verdict. Fade to black. Open with the prisoners being marched to the execution posts. No scene in which everyone sits around biting his fingernails and waiting to hear the verdict. Nobody announces the prisoners have been found guilty and nobody sentences them to death. We don't see MacReady smiling villainously or Douglas looking stunned.I don't want to run out of space so I'll limit this comment to a round of applause for the final scene of anguished French troops getting drunk in a bar, whistling, clapping, pounding on the tables, as a winsome young German girl is brought out by the inn keeper and ordered to sing a song. She begins to sing a German folk song timidly and softly. The soldiers gradually cease their rowdy behavior and listen to her plaintive untrained voice. Except for the pretty girl singing on the stage the bar room becomes utterly still and silent, and then one by one the men begin to hum the little tune along with her. They are all sad and some of them weep. The catharsis is absolutely necessary in a film so filled with tension, anger, and blood.This is Kubrick's most emotional film and shouldn't be missed. His earlier films were good but derivative and his later films devoid of passion. This one hits all the right notes, and the performances are unimpeachable.
Some thought-provoking dialogue like when a doctor and a soldier are talking to eachother, the doc brings up an interesting argument about how nobody truly fears their own death, but rather, what the cause of their own deaths will be, they brought up the arguement that they'd rather be shot by a machine gun then by a bayonet, because while one is a slow, painful death, the latter is a quick, painful but quick death. Those very few lines of dialogue become very interesting if you dig into them.The entire movie is very tense by the way
Paths of Glory is undoubtedly Stanley Kubrick's first truly great motion picture, and in turn cemented his talented potential in the motion picture industry. Ofcourse, he would later follow this up by directing at least six more films of superb quality, yet the typical Kubrick technical aspects are first visible in this particular picture.In a way, Paths of Glory is the most humane movie that Kubrick has ever made, and while certain trackingshots are very reminiscent of later projects such as The Shining (1980), this is still for Kubrick terms a very unconventional film. While one cannot deny Kubrick's genius as a director of angles, visuals, depth or artistic imagery, his films are generally emotionally quite disconnected since his character development is quite minimal, and the characters themselves one dimensional. ( Yeah, Alex DeLarge is an exception to this ) However, Paths of Glory is one of the most coherently structured films Kubrick has ever made, and doesn't have that 'weird-esque' feeling to it that later Kubrick films might have. It also has the strongest message about humanity and evil indifference, which in a way makes this Kubrick's most personally touching film by far, and the result is that it is without a doubt the most emotionally draining film he has ever made.Colonel Dax ( Kirk Douglas ) is the metaphor for the sole representation and hope of humanity, whereas every other high ranking officer symbolizes the evil and inhumanity of man. The picture does a tremendous job by showing the futility of war, and the corruption of those involved. The enemy is never shown, and battle sequences, while technically superbly filmed, are deliberately not very satisfying. This further symbolizes the fact that this is in the end about an army fighting itself, instead of an enemy, which ofcourse also emphasizes the ultimate uselessness of war. The only German that is shown ( The female singer in the final scene ) is depicted as an array of light and hope, instead of hate and anger as is usually associated with the enemy.The acting is generally superb, with in particular an outstanding performance by Kirk Douglas in the lead role, who truly seems to be the sole 'human' officer depicted in the film. The screenplay that is accompanied with this ( In particular later discussions between him and his superior officers ) is also fantastic, as the dialogue is intelligent and very relevant to this reflection of the human condition and the corruption thereof. There are a couple of short scenes in which the three future victims are introduced, and they are depicted as the average joe's who are quite comparable to nearly every other human being, and therefore their dilemma is even more emotionally compelling.In terms of technical aspects, Paths of Glory is also phenomenal. It is one of the best looking black-and-white movies ever made, which is a result of fantastic cinematography. The lighting in the jail sequences, the sideways tracking shots of the charge on the ant hill or the execution walk, every shot is close to perfection. Ofcourse the long trackingshots in the trenches also help enhance the situation our characters are in, and Kubrick's blocking in the officer scenes is fantastic, with many varieties in mood swings which are always emphasized by a character sitting down, standing up, or walking a certain direction. The dynamics in these exposition scenes are remarkable due to these varying visual hierarchies. One also has to mention the fantastic production design of the indoor sets featuring the high ranking officers, which definitely gives the audience this aristocratic kind of feeling that is in high contrast to the bleak trackingshots in the trenches featuring the normal soldiers.In the end, Paths of Glory is Kubrick's greatest personal effort, and among his greatest films. It is a genuinely human story under inhuman conditions, and with a final scene that is one of the greatest metaphorical and emotional sequences ever created in cinema, it is indeed one of the all-time greats in terms of anti war motion pictures.


                
Kubrick doesn't have a reputation as among the greatest directors for no reason. There is a severe under representation of movies about WW1 that are of any decent quality. Kubrick masters this while making the movie not so much about any given war as about bureaucracy and the pedestrian banality which governs the logic of war. Every performance in the movie stands up. The pacing and editing are quick and workman like meaning that even during scenes of dialogue a lot seems to happen, nothing drags. The themes of the movie carry on to an unflinching end that will leave you physically angry. 9/10


                
I'm in the middle of revisiting most of Kubrick's work, and watching this after "Full Metal Jacket" (1987) is a wonderful experience. Accidentally, I had also seen Kazan's "On the Waterfront" (1954) just some days earlier, and that experience too gave a great deal of perspective and enhanced my enjoyment. All the sweeter since I saw this last some 10 years ago and wasn't as overwhelmed then.But now its strengths have really grown on me. There's the amazing, acute sense of movement in the camera, be it in the trenches or the encircling dancing in the interior shots of the Department. The claustrophobic sense of place, and the contrapuntal open, wide hallways and high ceilings of the courtroom. This is Kubrick at his best. And the sounds! Of explosions, machine-gun fire, breathing, the loud echoes of the cross-examination, the intimate singing of the German girl in the pub, revealed behind the wall of sound of obstinate cheering and drunken blabber. These counterpoints of both space (small, wide) and sound (loud, silent) define the film for me.Watching "On the Waterfront" just before this was an interesting point of comparison. Brando and Kaufman's cinematography where the highlights of that film, but I couldn't really connect with the central social struggle at all, the bestiality of man toward man, man corrupted by power and prestige. Not so here – and here Kubrick's delicate sense of satire comes into play. Whilst a serious film, it doesn't take itself too seriously, which is exactly why it's able to connect with us the way it does. The absurdity of life and art, and of art trying to depict life (and art). How man is reduced to a mere number, a prop in a film. I found this very effective.


                
