For the first time I have seen a Miyazaki film I actively dislike.Howl's Moving Castle is one of the worst films I have ever seen, period, Miyazaki or otherwise. My reservations about it were totally founded, since Miyazaki does best when he doesn't do overt 'romance' (but then the 'romance' in this was a total joke) and does his own work. The novel upon which the film is based is an annoying clump of nonsense spouted by someone whose writing style is apparently to be as irritating as possible.Miyazaki's version, which takes some liberties with the source material, is just as sickeningly bad. Visually beautiful, it's incoherent plotwise and has some of the worst acting ever appearing in his films...thanks for casting the talentless Takuya Kimura (boy band singer) as the lead. His lacking, cardboard delivery was as weak as any English dub could be. The 'love' is forced and stupid, between two lame-duck characters who have about as much chemistry as a piece of lettuce and a cork. The ending is a shambles and cheapens the entire previous film, and the forced inclusion of an anti-war message actually manages to be insulting to those of us who are anti-war; it's embarrassing to watch it be handled in such an incongruous and outright embarrassing way in this film.The stupid, unsympathetic heroine for no real reason gets a curse put on her and stumbles into the realm of the vapid hero (if you can call him that; casting in-type for Takuya Kimura though), and boring hijinks ensue. There's no real reason for anything happening in the film, and you aren't moved to really care about the conflict between these countries, nothing of which is expanded upon in the excuse for a 'story'. Some things happen, people are introduced and subsequently forgotten about, and nobody any impact on the screen; perhaps it's because these were never Miyazaki's characters. They have no strength like his usually do. Their designs are utterly uninspired. Then in the last four minutes, everything gets tied up in the most unconvincing, stupid way that makes you feel like you just wasted two hours of your life waiting for it to happen. It's not made to be an experience like Totoro, it's supposed to be a direct sort of story...but it takes forever.Miyazaki could've...and should've...taken a few pages from his own book and drawn us into a conflict as in Nausicaa...a film where we could actually understand what was happening and actually care about the outcome, and why these people were fighting. Nausicaa, in the film, was a strong and sympathetic heroine entirely resolved in her convictions. Howl's heroine has little real conviction except what other people persuade her to have. She doesn't suit Miyazaki's usual style of youthful yet strong heroines. She was just some stupid girl on the screen, nothing more.Similarly, Howl was just a vain, inept 'wizard'. He wasn't sympathetic or likable, cute or endearing, he was just stupid and narcissistic and had no real redeeming qualities. Were we supposed to imagine he fell in love with Sophie or whatever her name was? Uh huh...what with all their powerful scenes together and such...if they had a single scene together that ever indicated anything even approaching so much as friendship until the last five seconds of the film, I missed it. The two had no chemistry and acted as two strangers who happened to be in the same general vicinity. Yet another stupid anime standard, the two characters who 'fall in love' because they just happen to be of the opposite gender and spend some time together in the same general area. Because, you know, nobody ever can spend time together with the opposite gender without falling in love, especially during a stressful period of conflict! For once, the supporting characters were just as vapid. There was not a single likable character in this film, nor did anyone stick in my memory as much as any other Miyazaki film. No bizarre and strange No-Face. No knight errant of Nausicaa. No gentle father of Totoro. There was no one even remotely distinct. It was irredeemable. And that is a shame, because something to which Miyazaki gives such effort should not be. It should be better, by its nature, than anything else put out at the time. Howl's deserves to be forgotten, and quickly. It's really pretty shameful that Miyazaki, in his zeal to make an anti-war statement, chose such a sloppy vehicle to tack it onto, and in such an indelicate way. Where is the subtlety we saw in his other movies, the beautiful message we could take to heart and understand, and love? Compared to a masterpiece like Nausicaa, Howl's Moving Castle looks like any other stereotypical shoddy anime joke. But it's not just a joke, it's a tragedy since it should have been good.I hope the low opinion of viewers both in Japan and abroad of this film will encourage Miyazaki, if he opts to make another film, to use his own story. Maybe next time, if he wants to make a statement, he can take his time and do something decent instead of embarrassing.I looked to Miyazaki's films to be different from most anime output, to be a refreshing and unique outlet for beauty, hope, optimism, strength, and lovely morals that are subtly communicated. This film was a joke by comparison. It stumbled through its clumsy storytelling from beginning to end. If you haven't seen it yet...don't! It's awful, and if you've seen any other of Miyazaki's work it will leave you with a bitter taste in your mouth. If you haven't seen any of his work, after seeing this you won't want to.We should never have to say 'I found your movie terrible'. He's better than that, or used to be anyway. I hope perhaps he will put out something decent before he retires as he's discussed many times.
--before i say anything let me just say ordinarily i am quite a fan of Miyazaki, i have seen Spirited Away and enjoyed it imensly and now own, however all directors make mistakes (Tim Burton directed 'Mars Attacks' remember) and playing with the plot of Diana Wynne Jone's best book is definitely a mistake--I have to admit, picking holes in things is like a hobby to me but in the case of 'Howl's Moving Castle' I know i am quite right to do so. I can't even give this film a 2 for it's pretty pictures, i hate it too much!Why do this to that story!? Considering the standard of Diana Wynne Jones' book it is hard to see how this film could have such a weak plot. I can't understand why Miyazaki would take such a wonderful story and put it through a mangle.When i first heard there was going to be a film made of my favourite book of all time I failed to see how this could go wrong, when I saw what the castle was going to look like i was even more optimistic the style of animation seemed to suit the book rather well, i am now forced to eat my words.None of the character's look quite right, Howl looks like an inflatable chair on stilts, Sophie just looks plain pathetic and Calcifer looks as if he's just come off the British Gas advert. Calcifer should be genuinely frightening, not comical.The film had a promising start, Sophie's lines were remarkably corny and she herself was so nice and quiet she became detestable, she showed no character whatsoever and she didn't talk to hats but apart from that the castle looked promising and Market Chipping wasn't too bad either if you ignored the ridiculous aeroplanes and tanks. Then Howl appeared and it all went downhill from there.Howl is welsh. One of the reasons I like the book so much is it is one of the only books that uses a Welsh hero, when i read it I also give him a welsh accent in my mind. It surely wouldn't be too much to ask to get Christian Bale, who I found out after watching it is in fact welsh, to put on a welsh accent at all? In stead he puts on this dull deep droning voice which I find both dull and creepy simultaneously.The story is terrible, nothing is explained. Whilst in the book an explanation is provided for why the witch curses Sophie, why the scarecrow roams the hills and why Calcifer asks Sophie in particular to break his contract with Howl no such explanation is provided here.Before I forget to mention it i must also tell you that I find the characters tedious and dull. Each one being far to perfect. The Sophie of the book is presumptuous, intruding, outspoken and nosey and Howl clearly recognises this and finds her irritating and tiresome. Howl is vain, cowardly, selfish and careless all of which Sophie takes note of and finds him frustrating and despicable, on several occasions she attempts to leave the castle having no patience left. Neither of them are perfect and neither of them so much as pretend to like each other.As for the love element, it barely emerges until the last few pages. Sophie goes through most of the book without even realising she's fallen in love with Howl, certainly neither of them would confess to anyone but each other in the final few pages and even then it extends merely to Howl saying 'I think we ought to live happily ever after, don't you?' in a welsh accent of course. In the film it's obvious and it makes me cringe. Sophie is too nice.I won't go too far into the other plot differences although their are plenty but major things this film misses is the intriguing dog-man, the seven-league boots, the chilling English teacher Miss Angorian, and the individual love stories between Sophie's sister Lettie and Percival, and Sophie's half-sister Martha and Michael (the equivalent of the film's Markle but about sixteen instead of six). And not to mention Sophie and Michael's short but amusing adventure into Howl's own world and his native country modern-day Wales.The plot of the film is clearly weak and far to simplified. Instead of wathcing the tedious and predictable plot of the film unfold why not enjoy the surprising if slightly more complex but far more amusing and likable plot of the book instead? People who read the book love it, in fact the majority of people who have read DWJ's 'Howl's Moving Castle' would tell you it's better than Harry Potter, read the amazon reviews if you don't believe me, they say it all.Ooo! Now I'm angry! I just read a review on here blaming the book. the Book!!! It makes me angry since this person clearly hasn't read the book they just assume that of so perfect Miyazaki couldn't have made a mistake so blame the book!!! The idea of it!!! I sgree the plot and characters in the film are awful but don't blame the book!!! Read the book, Howl's a coward in the book and he's a lot more likable that way, and he gets drunk at one point read it!


                
I honestly don't know what the big deal is with Howl's Moving Castle. I just don't understand why everyone's gushing over it. I get the feeling some top reviewer said they thought it was good and everyone else just decided to agree with him/her. I love fantasy movies, I love Studio Ghibli (usually), but this was just taking the mick - great animation ruined by an incoherent story; it just made no sense at all. If I didn't know any better, I'd have thought this was done by Hayao's son - who's take on the Tales of Earthsea was also absolutely horrendous (see my review for that movie), in fact Howl's is just as bad. Studio Ghibli has had some really great hits, but they've also got a good chunk of misfires, and when they do, you really know - you get that sinking feeling, you're bored, you don't know what's going on, and everything seems to happen randomly.


                
Look. I don't care how good the animation is, Howl's Moving Castle was never meant for anime. I loved that book, and it breaks my heart to see Howl and Sophie reincarnated as huge-mouthed, spiky-haired Hauru and Sofi. Howl's castle looks like an evil, potbellied stove on legs. And I'm sorry, but Calcifer is not a friendly little orange glow with big eyes. It's not just the anime, because the humor in the book is fundamentally very dry and British. It's bad enough that some of my other favorite books as a child were ravaged by their remaking (Ella Enchanted, anyone?), but ANIME! Miyazaki should stick to Totoro and Kiki and keep his paws off decent books.


                
Short answer: It was so far the worst Miyazaki film.Long Answer: This movie had the most underdeveloped plot and seemed like a quick financial solution to the Studio Ghibli's film, Neko no Ongaeshi, a film about a girl that visited Cat's kingdom and almost turned into a cat herself. This film became a block buster hit in Japan when it came out during Winter break just because of the director's fame. I was greatly disappointed by its corny love story and obvious ending. There were beautiful natural sceneries, as Miyazaki film does, but he stressed too much on romance ever since the ending of Spirited Away. There were repeated scenes from his previous movies, like Flying Castle and especially on Princess Mononoke and seemed a bit repetitious. His theme of flying wizard was probably from his first work of Naussica. What I liked about Miyazaki was not only his art skill, but his way of leaving out the ending for audience to speculate. Well, this movie smacked me right in the face with its obvious ending, and left me greatly disappointed. If he spent on working out a plot a little longer, it could have been better. Since he didn't, not worth watching but just to comment on how bad it was.


                
I really loved this book it rated in my top 5 books. The film is nothing like the book. It doesn't even start at the beginning of the book. It has the characters wrong. Although Calcifer is fantastic. I hated the rest of the characters. The witch of the waste is dreadful, she's disgusting, and okay I understand that she's not meant to be liked but they made her repulsive. It misses out crucial plot points in the book. It's difficult enough to understand if you have read the book. Addimitly there are some funny elements in it, I cannot understand how it was possible for a film this bad to be made out of a book that is amazing. I was completely disappointed with this film. I wouldn't recommend it to anyone.


                
ICK! This movie was so stupid! The only good thing about it is the animation, sort of. The story was so bizarre. Is this seriously what Japanese kids enjoy for entertainment? Here is the story line: Sophie (who is always looking for attention/sympathy by saying she is ugly) makes friends with a fairy wizard named Howl and he really does act gay. She then is attacked by the Witch of the waste who is very fat and becomes old. Then Sophie climbs aboard Howl's Moving Castle and becomes his cleaning lady, helps him with his (insert shocking music here) bad hair days, and becomes a little boy's (who has a beard) mother figure, la la la , everything is happy, the world is good, and I can't wait for this movie to end!Please don't see this. It is dumb.


                
I was so thoroughly disgusted watching this movie!! You can't even say that this movie is loosely based on the book. They changed who was good and bad and the ENTIRE plot for ABSOLUTELY no reason or benefit! The book would have made a great family movie. I wouldn't let my kids watch this. The writers and director should be ashamed of themselves! I can only imagine what Ms. Jones thinks about a movie "from her book". There was no war or machines in the book! Howl never turned into a monster! If you say the movie comes from the book, it should come from the book! If not say, "based on an idea". This is not a kids' movie. This movie has a lot of powerful ideas about war and politics.
It is not very hard for me to start out with this statement: This is the worst movie I have seen this year. And I have seen some pretty bad movies half way through 2008. But I fail to see anything on the horizon that will challenge this heap of garbage.The premise is downright awful. A castle, a woman who becomes an old woman, a flame, and a walking castle. Already, its not looking good. But add to the fact that almost nothing happens in a lot of scenes. I had to fast forward through those areas where there wasn't any talking.I never really liked the hoping scarecrow - whom turned out to me a prince. And the flame? Well he might have been the best character in the whole film but that isn't saying much.The boy, Howl, and everybody else should never again grace screens with their presence. It just isn't worth the headache. "F"
