'Incredibly disappointing' would be a short (if not sweet) summary. Or maybe just 'average', which is the worst thing you could possibly say about a film from a director who had previously sought to delight through imagination and vibrancy.In Howl's Moving Castle, Miyazaki struggles to find original ground and ends up retreading now increasingly familiar ideas and motifs from his previous work, even the opening title sequence seems to reuse music from his breakout hit Spirited Away. We have a teenage girl (Sophie, the protagonist), a silent and ineffective partner (Turnip-head), a humorous sidekick (Calcifer), a collection of wishy-washy tag-alongs (Markl & co), vague enemies which are totally unexplored, and a mysterious and largely undeveloped male teenager, who here happens to be the titular Howl. All characters also suffer from abysmal phoned-in performances for the English dub (I can't comment on the original), in particular Christian Bale (Howl) who barely varies his delivery throughout, and Emily Mortimer (Sophie) who gives an appallingly flat performance for the lead. Only the ever-reliable Billy Crystal gives value for money as the fire daemon Calcifer, though it's nothing incredibly special - more accurately simply a cut-price Robin Williams.Elsewhere there are more significant problems. The story is a mess both in terms of plotting and pacing and scripting. It begins well enough but falls into predictable buddy-buddy routines all too early, fails to head in any clear direction for a long time and then ends on a half-hearted note (which is to say ridiculously hokey) with a total non-conclusion. Whole ideas are thrown into the mix and left unexplained, like the war which is at the center of the action, the king (queen?), the other wizards. Miyazaki could arguably be even trying to say something about the Iraq war, with a myriad of none too subtle contemporary references, but even that didactic aspect is lost.You will likely not leave the cinema satisfied, unless you are ten years old - and even the kids behind me were bored to tears long before the finishing line. A rethink is needed over at Ghibli studios..4/10.


                
I love Miyazaki's movies. In fact, I have seen most of his movies.However, after watching "Howl's moving Castle" I was very disappointed. I thought that Miyazaki killed the book "Howl's moving castle" by making this terrible adaptation. Did Miyazaki understand the book when he read it? He simplified the story so much, and yet he made it somewhat confusing because there wasn't any explanation to why things happened in the film.I wonder if any of the people that think the movie is so good has read the book.First: The most pointless part of the film is the war.Second: The film didn't explain why Sophie was cursed in the first place. There was no explanation for the pointless war either. It seemed that the story was floating around. The plot was not well developed.Third: They changed all the characters, and their personalities.Fourth: There were a lot of clichéd things. Miyazaki preferred to replace parts of the book that showed originality with clichéd scenes that can happen in any fantasy story.For example: Sophie going to Howl's childhood telling him to meet her in the future. (time travel) Example 2: Sophie kisses the scarecrow, and the scarecrow becomes a human because of the kiss from his true love(Sophie).If you thought this movie is good, you should read the book. After you read it, you might hate the movie. The book is funny, original, and full of magic. It can't be compared to the movie.


                
I was quite disappointed of this movie. After seeing all the other Ghiblis, this one had a very weak story. Sure, Neko no Ongaeshi was much worser, but it seemed like they just stole elements from earlier movies and built this movie from it. The main characters were OK, weaker than than the main characters in the earlier movies, but still very likable. But it just missed something new... ;( And the ending was the worst. Way to short for such a long movie. "Hey, I'm a cursed prince..." lol. Well, I don't want to be too harsh, it had really good elements, but I expected much more of it. But that's my own fault. Never watch a movie with too high expectations... -__-
Having seen (and loved) Laputa many years ago and then being re-introduced to Ghibli's work via Sprited Away, I have recently been working my way through the back catalogue. Miyazaki has his name associated with some truly remarkable films (Laputa, Spirited Away, My Neighbour Totoro, etc...) however he has also been involved in making some films which are little more than impenetrable clap-trap. Sadly Howl's Moving Castle falls into the second category (along with Nausicaa IMO). The plot is almost non-existent, and what little story remains is confusing and fragmented. The film suffers from the same problems as Nausicaa, in that an intriguing premise is established, but which never reaches a satisfying conclusion.


                
Howl's Moving Castle is directed by Hayao Miyazaki, who is a well know Japanese director for producing some of the best 2D animation films since the old school Disney ones. His vision is always extraordinary and inventive, and this trademark is continued in Howl's Moving Castle. Unfortunately though it is not as good as his previous film Spirited Away, which is a lot better. This could be because at least Spirited Away had a story that you can grasp onto. Howl's Moving Castle doesn't have much of a plot to really hook you in, and I found myself floating in and out of the film due to this problem.The story follows a young girl called Sophie, who is rescued by some obnoxious guards by the notorious wizard Howl (Bale). This moment is watched by the Witch of the Waste (Bascall) who, when Sophie is alone, casts a spell on her out of jealousy, turning Sophie into an old woman. After this change Sophie, who is now known as Grandma Sophie (Simmons), heads up the mountain in search of Howl, in the hope that he can reverse the spell. When she finds his home, which is a giant misshaped castle made out of unshaped metal pieces on legs, she enters it to find a young wizard learning from Howl, and a talking fire call Calcifer. When Howl returns to his home she tells him she is the new housekeeper, and decides to befriend Howl before asking for his help. Whilst she cleans for him she mixes up his box of magic, causing him to lose his power. At this Sophie must go and visit his former mentor, Madame Suliman (Danner), to gain back his power and this visit causes the Madame into uproar and she declares war between two worlds, with Howl seeming to be one of the only ones who can defend it. From here the truth about Howl's magic powers come to the surface, and we find out that he may not be all that he seems. Will Sophie be able to ever go back to her former self?The synopsis above is rather vague as the story of Howl's Moving Castle is also very vague. It is slightly difficult to follow and doesn't really make much sense. These animated Japanese films, directed by Miyazaki, are often about magic, potions, and objects that are not of this world, but usually we can buy into them easier then what this film allows us to. The characters aren't as well developed as well as they are in Spirited Away and this helps less in enjoying the story.Half of this problem though could be down to me. This sort of film isn't particularly to my liking, Spirited Away was a slight exception, and due to this I find my mind wandering throughout and not really concentrating on the film. Reading other opinions on the film, I do see that I am not the only one who struggled to really grasp the plot, but I do seem to be the only one that isn't a huge fan of these movies. They can be good just this one wasn't particularly.I watched the English version of this film, which is why I have credited English actors above. I have been told that the Japanese speaking version is better as some of the dialogue is lost in translation and the Japanese voices are much more enthusiastic. The voices in English are typical of the actor and little emotion seems to be involved, that is other than Billy Crystal as Calcifer who steals the show. Christian Bale doesn't strain his voice, and is so much like him that the minute he spoke I knew it was someone I had heard before. It took me a few minutes to realise and again this was a few minutes that I spent not really indulging in the film. I do prefer a good animation when the voices aren't obvious of the actor.All in all it isn't the best Japanese animated film. Some of the imagery is beautiful and the moving castle is very imaginative indeed. However this is nowhere near as good as Spirited Away and if you feel the need to watch a Japanese animated movie, I suggest you rent that instead.2 / 5For more reviews: www.tolli-movieworld.blogspot.com


                
I can't understand why so many reviews here are full of praise for that movie. Compared to spirited away, Howl is just weak. Spirited away was charming, subtle and full of great ideas. Howl recycles a lot of these ideas and adds nothing new. It is full of corny dialogs and has a very cheesy ending, which delivers the final blow to the movie.The main character Howl is a run-of-the-mill anime figure with annoying gestures and facial expressions (funny detail: his hair is always wobbling around, which reminds me a bit of a hair shampoo commercial). Calcifer, the fire-demon, you could also find in a Disney production (which is not a compliment, in my opinion). The evil witch, who becomes a good witch later in the movie, would be nice, if we haven't seen the same "evil enemy becomes nice guy" thing in spirited away before.The general artwork however, is good. The best thing is the moving castle itself, which is the most innovative idea you'll see in this movie. Howl is not a terrible movie, but it's below average - see it when you don't have anything better to do.
From Studio Ghibli and director Hayao Miyazaki (Kiki's Delivery Service, Princess Mononoke, Spirited Away), I had seen the DVD cover for this Japanese cartoon film a number of times, and being a fan of the previous films the studio made I had to see it. Basically young Sophie (Emily Mortimer) is the innocent girl who works in her late father's hat shop, and after a chance encounter with the magician Howl (Christian Bale), famous for his moving castle, she is cursed by the Witch of the Waste (Lauren Bacall). The witch turn Sophie into an elderly woman, to become Grandma Sophie (Jean Simmons), and trapped in this body she tries to find a way to reverse it, but more than that to seek her fortune inside the Moving Castle. There she meets and befriends Calcifer (Billy Crystal) the fire demon, he powers the castle and recognises that she is cursed and helps however he can to help her get by. But he also makes a deal with her, if she breaks the contract she is under with Howl, whatever that is, then he has the power to lift her curse and she will go back to her eighteen year old self. I will be honest, this is pretty much the only story I can understand, the rest of it is really complicated, and just see the characters muddling about, helping each other in whatever is going on, and Sophie goes backwards and forwards sometimes with her age state. Also starring Blythe Danner as Madame Suliman, Josh Hutcherson as Markl, Jena Malone as Lettie, Crispin Freeman as Prince Turnip, Mark Silverman as King, Mari Devon as Honey and Liliana Mumy as Madge. I can certainly agree with the critics that the makers seem to have concentrated more on the spectacle than creating a story that you can follow and not get confused with, which is exactly what I found it does, but of course the animation is fantastically imaginative, overall it is not a terrible animated fantasy. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Animated Feature Film of the Year. Okay!
Hayao Miyazaki's film, Howl's Moving Castle based off Diana Wayne Jones children's book, explores a beautifully animated fantasy world. The hand drawn scenes include everything from "The Royal City," to a never ending flower filled valley, and, of course Howl's Moving Castle. Everything seems to be more exciting or thrilling and the viewer has to keep reminding themselves to pay attention to what is really going on. No one seems to care about the shallow characters or their lack of logical thoughts because the audience is too intrigued by the breath- taking images Miyazaki creates. Sophie, voiced by Emily Mortimer and Jean Simmons, is a young girl who is stuck working in a hat shop during what appears to be an industrial revolution. One day, while on her way to meet her sister, she encounters a problematic situation, but is luckily saved by a wizard named Howl, voiced by Christian Bale, but little does she know, she is actually being brought into an even larger problem. Sophie manages to instantly fall in love with Howl right as he leaves to take on a larger task at hand. Her love for him draws The Witch of the Waste, voiced by Lauren Bacall, to curse Sophie changing her into an old woman, who Howl will not be attracted to. Sophie, distraught that she is an old woman decides to walk up a mountain, because as a fail old woman, that is a great idea. She then seems to encounter all the magic and wizardry that exists even though she has no magical powers herself, first with encountering Howl's Moving Castle, just by accident. Though not much of a castle and there never is an explanation of why it is called a castle, quests occur for not only Howl, but Sophie and the gang of the cursed individuals who just seem to keep appearing. The film contains a mixture of cheesy lines and witty ones, whose only point is to entertain the audience because the characters are not remarkable. At one point, Howl, who is regularly throwing a temper tantrum, states, "I see no point in living if I can't be beautiful", and Calcifer, a talking fire, voiced by Billy Crystal, states, "I can't stand the fire and gunpowder". Laddie, Sophie's sister who is seen for part of a scene, has no significant value to the structure of the film, but is still put in. No matter what is going on in the film, Sophie's curse of an old woman seems to be the most important issue in the world, I mean it's not like larger issues are going on like a worldwide war. The characters' individuality stops functioning during the film and just seems to go wherever the director puts them, whether it makes sense or not. There are also countless moments where the question "Why?" comes to mind. The film is also very vague in describing why a specific scene is occurring, leading to a great deal confusion. There is no doubt that Miyazaki created a beautiful backdrop and characters, but the storyline was no match for the "scenery porn". The fact that everything was hand drawn with minimal computer enhancement made you wonder how Miyazaki did it. Drawn to how Miyazaki could continuously to top the images as the film progresses, the storyline just seemed to fade into the background. The only way to improve the film is to remove the characters, even with their witty comments, lack a connection with the audience. In this film, the characters are certainly upstaged by the backdrop. The film definitely has flair with all the beautiful scenes, but lacks something more from the plot. Film directors are pushing their limits with the backgrounds, forgetting to focus on a stimulating storyline.


                
Devoid of substance but kids should like it.A shy young woman, Sofi, is cursed by a bitter witch. As a result she becomes very old. She sets off in search of a means to break the curse. Soon she encounters a giant moving castle, owned by young man, Howl...Pretty much your standard Hayao Miyazaki movie. Intriguing set-up but the movie quickly degenerates into a rambling adventure for a plot with random action scenes and equally random solutions to problems, and no character depth or engagement. Howl's Moving Castle escalates into randomness sooner than most, making it even worse than normal.No real themes or profundities (par for the course, again). All this - rambling, random plot, lack of character depth, no profundities - make this unsuitable for intelligent adults. Kids should like it though.


                
I just don't get it. Like Stephen Hunter, I don't understand what all the fuss is about.I'm the first to admit that I simply don't care for this style of Japanese animation (not that it is different from the style of animation in most similar animated movies.) It's simply substandard and inadequate for the depth of feeling in the story. Sorry! After all, I'm the guy who can't watch "Spiderman", or "The Hulk" or any of the newer films that rely heavily on CGI because it looks so fake and unnatural. The same goes for this film. It's just an intolerable style of animation framed with a so-so story. I keep expecting Speed Racer to come to the rescue.Sorry! Flame on!


                
Just came out of my local art house movie theater for the matinée showing of "Howl's Moving Castle". I had previously seen Miyazaki's "Spirited Away", and was expecting a beautiful story with engaging visuals and an interesting eye on things. Unfortunately, for me, this movie only had 2/3 of those features. I found the story and characters not as likable or relatable as in "Spirited", and the convoluted plot involving a war taking place in the background didn't really pull me in as much. The animation is still great, especially of the moving castle, and in general it's on the level of "Spirited", but storywise, this one didn't really do it for me as much.Recommended for a rental, I guess.


                
The movie opens slowly with intriguing first scene. It brings the viewers to another fantasy world definitive of Studio Ghibli. But this time the world setting gets to feel more victorian, steampunk and technological besides being magical. The story floats in and out of contrasting conflicts, another signature of Japanese anime aimed at various age groups. Yet I don't like how the movie keeps changing Sophie's age back and forth without any clear explanation. The story also ends quite abruptly with the background conflict of the war just ceasing out unclear. The voice acting on the Japanese version is a standard Japanese work with less dramatic voice acting yet with more quirky voice timbres.


                
Howl's Moving Castle starts off well, but then it quickly takes a sharp left turn into Crazy Town. Don't get me wrong, I like Miyazaki's imaginative films, but this movie doesn't have the heart of Spirited Away, nor does it have the whimsy of Ponyo. Watching this film is like watching a bewildering dream. The animation is still superb, though.


                
