It's hard to make any movie that follow after 'Spirited Away' So, when you watch, you have to try and keep an open mind....which is hard to do since the characters, and the whole feel of the film seems so much like his previous works.But what fun this film is! And interestingly beautiful. I could watch most any of his movies, just to look at the beautiful scenery. I love some of the incredible imagination that goes into his works.I could easily recommend this film. No, it's not the better than the rest, but I feel it's definitely worth your time.I look forward to seeing the film again, maybe I will understand some things a bit better.


                
The more you've seen Miyazaki's films, there is a chance you'll less likely enjoy this movie. Why so? Because you can familiarize almost every single element from his previous works in Howl, which is actually quite strange. Before Howl his films were ALWAYS unique and new, when compared with the ones he had made before. But in Howl we can (at least subconsciously) easily compare those black liquid shades chasing Howl to Spirited Away's No-face and the whole ambiance stands somewhere between Kiki and Laputa. Not good.If you take all those before seen Miyazaki trademarks away, the entity of the movie is frankly said quite fragile; Mages used as part of the military machinery. I haven't read the book version of Howl, but for the movie part I can say, that it is a very traditional piece of Ghibli and also has a worn-out story. The original and thus powerful themes we saw in Mononoke and Spirited Away are gone now, and have been replaced with the used ones: war and love. So "unmiyazakian".Yet I'm quite sure that I would appreciate Howl a whole lot more, if it was the first Ghibli, and above all the first Miyazaki-manufactured movie I've had ever seen. The technical asset of Howl has been substantially improved and Hisaishi's score is once again a top-notch personal performance. The usage of 3D-imaginery has been increased, but the animation is still 99% hand-made, which I naturally appreciate. The characters have variable personalities and especially Witch of the Waste had something, that this movie truly needed.Maybe Mr. Miyazaki shouldn't have done a book adaptation in the first place, since his purely imaginative mind is meant for bigger things. Instead of "loaning" ideas from others, he should be the only source of inspiration, when preparing for his new project. I sure hope that Howl won't be Hayao Miyazaki's final depot in his long career, rather I want to see him leave the ring as a legend instead of a champion.Rating: ***½


                
First of all, I'd like to say that I thoroughly enjoyed the experience of this film and intend to see it several more times. On a technical level, Miyazaki has elevated the traditional 2-D animated film above the cheesier but more realistic 3-D Computer-generated works that seem to prevail everywhere else. Whether he used computers to simulate the 2-D look is beyond my current knowledge, but I applaud his attempt to abandon the technique that even crept into his previous work, _Spirited Away_.The film is *very* loosely based on the original novel. In fact, only the basic premise and the main characters seem to have survived Miyazaki's scalpel. As a story, it is unimaginative and trite. Furthermore, the characters lacked depth. Unlike he did with _Kiki's Delivery Service_, Miyazaki failed to improve upon the original work. All is forgiven, though. This is one-hundred percent pure uncut Miyazaki. I was left with the impression that he was going to have fun with a project, this was the project, and he had a great deal of fun with it. Joe Hisaishi, once again, provided excellent musical support. I gave this film an 8.


                
I went to see this film with my anime and Diana Wynne Jones-loving teenage daughter. And while I enjoyed the film immensely due to its excellent animation, story and overall sense of fun, it was also interesting to see how much my daughter hated it! It was as if we saw two entirely different films. Why? Well, she is a huge Diana Wynne Jones fan and has read and re-read just about everything she ever wrote. And, according to her, the story was so different and so inferior to the book that she disliked the film and said some very nasty things about director Miyazaki. However, my advice is DON'T read the book and just go and see the movie. Then, after enjoying it, read the book ONLY if you are 100% sure you can do this without freaking out because they are so different!! I didn't know the difference and had a great time seeing the film!


                
After the Oscar-winning Sprited Away by Hayou Miyazaki, the skates are high for his next animated feature. His adaptation of Diana Wynne Jones' 2001 book Howl's Moving Castle is no doubt an unrivaled animated feature featuring sorcery and wizards against the backdrop of war and a sweet romance.While the animation is lively and the effects are stunning, the whimsical adaptation suffered from too much layering of plot. There may be occasions where one may be lost in the plot. Though this definitely does not affect my enjoyment of the movie, I thought it would have benefited from better continuity. I have not read the original book but it's surely not an easy task to bring a book to life through the painstaking process of animating every single frame.


                
I went to Howl's Moving Castle having been a big fan of Hayao Miyazaki and was impressed. It was on par with his other movies, which are all equally great. The animation was stunning and the musical score was fantastic. Billy Crystal as the voice of the fire demon Calcifer annoyed me slightly, but other then that the the voices were great. The story could be confusing at times but was still good. The only really bad part for me was that the ending was sort of stupid. Other then that the movie was great, and had great animation. Howl's moving Castle is a good movie even compared to Miyazaki's other films such as Naussica and Spirited Away.


                
To me, I think it is hard for children to understand the idea of this movie. I've never read the original, but other reviewer had mentioned this movie was not so much based on the original story. First, I would like to say that sound track of this movie was fantastic (His movie always has great sound-track). Second, I would like to say that I had a problem with voice. Sophie's voice was by C.Baisho. I think she's alright, when Sophie was old lady but when she was young girl her voice didn't meet the character (C.Baisho is I think in her late 50's or something like that). Over all, I enjoyed it very much. And I will watch few more times to understand his message. I didn't enjoy "Sento-Chihiro no Kamikakushi", but I think I liked this movie better in someways. Hopefully, he will produce more great movies in the future. I'm surprised to see that he didn't introduce great characters(Such as Totoro, Makkuro Kurosuke, Ji-Ji and etc). P.S. I think this movie, people will either LIKE it or DISLIKE it. Not for everybody I think.


                
From the Island of Japan comes this incredible story of an enchanted and magical castle. A young girl, named Sophi is bewitched and accidentally encapsulated into a traveling fortress. Unaware her brief meeting with a handsome and powerful wizard prince, will enrage the Witch of the Waste, Sophie is thus drawn into the struggle to find a lasting peace to a ongoing war. The story is interesting to be sure, but the animation and picturesque scenery add more than enough action and drama to offset traditional venues. Within the film are the talented voices of Jean Simmons and Emily Mortimer as the voice of Sophie, Christian Bale as Howl, the Bird Prince, Lauren Bacall as the Witch of the Waste, Blythe Danner as Madame Suliman, the Sourceress. Josh Hutcherson as Markl and of course Billy Crystal is terrific as Calcifer, the Fire Demon. This fine cast adds resilience to the inspirational tale as does the colorful and touching film. To anyone who enjoys children's stories which endure the test of time and mesmerize modern audiences, this is one for the complete library. A classic in the making. ****


                
What do you get when you combine the master Japanese director Hayao Miyazaki ("My Neighbor Totoro," "Spirited Away") with the British sci-fi novelist Diana Wynne Jones? The answer is "Howl's Moving Castle," an enchanting (if not altogether understandable) animated feature, filled with beauty, imagination and magic.Sophie is a shy young girl, working in her family's hat shop, who falls under the spell of a witch who turns her into a decrepit old woman. At a loss as to what to do, Sophie decides to leave home and try to find a cure for her condition in the mysterious land of wizards and witches that lies just outside her city. Not long after she arrives, she encounters the mysterious "moving castle," owned by the enigmatic wizard known as Howl, that not only roams freely around the countryside but seems to exist in any number of different dimensions at the same time. It's when she passes through the castle door and discovers what awaits her inside that the really surreal adventure begins.There's little point in trying to figure out all the fine details of the story, which often feels as if it is being made up as it goes along - and not always in a way that is completely satisfying to those of us who are trying desperately to understand it. Yet, there is a certain fascination in the way the film chooses to defy all the rules of time and space and feels no real compunction to explain how all of it is supposed to work. The movie asks us to merely accept what we are seeing at face value and to go along wherever it is it wants to take us. This is an easy thing to do, primarily because the film's incredible beauty seduces us into accepting the slightly weird alternate reality the movie has set up for us. Although the animators are all Japanese, the characters themselves are Occidental and the film appears to be set sometime in the late Victorian or early Edwardian era of a century ago. The visuals are so exquisite in every detail that it is virtually impossible for us to turn our eyes from the screen even for a split second. Like the best animated films, it transports us to a world that is both utterly fantastic and strangely familiar at the same time.In bringing the characters to life, the English-language version employs an impressive cast of voices, including veterans Jean Simmons, Lauren Bacall and Blythe Danner, along with Billy Crystal, Emily Mortimer and Christian Bale.With its occasionally incoherent storyline and deliberate pacing, "Howl's Moving Castle" may disappoint and frustrate those accustomed to the more simple, hectic and frenetic animated films churned out regularly by Hollywood. But if you're in the mood for a calmer, more relaxing trip to a world not your own, "Howl's Moving Castle" provides just the right vehicle to take you there.


                
I haven't seen too many of Miyazaki's movies (besides Spirited Away and Totoro), but this sure beats any Disney productions. The movie was thoroughly enjoyable, though it employs too many tricks from the director's previous works. For those who have seen Spirited Away, I find too many similarities between it & Howl's Moving Castle. I can't remember the name of the dragon wizard in Spirited Away but I feel that Howl is like an adult version of the dragon wizard. For instance, both are "trapped" by some form of evil forces and risk turning into demons. the whole plot was also a tad too confusing. I had to watch it twice to grasp the full meaning. (and even after that, I'm not sure I really do understand it). I therefore won't recommend it to young viewers. One wonderful surprise after i finished watching the movie was that the charming Japanese actor Takuya Kimura was actually the voice for Howl. And I so regret not paying enough attention to Howl's voice. That's one reason why you should always watch the original version of the movie.


                
When's the last time you sat in the theater with a crowd of all ages and everyone had a good time? It happened to me today.I've read William Goldman talk about how the director gets too much credit for film, but there are certain directors whose work make his argument ring hollow. To see this movie directly after ROTS (Revenge of the Sith) is a particular treat - Miyazaki and his brilliant low-tech artisans bring more character, surprise, care and intensity to their work than George Lucas and his amazing high-tech staff ever could. A beautiful film that deserves all its good press. What a nice change...


                
I love these experiences I get from Miyazaki, I never fail to be moved or affected in some way after watching one of his films. Whether it's transporting the viewer to another world completely or simply portraying the subtle visual nuances of a character, not many film makers can compare.Howl's Moving Castle is a wonderfully bizarre, imaginative tale and serves as the perfect basis for Miyazaki's vision and style. Though it's not quite up there with Spirited Away or Mononoke Hime, Miyazaki doesn't disappoint and the film is filled with breathtaking visuals, charming characters, humor, romance, drama, all of it. I was a little apprehensive seeing the dubbed version, but my doubts were unfounded as the English actors all did a great job.I had a couple of minor gripes about the film. The story doesn't seem as solid and cohesive as Miyazaki's earlier works, if I had to use one word to describe it it would be "scattered". The characters also seem to lack the depth of those in other Miyazaki films and I would think this is because much of their histories and motives are left unexplained, the viewer is left to simply accept them as they are, left wanting more.Compared to other Miyazaki films, Howl's Moving Castle doesn't quite feel as complete. Compared to any other animated offering out there, this film (along with the rest of Miyazaki's), is in a league of its own. An amazing film experience - do not miss it!


                
I like the movie, but the film is way too different than the book to the point that it was a bit annoying. They change too many things. The story becomes something utterly unrecognizable from the original, several key characters are lumped together most confusingly, and others lose all their complex charm. It's like taking 1939's Wizard of Oz and turning it into turning it into Sci-Fi's Tin Man (2007). It's a re-imagining of Dianne Wynne Jones's classic novel. Don't get me wrong, I love Hayao Miyazaki's vision of the book, Howl's Moving castle; I just wish it would had stay more true to Diana Wynne Jones's novel. This movie marks the first time Miyazaki has adapted another writer's work since Kiki's Delivery Service (1989). It is a really fascinating work with lively characters and incredible imagination through out the film. Sophie (Emily Mortimer/Chieko Baisho), a 19-year-old hat maker who is taking away by the charm of a Wizard name Howl (Takuya Kimura/ Christian Bale) when she was rescue by him when she was trying to visit her sister. For punishment for trying to steal her favorite's wizard's heart, The Witch of the Waste (Akihiro Miwa/ Lauren Bacall) transforms her into a 90-year-old woman. In her old, Sophie (Jean Simmons) must searches for a way to break the Witch's spell. On the way, she makes some new friends: Markl (Ryunosuke Kamiki/Josh Hutcherson), Howl's young apprentice, a scarecrow nickname Turliphead, and last Calcifer (Tatsuya Gashun/ Billy Crystal). The visuals in the movie are amazing. It's a steam punk fan's favorite, the way, Miyazaki use CG to creates a ramshackle structure that looks like it might disintegrate at any moment, but held together by the burning heart of magic is interesting. The film is overflows with eclipsing visuals that range from frightening aerial battles to serene landscapes, and interesting details of everything around. There is also the major themes that Miyazaki's works been known for such as such as environmentalism, pacifism, feminism, and the absence of villains. Miyazaki's Howl has a very strong female protagonist that go against gender roles common in Japanese animation and fiction. Both old and young Sophie were very interesting. I love Jean Simmon's voice as old Sophie. She gives some charm and funny moments. I love the stairs scene. I was laughing my head off. The dubbing by English actors match pretty damn good. Good job, Pixar. I love the English dub more than the Japanese since it's based on a English novel. The Japanese just looks a bit odd with the European themes in this film. The plot in the film is secondary, as it's nearly makes no sense and full of plot-holes. Things are mention at the last moment or not fully disclosure toward the end. There is nothing about Wales, no reference, no mention, no allusion to the place where the novel came from. The fate of a lost prince sub-plot comes nowhere in left field toward the end. Miyazaki turned the the story into a protest against the war in Iraq. I have nothing against anti-war propaganda, believe me, but let's call it what it is, and not try to trick people into pulling out cash from their pockets for what they assume is a film version of one of their favorite books. The story is utterly unrecognizable from the original. Several key characters are lumped together most confusingly, and others lose all their complex charm. Sophie doesn't have her sorceress powers that allow her to turn things into living objects. While the Witch of the Waste is the villain in the book; the movie instead made her, into a weak, harmless woman. Then it made the male Suliman (Haruko Kato/ Blythe Danner) a alley in the novel into a female enemy in the film. Still, there are some changes I do like. I like Howl portrayed as a deep troubled hero rather than the arrogant self-centered wizard he is in the book. Still there is a bit of that self-centered narcissism attitude in him in the film. Reminds me a lot of the story Beauty and the Beast. I like how Calcifer is a cute cheeky little orange flame instead of an evil menacing fire demon. Overall: You have never read the book and are a fan of Miyazaki, by all means buy this. You're very likely to enjoy the excellent animation and yet another unusual story from him. If you are a fan of the book, steer well clear.
A very cinematically beautiful film with characters you just fall in love with. I won't lie, the plot is very hard to follow. If you've read the book, you can tell that miyazaki focused less on following the plot, more on making the film beautiful to watch, and as a result we are left with a story that has huge chunks missing and frankly doesn't make a lot of sense in places. But I'm not mad, because it is very, very beautiful to watch.


                
Hayao Miyazaki once again directs such a beautiful movie. Even though the enbglish voice cast did a decent job, I did prefer the japanese verion of the film. I felt that the acting was far better thatn the english. The plot was wonderful, but I did felt like the ending was abrupt and kind of cliche. But overall a fantastic movie that I 100% everyone of all ages to watch.


                
There are lovely touches of understated humour throughout this beautiful looking film which reflect the tone of original story really well. It is also suitable for watching with younger children without boring yourself silly.


                
Classic Miyazaki, from the magical realism to the strong female protagonist to the dark humor to the story that sucks you in despite being somewhat convoluted. Plus, this one has the added benefit of being commentary about the pointlessness of war. It's not his best ever (aka Totoro), but it is pretty great nonetheless.


                
Spoiler: Two - points: 1- Mr. Miyazaki's opus is an anti-war rally in guise of this very touching love story. And while I am not necessarily pro-war, I do not like to be preached at. 2-This movie's only true similarity with Diana Wynne Jones' book are the lead character's names.Despite it being an almost completely different story than the book, this anime film is, nonetheless, (and in my own humble opinion) a work of art.I watch it as often as I can. It is a truly moving metaphorical film, with a lovely musical score, and surprisingly identifiable characters. Christian Bale's voice-over as the handsome Howl is so very seductive that girls will be daydreaming of marrying him! (And other naughty stuff!) Tee Hee!
I think I should say this outright before I get started, Miyazaki cannot top Spirited Away. Orson Welles could not top Citizen Kane. Simply put, some directors make something so good they cannot beat it. So we should not expect too much. Needless to say, this is still Howl's Moving Castle is a very good film. The animation is rich, not quite as much as Spirited Away, but you cannot expect that much from one person. It's just fun to watch.I guess what hurts this film is that it uses every same plot device Miyazaki has used before. Howl has much in common Haku. The Wicked Witch of the Waste becomes much the same as every other MIyazaki initial villain. Sophie's journey has much in common with Chihiro's or Sen's. In many ways, this repeats a lot from Spirited Away but with too much absurdity and not of charm. The plot and explanations become complex or thrown together. It just doesn't have that usually ingenuity of his other movies.The entire point of this movie in the end was to take our breathe away with amazing sites. And it did. The animation is better and while it is not as good as his other films, it still is better than a lot of the stuff out there. So if you like Miyazaki or if you just like animation, see this movie. It's worth the five or six bucks. But don't expect a masterpiece like "Spirited Away."


                
The word that popped into my head to best describe this film was 'charming'. I've never considered a movie charming before, so I'd have to say this one had an impact on me. The story was a uniquely creative one and the animation art wasn't as off-putting as some anime can be.As Sophie went through her various age related metamorphisms, I tried to keep track to see if there was a common denominator for becoming young again after the Witch of the Waste cast her spell. It occurred when she fell asleep, but after that it was hard to distinguish any common elements responsible for the change. Maybe it was an aspect of her mood at the time? I have to admit, there were times in the second half of the story when things were getting a bit difficult to follow, where cause and effect didn't seem to have any connection to each other. The one thing that occurred in the story that caused some concern was when Sophie threw the bucket of water on the old Witch, summoning up a reference to Dorothy defeating the Wicked Witch of the West. That coincidence I think detracted from the story's originality a bit.But otherwise I came away feeling good about the picture. I've seen a few other works by director Miyazaki, among them "Princess Mononoke". That one too was somewhat complex in trying to understand and I don't pretend to 'get' all of what he was trying to say, but he makes up for it to large degree with interesting characters and a very nice palette that's pleasing to the eye. I just recently happened to view the movie that beat this one out for Best Animated Feature, "The Curse of the Were-Rabbit", and for my money, this one appealed to me a whole lot better.
Nausicaä, Laputa, My Neighbour Totoro, Kiki's Delivery Service, Princess Mononoké, Spirited Away... each of these films raised the bar for both the quality of art and story telling we expect when Studio Ghibli produces an animé directed by Hayao Miyazaki. Unfortunately, Howl's Moving Castle is not the shining example of Ghibli's/Miyazaki's best work.The art, often reminiscent of Nausicaä, might have been considered stunning several years ago, but having been spoiled by visual masterpieces like Princess Mononoké and Spirited Away, Howl's Moving Castle simply fails to impress and often seems dated, both in terms of character drawing and background art. True, there are moments of artistic brilliance; however, the competent but ultimately uninspired body of this picture's artwork overshadows these moments. Perhaps Howl's worst failing is the unacceptably unrealistic rendering of the "old" main character.As is often the case in movies originating in Japan, character motivation tends not to be explored and may seem confusingly unclear at times. Studio Ghibli/Miyazaki have consistently overcome this stereotype with well-defined scripts and superior direction in their previous films; yet in Howl's they take a step backwards and often leave the audience scratching our heads wondering why the characters are behaving the way they do.The sound effects, music, and voice acting are all well done -- with one glaring exception: Billy Crystal's performance as the fire demon Calcifer. Try to imagine Billy Crystal's brilliant performance as Miracle Max in The Princess Bride. Now take away the sarcasm and anger, and what you are left with is the almost emotionally dead portrayal of what otherwise could have been a very entertaining character. Why either Rick Dempsey or Peter Docter, who are both experienced voice directors, chose to allow this is truly puzzling.Overall, Howl's Moving Castle is an enjoyable enough movie, particularly for children who may not notice it's many flaws. However, animé fans have come to expect much more from Studio Ghibli and Hayao Miyazaki and are bound to be disappointed.


                
Hayao Miyazaki's "Howl's Moving Castle" revolves around Sophie, an insecure young woman who is transformed into an old lady by a spiteful witch. An outcast before her transformation, Sophie takes to her new body like a fish to water; she leaves her bustling town for the anonymity of life in the mountains. Here she gets a job working for Howl, a powerful wizard.As is typical of Miyazaki, "Castle" is filled with loving details, picturesque towns, interesting machines, beautiful landscapes and that fusion of steam-punk and retro-art which Miyazaki so adores. More interesting is the way all of Miyazaki's major characters go through a physical metamorphosis. Sophie's outward appearance, for example, seems to fluctuate based on self-esteem and mood. Howl is similarly preoccupied with "how he looks", using potions and magic to create the illusion of a handsome wizard.These themes dovetail into the film's thoughts of war and conflict. Here Howl's gradually tainted by partaking in a war between two rival cultures. The more he fights, the more his body becomes black and monstrous. He also literally "loses his heart". For Miyazaki, deeds and actions affect beauty as strongly as private perceptions. You are what you do."Howl's Moving Castle" was based on a novel by British author Diana Wynee Jones. Miyazaki has altered Jones' tale slightly, however, and included vast air wars which he says were designed to evoke the Western invasion of Iraq. "The film was profoundly impacted by the war in Iraq," Miyazaki would later reveal. "The reason I didn't attend the Academy Awards was because I didn't want to visit a country that was bombing Iraq." In this regard, the film moves slowly from peace to chaos. When propaganda fliers fall from the sky (perhaps echoing the 2002 dropping of 500,000 pamphlets on Iraq by US airships), Miyazaki's landscapes begin their slow slide toward smoke and flame. For Miyazaki, peace with oneself forestalls conflict, but more importantly, those who pretend to oppose "evil" often partake in the very "evils" they denounce. By the film's climax, all sides are responsible, even Howl, who spends his days and nights catching the bombs which threaten to fall on innocent civilians. When he retaliates against those who drop them, his hands become overrun with black feathers; he begins to turn into the very monsters he decries."Which is who?" Sophia asks, looking up as armadas swirl. "What difference does it make?" comes the reply. Throughout the film, divisions between "us" and "them" seem irrelevant. There can be no "good" and "bad", no "love" and "hate" when the sheer act of partaking in violence makes everyone indistinguishable. Such a stance is reductive and at times false - one can oppose evil and violence, even with violence, and not be "evil" - but nevertheless offers an interesting contrast when we consider how wars are actually mis-sold ("We're under attack because we love freedom, and our enemy hates freedom. They hate and we love. We differ from our enemy because we love. Our enemy hates." - George Bush).Whilst "Howls" first three acts are strong, its final act overwhelms its audience with confusing subplots which make little sense upon first viewing. Only with re-watches do Miyazaki's intentions become clear. Indeed, the film becomes more tragic with familiarity. Howl, for example, is revealed to have "caught falling stars" as a child, saving them from impact and so death. One of these "falling stars" he "gives his heart to" in order to "save its life". As Howl grows up, this desire to "catch falling stars" stays with him; like the infamous dream in The Catcher in the Rye, Howl's preoccupied with preserving life.The "castle" of Miyazaki's title refers to Howl's home, a bulbous walking machine which epitomises Howl's rootlessness. As the film progresses, this castle falls apart, until it is reborn with wings. Howl and Sophie then fly off into the horizon, recalling an early, charming scene in which he quite literally sweeps the girl off her feet. The film climaxes with conventional light-shows of the kind you don't usually associate with Miyazaki. Howl's also designed to resemble traditional Manga heroes (sharp hair, big eyes, triangular jaw), lending some of the film's visuals a familiar feel. Still, the film's early moments, aided by composer Joe Hisaishi, are as good as Miyazaki at his best.8/10 – Multiple viewings required.
Director Hayao Miyazaki took Diana Wynne Jones's novel as a basis for his follow-up to Oscar-winner Spirited Away (2001), but adds in his own overriding themes - man's relationship to nature, the futility of war, and the joy of flight. The natural world is beautifully represented as in his previous films, with some absolutely breathtaking mountain and lakeside landscapes. The finest creation of the film, though, is the Castle itself, a cross between Baba Yaga's hut, a Heath Robinson contraption, and one of Terry Gilliam's strange hybrid hens from Monty Python's Flying Circus. The film won a clutch of awards in Japan and overseas, including an Oscar nomination. Howl's Moving Castle is essentially a love story. Talk of magic being used to shield palaces while innocent villages are bombed clues viewers into the deliberate parallels being drawn with the Gulf War of 2003, a conflict that enraged the pacifist Miyazaki during the film's production. If there's one criticism, it's that the overly neat happy ending feels like a cheat after the previous seriousness of the war strand of the story. Yet it remains a complex, rewarding film graced with the acutely observed, colourful and imaginative artwork that is the hallmark of Japan's greatest living national treasure of animation.
I caught this wonderfully animated family film when browsing Independent Film Channel (IFC) on cable TV in 2009. IFC claims all the films they shown are uncut. I had no preconceived ideas about the film, never heard of it before hand, and was not familiar with director Miyazaki or his previous work. So my review is based on how I felt about the movie, not how it stacks up against classics or film technique.Although I am an elder adult and watched it alone, not with my grandchild, I found it engrossing and enjoyable. (Although it is as suitable for young viewers as "Snow White" and "Sleeping Beauty.") The story, an anti-war fantasy or fairy tale, was original and unpredictable, which I like. The wizard Howl (who turns out to be the main male character of the film) says at one point something to the effect of "The problem with a war between rulers is that the bombs fall on the innocent civilians." The villains turn out to be complex, not just pure evil, and sometimes not evil at all. The scenery and costumes are done as a period piece, sort of Victorian era Europe. Even if just viewed as a series of still paintings with no story they would still be interesting to look at.In keeping with the imaginative story, I think with some imagination they could have come up with a more romantic English title than "Howl's Moving Castle." The moving castle certainly is interesting and plays a huge role in the story, but I would have liked something that suggests a struggle between wizards, a struggle over love and hate, and a struggle over war and peace.


                
I don't know what I can say that so many other people have not already said.I have enjoyed every movie done by Miyazaki, and this is no exception.I have seen a few reviewers complain that there is no plot, or the story is disjointed. As well as poor character development. All I can say is how very western of you.I had no trouble understanding the plot at all. All the performances were superb. I did not find anything disjointed. I found it to be a wonderful story from beginning to end.Some people complained about "loose ends" such as why the war was occurring, which was explained in the movie (neighboring kingdoms prince had disappeared and they blamed it on the kingdom where the story takes place, turns out a spell was cast on him), or where Howl's apprentice came from (it just doesn't matter in the movie, but viewing the movie one could assume he came across Howl in a similar fashion as Sophie did). These people should watch the movie again, I'm sure they will notice the answers the second time.The story was so unusual it completely captivated me right from the beginning.Every bit as good as any of his other movies.If you love animation, take a break from the commercial works of Dream Works and Pixar (which are fine movies) and treat yourself to something different. You'll be glad you did.
