(first of all: sorry if my English is not the best out there, but it's not my native language)I was lucky enough to see the world premiere (at Venice Film Festival, September 5, 2004).Not only the art and animation is breathtaking (with almost no CGI), but the story is also above Miyazaki standards.The characters are wonderful, each one with his (or her) own personality. Among them the best is for sure Calcifer, the Fire Demon, who is actually an almost all-powerful being, but is often underestimated by the other characters ("If you don't obey, I'll pour water on you!").The music is one of the best parts of the movie. Even if you don't notice it, it is always there, always conveying the right feeling.Bottom line: this is an excellent movie. If you liked other movies by Miyazaki (such as Mononoke Hime, Spirited Away, Laputa Castle in the Sky...) you cannot miss it.


                
I saw this twice, because there was no way I could understand the plot (especially in the second half) after only seeing it once. The first time around I got too carried away watching the animation, but the second viewing helped me understand the story a lot better, as I managed to pay more attention to all the dialogues.Honestly though I still don't know exactly what happened in the last half an hour or so. I'm going to read the book, and I'm sure I will enjoy it but don't know how useful it's going to be. The film's said to be wildly different from the original setting.It really doesn't matter, because I don't seem to mind seeing the film once again (& again). The animation is so beautiful & I find the characters cute gorgeous, funny & very heart-warming.*SPOILERS*I figure that the face of the old Sophie changes & she instantly looks younger when she feels excited / happy / alive, even as a very old woman (she looks young when asleep, but I wonder if it's only in Howl's vision).It breaks my heart that she looks sad & immediately turns back into the old Sophie when Howl tries to tell her sincerely "you are beautiful". But then both Howl & Sophie must fight the war to save each other & the rest of their newly-formed family incl. their old enemy & the dog. The curse is already gone by the time Sophie comes back to present from the past through the door, finds the wounded Bird Howl & kisses him. She won't look old any more.Still, I also like the fact that earlier in the film, after the initial shock, Sophie was clearly able to enjoy herself being old. Think she was already in love with Howl when he came back to the Castle & found her, but she didn't have to be nervous or anything because she knew she was no longer a shy 18-year-old.And Sophie's first encounter with Howl in the back street ... did he say "There you are, SWEETHEART"? Has he actually been looking for Sophie ever since he (as a still very young boy) saw her & heard her cry FIND ME IN THE FUTURE. That's clever, and most romantic.
In a time of war and falsity here it is a dancing poetry from Japan against all the cruelty and pain. The moving castle leads us to a magic place where life has a strong value and elderly people have an important role to play. Also in an apparent hostility or in a scarecrow, Hayao Miyazaki gives us the chance of finding a friend and not letting the dream go down. The perfect technique and the emotional stream are in complete harmony. If the jury of the Venice Film Festival had been more far-seeing, it would have given a more prestigious prize to this masterpiece.


                
I just returned from seeing the Japanese version with English subs thanks to an International Film Festival and I have to say... Miyazaki and the Studio Ghibli crew do not disappoint with this one. Whether you're a Miyazaki virgin or a devoted fan, this film is all-around excellent and I'm definitely planning on seeing it again. Perhaps the English version the next time around.One of the things that stood out for me the most was the sheer volume of references to his other movies that were included. Half the fun was picking out scenes and characters that echoed ones in Tonari no Totoro, Spirited Away... quite a few, really. The movie was laugh-out-loud funny all the way through (the whole theatre was in hysterics) and they did an excellent job of balancing the humor with the drama so that neither detracted from the other. There was one scene closer to the end that I was a bit confused on involving the castle, and one of the overarching plot themes involving a war seemed to be lacking motivation, but otherwise there weren't any plot nitpicks. I'm very interested in reading the book now--those who had read it seemed to think the movie adaptation was pretty faithful.Aside from the feeling that maybe Miyazaki should branch out from the 'young girl coming-of-age' story, I very much enjoyed the characters. The heroine, Sophie, is likable both as a teen and an elderly woman, and as with many of the other characters, it is interesting to see her character (both physically and mentally) change throughout the story. The dynamic characters definitely kept the pace moving and even seeming-villains could become likable in a matter of minutes without seeming forced. And for you anime fangirls out there... yes, Howl is a bish. A very likable one too, even as he's complaining about his constant need to be pretty. He's another very dynamic character and one that I enjoyed watching immensely.You must see the movie for yourself to really appreciate what Studio Ghibli has done this time around. Employing a visual style much closer to Spirited Away than to former works, their constant creativity is astounding. Howl's Moving Castle is a masterpiece that ties the family of Miyazaki movies together, yet stands on its own as a true work of art. Run, don't walk. And I mean it. I was wearing heels.


                
I just saw this movie yesterday and I haven't felt this way about an animated movie since "Spirited Away" (albeit the latter left me much more in awe than the former, since it was the first of its kind).This movie had many of Hayao Miyazaki's other movies' trademarks. Lush landscape, endearing characters, haunting soundtrack (courtesy of Joe Hisaishi), great attention to details and all the little quirks, which brings a smile to one's (mine, at least) face.Its been a while after "Spirited Away" was shown, and "The Cat Returns" has been rather disappointing, so I was really looking forward to it. And I am glad to say that although I felt that there weren't any breakthroughs in "Howl's Moving Castle" (HMC), it was on par with "Spirited Away" (SA) and "Princess Mononoke" and it was most certainly satisfying.Spoilers!!!! However, there seemed to be many parallels (coincidence??) between HMC and SA, which seemed kind of bizarre since SA was an original story while HMC was adapted from a book by Diana Wynn Jones (I most certainly will be paying my neigbourhood bookstore for it!).In HMC, Howl made a deal with Calcifer and it was up to Sophie to find out and help break the enchantment that held them both since they can't tell anyone what it is. On the other hand, Sophie herself was cursed to look like YuBaba (from SA) by the Witch of the Wastes and only Howl could help her, but she could not mention it to anyone else. In the process, she fell in love with Howl. What was revealed to us in the end was that Sophie actually witnessed the event where Howl and Calcifer met and signed the contract with each other, and told Howl to wait for her to help them break the enchantment.In HMC, there were also many interesting characters, most notable was the Scarecrow named Turnip and the dog (can't remember what its name is).In SA, Haku made a pact with YuBaba to become her disciple, in the process losing his true name and ended up being her henchman and doing all her dirty job. Chihiro stumbled into the enchanted world and had to become a servant in the land to save her parents through Haku's help. Haku helped her remember her real name. Along the way, Chihiro helped Haku remember his true name and he reveals to her that he once saved her when she was a child drowning in a river. They too fall in love.In SA, there was the child of YuBaba when he got turned into a fat rat (which has since spawned many soft toys) as well as the crows and the workers which helped Kamaji with the coal.Similarities aside, I enjoyed both movies. I've been a sucker for stuff like that since I was a child. I thoroughly enjoyed Neil Gaiman's "Stardust", which I think Hayao Miyazaki would make a fine adaption as well.Furthermore, in HMC, Miyazaki explored the idea of war (the 2 countries of the world were involved in a war), making HMC a tad darker than SA, showing the destruction and mayhem brought about by the fighting.All in all, this movie is the best full-length animated feature I have since in 4 years (since SA). It definitely has more heart and soul than any of the Disney and Pixar features. Whilst it is true that "The Incredibles" can dazzle one with the CGI and their American-centric wit while Shrek 2 entertained the masses with (by now dated) popular wisecracks, it is the eternal message of hope and love that will transcend time and technology, making HMC and SA timeless milestones.
I am a big fan of Studio Ghibli, especially this one. I would consider one of my top five. The character are beautifully created, and show many characteristics. For example, one of the main characters, Sophie Hatter portrayed, in my opinion, the idea that even if you're old, feel old, or even no matter how you look, we are all kind, warmhearted, amazing, or even young on the inside. I'd even say that her character shows that we look how we feel. On one note the story is amazing, beautifully designed, and crafted perfectly, however, I feel as though the whole thing was too fast. As in, I couldn't fully grasp the whole picture. I can see how the fast pace can make the movie more intense and exciting, but it mostly made the movie slightly bad for me.I do recommend people watch this movie, because almost all of the Studio Ghibli movies are amazing. Some are very depressing like Grave of the Fireflies, but it was still a good movie. So if you want a movie that is has a good plot, character development, and even just camera shots that bring out a the characters, I suggest you watch this.
I saw this today and went in not knowing quite what to expect. I hadn't seen Spirited Away (though now I am motivated to go and rent it), but I had heard people raving and singing praises for Miyazaki's films. Also, I love manga art and to see a movie done in such an elegant style; made my mind up.From the moment the film started, I was enthralled. The music was so incredibly captivating, it swept you along with it and the choice of dialogue was just the right blend of serious, moving, heartwarming, and downright comical. I also have not read the original book this was based "loosely" on, so I basically went with a very open mind. On the whole, I really cannot fault this movie. In my opinion, it has something for *everyone*. Adults of all ages, teenagers, kids....I have no doubt that everyone can find something to enjoy in this movie and I would honestly be extremely surprised if anyone came out saying "Wow...I HATED that!" As I mentioned before, the music is incredible. It flows so beautifully, and the theme tune was been in my head ever since I walked out the cinema. It was also extremely refreshing to see a film that warms your heart, has no sex scenes or real gore (ie: blood spurting) or swearing and yet still manages to hold its audience in this day and age. *laughs* Just goes to show really. Another thing I really admired was the underlying moral and heartfelt issues throughout. The idea that everyone is beautiful no matter what their physical appearance and also the way the film dealt with the issue of war and the devastation it causes, really made me want to stand up and cheer.Christian Bale was awesome as Howl. His voice seemed to alternate throughout from confident Howl, to crushed and depressed Howl so easily and with such sophistication. I know it is an actor's job to portray different tones of voice but wow....Christian was beyond excellent. At several points, I really felt for Howl and at others, I felt like melting under the sound of such a velvet like voice. Personally, this is the best film I have seen for a long long time and I cannot recommend it highly enough.


                
WritelySo's review has said it better than I ever could. So I'll put my two cents worth in anyway.Of the three big name and one independent feature films I've seen in the past six weeks, this is the best. The first thing that catches your eye (ahem!) is Miyazaki's wonderful animation. His scenes are to film what Hal Foster did to the Sunday comics. They are colorful, lifelike, have great attention to detail and are... well, just beautiful.A late 19th European setting done to a fare-thee-well by a Japanese artist? You bet. He did it in Porco Rosso and he's done it at least as well here. That's another recommended Miyazaki masterpiece after this one charms you.I was quickly caught up in the film. The characters are believable and the voices, well it's a shame to call it dubbing. I doubt it was easy to match English dialog to a Japanese film but they did a superb job. What this means to you is that you never, ever notice. The voices are appropriate to the characters and, I think, really enrich the character's personalities.While kids will appreciate the animation and action, Howl's Moving Castle is really for adults. Take your kids to see it. When they see it again in ten years, they'll see an entirely new film all over again.If there's any justice in the Academy Awards, this should get Miyazaki another one - I think it's even better than Spirited Away.When they're worth it (rarely) I pay attention to film scores, and Joe Hisaishi has written one well matched to this fine film.Did I make the point that I LOVED this film? I hope you do too.


                
Hauru no ugoku shiro is one of the most amazing animated films that I've seen in a long time. Alredy tired of Disney/Pixar paraphernalia, Hayao Miyazaki's film is fresh air in our mouth. And a sparkling scratch in our eyes. Definitely Miyazaki is a creator who has chosen animated films as the best way to express his ideas. Sophie is a young lady living a bored life in some place in Europe (not defined), at the beginning of XX century (not defined either). War times, and this is an important issue in the meaning of the film. Miyazaki is a pacifist and this movie can prove it. Howl, the young-beautiful man blessed (or punished, it all depends how you look at him)with magic powers, is a struggler who fights at nights breaking down anachronic war ships . Even more, he refused kingdom call which pretends he fights in the front. Sophie will be victim of the trick made by an evil witch (later we will find out that the same witch has been cheated)becoming in an 90 years old woman. Without hope, she'll rove until to find a fantastic roding castle with strange people living in it. The movie takes an oniric twist, in which logic is suspended, plot back and forth following undetermined parameters, as the castle does it.Hauru no ugoku shiro is a powerful visually film, which is not afraid to play with fantasy. It's a political film too.


                
I drove for three hours to reach a theater that was playing this film, and it was worth it! The English cast was amazing, and I normally shun all dubbed films. It really seemed like they were the original voices. I never once wished I could hear the Japanese like I usually do, even on Spirited Away. Now that is settled!This film deals mostly with the character of Sophie. I won't sum up the plot, you've seen that already. The heart of the film is at Sophie accepting herself, and accepting the affection of other people. That's pretty much the moral. The most winning character by far is Howl himself, at least for a girl like me. He is a really complex character, beautiful drawn, and voiced with precision by Christian Bale. He sounds really similar to his Batman voice in this, so get ready for that. Billy Crystal's Calcifer is refreshingly muted. I had worried about him being too flamboyant, but he is really a charming character. The entire cast of characters are so real, as is the world they inhabit, that it just draws you in. I smiled through the first half of the movie! I saw the film with friends in their mid-twenties, one of which is not into anime, and we all enjoyed it. Many of the folks at the theatre brought children, but it seemed like the adults enjoyed it far more than the children. It is probably too dark for kids under 8, in my opinion. There is a lot of bombing in the second half, and it can be startling. I all this is a really good film. The plot gets a little complicated in the second half, where it starts to greatly deviate from the book and become more Miyazaki, but there is plenty of action, comedy, romance, and fun to please every age group. I plan on taking my grandma to see it; I think older people would really get a kick out of "Grandma Sophie." Best Animated Film of the year, for sure!


                
Miyazaki builds these wonderful little universes. Poetic, charming places that are at once familiar and exotic. HOWL'S MOVING CASTLE is a lovely bit of film that provides a great little escape.Miyazaki is clearly a master storyteller, because it's only after viewing this film that I realized there isn't really much "story" here, and what there is has many inconsistencies and unexplained twists. The ending, in particular, seems to just "happen". But, frankly, the characters are so involving, and the movie is so beautifully drawn, that any story shortcomings are easy to overlook.I know some are wary of the "Disneyfication" of films like this or SPIRITED AWAY. I think this is something of a labor of love, though, and is motivated less by greed than a sincere desire to bring these beautiful films to a wider audience. Certainly the talent isn't lacking in this English language translation, with great vocals from Christian Bale, Jean Simmons, and the incomparable Lauren Bacall. Billy Crystal is quite funny as Calcifer, the fire demon, too.While I think I preferred SPIRITED AWAY on the whole, it's really just a few minor quibbles that lead me to this. HOWL'S MOVING CASTLE is a lovely place to visit for a couple of hours.


                
'Howl's Moving Castle' is a masterpiece, a gem in Miyazaki Films. Of his films, I have seen My Neighbor Totoro, Kiki's Delivery Service, Spirited Away and this one, and to me, this stands out almost more than the others. A beautiful story of love and passion.The animation and twinge of magic fit the film perfectly, and a hint of wonder keeps viewers going. DO NOT read spoilers THEN watch this movie, and don't spoil it for your best friend: You have to start off with a clean slate to completely enjoy this magical film.I disagree that this film could have gotten any better than what it is now. I love every moment, dramatic, silly, or exciting, this movie pulled through. A great movie that you'd die to watch again and again.-Kuri-Chan


                
Howl's Flying Castle has that unique Miyazaki flair (Spirited Away). The movie masterfully succeeds in achieving a balance between light fiction and deeper meaning exposition. Miyazaki paints an other-worldly environment filled with flying machines, monsters, princes, kings, and wizards, while maintaining subtle messages about freedom of the heart and persevering will.The movie at times almost seems stream of conscious. The plot meanders to introduce dynamic, colorful characters. However, the focus on the characters proves artistic and compelling; any tangents taken to introduce new characters breathes more life into a film that radiates with personality.Howle's flying Castle sparkles from the very beginning with beautiful animated scenes and colors intertwined with compelling and unique characters. However, the one weakness to the movie was the ending. It remained consistent to the simplistic charm of the movie, but almost too much so- the ending seemed like an understatement of the entire movie. Some cliché means were used to break the curses placed on the characters, but overall the beauty of the movie more than made up for a plain ending.


                
I love anime, and when I noticed that Howl's Moving Castle was showing today, I knew I had to see it. And you know what, I wasn't disappointed. I admit I haven't read the book by Diana Wynne Jones, but this film is so imaginative and delightful I doubt I would have cared if it was unfaithful to the book or not. The animation here is amazing, the backgrounds are gorgeous and the colours so bright. Plus the castle itself was a wonder to behold. The visual style here also has a certain elegance about it, and the atmosphere the visuals create is somewhat meticulous. I also have to mention the score, it was absolutely stunning. Beautiful, magical and poignant themes that caressed my ears, like a Mozart opera would. The characters are engaging and are beautifully voiced by a terrific voice cast. Christian Bale's(not a stranger to voice work, he voiced Thomas in Disney's Pocahontas as well) seductive and silky voice brings vain wizard Howl to vivid life, and Sophie is a very lovable and beautiful character, whether in her younger form or her older form. Her younger form is sensitively voiced by Emily Mortimer and her older self is voiced by the late Jean Simmons with real sincerity. The Witch of the Waste is a character consumed by jealousy, so much so it results in Sophie's transformation from a young 18 year old girl to a pensioner. This character is perfectly voiced by screen legend Lauren Bacall. Billy Crystal is a joy to behold as Calcifer, one of my favourite characters in the film, and Turniphead was very intriguing as well. The story is a sweet, timeless imaginative one, not the best written one by all means, but it did touch me a lot. Did I notice anything wrong? Yes, but these flaws are minor compared to the overall beauty of the film. The final third is a little too rushed, and the ending is a little over-surreal. But overall, Howl's Moving Castle is an enchanting and delightful work from Miyazaki. 9/10 Bethany Cox


                
Went to see this with my husband, and absolutely loved it. I like it much more than Sprited Away, and that says a lot right there, because I loved Spirited Away quite a bit. We bought it as soon as it came out on DVD. The voices in this were lovely, and Billy was especially wonderful. I'd forgotten that Christian Bale did Howl's voice until the credits, though. The plot's not perfect, but what's there is excellent. I was a little worried about this, because one of the bad reviews I saw on Rotten Tomatoes (and there weren't many...) said that the writing sucked. Though there are plot holes, the story moves along fast enough that you don't really notice them until you think back on the movie. And there's so much else to focus on that the holes aren't really a major issue. The movie is humorous and solemn in turns, and there's so much to see that the plot holes just don't matter.As far as characters, I fell immediately in love with Howl, who's very devil-may-care, but with a good heart. There's a great mix of other characters, from the main character, Sophie, who is cursed by a powerful witch because she's caught Howl's attention; to Calcipher, voiced by Billy Crystal, who is the main source of Howl's power. The characters feel like they have back-stories, even though we never learn most of them, and that's fine, given the limitations of a movie of this type. In fact, it makes me more inclined to like the film, as it makes the characters feel more like real people. Yes, I want to know more about them, but it's not necessary to know, and just knowing that there is a history there is enough.The world is wonderfully rich--kind of a mix of natural magic and the Great War period, with flying ships of all descriptions, odd tanks and battleships, and fascinating mythology, which, while not given much detail, still feels a part of the world, rather than something overlaying it. The Castle itself is not so much a castle as an amazing moving house, which has its own inherent magics, thanks to a fire demon. There were a lot of things that went unexplained, but given the time they had to explain, they did exceptionally well.That's really all I have to say, aside from the fact that anyone who enjoys Ghibli films should not miss this one.
I am a huge fan of his films, and when i first saw that this was coming out i wanted to see it so bad.And today i actually got to see it at the theater, and was so excited about seeing a good anime at the theater.The movie is great but what made it great was the theater experience, i really enjoyed the movie though.I put it in one of the better anime's films i have seen in a long time, the movie could of had more action but it did a great job with a good old story.It being sweet and a well done was nice, i loved the parts that had action and had things happen with a lot of magic.The animation was awesome, sometimes i thought it was real and then i saw the characters and remembered it was anime.This is worth seeing and probably Worth owning, i will never forget seeing it at the theater and the movie will always be with me.


                
Enchanting! The more you watch it, the more you understand, as well as noticing the minor details you can't appreciate in the first viewing. It just made me feel strong, like I could accomplish great things. It gives you a warm sense of love and courage. I still don't understand why Sophie continually changes from old to young through out the movie...was it based on how other's saw her? I do wish I knew what happens after the end. Just amazing. The characters were unique, and Ghibli's movies manage to always have a more artistic and creative appeal than Disney(although i love Disney). I can't believe adults could conjure such beautiful imagination. The music is also perfect, it further enhances the mood.


                
I was never a big fan of anime cartoons, to me they seemed very two-sided. On one side you have incredibly fluent and perfectly drawn mind-boggling details, which are mainly used in action scenes, and on the other side you have those crude repetitive monotonous moments of people walking, opening their mouths or just chunks of hair dangling in the wind's breeze where it almost feels as if the animation department is rushing and simplifying their job. "Hauru No Ugoku Shiro" starts exactly like the latter and I jumped to a conclusion way too soon. Because what I was about to see was nothing less than magic. I forgot the last time a movie captivated me so strongly, the last time I truly felt that kid I once used to be-this movie delivered big -time. Such creativity and pure fantasy extravaganza is almost unheard of today, yet Hayao Miyazaki lets us indulge in it with such ease and simplistic honesty it feels as if he's the only person in the world with imagination worth mentioning. And his definitely is! A colorful palette of characters and a beautiful story are the key element why this movie is worth seeing. Recommendations: anyone who misses feeling like the child they were, people who miss creative movies.9/10


                
Howl's Moving Castle is quite possibly one of the most beautiful movies I have seen in years. It's simply gorgeous, and I came out of the movie theatre in the most amazing mood.I only discovered Hayao Miyazaki a couple of years ago, and so this was my first chance to view one of his movies at the cinema. I have copies of Spirited Away, Porco Rosso and Princess Mononoke, and so walked into Howl's Moving Castle with very high expectations. I was not disappointed. The animation is rich and lush, with the characters delightful to watch. The voice acting was also a pleasant surprise. Whilst I am a fan of watching anime films in Japanese with the English subtitles, the theatre showing Howl's Moving Castle was only showing it dubbed. I was slightly worried about this, but should not have. Billy Crystal, and Christian Bale in particular,were fantastic. Lauren Bacall's voice and tone perfectly embodied her character's spirit. It is one of the few movies that I have not winced through because of poor voice acting. Howl's Moving Castle is a sensory delight and although many critics have suggested it is not on par with Spirited Away or Princess Mononoke, I would have to disagree. I believe it to be right up there.A most thoroughly enjoyable and amazing movie, for all fans of majestic films.


                
I saw this movie first time ever in the theaters, I was lucky to of seen it on the Big Screen. It was a big opportunity to see a Ghibli Film on the big screen. This movie is based off of a book by Diana Wynne Jones. I read the book before seeing the film. The movie is very different than the book, but those who read it will recognize some parts fro the book.I don't care if it wasn't 100% true to the original book, it's still a wonderful movie to see. The background, characters, animation, and voice talents is all top notch. Plus Billy crystal is perfect with his role, one of the main things that made this movie have funny moments.Those who liked Hayao Miyazaki's previous films will enjoy this one. Anything directed, written, or has Miyazaki's name on it is worth seeing.I give this Masterpiece a 9/10 and just as good as the acclaim Spirited Away.I hope this movie will get an award for best Animated film of 2005.


                
Yes, really - so many people seemed to love Spirited Away yet it didn't engage me whatsoever. However, I found Howls Moving Castle enchanting with some excellent characters and ideas - the animation is beautiful as is the scenery (some of it being classic Miyazaki, ie lush green landscapes, gently drifting clouds and the the sounds of nature). Without hesitation I'd put Howl above Princess Mononoke, although it's not quite as good as the superlative My Neighbour Totoro and Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind.Go see Howl - even if you don't like it as much as Miyazaki's other works then you'll certainly see something thought-provoking and imaginative.


                
Hayao Miyazaki does not disappoint us with this visual masterpiece. Howl's Moving Castle is both an opulent feast for the eyes as well as a cleansing tale of good vs evil for the soul. But unlike in JRR Tolkien, where the line between good and bad is thick and easy to discern, in Howl's Moving Castle the good hearted characters can be threatening demons and the forces of ill will can be sympathetic figures of love and woe. It is distinctly non-Christian at it's core. I found this refreshing and frankly more like the inner workings of my own self, where the hero within must find the good and accept the bad in the same grasp. As far as art goes the film is stunning. I missed Miyazaki's wonderful relationship with food that was in Spirited Away (I loved how every character in that film was moved by tiny plates and giant piles of odd looking treats). This was missing in Howl's Moving Castle, replaced more by an obsession with architecture. But Miyazaki's brilliant mix of crumbling rot and bloom flowers was all there. Gorgeous vistas and quaint villages blend together with filth and decay so that they are all beautiful (as does good and evil blend so they are all as they should be). This is not my favorite of his films but it is an absolute must see for anyone who loves moving paintings and fairy tales bordering on the surreal.


                
Once again Hayao Miyazaki has provided us with a beautifully animated film which can be enjoyed by people of most ages; very young children might find one or two scenes a little scary though.As with all of his films the animation is stunning and the characters are interesting. Once again the main character is a girl, in this case Sophie a young hat maker. One day when she is out she gets slightly harassed by two soldiers but is rescued from this predicament by the wizard Howl who it turns out is fleeing from strange blob-like creatures sent after him by the Witch of the Waste. They escape by flying away from them but soon after the witch visits Sophie in her shop and turns her into an old woman.After being cursed she heads out in to the wastes where she finds a scarecrow who brings the moving castle of the title to her. The castle is a wonderful creation that is hard to describe, it is a bit like a building that has been constructed by lumping several other buildings together and putting them on legs so it can walk about.Once inside sits by the fire to get warm and discovers it is no ordinary fire but a fire demon called Calcifer and that it is he who powers the castle after being trapped by Howl in exchange for his heart. Calcifer recognises that Sophie is cursed and offers to beak her spell if she can break his and thus free him.The castle has a strange door that opens into a variety of places including two cities that are in countries that are at war. In one city they think the wizard Jenkins lives behind the door and in the other they think it is the wizard Pendragon, of course both these are in fact aliases of Howl. Rather awkwardly for Howl both "Jenkins" and "Pendragon" are summoned by the kings of the respective countries to help with the war effort. Obviously there are plenty more things that happen but I don't want to spoiler the whole film.Howl isn't the standard cartoon hero, in fact he isn't that heroic at all, he is incredibly vain and he wants nothing to do with the war apart from to end it although he does fight against attacking planes.As one would expect from Hayao Miyazaki there are plenty of exciting flying scenes involving aircraft that could only work in an animated film. I can't really comment on the English voices as I haven't seen the whole film in English, I did however watch a few scenes out of curiosity and they sounded pretty good.
READ THE BOOK, For everyone who doesn't understand what some details are about, just do it. I read it quite awhile ago, and now have seen the film, and its really, very, very, different. But still, all the details are in the book, its very easy to get. Alof of things peaple have said thus far about the movie, much has been written off as the 'subtle miyazaki' creativity, when in reality, it was more along the times of what was happening in the book, rather than how he created it. the details are good, and about the same just, evens happen differently, peaple are together in different ways and so on, between the book and movie, most of the pieces are there, they're just in a different order.


                
I enjoyed this movie almost as much as Spirited Away or Princess Mononoke. You meet here the same magic world, with witchy grannies, courageous boys and girls motivated by love, silly warmongers with their little guns, people turning to demons when they succumb to their evil emotions. Basically you have a world on the brink of technology and also magic, the power of both being controlled by the human heart.It's a great film to watch, the music is a little to soapy for my taste, the animation great, the characters are interesting, but I couldn't relate to any of them, this maybe being the bad side of the movie (or maybe my bad side :) ), the story is nice and the ending happy. If you are a Miyazaki fan, this is a must for you.


                
