As a movie itself, this is pretty good. But to say that it is based on the book? No. It is not. The only things the film has in common with the book are names and dragons. As a huge fan of the HTTYD series, this film is a real disappointment. I like the books because they view dragons differently. You don't have dragons as the good guys in many stories, but Cressida Cowell makes them into companions of the Vikings. I feel this film completely ruins the point of the books. Because the stories are so different, if/when they come to make a sequel, they will have to make up a completely new storyline. The characters are all wrong which makes it impossible to sympathise with them. Astrid isn't even a character in the books! For any fans of the books, there is no way I would recommend this to them. It destroys all the meaning of Cowell's books.


                
Note: I marked this as spoilers because this is going to ruin your opinion on it if you haven't seen it yet.This movie was horrible for several reasons: 1. The characters were SO annoying! Their faces disgusted me, and their body structure--ugh. Don't even get me started on their body structure! There bodies are fat and plump, but their legs are as skinny as sticks! Plus, they acted so annoying I wished that at some point, a giant dragon would eat them all up, then a happy song comes on ("Sunshine, Lollipops, and Rainbows" from the Cloudy With A Chance of Meatballs soundtrack would work perfectly), the movie ends, and my oldest sister (who took me to see the movie in the first place) gets her money back, which she uses to buy us ice cream. That however, would never happen in a PG-rated movie.2. The plot. It stunk. At some points, the plot got so boring, I daydreamed, but after about fifteen minutes, I remember that I'm supposed to watch this movie. At some points, I tried to make myself fall asleep, while at other points, I got so confused that I wished I had those cupcake shaped, frosting flavored mints I always wanted, so I can refresh my memory. Also, nearly every aspect of the movie was copied from another movie. And seriously--they didn't need Astrid and Hiccup to be in love. The producers just thought that to make the movie more popular, they should just have some sort of love story in there. The plot could have still been all right without that! I've always longed for a new kids' movie without any love story.3. The dialog. The jokes in the movie were NOT funny, and the characters' voices must have been distorted from eating all that roasted dragon meat.I have no idea why my sisters liked it. In my opinion, it stunk. 3/10, but the animation deserves a 9/10.
It is a one of the worst movies I have watched because first I am too old to watch it and secondly the animation is kind of poor but the music is amazing and in 3D is awesome. It is a great film to watch and my brother who is 9 years old and he watched it 5 times!!!


                
