How to train your dragon is another good animation provided by DreamWorks where the main character is a viking boy named Hiccup who is more like the kid-with-brain than the kid-with-muscles. He always wanted to prove himself worthy in battling real dragons but life decided for him that he will prove worthy to himself by understanding those creatures. He somehow manages by luck to hurt and "catch" the "Night Fury", the dragon everyone wanted to catch, but instead of killing him he finds his own fear and loneliness into Fury's eyes, making him to spare his life. From that point the story goes on and is delivered quite well for this type of movies though I have some complains about continuity or even logic but I'll keep those to myself.What I did not like about this was the voices. And when I say the voices I don't mean that they didn't act well but one question hit me from the beginning: Why all those different English accents in the same actual group? You got irish, Scottish and American accents which makes no actual sense. But I guess that was the fault of the casting team. Anyway besides that everything seemed pretty original and entertaining.The characters were not that great developed I mean it was the usual stuff but I won't be "trolling" to call them clichés. The dialogue suffered here and there and some action-scenes especially when Hiccup was training were ridiculous like when the dragon chased all of them in that ring, Hiccup was very relaxed and kept on asking Gobber things about the "Night Fury" which was kind of you know.. lame... because who would do that even if you're a nerd you're still scared or at least concerned about the dragon that chases you...Besides this the movie was edited well, same goes for the cinematography, music was good but nothing tremendous and the 3D was really great as far as the effects and all... but with all these the movie missed something for me... 8.3 on IMDb almost the equal of "Up" or Wall E... I mean... this is one overrated movie... It's good for kids, families and all of that but not that good that anyone could find it appealing because it doesn't develop any real emotions at all... feeling sorry for your father's wishes as for your destiny, finding the good in what people saw bad, the girl who's indifference changed into interest for you and all that are clichés and they are used in so many animation movies that I can't give this one propz even if it's entertaining and fun to watch. And talking about characters and dialogue, it was pretty cheesy at moments, few major jokes and few characters that you would remember after leaving the theaters like people still remember the pigeons from Bolt or the Hamster... because they were ridiculously funny... here? I did not get that feeling...As far as the score I didn't actually felt it... It was good I guess it fitted the movie's personality but it was no near Up, Wall E or Coraline... to mention some animations from the last 2 years...Movie is well executed, but it seriously has it's ups and downs and it's downs should count more since it's so overrated...


                
There's lots of very dynamic exciting action in this movie and it's mostly done with a cheerful fun tone most of the time even though there's still danger. However, despite that lack of "realism", I do think that adults will enjoy it a lot too. The story is not the most original (except for the original premise) but it's very well told, with good character development and has a fairly good morale for those into that. The effects and animation is stunning. Very well done.The story was entertaining to watch and it didn't really drag on like other animated films. One thing I didn't really like, is that there's a part of the ending that we've seen a hundred times before especially in kids movies and I would have preferred a little more originality there or at least see it better done because I didn't really buy into it. Very clichéd and should have been better in my opinion


                
(Credit IMDb) Long ago up North on the Island of Berk, the young Viking, Hiccup, wants to join his town's fight against the dragons that continually raid their town. However, his macho father and village leader, Stoik the Vast, will not allow his small, clumsy, but inventive son to do so. Regardless, Hiccup ventures out into battle and downs a mysterious Night Fury dragon with his invention, but can't bring himself to kill it. Instead, Hiccup and the dragon, whom he dubs Toothless, begin a friendship that would open up both their worlds as the observant boy learns that his people have misjudged the species. But even as the two each take flight in their own way, they find that they must fight the destructive ignorance plaguing their worldHow to Train Your Dragon was a cute Animated movie, and considering the fact I'm picky on animated movies, that is a big compliment. However, how on earth did this get into the top 250? It's like Toy Story 3, clearly inferior to the first two, yet it gets voted in. Criticism aside, I really liked the story in this one. For starters, the name "Hiccup" for a lead is ingenious, and Baruchel performs the voice well. The relationship with the Dragon is what obviously makes the movie though. It's cute, believable, and a good story for the kids to get into. Also thought the ending was heart-felt, and well told. It's enjoyable as a movie viewing experience, but it's not as good as people like you to believe it is, in my opinion.Bottom line. I enjoyed this, I really did. It's cute, harmless, and it passed the time perfectly. Who knows, if more enjoyable ones come out like this is the animated genre, I might just get back into them like I used too. Don't expect a masterpiece, and you'll have a good time. Recommended 7/10


                
well its better than Hercules in New York.. Hercules was strong and stuff but there were like none dragons there, but this was filled with dragons and touching moments between a small human and a black killer. Really cute and heart warming, really. Well done! hoping to see more and more animations like this.
For a decade now, Dreamworks has had to carry the uncomfortable burden of playing second fiddle to that animation behemoth, Pixar. If this was a family, Disney's Pixar would be the older, ambitious sister, the one always doted upon and destined for greatness, and Dreamworks would be her cruder but sometimes more entertaining brother. However, the rivalry between the two studios seems to be fodder for the media more than anything else. Instead of stewing in jealousy or attempting to outdo Pixar, Dreamworks opts to stay true to itself and to fashion its own path to success; in fact, the studio could act as the protagonist in one of its own movies. With movies like the Shrek franchise, Madagascar and Monsters vs. Aliens, Dreamworks tends to aim for entertainment rather than art, simplicity over depth and the funny bone over the brain. For the most part, their latest film, How to Train Your Dragon, stays faithful to this trend.Strongly reminiscent of the 1999 movie The Iron Giant, Dragon employs Dreamworks's most reliable formula: that of the misfit underdog who ultimately gets his chance to shine and learns a valuable lesson along the way, usually on the lines of the ever-popular "be yourself" mantra of most kids movies. Though The Iron Giant was superior overall, How to Train Your Dragon does possess a lot of the same earnestness and heart as that film. The scenes devoted to the emerging bond between Hiccup and Toothless are the best in the movie, and their relationship feels organic and natural instead of coming across as a corny plot device. Toothless in particular comes across almost immediately as likable and, in nature, resembles a puppy more than a ferocious dragon. In addition, the animation is very well-done throughout, and the flying scenes, especially one that recalls the "A Whole New World" magic carpet ride in Disney's Aladdin, are as realistic as any. I didn't find them quite as engrossing as those in Avatar, but I'm sure they would have benefited had I caught this movie in time to see it in 3D.Still, even with those pluses, it is difficult to overlook the movie's flaws. The plot is predictably predictable, which would not have been quite so bad if the secondary characters had not been reduced to mere stereotypes (the disapproving father who only wants what's best for his son, the overachieving girl who eventually falls for the hero despite herself, the bullies, the comical friend/sidekick/confidant). While the usual pop culture references are thankfully absent and there are a handful of sharp lines, much of the humor and dialogue feels tired and wooden; the mostly lackluster voice cast does little to help. Furthermore, the movie strives to explore Viking and Norse mythology, but despite occasional shout-outs to Odin and Thor, this is all largely rendered moot by the presence of Scottish accents when they are obviously supposed to reside in Scandinavia.It's hard to really hate Dreamworks, though. After all, in terms of bug movies, I preferred Antz to A Bug's Life, and though I'm probably in a minority here, Kung Fu Panda was infinitely more enjoyable than Wall-E, which, for all its technical mastery, felt like an artsy message movie masquerading as something more accessible and less preachy. In spite of its faults, How to Train Your Dragon was a pleasant enough movie and certainly surpasses some of the other fare we've been subjected to thus far this year. It's no Toy Story 3, but it is something kids will probably love. Adults might not mind it much either.


                
There's a purity of vision in 'How To Train Your Dragon (2010)', one that sees it work incredibly well as a tightly-constructed, somewhat allegorical fable that has a strong central message. It focuses pretty much entirely on delivering this message, sometimes to the detriment of character and, even, story. All in all, it's kind of flat. Its world, and the people within it, are very two-dimensional and only change when the narrative needs them to. This, as I mentioned, serves its themes and, in a way, tightens its plot, but it does make things seem kind of surface-level. It's most noticeable with the father character; he feels like a caricature and, without spoiling anything, must be in contender for the 'worst dad of the year' award. Still, this overall dedication to theme makes for a focused experience that knows exactly what it's trying to achieve. For the most part, it achieves that. The 'all is lost' moment is very frustrating, which goes to show just how invested we are in our likeable protagonist's journey. This is helped by a fantastic soundtrack, which is probably the picture's greatest asset. The animation itself is decent but the actual rendering is slightly off. Most characters feel dead behind the eyes and, in some cases, it's kind of creepy; again, this is most notable with the father character. Still, the story is brought to life well enough and, during the flick's action set-pieces, the visuals often evoke a great sense of speed and spectacle while still conveying character, essentially, above all else. In fact, here character through action is often more successful than character through dialogue. The flick is entertaining, in general. It's not perfect, certainly, but it moves briskly enough that most of its issues come second to its integrity and overall fun. It's probably one of Dreamworks' better animated efforts, though it's certainly no 'Shrek (2001)'. 7/10


                
A great story and well animated.Emotions are well connected.But it's a bit lengthy.Nice watch anyway


                
Animated features are usually very colorful and offer a whole lot of fun, but I don't understand how they manage to score so high against your more prevalent live action movies. I think it has to do with viewers rating each one on a personal standard against other animated films, with the result having pictures like this winding up with a rating above 8.0. So as I write this, the film ranks higher in the IMDb Top #250 than "Platoon", "Hotel Rwanda" and 1959's "Ben Hur". Anyone see the irony in that? I don't know that there's a way to fix that other than to separate animated movies into their own category, but I don't know if that would be fair either. Anyway, that's my little side spiel."How to Train Your Dragon" is in fact a highly entertaining flick for all members of the family, with lots of dazzling action and likable characters. I particularly liked the names the writers came up with for the various types of dragons, like Nadder Heads, Gronckles, Two-Headed Zipplebacks and Monstrous Nightmares. It turns out our feature creature is a rare and never before seen Night Fury, the ultimate in dragon lore as it were. I was kind of expecting more along the lines of a green scaled monster myself, but good old Toothless had a nice appeal once you got to know him. I thought the name 'Toothy' might have been a better one for Hiccup to come up with, but the irony worked well enough.When it came time to battle the formidable monster dragon from deep in the mountain nest, the thing looked more like a dinosaur and it looked like the Vikings might have finally met their doom. But that would never happen in a Dreamworks film, if it had there wouldn't have been a couple of sequels already. The battle scenes are some of the finest animation you're likely to ever come across, and of course, all's well that ends well with Hiccup, Astrid, Stoick the Vast and all the other colorful Viking characters.
Sweet, fun movie.A viking boy, Hiccup, is hardly your average viking. Weak, and quite useless at fighting, he is often the brunt of jokes in his village. Unfortunately, his father is the chief of the village, and that just makes things worse. Then he befriends a massive dragon. Dragons are the sworn enemies of his village...Good fun with a sweet, feel-good message. Didn't always look that way: in the beginning it seemed like your average animated action movie. However, from a point (that point being where he meets the dragon), things kick up a gear. The movie then becomes a story about a boy and his dragon friend / pet, and this adds a another dimension to the plot.Good animation and decent voice work, though not sure why all the adults had to be Scottish...


                
How to Train Your Dragon (2010): Dir: Dean DeBlois, Chris Sanders / Voices: Jay Baruchel, Gerard Butler, Craig Furguson, America Ferrera, Christopher Mintz-Plasse: CGI film about facing fears. Set ages ago when dragons ruled the earth. Jay Baruchel voices Hiccup whose father is disappointed that he didn't become the famed dragon slayer he became. Central plot regards Hiccup's capture, release and friendship with a small dragon. Now it is up to Hiccup to prove to his father and others that they can live amongst dragons without fear. Superbly animated with detailed dragons of all sorts of shapes and sizes. Directors Dean DeBlois and Chris Sanders are backed with a humorous script that only disappoints in its predicted ending. Baruchel brings great enthusiasm and humour to Hiccup's personality. We know that he will prove himself and his father will be proud and he will win the affections of the girl, but Baruchel is quite amusing. Gerard Butler voices his father, a champion Viking who has high hopes for his son but will see his son in a whole new light by conclusion. Other characters include Craig Furguson who voices a Viking with a peg leg and a hook. America Ferrera voices the tough female character whom Hiccup is interested in. She suspects him and will become the first to befriend him after a rough start. Other characters are flat and appear more as a great animation than a broad character with a background. Beautifully animated with a predictable yet entertaining story. It is pointless fun for children that will appeal to adults as well. Score: 7 ½ / 10
I am rarely the guy who rates a movie lower than others. So let me discuss why.I will start with the main reason - the characters. I hate to compare movies, but I have to use some reference here. Take Kung Fu Panda, perhaps the new gold standard in animation movies. Every characters was interesting in some way. They were all captivating.Compare to this movie. I was not enthused with the main character. He was so...plain. About the only really interesting character was the female viking. She was a bit cliché (the tomboy thing,) but she held my attention more than the rest.Then there's the plot. The underlying moral of the story is fine. It's standard now, in these movies, for some happy moral to be expressed. This movie is no different. And I have no issues with it. But the plot is almost non existent. The movie drags. I think because his interaction with the dragon drags a bit. There's the dragon, the training, the conflict with father, and the final scenes (where something finally happens.) That's about it.Now the last 15 minutes...great, impressive, inspiring. So 7/10 for the last 15 minutes. Pull out all the stops here, I guess.So by all means see this. And some people will enjoy more of the movie than I did.But the ratings imply this is really good, over 8 out of 10. Very high for IMDb. I am not seeing it. Shrek, Kung Fu Panda, Robots, Cars, Finding Nemo ... all 8+. But not this movie.


                
I don't know. I saw only one trailer of the film before watching it. Maybe it was the low expectations. Well, given Dreamworks' stream of recent animated films ("Shrek", "Madagascar", but leave out "Kung Fu Panda" which was genuinely great) one could expect laughs but little substance.I am glad that my low expectations were blown away immensely. Not only is "How To Train Your Dragon" hilarious, it is also genuinely heartwarming, filled with gorgeous and beautiful animation, and topped off with easy-to-like characters (and dragons, to boot), and a very positive moral core to it.Yes, it has it's fair share of clichés and obtaining a somewhat predictable story, but it's mainly a family film, so they are excused. Yet, with all this in mind, I felt something when watching the movie. I don't know what it was, but it was the same feeling I felt when watching most Pixar films like last year's "Up" and especially "WALL-E". It was a wonderful feeling. I genuinely felt for the characters, they were very easy to like and to relate to. It was to my surprise that I knew almost all of the actors who starred in it but did not recognize them at certain parts. All of the voice actors are great, especially the lead Jay Baruchel. I also absolutely LOVED the main dragon Toothless even though it wasn't a talking animal, with it's realistic and humane emotions and its beautiful design. The animation was also beautifully rendered, and it is truly a sight to behold in 3D, with some scenes comparable to the 'Ikran' scenes from Avatar, if not better. It took me away from the real world and into the film's fantasy world. The film's moral message, that we should not judge things by its cover and thus act rashly towards it, is straightforwardly delivered. And finally John Powell's music score is sweeping and full of emotion in many moments.Therefore, "How To Train Your Dragon" will definitely get my approval for one of 2010's very best films, if not THE best so far. Let's hope not. However I have the urge to see the movie again as it felt like it was infinitely re-watchable. Parents should take their kids, children should see it with their friends, couples should see it together, everyone should see it. It is one of the best animated films to come out in a long time. And it definitely blows away all of Dreamworks' previous effort.Bravo, Mr. DeBlois and Mr. Sanders. Congratulations for making another animated classic.Overall value: 9/10.


                
I wasn't expecting a kid movie, and I didn't get one. Granted, this movie is kid-friendly, but it has enough substance in the story that it doesn't get weighed down with mind-altering attempts at comic relief. The story is enough without any inanities.Hiccup is about as non-Viking as a Viking can be, and of course, his dad is the chief of the island, and the biggest, most Vikingest Viking that a Viking can be. He tries to use his skills to fit in and impress his dad, but his skills aren't physical. He's more of a thinker and a problem solver.When he befriends one of the most legendary dragons, which no one else has even seen, he begins to see into the nature of the dragons and how to deal with them. It isn't easy to convince the Vikings of this, but the circumstances of the story eventually take care of that problem.The "chemistry" between Hiccup and the dragon Toothless is amazing considering that this is animation. All the characters are well-designed to bring out the characters, but Toothless is an impressive feat in his movements and his ability to convey emotions through expressions and body language throughout the movie.The action in this movie is pretty eye-popping, but some of the more understated scenes are pretty striking in their own ways, such as the fight in the clouds when the Vikings are simply observing flashes of light. For a warrior people who venerate Thor and Odin, such a scene must have been dramatic in a different way.Comic relief is here in the form of some of Hiccup's peers, and while they may have had more character in the book, they seem to be kind of sporadic in their scenes here. As a compliment, at last they aren't overused meddling goofups filling in for plot points with contrivances, as you might see in lesser movies. They definitely have character, even if it doesn't have a chance to show. The story stays focused and gets where it needs to be by the end.Overall, all the elements in this movie make it worth seeing. I'd even be up for a second viewing.


                
I went to see this movie (In 3D) with my family which consists of my parents me and my two younger siblings. And if I should boil the review down to one word I would choose this word: Success! If you - like me - worship "Madagascar" and "Shrek" this movie is a must.But... "How to Train Your Dragon" is unfortunately too focused on the 3D-effects, so some of the other elements of the movie is not as well- made as they could've been. But, I guess it's unavoidable as these effects are so "new" (of course not new, but you know what I mean). The creators are so excited about this new level of storytelling that they focus too much on this part and leave others behind.The story is classic, and not as funny as some of Dreamworks previous movies. It works fine, but it still pulls down my vote since it only functions as a frame instead of the center of the movie. But having said that I need to tell you: "How to Train Your Dragon" will still be worth watching.My youngest sibling doesn't understand English, so I won't be able to tell you about the Voice-acting for the original language, but if any Danes wanna know, the Danish-dubbed voices works good (Compared to other dubbed movies). The main character's voice is a bit weird, but won't disturb you.The animations are done in the classic Dreamworks-style. It works nicely, since the caricature-like faces works good to express feelings. Summed up this movie is a must for any sane family. If you're going to watch it remember to enjoy the little bits, cause that is what's in focus.


                
I like cartoons. Like many US creations it's a morality play. At time the moral element is a bit too prominent for my taste, but I suppose it's standard for the US. The moral is partly shared with Avatar and Sesame St - don't fear/hate difference. Sometimes people behave badly because they are driven by circumstances, sometimes we fight because it's all we've known, and so on. Unlike Tolkien I'm not totally opposed to allegory and there are clear parallels to the wars currently being waged by the US and Europe in the Middle East. Let's hope many warmongering politicians everywhere go to see this movie and see how stupid they are.Actually the more I think of it, the more I realise that the Dragons represent Middle Eastern peoples (including the Afghans); and the Vikings, America. Though I suppose if I were an Iraqi peasant I might see the other way around! The big dragon is either Sadam Hussein, Tony Blair, or George Bush depending on where you live - a hungry beast driving minions on to evil acts. The one that everyone obeys because they are too frightened not to.Also adults in this film, as in most films these days, are pretty stupid and it's the kids that figure out how to save the situation. Yay for them! I read this as part of the continuing aftershock of two world wars which showed that authority figures are not to be trusted. And this leaves us in a dilemma: we don't trust or respect authority (because it betrayed our grandparents) and so there is a breakdown in authority and responsibility.But then they all live happily ever after, even the dragons, once everyone listens to the kids and their fresh perspective.I was puzzled by why the grown up Vikings all have Scottish accents while the children have US accents.
Better than most Pixar's films and perhaps the best film that Dreamworks ever made, it is a high quality family entertainment that sometimes has the feeling of a video game and other times uses common plot clichés to advance the story. To small kids unfamiliar with older films this picture would appear excellent but to someone expecting some innovative creativity this film fails. It is a very well executed cliché film. Very good for kids and parents who don't know much about films.For something truly extraordinary in terms of family oriented animation, well, watch My Neighbor Totoro and Kiki's Delivery Service.But it doesn't work very well for someone who has more experience watching films. Feels similar to the 2012 Batman film (Dark Knight Rises) in these terms.


                
Ah, jeez. Why did they have to make the dragons so darn CUTE under that scary, scaly, toothy exterior? So cute, in fact, that Toothless (a pitch-dark dragon called a Night Furie), the dragon our hapless (and unfortunately named) hero Hiccup (voiced by Jay Baruchel) befriends, reminded me of a cat I used to own (she was also pitch-dark, with a spot of white on her neck). Huh? Since when do dragons act like domesticated housecats when you get to know them? Ah, jeez. I suppose such questions are best left unpondered, since "How to Train Your Dragon" blends humor, pathos, and sometimes heart-melting tenderness with such grace and style that it had me shedding a tear or two by its conclusion. At its core, this is yet another allegory about not judging others by their differences, choosing your own path in life, and Doing The Right Thing (regardless of what others may think). The story is supported by colorful characters (dragon-killing vikings and their children), sharp writing that is by turns funny and truthful, and a fully fleshed-out world (including landscapes and a variety of colorful dragons that blend traits of both mammals and reptiles). The film is being marketed to capitalize on its 3D (which, admittedly, adds a few extra thrills to some scenes), but unlike "Alice in Wonderland" (so sorely lacking in pathos, style, and humor), "Dragon" is so strong on its own merits that the effect enhances the existing story, rather than becoming the sole reason for viewing.


                
I've now seen this about five times, so to me, it is a film that has a lot of replay value.Voice Acting: Despite the obvious starry cast, the majority of them delivered. I was pleasantly surprised by Butler, who actually made me cry after the climatic part when his voice wavered due to emotion.The rest are pretty good - Fergerson is genial as Gobber, Ferrera's defiant as the tough girl, Astrid. Only do I feel for, I guess, what's supposed to be young teens, casting twenty-somethings to voice them just sounds incongruous. There's the discrepancy between the Scottish accents of the adults and the American accents of the teens, but seeing as this is aimed a Western audience and is probably done for comedic effect, I can sort of understand it.Plot: It follows the underdog triumphing story in a pretty generic fashion but well, in that it gives the audience what they expect while throwing in a few unexpected and commendable surprises (especially Hiccup's outcome from the climax). So, baby steps as other countries are sometimes far darker with their family animation but at least progress is being made.There's occasional laughs (usually from a dryly humorous Hiccup: 'Thanks you for nothing, you useless reptile'), good dialogue and characterisation and essentially heart. I felt an emotional connection to Toothless.I have to say the flying scenes were exhilarating and genuinely made me believe that's near to what it would be like to fly a dragon.Animation: Very good. The aforementioned flying scenes are very good, the characters are brought successfully to life and the action really delivers. As far as the 3D goes, I still prefer 2D, but if you want 3D, by all means as the time spent has paid off. I just wish I didn't get a headache and watery eyes after watching it in 3D as I get the same soaring, excited feeling after watching it in 2D anyway.An earthy palette, cute and cartoony dragon design (Toothless looks intentionally like Stitch) and expressive eyes all make this really accessible and family friendly.Score: Powell's score is very fitting and memorable (the leitmotifs will be in my head for a long time). What can I add to what has already been said much more eloquently than myself? Coming Back Around, Forbidden Friendship, Romantic Flight and the end credits song Sticks and Stones by the lead singer from Icelandic band Siguar Ros (of Hoppipola fame as heard in the Planet Earth trailers) are my faves but everything is lovely. It's the epitome of a solid score.Overall: A Dreamworks film that doesn't feel like a Dreamworks film but more like the film Disney could've made (back in their 90s heyday).It does follow golden narrative rules, but it still offers surprises and is very engaging on an emotional level. The romance aspect could've been better developed and I'd loved to see more of life in Berk, being a Viking but for the wide audience it's aiming at and how it executes what it sets out to do, it accomplishes it pretty well. Easily best animated film of the year so far, unless Toy Story 3 has something even better up it's sleeve *fingers crossed* This marks a step in the right direction for animated films from Hollywood - 7.5/10


                
I simply loved this movie, despite the cheesy looking dragons. It's a cute and simple story. Not that I like that sort of thing. Did you guys see that itty bitty pony, I want<U+0085>oh sorry. Right, the movie review. The art rendering was beautiful. Likable characters, the cast delivers there lines and feelings without fail. I had trouble remembering that I was hearing Gerard Butler not some big burly Viking named "Stoick" (As it should be.) It is a good movie for both young and old.I don't know why all the Vikings talked with a nondescript Gaelic accent, not a Scandinavian one. Which makes me say, 7 out of 10 for this one. Still loved it though.


                
This is a superb 3D movie, and I was blown away by the flight sequences. Even if the plot is cliché to a lot of these 3D movies about a screw up becoming a hero later on. Just watching the flight sequences was enough for the price of admission, even if none of the characters are even remotely memorable. Watch this movie in theaters or IMAX in 3D or it isn't going to be as good, kids and adults will have a good time watching this, even if the plot is straight forward the pacing however is well done. This film is one of the prime examples of effective 3D and a very well done one at that as well.7.9/10
The poorly titled animated adventure belies the simple boy meets dragon story as seen in trailers. This is a beautiful looking Viking epic, starting with an almost impossible opening sequence that juggles the introduction to all the characters, some jokes about viking life, all the while a huge dragon attack is taking place. As with any tentpole movie, effects or extravagant animated environments mean nothing if the story and characters aren't interesting. Here, our dragon trainer has a likable misfit nature that keeps the audience (both young and old) amused. That is one element usually missing in non-Pixar films. There are well formed characters throughout the ensemble, all of them showing personality and capable of generating good humour.I went to the 3D showing, and was not expecting much more than a cutesy tale of a boy training a dragon. To be sure the cutesy stuff is in there, certainly not shying away from giving dragons Disney-like big eyes and even purring like a kitten. What I was pleasantly amazed to find was that there is a lively Viking adventure that has a whimsical spirit. The Vikings come off as more than 2 dimensional, and the sweeping 3D shots give a great thrill ride around jagged cliffs. The central plot is a Vikings journey by boat to fight the dragons, and most of the obligatory love interest and bully subplots don't get in the way. Perhaps one could complain about plot holes in how a young kid disappears constantly without anybody connecting it with his new dragon training abilities. Several convenient plot points allow the story to whisk us along, wasting no moment on screen to move forward boy-trains-dragon, boy-meets-girl, and boy-rebels-against-society story arcs.If you can keep the audience entertained, then you can pull off the magic act of suspending disbelief, something harder to do with adults watching this type of animated fare, then you have achieved that Pixar feeling. One of the very few animated films not made by Pixar that have done this.7 out of 10.


                
This film is about a cowardly viking guy who is unable to fight and slay a dragon. He finds another way to deal with dragons, with unexpected results.I thought the dragons were were designed well. The dragons are scary and dangerous looking, and yet paradoxically cute at the same time. The main dragon has easy-to-interpret facial expressions which can be useful in teaching kids to read faces. The story is a little slow paced at first, but the intensity and emotional depths in the last half hour makes the whole film worthwhile. I particularly liked the message that if you understand, then you will be tolerant and can coexist with others. I enjoyed watching "How to Train Your Dragon".


                
This was a pretty good animated movie. I really liked the dragons as there are several different kinds that are designed uniquely and are colorful. It's about a Viking boy, Hiccup, that befriends a dragon. The dragon has injured its tail and can't fly out of this valley. Hiccup makes a device to go on the tail that aids the dragon in flying and he also makes himself a saddle. Now he's flying on the dragon and learning that the beliefs about dragons being evil are not true. He's also in dragon killing training school with some other kids. He starts to dominate because he knows what they like and can make them act like pets. Of course hid dad finds out and wants to slay more dragons. Can Hiccup and his friends stop them and save the day? It's a kids film, what do you think.FINAL VERDICT: Cute movie with cool animated dragons, worth a viewing


                
I know a film meant for children (or a "family" movie so to speak) is working right when even as I can recognize where the whole plot will go, A to B to C to Z, when I think that if I were a child of 7, 8, 13 or whatever, I'd really love it. Perhaps I've moved on from being able to be really invigorated by these stories, where a nerdy outsider connects with another outsider in a society where their bond is sort of verboten. Hell, we probably have already seen this formula done, to one degree or another, in just the stable of Dreamworks animated films in the past years (shades of Kung-fu Panda spring to mind). But the good news is that the filmmakers give the characters some good life and circumstances, and the energy in the action and drama is high.But what also makes it work is that a) when it needs to be funny, it's very funny (quips I didn't think could work won me over), and b) when it needs to, pun intended, the movie soars. Many will be immediately reminded of another movie filled with "flying things" from some months back, James Cameron's Avatar. While his film implemented cutting-edge 3D technology, I found seeing this film, in just the straight 2D, just as good if not, really, better in some ways. When it comes time to follow along with 'Toothless' the dragon and Hiccup as they piroutte through the sky, I was completely with it since I already was soaked up into this world. This isn't to denigrate Cameron's work inasmuch as to just make a point of comparison: it doesn't look quite as silly, oddly enough, by having dragons with this film as opposed to the whatever-the-hell prehistoric hybrids the Na'vi rode along.I digress though, the film is easy to see where it will go. The plot turns, the conflicts, the interest from the girl to the hero and the supporting characters, no convention is unturned. But the writing within the conventions are strong; the filmmakers understand how to work within them to bring out creativity in the artwork, in the action, in the connections with the characters, and when it comes time for the vikings to face off against the big baddie-dragon at the end (as we all can expect), it's exhilarating how the pace keeps picking up just when one expects for it to drop. And, ultimately, as repeated as the message might be, the under-current of "peace and understanding" vs "FIGHT" is a good message to send to the kids, with the most unlikely placement of vikings who pray to Odin and the dragons who fight against them (but as we learn in self-defense).The voice-work is also uniformly interesting. I liked seeing Baruchel in this lead part, doing what he could with a nerdy hero; Gerard Butler shows why he should stick mostly to his original Scottish accent (it's also nice, by the way, to hear Craig Ferguson in a movie again; the actors playing the 'kids' all, oddly enough, don't have the Scottish twang, but still work well for what's required of their parts as sort of comic relief. And when it comes time to show the bond between Hiccup and the dragon, the writers don't jump to the quips: the dragons never speak, and all of the direction and attention can be found in their eyes and mouths and face contortions. It's really like the story of a boy and his dog or horse and in this, the heart of the picture, it surprised me with how well it worked. 7.5/10


                
This is a good but not great movie that I liked but did not love. My principal objection is to the fact that one spends a great deal of time watching dragons swish their tails around and eat fish and be confused and do other things that are not awesome. It could be protested that this is consistent with the film's likable themes of peaceful coexistence and friendship. I am not interested in excuses; I am interested in seeing cool things happen in movies. A good movie finds ways to let the viewer see awesome things. For example, the terrific family adventure movie Kung-Fu Panda has many great kung-fu fights throughout its entirety. Imagine if the kung-fu fighters always found reasonable excuses to not fight most of the time in that movie. What a bad movie that would be. The viewer of How to Train Your Dragon is given just such an experience.I enjoy when movies, particularly movies like this one that appeal to a younger audience, feature strong female characters. The character of Astrid in this film is a strong character. Within the context of the goofy fantasy society she lives in, she is more like an aggressive over-achiever - she is expected to fight dragons, and does so well. She is not rewarded for her hard work because the hero destroys the entire system of values to which she dedicated her life. Nonetheless, she is a strong young lady, and that's cool. She gets sold out later, at the end of the film, when all the kids get to ride around on dragons, and she has to ride behind the hero on one of the crappy dragons until he can jump off to ride the coolest dragon of all. Why can't she ride on the second best dragon? The character of Snotlout, who is a jerk, gets to ride on the second best dragon, and she has to ride behind the hero. She is also very pretty aside from being good at things, so when boys like her, it's like, do they like her because she's good at things? Probably not. Anyways, this movie has a pretty good but far from perfect strong female character.
