HTTYD is the latest in a run of animated 3D films to hit the family market. One might be forgiven for feeling a little weary of this genre as the big production studios churn out one "action-packed film with a cute central character and some pretty effects" after another. But wait...HTTYD stands apart from these other attempts for a number of reasons. First, the 3D (Odeon digital in this screening) is moving more toward the subtle with fewer "gratuitous" 3D moments than in movies like Bolt and Coraline. As 3D becomes a staple of high street cinema, directors seem to be finding 3D to be more about adding depth rather than a brief focal-point. That's not to say that there isn't effective use of the 3D wow-factor here; it's just not all the film has to hold attention.Second, a cast of voice talent that does not demand too much consideration of the man/woman behind the microphone is refreshing. Baruchel is not over-playing the sugar or the heroics and, as much as an animated character can be, he is believable and as three-dimensional as the visuals. Butler is not greatly stretched here but manages to stay just the right side of a Mike Myers impression so as not to annoy. How many kids will now think the Vikings were a fearsome race of Americans and Scots? Oh, well! Third, the plot and dialogue. You may not know the plot and I won't spoil it now. It is straightforward stuff but the pace keeps it interesting for kids and the grown-ups. Younger children may be upset at times and I heard a sob or two at the emotional moments. Nothing too heavy here though, it's just a well-written script with as many actual laughs as I have seen in a kids' film.This is one of the best films so far in this prolific genre and it has been made with passion rather than thrown together to cash-in on the thirst for these films, right now. I would urge all ages to see this film in 3D as the textures are extraordinary and you can't help but be charmed by it all.


                
With a somewhat unwieldy tile and the lack of the winning Pixar storyline that has dominated the Oscars for a decade, Dreamworks animations latest could have been a clunker. Not only is How to Train Your Dragon the best film of the year so far, but it even eclipses the quality of last years duel academy award winner Up.The latest 3-D film to fly into theatres in so many weeks is also the best of its format (story wise), making Burton's overblown misfire Alice in Wonderland look even more pitiful. Dragon will no doubt enamour kids (excuse the cliché) of all ages while keeping parents not only awake but equally enthralled. This movie is sure to tug the hearts of anyone who has ever loved a pet and will undoubtedly draw tears from those who are so inclined.The texture that can be created from today's CG technology never ceases to amaze. Consider a beautiful tracking shot of a downed dragon where the twisted wing that protrudes towards the screen is actually out of focus, as if you yourself were staring awestruck at the giant lizard that lay before you in real, tangible life. I did not have the pleasure to viewing How to Train Your Dragon in 3-D but I have heard great things and even without having paid a surcharge the film does in no way suffer as a result. The narrative, visuals, writing and voicework is ample reason to seek out Dragon and frankly is the real heart of the movie anyways.On the Island of Berk, the Viking community that lives there does not fear a rival tribe, the weather or disease but rather a much more toothy threat: dragons. Nightly raids by the winged beasts have forged a great hatred upon the tribe and led by the aptly named Stoik the Vast (Gerard Butler) they wage war with the intent to rid themselves of dragons once and for all. This is not a feeling shared by Stoik's scrawny son Hiccup (Jay Baruchel) who favours non-lethal tactics as much as he does blacksmithing. Much to Hiccup's surprise, during one of the aforementioned raids he is able to down a dragon with one of his contraptions. Intent on proving his manhood to Stoik, he seeks out to find the dragon know as a Night Fury but finds himself unable to slay his scaly foe. So begins an unlikely and forbidden friendship with the later named Toothless that follows a time-tested but absolutely rewarding arc that is as enthralling as it is touching.Joining Butler and Baruchel, both of whom give excellent performances (with Butler recapturing some of his 300 mojo), are the likes of Craig Fergusson as the Viking blacksmith, America Ferrera as the feisty object of Hiccup's affections and a whole slice of the Apatow gang including Kristen Wiig, Christopher Mintz-Plasse and Jonah Hill as other young warriors. Much like WALL-E, Toothless exhibits oodles of personality and is endlessly endearing. To achieve this level of depth is perhaps even more impressive due to the fact that he never utters a word and must emote through non-verbal means.Along with Kung Fu Panda this movie represents the highest ilk of the Dreamworks repertoire and that is not a backhanded compliment by any means. Like Panda, there are thrilling and well choreographed action sequences to compliment the heart, and plenty of humour to keep this from becoming too much of a dramatic slog for younger theatre goers. Teenager or adult, fan or animation or not if you like truly good cinema, you will not be unsatisfied by How to Train Your Dragon.Read all my reviews at simonsaysmovies.blogspot.com


                
incredible! certainly the front runner for the best animated film of the year. from the first to the last frame this film is as good as an animated film gets on almost every level. beautifully written, designed and executed. though an incredible movie, it's not quite perfection - probably due to time and budget limitations (is there ever enough of either?). that said, the problems i had are far too few to mention. if dragon doesn't absolutely slay at the box office i'll lose faith in middle America. congrats to the filmmakers - you've made a masterpiece and you made me feel like a kid again. thank you.


                
In the Viking village of Berk, all the houses are new since the dwellers are in permanent fight against the dragons. The leader Stoik the Vast is unsuccessfully trying to destroy the fearful Night Fury and locate the dragon's nest to destroy them. His clumsy and inventive son Hiccup works as a blacksmith and dreams on becoming a dragon killer.After a raid of dragons during the night, Hiccup uses the weapon he had invented and he hits the Night Fury. However, he has no witness and nobody in the village believes on his words. Stoik the Vast sails with the Vikings to look for the dragon nest and Hiccup decides to seek out the dragon in the woods, and finds it with a severed tail and can not fly again. Hiccup calls him Toothless and they become friends. The boy uses his skill and manufactures a prosthesis for Toothless and he leans how to control the flight of Toothless.Hiccup learns why the dragons attack his village and finds that his own people had misjudged them. But his great defeat is to prove his father how intolerant the Vikings have been against the dragon."How to Train Your Dragon" is a delightful animation with a wonderful message of friendship, intolerance, misjudgment, peace and harmony. The directors and writers succeed in telling how important is to understand other people using the metaphor of the dragons in an original way and with an unusual conclusion. The message of this film is highly recommended for politicians, religious leaders, military intelligence and governors of the world. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil): "Como Treinar o Seu Dragão" ("How to Train Your Dragon")


                
The first major film where the agent takes a stake. This is sending shivers through CAA whose power resides in control of the performing talent. The old school agents and the performing talent have distorted the product. This business of animation studios and literary agents is likely to distort things in an equally damaging way. But for now, the shift is visible, welcome and exciting as getout.This is actually written. It grows from within as good writing should rather that seeming like a desired shape made of chicken wire and filled with ordinary bits. Yes, we still have the moralizing because otherwise parents wouldn't think they were parenting. The rendering is cutting edge.But what sets this apart is the use of space. Most folks don't notice this, but we have come a long, long way in five years. I have been following the advances in this. I'll say that if you have not been watching movies in that period, this could make you a bit dizzy because you will not have been walked through the incremental steps in our new spatial imagination.The core quality of cinema is that the filmmaker gets to design your eyes. From the beginning, intelligent filmmakers have experimented with what character the camera might have. This is behind all the filmmakers I believe are great; each added and exploited some new character of eye.With animation, and 3D modeling, it became feasible for the camera to behave in ways that a physical camera could not. Some filmmakers deliberately made their artificial cameras behave like old fashioned ones; perhaps they did not have the skills to move into unusual territory, but I think in most cases the decision was to make the fake world seem real by having the eye treat it as if it were real.Two centers of innovation were WETA (Peter Jackson's shop) and Pixar. Both experimented heaving with vertical motion and depth. Much of this was in flight, sometimes through water. We have precedents, starting with Hell's Angels and slowly working through Star Wars (the original). Then an explosion, and experiments in often overlooked films: King Kong, Treasure Planet, Van Helsing. Now we have the two schools in full bloom.Independently, Dreamworks just couldn't get its groove in animation. Heaven knows they tried to catch up, but they always seemed to be working in space left over from someone else. Here the agent-producer seems to have hired some real spatial talent and let them have control. Even the opening sequence where we see the village and then an attack is spatially thrilling.Luckily, we have two 3D dragonflight movies playing side by side so we can see the two camps compared. Avatar uses WETA and the WETA philosophy. This has the camera as a companion in flight with its own distinct flight path. The excitement is in jumps not in the motion being shown, but the place of the camera.This film adopts the Pixar philosophy which uses POV and POV-inspired notions heaving. In this notion, we are ghosts that can place ourselves anywhere we wish so as to see thing better. We do move, and our eyes do, but motivated by discovery rather than participation.Compare in particular the idea of falling in love as shared, dangerous flight.Thrilling. Simply trilling. We are seeing the birth of a new medium and will dream differently tomorrow.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.


                
Right from the start this one is a winner. The new Dreamwork animation is a happy-go-lucky kind of animation with a serious story to it. The makers never took themselves seriously or lightly, they were somewhere in the in-between (:P) and that is where their victory lies.Getting down to the story<U+0085> A Viking Tribe lives close to the seas and what do they have to worry about in their calm lives – DRAGONS. And the stubborn vikings fight, fight, fight but with no end result. And among these there is ,Hiccup, the only child of the chief of the tribe who is different. He is not strong as the others neither does he have good Viking skills. But one fine day he shoots down one dragon by luck. He traces it down and it is one of those dragons that is considered to be the most dangerous by the tribe. There are strict orders to kill it on sight. But the little kiddo never had it in him to do that. He cuts it loose and then the bondage starts between them. And the rest of the story is about how the kiddo and the dragon change the path of the lives and minds of the the tribe.This is by far, the best movie of the year. The animation is stunning. Some of the wide angle shots and sweep shots are brilliant and the detail is also amazing. Action sequences are another treat. It is a goose-bumping experience. And the story is also good as it tugs at the strings right at the bottom of the heart. And there is lot to laugh as well. Brilliant one-liners that go well with the movie. "Death by the Dragon, is an occupational hazard here"<U+0085>.something on that line.The voices by Jay Baruchel and Jonal Hill were good. And believe me, some scenes brought me to tears, some scenes had me jumping out of seat out of excitement. No wonder, the animation won the Heartland Truly Moving Picture Award. And Pixar can learn some valuable lessons from this animation.All in all, this is great and a must watch.9/10


                
I wasn't fortunate enough to watch this movie in 3D, though I wish that I had gotten around to doing it. I bet watching "How to Train Your Dragon" in 3D would be downright awesome. I sure enjoyed the movie tremendously in ordinary version.This animated movie was, simply put, fantastic. Next to the "Final Fantasy" animated movies and the "Resident Evil: Degeneration" animated movie, "How to Train Your Dragon" is without a doubt the best animated movie I have seen in a long, long time.The story told in "How to Train Your Dragon" is very likable and you immediately immerse yourself into the plot, because it is really such a good tale. Lots of adventure and warmth in the story, and it works so well.And the animation itself, wow! Simply fantastic. It looks so very good, lots of amazing details and very colorful. This is the way all animated movies should be, sparkling with colors and life.And the Night Fury dragon had so much character and personality, despite it didn't utter a single comprehensible word throughout the entire movie. I bet you will love him right away, I know I sure did.As for the cast, well voice cast actually, lots of really good names here. I especially enjoyed Gerard Butler in this movie, he has a very good voice that is well suited for voice acting. But also among the impressive cast was America Ferrera, Jonah Hill, Kristen Wiig, and more. Lots of really nice voices to be found here.However, there is one downside to the movie, I am from Denmark, so the vikings are part of my heritage, and people here (and back then) didn't speak English with a Scottish accent. That, and that alone, was the only drawback of the movie. But it is a minor detail, and I looked past that. And as in going with the Scottish accent, why didn't Hiccup speak with that particular accent? And no offense to Jay Baruchel, but there is just something very annoying about his nasal voice. It just doesn't go well with me.But moving on, "How to Train Your Dragon" is definitely a movie that you just have got to watch in any way you can. This movie is amazing, and that is the end of that! Thumb up, way, way up for this masterpiece. It has entertainment value for children and adults alike.


                
Based on a novel with the same name, writer William Davies was able to turn this kids story into a touching and deep first-class screenplay that is really rare for Dream Works. Hiccup, voiced by the devastating and believable Jay Baruchel, is a weak and low self-esteem little boy who lives in a world of Vikings. His dad and his friends, all around him, their life mission is to kill dragons and Hiccup is expected to do the same. Going through training and a lot of trying, Hiccup was not successful. Instead of killing dragons, Hiccup decided to read books on the dragons and found out they are not that bad. The belief was brought on after Hiccup met a dragon, who was considered the most dangerous dragon and did not try to eat him. This created a interesting but predictable twist for the audience to eat up on. Hiccup named his "friend" Toothless. Months go by as Hiccup trains his dragon friend Toothless to fly since he was injured when Hiccup found him. Throughout the training, their relationship begins to build and we see that Hiccup is falling in love. The writer really wanted us to cry at this point because Hiccup's friend Toothless was discovered by the town people and he's being killed by them. At the end, we know that dragons aren't as bad and Vikings shouldn't be killing them. This really looks like Disney's work because the message and the tone of the film is based on being friends and nice and all. At first, I thought this was not Dream Work's work, but after checking up on it, I was surprised. This looked more like Disney's cheesy work than Dream Work's. How To Train Your Dragon is classy, funny, kid-friendly, and intelligently scripted. It is one of the best films of the year. OscarBuzz: Best Animated Feature, this will go head to head against Toy Story 3. Even though Toy Story 3 definitely has a lead, if it didn't win, How To Train Your Dragon would snatch the Oscar.


                
How To Train Your Dragon is the latest offering Dreamworks has released but could this be as big or as bold as Shrek? The story is very imaginative and is guaranteed to keep the attention of children and adults. The characters were lovable and the dragons were simply adorable, especially Toothless. The animation was marvellous and doesn't disappoint in quality which was to be expected from Dreamworks. The script is very cleverly written like everything else in the movie. Great characters, good music, brilliant animation and fantastic humour, this doesn't disappoint.I simply fell in love with this movie. I loved Shrek and Kung Fu Panda but this beats them in my opinion. The animation was simply crafted beautifully and you could tell that a lot of time and effort had gone into it and is probably the best animation I've seen for years in a kids' movie. I also liked how the dragons didn't talk, I thought it added a sense of reality to the movie (even if there is dragons in it). This doesn't mean Toothless, the main dragon, is boring, far from it. Toothless and Hiccup was fantastic as their trust and friendship made for heart-felt viewing and some funny scenes. The best scenes, in my opinion, was the flying scenes with Toothless and Hiccup, the animation during them scenes were phenomenal to watch. The characters were great as well and Hiccup's crush Astrid was great as she tries to figure out what Hiccup is up to.Overall, the movie had fantastic scenes, beautiful animation, great characters, voice acting, script and story<U+0085>what more could you possibly want from an animation? I highly recommend everyone to watch this, this is one not to miss! Read more reviews at: www.dudedazzmoviereviews.wordpress.com


                
One of the best animated movies I have ever seen.. I can easily compare this with any of the top animated movies out there including monsters inc., UP, Wall-e, kungfu panda and cloudy with chances of meatballs.. It reminds me a portion of avatar in which there was a dragon taming scene.. Character development was extremely strong with a strong focus on script and storyline.. Graphics are pretty much amazing and credit goes to dreamworks for maintaining their top of class animation.I won't go into details, but after cloudy with chances of meatballs, this is the latest animated movie that not only amazes me, but also keeps my 2 and 3 year sons to stick to the seat until the movie ends..


                
I'm beginning to think that the people who make CGI features have got it pegged a lot better than those who make live action movies. So often they seem to have a good story, an excellent script, cracking characterisation, and fabulous visuals.How To Train Your Dragon is no exception.Hiccup is the son of Viking chief Stoick, whose village is beset by dragons which steal the livestock. Hiccup is a disappointment to his father, especially when he doesn't take the same warlike approach to dragon-slaying classes as his contemporaries. But then Hiccup begins to be able to deal with the dragons better than the other youngsters, because he has secretly befriended an injured dragon.This is an outcast story, dealing with a youngster who is alienated, but has the strength of character to stick to his guns in the face of pressure from all sides to conform. But it is also an exciting adventure story with a great deal of humour. The characters are engaging and well-drawn (in the dramatic sense, although they also look good).And the movie looks great. The locations are stunning, the animation is first rate, and 3D is very well used (focus pulls, in particular, work very well in 3D).And, more than anything else, there were big, big chunks of this film where it just got hold of me almost physically (and certainly emotionally) and took me on Hiccup's journey with him. Possibly a little intense for younger children, this is a great family film. I loved it.


                
Up until Shrek Dreamworks wasn't making great animated films and then that green ogre came along and change that. Shrek was most definitely my favourite Dramworks film, that is until i saw this. The vibrant colours and the stunning animation really captivated me and the music made the experience even more gratifying. Yes there were a few flaws, as their are with any film but this is most definitely as close to "Pixar Perfection" as Dreamworks will ever get. If your a fan of very funny, action packed, sort of emotion then go and see this film, i am serious drop what ever your doing now and get down to the cinema! It might not be as heart warming as Toy Story or as tear jerking as UP but it will most certainly give Pixar a run for its money in the action department. A most satisfying whole and this years best animated film, until Toy Story 3 that is!


                
Let me think - the 3D was better, the plot more interesting, the characters more compelling and the conclusion more satisfying, in every way a better, more original movie than the "King of the World's Ferngully." This time we actually got to root for the humans - a novel concept.The movie follows a misfit boy as he turns from a laughing stock of the town and he grows into the only person who seems to be able to get the dragons to do as he wants. There are many things to like about this movie and very little not to like.The movie was not pretentious...not full of itself just well made entertainment. I recommend this highly!


                
In my opinion the best animation movie I have ever seen and it could easily score 10 out of 10, silly as it sounds I only gave it a 9 so I had wiggle room for the sequel.Jay Baruchel, who has done some decent movies, does the voice of Hiccup to perfection. The whole movie really revolves around Hiccup and Toothless, his young dragon. As one other reviewer stated, Toothless exhibits masses of personality and is like a huge lovable puppy. Being able to display this level of personality without uttering a single word is beyond impressive.The addition of romance, comedy and action galore makes this a movie for all the family as I assume was Dreamworks aim.This is truly a fun movie that has to be seen to be believed.9/10


                
Now that's more like it! Last July, after I heralded Inception and Toy Story 3 as rescuing 2010 moviegoers from a year otherwise bereft of great storytelling, I received an email from a Dreamworks animator pointing me in the direction of How to Train Your Dragon. Word of mouth had been positive, but I had yet to check it out. Dreamworks Animation (Shrek, Over the Hedge, Monsters vs. Aliens) is known for targeting the funny bone of children and adults alike, but with the exception of Kung-Fu Panda, making films with heart and a spirit of adventure to match the humor hasn't seemed to be their priority.With How to Train Your Dragon, however, Dreamworks has raised their standard, making the race for Best Animated Feature at this year's Oscars much more interesting. Combining truly stunning visuals with well-rounded characters, Dragon doesn't insult the intelligence of young viewers. It is moving and uplifting, thrilling and funny, and uses its fantasy story to explore profound themes of prejudice, searching for personal identity, and longing for acceptance by a parent. If this sounds heavy, don't worry: you'll have a great time, and the action is pretty terrific. Listen for a great turn by Gerard Butler as a Viking father.


                
Here's yet another great film that I missed the boat on initially. I typically stay away from kid's movies (save classic Disney) because they tend to be overly simplistic bores that would only entertain the youngest of children. HOW TO TRAIN YOUR DRAGON is one of best of the lot, however, because of its excellent animation and a compelling story with themes that will resonate with viewers of all ages. The movie takes place in an indeterminate time period when Vikings and dragons coexisted, although not peacefully as the beginning makes perfectly clear. They're mortal enemies, in fact, and Vikings train from a very young age to be able to kill the beasts who raid their village and steal their livestock. Everyone, that is, except Hiccup. Hiccup is what you could call an outcast or a reject. He wants to join his peers in training, but nobody ever seems to want to give him a chance. Fortunately, he gets one, though not in the way you'd expect. As the title indicates, there is some dragon training that goes down, but not without a serious paradigm shift. At its core, this movie is about a young boy who doesn't quite fit in, yet finds a way to make himself valuable to the people around him. There is also a subtext about learning to empathize and/or come to terms with things that we don't understand, and therefore fear. Both of these messages are very pertinent to people, young and old, and are dealt with in a mature, yet accessible way. For the kids, you have the spectacle of expertly animated flying sequences and a killer battle with the big-bad dragon. For adults (and more discerning children), you have the meatier stuff about acceptance and overcoming your fears. It's really one of the best animated films I've ever seen, on multiple levels. While DreamWorks might have made their name with Shrek, I think that this will have a bit more staying power in years to come. In fact, this is so good that it pains me to even gripe about a single thing, so I'll make it brief. The setup of the movie is a bit roughly handled, and the characters (initially) aren't really given their due. But the movie improves drastically as it progresses, so much so that you almost forget the slightly weak first act. Overall, this is a movie I see myself watching again and again, and I'll definitely be checking out the sequel. Do yourself a favor and go watch this right now. You'll be glad you did.


                
This movie, I liked it. I usually don't enjoy watching movies set back into medieval times or the old ages, but this was great! The plot was amazing and understandable for children. The effects were realistic and you can tell they put a lot of work into this. I think this is Dream Works best imaginative movie, right next to Shrek. These type of movies lets kids have an imagination and they can believe. It shows them how fun it can be to have their own dream world. The movie wasn't too violent nor scary and it was good for any age. I highly suggest this movie.9/10


                
How to Train Your Dragon is honestly one of my favourite films of all time. If you're a fan of fantasy animation such as Rise of the Guardians, Brave or Tangled then I highly recommend this film. By using key techniques that are done in a perfectly appropriate way, this mind- blowing film appeals to all audiences.The film focuses on the importance of victory and acceptance, instead of a cliché love story that is found in most family fantasy films. With the fantastic use of animation, working perfectly with the spiritual music, this film never fails to widen it's audience's eyes. You will never know what will happen next.Though very different from the original books, I personally prefer the ideas used in this film. Because of the chilling mystery and edgy humour, and with a hint of romance, the film sticks to the meaning of the plot without drifting off into some cheesy romantic comedy.Also with the brilliant voice acting from Jay Baruchel, America Ferrera and Kristen Wiig, the characters vary personality; ranging from brave and superior to shy and timid, the characters are all likable. Then of course the legendary dragons, who seem to have personalities themselves, bring humour and imagination to the film, as well as going against the typical tropes of most dragon tales.Overall, I guarantee no matter how old you are, you will be amazed by this film.


                
Many die hard toy-story fans will hate me for saying it, and while I am a huge fan of Pixar movies, How to Train Your Dragon is the best animated movie I have, and likely will ever see. On the first hand it has a unique story. Of course in the broad sense it is an "underdog gains special powers and triumphs" movie, but it has much more under the surface. The deep emotions between the main character and the dragon are powerful to say the least. The animations are whimsical enough to be enjoyed by children, but many scenes feature elements that knock the breath out of even the most critical viewers. One of my favorite elements of the movie was the soundtrack, it is literally, unarguably, exceptionally, perfect. The music matches every movement and every emotion. There is one scene in particular that has me holding my breath every time I see it, and the incredible music is what brings it all together. If you haven't watched How to Train Your Dragon, you are missing out. In summary, I would describe this movie as a beautifully created tale of simple concept, with monumental outcome.


                
I first saw this film and I was convinced it was for kids only, but when it started going, I found it really enjoyable. It's not the best animation I've seen, but its really amazing. Some scenes I think are a bit scary for younger children, so they might want to watch with an adult. It was my niece who made me watch the film in the first place, and she's 8 years old, but I actually think I enjoyed it more than her. She still liked it and she watched it again the next day apparently. I also made my mates watch it as well, and they really enjoyed it to. I can't see why some people give really bad reviews about this, because I think it's amazing animation. I still don't think it's better than any toy story's or shrek, but I still think its amazing. The story line is about a boy called Hiccup, who isn't really good at killing dragons, but he wants to. But when he meets Toothless, the Night Fury, he's not so sure anymore. It's funny, adventure, and really nice film. I recommend this film for every age. I mean, I'm an adult and I enjoyed it, and so did all of my family and friends.


                
After seeing this film three times now (twice in 3D on the silver screen and once on the idiot box), I'm of the opinion that it is a near-perfect masterpiece of modern animation. When this film came out in 2010, I was enraptured and astonished by the beauty and colour of this northern world with its stalwart Viking society and wonderful variety of dragons. Who was responsible for that? Art director Pierre-Olivier Vincent? I'm sure it was a whole team of people. The 3D effects are spectacular. The engaging and heartwarming story (based on a book by Cressida Cowell) hits home for both kids and adults. Hiccup, the little Viking who could, is a great character. Some of it is cliché, but it didn't matter. Yes, I know it's a movie for kids, but there was something clever about it that raised it to a level that adults can appreciate. Kudos to DeBlois, Davies and Sanders for bringing us this imaginative, evocative and, yes, magical film. It's going to be hard to beat this in 2014, but they can certainly count on filling the seats.


                
I remembered hearing my cousin stating how much she enjoyed this movie in the Spring-time upon it's release. Feel sorry I missed it's outing in the theater. It is a gem of a production - better than Toy Story 3 or Despicable Me. "How to Train Your Dragon" captures the magic that any good live-action movie has done in the past with animals. It is masterfully put together with a great balance of humor and adventure. The dragon training scenes and friendship alone is worth watching the movie - the other core characters and story are just "icing on the cake". I just hope they leave it alone for sequels. Great movies do not need them.
Hiccup is a young viking unlike any previous portrayal of a viking, being weak, scrawny, intelligent and strategic rather than all brains and muscle. In his village however this is unappreciated as what they need are strong, beefy men to fend off the nightly attack of the local dragons. However during the last attack Hiccup believes he has killed the most dangerous dragon of all, the mysterious night-fury, and upon searching the forest, Hiccup does indeed find the downed beast. Although he knows he should kill the dragon which is what he is trained to do, Hiccup releases the beast, and over time, due to circumstances I won't go into here an unlikely bond develops between man and dragon. Hiccup eventually uses this knowledge to overcome other Dragons as his father (Stoic) enrols him into Dragon killing class, but will the knowledge be enough to finally gain his father's respect and save his village? Dreamworks animation has over the years provided us with much in the way of animated comedies and it is an area they usually excel in, from Shrek to Madagascar and the most recent of comedic hits, Kung Fu Panda, the studio shines in their ability to tap into today's post- modern thinking, but the two things their films may have lacked before now is, perhaps, a genuine sense of fear for the characters, something that the best Pixar films always have, and ...heart; the ability to tap into that part of us that puts us firmly into the characters plight on screen.This is the first Dreamworks film that succeeds were others have failed. It is always a good sign when a films box office performance increases due to extremely positive word of mouth. The only other film I can think of that has done this is the Farrelly's "There's something about Mary". The story of Hiccup and toothless is charming, scary in parts, but very endearing and the animation is not as overtly stylized and, well, not quite as good as Pixar-esquire, as previous outings have been. The voice work is very good by the four leads, Jay Baruchel, Gerard Butler, Craig Ferguson and America Ferreira, and the main threat, when it is ultimately revealed, is one that is genuinely frightening. There are few things better in cinema than that feeling of "How the hell is the hero gonna beat that?" The direction and writing are decent enough but this is one of those films were the sum of the parts are actually far more than the the individual pieces combined. But perhaps the best thing about this film is, well without giving anything away, it's the fact that we don't get a complete pat happy ending. The final reveal of the horror of war and battle is almost unbelievable in a family film and I was completely shocked that a major studio had the guts to do something like this in a big budget movie and we should all doff are hats to them for such a bold move.Congratulations Deamworks animation. You've come of age.


                
It's just must watch. Animation is good. Story is good. Everything is good!


                
Great movie for kids and adults. Reminds me when I was a kid all I want was a pet like that.


                
