I find it hard to comment on The X- Files because it simply transcends words. It's an intelligent masterpiece, an epos of beautifully complicated scenarios, plots and characters. Eruditely taking on the grayest of areas, confronting those things under your bed and inside your closet thus bringing new meaning to the fears brought on by conventions and the imprudent obstinacy of social norms. The script, the actors and the direction make the most unbelievable seem believable and the unfathomable- unfathomably real. So thought provoking that if you really let yourself dwell in its essence, it can change the way you see the world, if only just by believing in the conviction that The Truth Is Out There.


                
Well I have been putting this off for a while because really I can't figure out how words can really express just how amazing of a show this is. I think I was 11 or 12 when the Pilot first aired. I didn't watch the show then because I was afraid of it after I saw episodes like "The Jersey Devil" and "Born Again" when they first aired, which is really funny because theses are some of the tamest episodes to me now. So unfortunately I wasn't quite ready or prepared for the X-Files during it's running. Later I remember watching TV one Saturday and there was a Chris Carter double feature. First "Jose Chung's From Outer Space" and then the Millennium episode "Jose Chung's Doomsday Defense". Both episodes had me in tears laughing at the dark humor.I later found out that FX had an episode every night at 9 and so every night for an entire summer I got to watch an episode and I quickly became immersed in the mythology of the alien conspiracy. Some of the most memorable episodes for me from this period are "Bad Blood", "The Host", "Darkness Falls", "E.B.E", "Little Green Men", and countless others. I quickly became a fan but I had yet to see every episode and I avoided watching it new airings for fear of spoilers. So I began to buy the seasons on DVD. Over two years I was able to purchase and watch every episode. Interesting to me was the fact that I had already seen most of the episodes through syndication but there were many that I hadn't.Anyway enough about my history with the show. The elements of the show that I think make it a great are simple. Likable characters, psychopathic bad guys, enough dark comedy mixed in with the horror and drama to give the viewer a healthy balance. The writer's of the show have a wonderful talent of leaving certain stories hanging only to the extent that does not make the viewer feel betrayed but wanting to watch more.The X-Files defined an era of television and opened the way for other Sci-Fi related shows as well as helping define the crime drama shows that are all over the place now. If the 60's/70's gave us Trekkies for decades on, the 90's gave us the X-Files which will continue to create X-Philes for decades on in suit.


                
The writing, the acting, the production values, the continuity, the heart of The X Files all secure a reputation for this show as the best in its class. It has no peers. The story of two FBI agents working in a small office in the basement of the FBI to uncover, prove, disprove supernatural and unexplained phenomena and alien presence builds beautifully in the nine seasons the show existed. And having seen every episode in chronological order, they build with purpose, continuity, and innovation. Sure, there were set-backs when one actor didn't do most of a season, or another actress was pregnant, or whatever might have arisen, but the show's writers and creator - and make no mistake here that creator Chris Carter and his staff of writers/directors are the reason for this show being what it is - always met each and every set-back with a creative, engaging response. When Fox Mulder's character was gone for most of two seasons, they created two new characters that were every bit as solid as Mulder and Scully. Robert Patrick's Doggett and Anabeth Gish's Reyes were equally compelling characters. There are so many good things to say about this show. The two leads, David Duchovny and Gillian Anderson, grew as characters and thespians before our very eyes. They honed their crafts and became stronger screen presences. These characters were characters that we learned to like and wanted to follow. Duchovny brought some much needed wry humour to an otherwise serious subject. He was able at one moment to convince you that the world was one big conspiracy and in the next moment comment on the lack of movement from a dead person with lighthearted appeal. Anderson softened each year, becoming less rigid and inflexible. The cast of supporting characters was always first-rate with Mitch Pillegi as Skinner and William Davis as the antagonistic Smoking Man never giving a bad performance. The three Lone Gunmen were excellent light diversions in bloody cases or cases involving alien invasion or what not. The first season will always be my favorite. Mulder and Scully are finding themselves as characters and the idea of conspiracy is all too real. Jerry Hardin plays Deep Throat, the man feeding Mulder news of government conspiracy, with strength and a true believability. But before I get too compartmentalized, The X Files was able to be two series in one - perhaps its greatest achievement. One the one hand, we had Mulder and Scully battling conspiracy, aliens looking to invade Earth, Mulder finding his sister that had been abducted by aliens, and other plot strands of a similar nature. But the show would also show totally unrelated episodes that were very scary and horrifyinfg. We saw worm men, killer insects, a man that sucked the fat out of his victims, cannibalistic cults, and the list goes on and on. I love the myth episodes, but these horror episodes are my favorites because they are so creative. I cannot remember how many times, having just watched and episode, saying how does someone think this stuff up? Whether The X Files is spoofing the Brady Bunch or alluding to Moby Dick or creating a homage to Frankenstein and movies of its ilk or just trying its best to scare you or disgust you(the episode Home - a favorite of mine), it is always true to itself in terms of the creativity that courses through its proverbial veins. Yes, sometimes, it is a bit full of itself, and, yes, sometimes, the creativity falls right down on its face(as when the show combined the X Files with Cops). But the show has far more, far more hits than misses. I think that as time goes by, this television show will be remembered for much more than what we remember it for today. I think it will be one of the all-time greats. The Truth is out there.


                
"Every story needs a hero, our story has two...". This appears on the opening screen of one of my favourite music videos based on the X Files saga.I agree!I started watching the X Files when I was 10 (I am 17.5 at the moment). My first episode was Home and my mum was there when I saw it. BAD way to start my experience! She freaked a bit (make that a lot) and of course never let me see another episode. But, in December 2000, I got to the video club and guess what I found! X Files tapes! I was thrilled! I took and watched each one of them. Luckily the show was still on t.v. so I became an instant addict. I already knew the plot backbone, so it was easier for me to follow all the plot-twists. I came to love the Mulder-Scully dynamic but I must admit that all the dynamics were great. (May I remind Mulder-CSM or Mulder-Krycek, or Scully-Skinner, or Bill Scully-Mulder). As most fans, I was anxiously waiting for that kiss in the movie, but that #$%@ bee ruined it. But anyway, the kiss came in triangle (even if not "real") and the romance found its way. However, the reason for watching the show was never the "relationship". I think I watched the show, because simply, it was superb. The actors, the director, the writers, the visual effects, the creepy Mark Snow music, the innovative ideas, the "mutant of the week", the Morley cigarettes, the story itself and its implications. That is what I loved in this show and that is what made me an avid X-phile!The X Files has become my personal addiction. If I am tired or need an energy boost, then I know that my tapes (71 of them!) always wait for me and the VCR is ready. When I press "play" my world is gone in an instant and the wonderful world of Mulder and Scully sneaks in and takes me completely.Now that the show is over and I have seen every episode (except some of s9 -that I don't have the courage or the wish to see), I seek my X Files drug in collecting music videos, creating videos, downloading X stuff, playing the X Files games in Playstation (Resist or Serve was amazing!!!), reading lots of fan-fiction, watching the episodes (of course), and generally trying to compensate for what is lost. I am looking forward to the next movie. I feel like I am in withdrawal and it isn't a nice feeling! I am amazed at myself for being so needy. Everyday I catch myself thinking about the show, the plot and its characters. And it is never enough. I wish I didn't need to sleep to keep doing this for as long as I can, until I get completely repelled by the idea itself. I honestly believe it, that until something happens and I hate the show, I will continue to adore it and treasure it to the extreme until the day I am gone. My love will never fade, if it has to end, then it will end abruptly. Favourite episodes of all times, include all the Mytharc ones, and especially Duane Barry, Ascension and One Breath of s.2, Anasazi, Blessing Way and Paperclip of s.3, Tunguska and Terma of s.4, the Redux trilogy, the movie, Triangle and the Sixth Extinction trilogy.The last episode had a non-happy end! I don't believe any of the X-Philes was truly surprised at that since no one expected closure. On the contrary everybody secretly wished for reasons to keep the show going. The Truth leaves untouched questions, answers some of the existing ones and creates more! A true X Files episode. As David Duchovny said once in an interview, "Mulder can never find happiness, he is a questing hero". After 9 years (12 now!)I am sure that this applies to Scully too and that we all want the heroic quest continued!Nicole XXX
The X-Files is one of the greatest shows ever made. The concept was original. The chemistry was amazing. Gillian Anderson and David Duchovny make one of the best on-screen pairings of all time. Week after week, the X-Files consistently delivered solid, fantastic entertainment. They had a great team of writers who wrote such original and brilliant episodes as 'Clyde Bruckman's Final Repose' and 'Beyond The Sea'. Whether it was straight horror: Season 4's 'Home', horror mixed with humor: Season 5's 'Bad Blood', or just good old aliens: Season 2's 'Little Green Men' X-Files did it best. It lasted a long 9 seasons and inspired 1 movie so far, and I am devastated that I have no new X-Files to see. There have been many imitations since it ended but nothing will ever come close.
As a young child, my parents let me watch almost anything that they watched on TV. This included The X Files. I was always excited to see it come on TV. Later in my childhood, I decided to revisit The X Files. There my family was, watching all of the episodes... some my parents had seen and some they had not. I grew up laughing, loving, and many times questioning the truth with The X Files. (My friend and I had a little crush on Mulder when we were about 7 or 8. xD) I spent countless nights watching my favorite episodes... and I still do. Now we have so many inside jokes, along with family memories, all thanks to The X Files. These days it even provides an easy way for our family to spend time together without me getting tired of my parents. The X Files continues to excite me every day. I love this show and I am grateful for all of the childhood memories it provided and still provides each day. <U+2665>


                
The X-Files is kind of like good wine or cheese in that it's aged rather well. The characters and the world they live in is frighteningly real, even as we hope it isn't, and the new series gives their world a dose of extra realism, cynicism, and mystery. Mulder and Sculley are just as you remember them and their scientist/skeptic meets true believer dynamic isn't old or tired. They've aged and matured and that's actually a good thing. One cool thing is that they got as many of the original cast as possible. Every time one of them came on screen my inner 10 year old screamed in happiness. Skinner and yes, CSM are back because what would the X-Files be without them. There are a few new faces that you will definitely like.The only thing I will say about episode 1 is this: Meta. As. Hell.
The X-Files would have probably have been the single best sci-fi show ever created by Chris Carter and Fox. The show itself was very well made and had a good feel of jump-out horror, psychological horror and suspense horror. Which for a TV series is pretty good. The plot line itself was very well constructed. It would tell individual and bizarre stories but would have a bigger and more enticing plot that would reveal itself.The characters have great chemistry together (Dana Scully and Fox Mulder). There is a perfect blend of cryptozoologists, rational-real-life people, control freaks, mysterious men and aliens. The show plays on such legends as Area 51, Lock Ness, Aliens, and Men in Black, abductions, freaks and more. The acting is solid, both on set and off set.This movie would be ideal for those who believe that there is something out there and that the "Truth is out there."


                
I actually watched the episode before taking the time to write a review about it. Too many people wanted to be first to write the reviews to the returned series, and have managed to get away with it by providing a review with the most generic information possible, so much so that it becomes glaring clear they never actually say the first episode. I suppose you can't blame someone for wanting to be a part of the return to greatness!I did watch the first episode, and it truly has been done correct! I figured that X-Files season 10 was either going to be 'boom or bust' endeavour. Lucky for us they really did right by it by bringing back all of the old regulars, bringing in some new talent that looks respectable, and changing the theme completely! It's no longer about the aliens vs. The human race. Instead Chris Carter has humans using alien technology as the root of all evil, the corporations behind them and the evil agenda's they are pushing!9/11 was just the beginning according to an older, wiser Mulder. These evil cabals led by the Smoking Man are using ufo's, nanotechnology and sub-orbital UAV technology to track Americans everywhere and anywhere. Without spoiling the main story, which by the way tracks as far back as to Roswell, and as recently as 9/11.There is a real tension that plays heavy to the U.S. conspiracy, even more than before! If episode 2 which airs tomorrow evening is as good or better than this, then we are in for a rare nostalgic treat! That's what a feel like when I am watch this show: A Nostalgic Treat.Enjoy!


                
In all my years of watching television,i have to say that the x-files to me has to be the most controversial and well made series in history.Chris Carter who gave the idea that the governments keep secrets or too many secrets away from the public,only gives the people the absolute power to say....I do believe.David duchovny and Gillian Anderson,is the best duo on TV bar none.And yet the supporting cast throughout the seasons gave us the spectacle of comradery in the toughest situations each agent had to endure.Especially the odd three known as the lone gunman.Aliens,specters,or freaks of nature or government conspiracies could not hide well enough,and this television show brought us more imagination to our lives than anything else being watched.Hopefully there will be a second movie which i hear is in the works to 2008.Hopefully the legal battles are done by then with David and carter.It was so sad to see them feud like this all because one wanted to move to L.A.,still other than that we are going to see a wonderful film to give us dreamers and aliens another chance to maybe see a next series kick-off with the new generation dynamic duo.Hats off to David and Gillian,and also carter.Fantastic wonder you gave us all.


                
The x-files is the greatest show ever. If you are not sure of it, look at how many comments on it in this site. Even the people who doesn't like it has commented on it. Some are talking about the greatness of the first few seasons and how bad the last seasons are. True, Mulders disappearance and moving the show to L.A. did something bad to the series. But still it was a great season. While some of the earlier fans deserted it, new fans gathered around it. Throughout those nine years it has been incredible. People who doesn't like the show also comment about it. No other show in this site has been subjected to that. Everybody knows about the show and they feel they have to do something about it whether they like it or not. That's why it's the greatest show ever


                
THE single most intriguing, amazing, interesting, intense televisual experience anyone could ever hope for. I'm now the proud owner of the whole series & i can't help but feel that there were SO many other investigations they could've made. I'm grateful towards Mr CARTER & the entire cast (both on & off camera) for making this such an amazing ride. Hope they might come back some time, rather sooner than later of course.Few have been as inspired as you were.PS.: great & i do mean GREAT casting. David DUCHOVNY, Gillian ANDERSON, Mitch PILEGGI, Melinda McGRAW, Nicholas LEA, William B. DAVIS, Bruce HARWOOD, Dean HAGLUND, Tom BRAIDWOOD, ... They all gave life to & became the personae they were portraying. Oops, almost forgot Peter DONAT, Steven WILLIAMS & Jerry HARDIN. This show became the standard against which i compared all following shows i've watched since & only 2-3 other shows ever came close. Peace y'all. A true fan of your work.


                
This show is a very brilliant. Every episode had a story that would grab my attention and keep it till the very end. When I was very young I used to be scared to even watch an episode, but now I have all the seasons on DVD and watch them frequently. Each episode left a mark on me that now I can repeat the season, episode number and title with just a brief summary of what happened in that episode. Fox Mulder, Alex Krycek, and Cigarrete Smoking Man are my favorite characters.*Spoiler* Only thing I can criticize is when David Duchovny leaves and Robert Patrick takes his place. His character irritated me and for a "non-believer" he sure handled the situations well. I nearly cried on the last episode when a missile was shot into the tunnel where Cigarrete Smoking Man was.
Scully says to Mulder "You want to believe, you so badly want to believe". Mulder responds "I do believe". This simple exchange between Mulder and Scully re-ignites that age old question..."Is their life on other planets and are there actual alien abductions of humans?" It was this intense exchange between the two main characters that draws you right back in to the success of the original 1993 ground breaking Science Fiction series. Are we witnessing a bigger conspiracy than the Manhattan project? What was the outcome of the Manhattan project? Was this the cause of the initial entry of aliens to earth that the government kept secret for the past 70 years?There is so much information that Mulder and Scully are provided by the new rich guy Tad O'Malley (played by Joel McHale) that we the audience may start to believe that our own government is the biggest conspirator of hidden agendas and that the government would actually blame the cataclysmic outcome on our neighboring nations that would result in World War III. Or worse is there a global warming theory that has the elitist heading to another planet as the world is destroyed? I just loved that the great character actor Rance Howard was provided a part in the pilot episode as he divulges critical information to Mulder.It is a great start for the re-boot. Too bad it will be limited to only 6 episodes.


                
I missed X Files, welcome back Mulder and Scully . Would you please keep the episodes coming. My husband and I were your number one fans back then, today we are still fans with an addition of two more watching X Files, our kids. Teenage boys that found X files better than any other shows they are watching. My oldest son surprised said: Wow, you guys had better shows than the ones available nowadays. Cannot wait for more episodes. I hope you will keep the show despite peoples reviews, the spirit and suspense of the show are still here. It's been so long and I missed the show so much, there is no other way I can describe the episodes other than X FILES ARE BACK PEOPLE!!!!!!!!


                
So there I am, your humble reviewer, painfully forcing myself to watch Heroes Reborn and thinking how can anyone from the money side sign off on this junk, and I am writing IMDb reviews of Heroes Reborn and saying OMG this is awful for the lova Pete go buy a DVD of the original and loyal fans of Heroes Reborn, all 7 of them, are not only whacking the NOT USEFUL key but actually contacting me via the IMDb message board to tell it is time to hang up my reviewer spurs....... and then I hear that Heroes Reborn has not been renewed because even its own fans hated it and I think maybe my reviewing skills are not that far off and then I hear about the X-Files reboot and I try it with great fear NOT because I am afraid of aliens or the Truth but because I do not think I can handle another bad reboot ...... and then I am watching and I think Yes Yes that is how you do a reboot you work from strength and then augment that strength, and I know that I am hooked from halfway into the first episode and my brain is pumping endorphins and I love the way they incorporated modern conspiracies and I liked the way they used McHale from The Soup and I am having this incredible stream of consciousness but I am not actually typing anything and I have no idea how my thoughts are being recorded by the IMDb..


                
First review here. I did not watch any X-Files during it's initial run. I received all nine seasons for Christmas last year. Nothing better than seeing those words "to be continued" on the screen and knowing you don't have to wait a week! I thoroughly enjoyed this series! I was reading some reviews and this summed this series up quote well, so I'll just quote it."It was never, as Chris Carter claimed, about Scully. It was rarely, as most media claimed, about Mulder.It was always, always, always about Scully and Mulder.They were two halves of a whole--intuitive/rational, impetuous/cautious, passionate/reserved. That's not a new idea, but switching heads was. Scully-and-Mulder interested us because they switched mental genders; Dana Scully was the one with the "masculine" traits of logic, balance, and a conservative view of science. Mulder's "feminine" side was his dominant side: listening to his feelings, playing his hunches, and leaping to conclusions." Isn't that the truth of it? As much as I liked this series, half of season 8 and all but one episode of Season 9 were not "X-Files" for me. I'm not knocking our new "pair", I did like Agent Dogget quite a lot, but never really warmed up to Agent Reyes. The writers tried to infuse and tug emotional heart-strings with them, but they just weren't Scully & Mulder.To be quite honest about the series in it's entirety, after the 1st movie came out after season 5, the writing seemed to decline somewhat. Not that that kept me from watching and being entertained, but there was a change in my view.But lets talk about the good.The show was at it's best when Scully and Muldur were there and the story involved the alien back-story and the cigarette smoking man. There was quite a bit that didn't include this, but in my view X-Files ROCKED when it was at it's roots....and the rest: Aliens, good and bad. I loved how they were always flirting with "The Greys".Black Oil: How about that. Sentient black goo. It also had the ability to communicate with the spaceships? Loved the eyes of the host. Humans came up with a anti-virus that necessitated the need for the "super-soldier". Very interesting.Alien Space ships that contain all the "answers" and immense power: From the movie of course. Loved this. I wish they could have "taken us there" more. Aside from the movie, we only got a couple snip-its from then on. Important snip-its, but to rare.The Cigarette Smoking Man (as much as we all loved to hate him): Wow, what a character. So much a part of things they gave him his own episode. 1947 throughout the end, he was hated by all, needed by many, and a friend at times when it suited him. As much as I love Muldur and Scully I don't think I could see the X-Files being as successful without this character.Shadow Government(s): Loved the whole premise and how they wove it into the series. Also loved the reveal in "The Truth" that the very first Shadow Government was the Anasazi using Magnatite as protection. Pretty interesting.Krycek: Poor Krycek.... man - did they slap this character around or what? Good guy/bad guy/good guy? Always fighting the invasion even though you never really knew what side he was on.Gibson Andrew Praise: His presence and/or existence threatened everything; the Alien and Shadow government cover-up. Loved how a little boy was THE key in the fight for humanity as we know it.Agent Diana Fowley (just love Mimi Rogers): Muldur's first partner, obviously didn't make the deep connection that Scully did. There to help when needed but corrupted in the end? Skinner: Another great character. a doubter in the beginning and turned do the facts Mulder & Scully amassed over the years.And of course the lone gunmen... loved every episode they were in. Sorry to see them go away.I really enjoyed the ride. Kind of like going to a theme park. Some rides are the best. Those are the ones that make you ride all the not so good rides. The X-Files had it's ups and downs as all series do. But this combination of horror, drama and SCI-FI always had you wondering what was next. I'll miss being able to sit down in the evening, popping in the next DVD and following Mulder & Scully's quest for the truth.Here's to hoping they make another movie and finish this thing right. We all need to know how Mulder & Scully stopped the alien invasion on Dec 22th, 2012 - or if they just pushed it off :-)
Contains mild spoilers.As other reviewers have noted, the first episode is a bit let down by a first half of "catching up" and sloganeering, presumably aimed at new viewers who weren't X-Philes during the original run of the show. But once Mulder confronts Skinner in his empty basement office, the game's afoot.It's a joyous return to the grim paranoid fantasies of the original series, complete with a re-enactment of the Roswell crash that leaves little doubt as to its reality. The pilot ups the ante by introducing a young right-wing version of Mulder, talk show host Tad O'Malley, who with Mulder crafts a whole train of new post-9/11 conspiracies that seem a lot more plausible today than did those in the original series. NSA spying, drones, Wikileaks, non-existent Iraqi weapons of mass destruction, the Patriot Act. These aren't science fiction. They're facts. Mulder's exposition of a massive global conspiracy near the end is classic X-Files, tying together the last fifteen years in a dizzying meta-narrative.Mulder and Scully are a bit older and a bit slower, but there's no mistaking who they are, iconic heroes weighed down by a bevy of personal problems and doubts. Conspiracy is fun again.
My summary is no exaggeration! I just started watching this show at the beginning of Season Five, but thanks to pre-recorded videos and FX, I have now seen every single episode and can say with authority that this is the smartest, sexiest and most intelligent show ever to grace the small screen! David Duchovny and Gillian Anderson bring such depth to their characters (Special Agents Fox Mulder and Dana Scully, respectively), the writing, directing and cinematography are good enough to grace the silver screen (and did in the summer of '98!), and the plots are imaginative, intriguing and downright "SPOOKY"! Tune in just once and you, too, will be hooked!!!!


                
Folks, I have seen almost every Sci-Fi television series and movie that has been made and this is truly the finest I have ever seen. No other series had the consistency. No other plot had such perfect character and story balance. No other series made me so dedicated. There is no other modern TV Sci-Fi series that can match the quality of X-Files. Don't judge the series by one episode or just the Movie, this is a fine body of work! The character story is perfectly intertwined with The Story. I have introduced many people to this series and none have been disappointed. I loved the "conspiracy" that bound this story together. Mulder and Scully's relationship grew seamlessly over many years. In the end, I Believed. Fox's character was matched by Smoking Man's and I saw balance between truth and perception. The cinematography was dark but great. The series couldn't go on forever but I always wished for more episodes that matched what I saw in seasons 2 and 3. In the end I loved the story and the characters. I felt one couldn't live without the other.


                
It is unfortunate that I became a fan of this series 8 years after it was created. I look at TV these days with disappointment and boredom most of the time since most television drama series/movies deal with one of three genres: law, medicine, or science fiction. At first glance, The X-Files would seem to fit into this trend. However, its uniqueness is that it fits into all three of these categories plus a fourth and most important one: human imagination. This is what makes The X-Files one of the most intelligent and most important shows on television today. After all of these years, it is still one-of-a-kind. It forces us to think, to imagine, and to hope. I can't say that about too many other shows at the present time.I have heard several complaints from many people about the past few years of this show: The writing seems to have deteriorated, the loss of David Duchovny hurt the show, one never seems to find out anything from the show (and on the opposite end, we've found out too much from the show), and it has worn out its welcome. I disagree with all of these. The writing is as good as ever (This year had excellent shows; check out Redrum, This Is Not Happening, and the two-part season finale for a peek.). David Duchovny leaving the show may be a blow to fans, but I think Robert Patrick has done a terrific job in stepping in so late in a series. The acting is as good on that show as it has ever been. As for what we have learned from the show, I think that if one expects to be content with knowing why things that happened on the show happened, he is missing one of the major points of the show. The show is half the story; your imagination is the rest. Chris Carter has found that happy medium ground of saying enough but not too much. And I for one should be proof that the show has not been on too long. It is still finding fans (old and new). Those of you who have shied away from the show are missing out on truly great television.My favorite show is the episode: paper clip. The show was wonderfully written and brilliantly acted. Any new fan should check this show in particular out.The truth is out there. The X-Files is still a terrific show after 8 years, and I am anxiously awaiting what is to come.
You will see what I mean in the first 5 minutes of "My Struggle" - An Iconic image is shown that was a staple of the show "Fringe". Of course, Darin Morgan worked on half of the first season of Fringe, so there were a lot of references to The X-Files in the first arc of that show, the 1st 10 episodes. But at least that show got to tell most of it's story over the five years it was on.At first, when I heard about this "10th X-Files Season" I was pleased until I heard it was SIX EPISODES?. Most off-season shows get at least 8 or 10 before the Main shows come off Hiatus. Agent Carter was given at least 10 episodes this year, while we wait for Agents of SHIELD to come back in March.Shows are not done the same way they were back in the early 90's where the Seasons started in September, and lasted until June. The Original Star Trek had 30 episodes in it's first season. Some of the cartoons of the 60's got maybe 60 episodes per year.But the 90's was the decade of Star Trek: The Next Generation (26 episodes per season except for S2) and Syndication. But Fox had this gem called The X-Files that stood up to Trek nicely.Because the same people who would go to Trek conventions would go to X-Files conventions. And for years, Chris Carter could do no wrong, he made money for Fox hand over fist. But they never gave any of his other shows as much support, especially Harsh Realm. I never was able to catch any more than 1 episode of that. And then The Lone Gunmen were yanked simply because their Pilot Ep was too much like what happened on 9/11.But The X-Files endures and it seems like this year is the year for it. Because there are so many dark things happening, Chris Carter represents the people's voice in trying to understand why these things are happening. Through Carter, we can question our Lame Duck Senate that wasted most of it's time fighting the ACA. We can ask why are there so many people who would put gun rights over people's rights or of life itself? And it is because we, the people ask these questions, Fox is allowing Carter (and Mulder) to try to dig into these events.So, I thought 6 episodes was pretty measly, but after seeing the Pilot, well it is not really a Pilot but the 1st episode of a 10th season. Hell, the basement looks exactly like it did when Dogget and Reyes saw it after it was cleared out in the last episode of S9.After seeing this episode and seeing the VAST scope of resources Fox gave Carter in making this look good, I was less upset with the 6 episode thing. Because Fox is giving this their full financial backing and they are giving it good time-slots. And Fox always buries shows of this type in the Friday Night Death Slot, which killed Fringe. If Fringe could have run a few more years, and left in its original time-slot, it would have done well for Fox. If Firefly had been given a whole season and not had all of their episodes shown totally out of order. The same thing happened with Space:Above and Beyond.What is unique about this, which was maybe why the 2nd X-Files feature "I want to believe" failed to please many people (I was pleased with it, but I am one of a very few)- Is that we finally have Morgan/Wong involved. Including Darin Morgan. It was this chemistry that they had with Carter that really worked well. The 2nd feature was Carter only, so while it was a great X-Files Crime story, that's all it was. Actually I am starting to believe that shows like The X-Files, episodic shows, shows that tell a story over time, do not work well as Feature films. I mentioned Star Trek, the Next Generation story was beloved on TV screens, but did not translate well to Features. As much as I liked them, that show had too many characters. The X-Files only has two characters that count, but the story is too complex for just one feature. Maybe if three X-Files movies were made all at once, it would work. But to get Fox to commit to that? That would be a miracle.But as others have said, the FEEL is back. Now, I saw a few 1-*'s in here, well IMDb is filled with Trolls Don't ya know. What I saw last night was not a 1-star product.Of course there are a few adjustments in the traditional Mythos stories, but I will have to watch all of these episodes before I see how Mulder is affected. Because as usual, he Wants to believe too much. And I think he was steered down the wrong path. We'll see.


                
After the X Files, the TV science drama is not the same in the world. The characters, the plot on each episode and the sequence of the story did explore myth and fact in many ways. Creating all type of emotions to the viewers. Let me tell you a short personal experience, back there in the 90s I used to go to work very early in the morning, and after a very long and stressed day in a world class company it was very relaxing to get home, to take a nice cold beer with a nice microwave dinner to watch this 1 hour show. And it was so for 9 seasons! I do recommend this TV show to all that people who looks for an interesting investigation drama!


                
After 20 years this is still one of the best shows I've seen in my life. Nothing can compare to it. This show has everything; comedy, drama, action, horror/sci-fi, thriller, and even a bit of romance. That's why this show is so special, because even now they can still make new episodes if they wanted to. Fans are still demanding a third movie for obvious reasons. Hands down a must-see for those who haven't watched it yet. It should also be noted that in a recent X-Files Reunion (20th Anniversary) featuring David Duchovny and Gillian Anderson, as well as the series' creator Chris Carter, that they wouldn't mind doing a third movie again, especially after seeing all the fans that showed up for it! So here's to hoping for that. In the mean time enjoy the ride of 9 seasons of epicness that will forever be a part of you. :)


                
The most gripping and exciting conspiracy based TV series I have ever seen. Scully & Mulder duo is perhaps the best TV couples in FBI history. Though the movies are disappointing and fall way short of expectation, the TV series depicts a masterful direction and performance. The entire cast justifies their inclusion in the show. "The truth is out there" - has become a revolutionary tagline, not to mention the wonderful character names like "The Cigarette Smoking Man" & "Deep Throat". The show has an amazing ability to keep the audience on the edge of their seats with all the wonderful quotes (my favorite: to predict he future is to invent it). Wonderful scripts along with great FX and soundtrack by Mark Snow makes a show one of the best ones of all times.


                
