I am truly sad for David Duchovny and Gillian Anderson. It must be difficult for them to watch Season 10 of the X-Files. Both are very talented and since the original series ended, their careers have flourished along with their talent. They must have had high hopes for the "new" X-Files as their fans did as well. Why else would they bother? They certainly didn't need to kick a dead horse. But kicked it they did! Unfortunately, I am astonished at how bad the writing is for this new season (10). I blush as they struggle to deliver this dialogue and material. How does this happen? They had a "hit" TV show delivered on a silver platter, fan base included! But what....they couldn't afford any decent writers? I'm baffled.The first episode was a little stiff and the dialogue was not quite right for these two characters. They attempt to introduce facts or information by leading statements that are really fake and not the way anyone would talk, never mind these intellectual characters. It's almost insulting. I hoped that the second episode would be better, and I excused the issues as growing pains. Then I found myself laughing (more from embarrassment than humor)at the second episode. It seems to spiral down very quickly. The premises is ridiculous, the dialogue is that of a really bad B horror film.I am not surprised there will only be 6 episodes. Not sure what went wrong with this project but it truly is...well, embarrassing. My sincere condolences to David and Gillian.


                
The x-files, a show you wanted to see the next episode straight away, the mystery "who, what is behind it all, why?". Now i am talking about the older seasons, not the latest seasons 10 and 11. They stopped, thus leaving a lot of fans with unanswered questions.I thought the reboot was to give the fans those answers, working towards an ending of x-files, that fans deserve.
But seriously, after seeing season 10 and the 4th episode of season 11, do you think that is going to happen, i am not anymore. Really season 10 total garbage. First episodes of season 11 i thought yeah they are on the right path again woohoo. Now after seeing episode 4, i am so disappointed, what an insult to the great show it was.If this is the path the writers are going to continue on, they shouldn't have restarted this show, let the show be for what it WAS, a excellent, one of kind, tv show of '90s


                
This revival is not the X-Files, it is something else masquerading as if it were. Done after four episodes.


                
After reviewing the 5 episodes, I lost my will for further viewing this blatant scenarios and actions that border with childhood playgrounds and miles away from the opening seasons! Everything looks more like a parody about all sort of mysterious appearance, and some of it is also fairly blentful (a game of hangman), and especially to point out that every episode is completely for itself and whatever has happened improperly affects the new and everything go to beginning . Such a mess is difficult to describe and give a precise estimate of where everything went to hell and should have a longer text to cover it all, but for the end my impression is "look if you have nothing else", and forget the previous season if you were a loyal viewer !


                
I fought through season 10 and thought it cant be that bad. It was. I gave up in season 11 episode 2. Complete nonsense, this is how you ruin one of the best series ever.


                
I used to be a huge fan of the 1990s smash hit television show, The X-Files when it debuted in 1993, two years after the cancellation of my favorite show of the 1990s, namely Twin Peaks.Like Twin Peaks, The X-Files is based upon a pair of FBI agents, Fox Mulder, the extremely strange and passive believer of UFO sightings and Dana Scully, the skeptic who was assigned by the Bureau to bring him in.The first three seasons of the show were fantastic as the "mythology" concerning Mulder's search for the truth were at top notch levels and making believers out of the conspiracy fads of the 1990s.After a couple of seasons, the show became rather repetitive, with monsters of the week episodes and a "mythology" that started to become rather stale after the fourth season.The X-Files film, released in 1998, was to show many of the answers of the UFO mythology that the show was so famous for, and while it did prove the existence of UFOs it once again led the audience for more show and tell, and once again it proved the show was really a one trick pony.The remaining seasons became rather stale and repetitive and by the time the show ended, only true fans of the show really cared, and X-Files mania has dramatically died down from previous years. Duchovny left the show after the seventh season, to pursue a failed film career after Mulder's supposed UFO abduction, and Scully was left on her own to carry the weight of the show on her shoulders Even the additions of two brand new agents, Doggit and Reyes, couldn't save the show's plummeting ratings in 2002, so the decision to end the show was finalized with Mulder coming back to face trial after a murder. In short, I felt that series ended on a extremely flat note, with none of the creativity that flowed during it's early seasons. X-Files became a victim of it's own hype that couldn't sustain it's momentum for very long.Now I have to admit I like X-Files but I prefer Twin Peaks, namely because I feel that show was fresher and was cancelled before it wore out it's welcome. I also feel that FBI agent lead, Dale Cooper was a more interesting character than Fox Mulder, although David Duchovny's turn as a transvestite agent in Twin Peaks has many of Mulder's characteristics, without the cross-dressing.In short The X-Files was an interesting ride that definitely outstayed it's welcome with many in the American public. Twin Peaks, definitely had a huge influence in the success of the X-Files, but, thankfully it's brief two seasons on the air remain fresh, while the X-Files and it's downward turn into complete silliness outgrew the public's patience with it's "mythology".
When i saw first episode 
they start moon hoax landing 
so i knew it anti since i love when they talk about real since not to be stupid


                
