I used to love the X-Files. It was my favorite TV shows of the 90s and I enjoyed all the seasons, with the exception of S9 which was complete and utter garbage. I still think it's one of the best TV shows ever, so when I first heard of the upcoming 6 episode mini series, I was naturally excited.Once the familiar intro music played and we immediately get to aliens and UFO action scenes, for a moment, I felt a great feeling of nostalgia. It was like seeing an old friend again that you haven't seen for years. Still, it was immediately familiar and interesting again. But then, all of a sudden, everything changed halfway during the first episode. Mulder goes from believing to disbelieving almost instantly, by some words of some new guy and starts rambling about various seemingly uncorrelated things, creating conspiracies as he Goes along or so it seems. Total chaotic nonsense it seemed to me. In half a episode, all his believes of the past 9 seasons are gone, seemingly overnight. Really? Then it all becomes even more unbelievable by the re-opening of the X-Files for no apparent reason. Mulder, who doesn't seem to have done any paid work is hired again as a FBI agent and Scully, who seemed happy in her current job as a doctor, let's it all go away to go back to the X-files without a doubt. Very unbelievable. Who would hire anyone with a 15 year old gap in their resumé for a department without a budget. What a crap.After that, it all quickly deteriorates even further. I won't go into all the details, but it's smooth ride downhill from here for the next 5 episodes. It makes that X-file movie turd from 2008 seem like the good old days. Seriously, what where they thinking. Chris Carter must have some seriously money issues or lack of ideas for pushing this crap forward. They should not have brought it back with this lack of quality. Hopefully, they will not release another season after this. I am sure I'll not be watching If they do, to preserve my fond memories of what this show used to be. Shame on you Carter.
The not so new X Files is a stale tale badly retold. This series would appear to be a toe in the water exercise for Fox. I believe its a mini series and maybe the execs are hoping to reinvigorate the once popular show? If I'm anything to go by they may be out of luck. The no so new X-Files is a depressing rehash in every sense. The storyline a rather dull retread of the original ideas found in the show, with a rather bland twist. The key actors look throughly jaded and their characterizations are, to say the least, odd.Jillian Anderson's, Dana Scully is an assistant doctor who helps create ears for children, whilst David Duchovney's, Fox Mulder appears to be a reclusive, unshaven, conspiracy has been. The latter character, in particular, is a metaphor for how tired the ideas behind this series have become.For myself I'd rather remember the X Files for the enjoyable, highly original series it once was and in my opinion so should Fox Network. Three out of ten from me.


                
Wow - what was this? Well it certainly had aliens, UFOs, conspiracies and Mulder and Scully, but it definitely wasn't The X-files. Now don't take me as someone who just wants to criticize a new show - The original X-files is one of my all time favorite shows. A show I in retrospect personally think was groundbreaking, and a show where the best of its seasons and episodes, still holds up to the best of modern series today. So far this this reboot, seems to throw all that away, in favor of making a quick buck on the love and cult-following that the original legendary show always had.After a somewhat okay promising short introduction and a nostalgic return of the classic intro and theme, we are thrown into a way too fast paced mess of constantly changing scenes, atmospheres, character "introductions", quick underdeveloped dialog, mediocre CGI, plot-threads and plot-twists and bad acting. It almost felt like I watched a poor mans fast-edit of an entire season, trimmed down to 45 minutes for a Youtube recap of a season.At no time are you given time to breath, or sink in the experience. No time is given for atmosphere, vibes or ambiance. The mystery, drama and speculations left for the viewers imagination, that the old show did so well, is all but gone. The show is actually so fast paced that the ongoing music-tracks often just keeps playing, while the scenes are changing. Mulder and Scully are hardly introduced, or given any deeper background stories for all the time passed, before they are raving about saving the world. And new and old characters are just showed in from nowhere, without setting up any actual introductions or explained reasons for meeting them. An old main character like Skinner, is just suddenly standing and talking to Mulder, instead of setting up an atmospheric long awaited reunion.The old show also could be quite scary and intense some times, especially in the scenes involving aliens or the paranormal - the new show tries to do a scene like this, with a girl in a car, but this reaches its climax within a minute, way before most well directed similar scenes, would even indicate that something bad is about to happen.Well I guess I could go on and on about some of the lesser problems (like the bad acting, inter-explaining dialog for the viewers, Mulder and Scullys sudden loss of chemistry together, or the overcompensating modern take on the whole conspiracy/alien-plot). But the main problem with this show, or at least its pilot, is mostly its terrible tempo, pacing, editing and lack of atmosphere and mystery. So far, it really seems more like a show geared for Ritalin/smart-phone addicted kids, with attention spams for up to 5 minutes, than for fans of the moody and intelligent original show.I really hope that the series will get better, more grounded and atmospheric, and this pilot mostly had just had to feel rushed, to get everything sat up again. I will probably keep giving it a chance for its entire season, but unfortunately I now have my serious doubts that I'm in for any positive surprise- which really is quite a shame, when you take The original X-files legendary status and influence into account.


                
*** Spoilers *** Less than 10 minutes in, Mulder says "No, I only want to believe. Actual proof has been strangely hard to come by".What the heck is this? After all that Mulder has seen with his own eyes and experienced himself, how can he not be an absolute firm believer at this point?? This goes for Scully too. After all she's been through how could she have any doubt? All the denial at this point is absolutely bs.X-Files (when it was good) was my favorite show of all time. And I want to like this reboot so badly but it was pretty bad. But there's just many things wrong with it that it's disappointing.pace is wrong (too much being crammed too soon). Arguably, one of the hallmarks of classic X-Files was the pace of the show. Slow, methodical revelations. However, this first reboot episode felt like a contrived effort to cram in as much classic X-Files touchstones as possible (historical alien flashbacks, alien abductee, comical military hit-and-run on 'secret' facility, conspiracy and paranoia explanation meeting, clandestine meeting with mysterious military doctor who purports to know everything but teases Mulder, ransacking of Mulder's office, smoking man cameo, etc.) and therefore making this episode tasteless. Heck, why stop there? Should have thrown in sprinkle of Lone Gunmen, a dash of Krycek, and a smidgen of the colonist dude lurking in the shadows for good measure.Gillian Anderson, I'm sorry to say this, but your portrayal of Scully is off. Scully's assertiveness is not there. The intimacy and familiarity (with Mulder) is gone. And the words are just not coming out like it should.conspiracy to take over America first, then the world? At any cost? Really? You couldn't come up with anything better than this? 9/11, big brother initiatives, weather weaponization/manipulation, hoarding of alien technology, food conglomerate control, zero-ing of bank accounts, militarization of law enforcement, and the best of all -- benevolent aliens concerned for mankind and it's path of self-destruction. Really? Really??? Can't come up with anything else more original that you have to follow the full-blown typical sensational paranoia? I give the actors credit for not bursting out in laughter in that paranoia meeting.Chris Carter, remember this please: LESS is MORE.
The main theme, the main conspiracy, the explanation of every action that every shadowy and malicious figure has ever taken, everything can be told in a few sentences. Yet, it takes no less than 9 whole seasons, of 21/22 episodes each, a grand total of 190 episodes and 9 whole years before the main story is actually delivered in a few minutes during Scully's testimony to the military court. During the rest of the episodes the main actors act as part retarded and amnesiacs, avoiding to ask questions that would clear the confusion in seconds. But the writers felt that the series has to last 9 whole years going around in circles and becoming irrelevant, boring and frustrating.On the one hand there are episodes where Mulder and Scully slowly uncover a huge conspiracy to hide an impending alien invasion and colonisation of the earth, the destruction of humankind as we know it.Faced with the forthcoming alien invasion and colonisation of the planet you would think that anything else would pale into insignificance.Yet to we have to enure dozens of episodes dealing with unrelated issues, such as Mulder and Scully chasing bank robbers, unique animals, psychics, circus performers and other "paranormals", as if the aliens and the urgency of trying to save the planet has all disappeared, as if we are wathcing another series altogether.Most episodes are about a pair of FBI agents tasked with investigating crimes involving paranormal activities. During those episodes Mulder comes face to face with the paranormal, and the not-so-normal, while Scully, the sceptic, is always two steps behind, locked in another room, or otherwise always prevented from actually witnessing first hand the paranormal. This theme swiftly becomes repetitive and annoying as episode after episode we know to expect Scully to be looking the other way while UFOs are flying right in front of her nose. I personally gave up somewhere around season 6 and fast forwarded to the last episode of the series, and I believe that Scully still has not ever witnessed an alien or any other paranormal event.The story really becomes frustrating as the main actors seem to forget that in the previous episode they were chasing aliens and are content investigating some unrelated crime that has nothing to do with the destruction of human kind which is just round the corner.Down to the last episode the main actors are obsessed with exposing the truth, exposing the various government conspiracies, wanting everyone to learn of the crimes that the government and the military have committed, but completely ignoring the fact that the world is about to end by alien invasion and no matter what crimes were committed they were attempts to stave off the invasion and save human kind. Their obsession with the "truth" is absurd under these circumstances.I believe the series started off well with a huge government/military conspiracy slowly being uncovered and the zealous Mulder trying to expose the Truth. But at some point it becomes clear to everyone that the conspiracy is an attempt to stall an alien invasion and to save human kind. At that moment, with the knowledge that the earth is about to be infiltrated and invaded by colonising aliens, there is no other logical path other than to side with the 'conspirators' and work towards trying to save human kind. This is not what happens though, the main characters remain obsessed with some "truth" they are still trying to uncover down to the last few minutes of the last episode of the series. Dreadful, really insanely absurd, nonsensical, and irrelevant.
In the 1990s, science fiction went through a tedious period of being Very Serious Indeed.  Productions like "The X-Files" and "Star Trek: The Next Generation" featured toned-down acting and souped-up production values, probably in an effort to escape the "cheese factor" attached to older, cheaper, and more exuberant programs such as the original "Star Trek" and "Doctor Who."  Alas, the new "weighty" approach did not work for this particular viewer; watching David Duchovny drone out his lines like a heavily-medicated mannequin is not my idea of entertainment.On the plus side, "The X-Files" perhaps represented some glacial progress in terms of making American science fiction less sexist.  Gillain Anderson's Dana Scully shares equal billing with Duchovny, which is, ostensibly, a big step up from the minor roles played by women in the various incarnations of "Trek."  However, Scully has the rather thankless role of denying that aliens exist, even after she's seen truckloads of them.  So, the male character is actually the one who is In the Know, the one who Gets Things Done.  Note also that Scully is incapacitated for much of the movie, and requires rescuing.  Sorry, but I think that Joanna Lumley played a much more proactive woman in the waaaay superior "Sapphire & Steel," over ten years earlier!  So never mind what I said about progress.I guess any final judgment of "The X-Files" depends on what style of sci-fi you go for.  Personally, I'll take Shatner's scenery-chewing and the larger-than-life villainy of Daleks and Klingons over lots of dead-boring acting in shadowy sets and the "menacing" presence of an old guy who puffs on herbal cigarettes.  I don't much care for "The X-Files"'s paranoid content either; a recent article in the Boston Metro actually extensively mocked the show for typifying the ridiculous "conspiracy craze" of the last decade.By the way, this is highly derivative of "Silence of the Lambs," which even featured similar on-screen captions that told viewers where and when a scene was taking place.  But Scully is no Clarice Starling, that's for sure.


                
I have seen fringe, stargate, farscape, etc. But X files... I should have dropped out at season 4. I continued watching in hope of seeing a great end to the story (and because I grew up watching maybe 3 episodes as a kid), but sadly the end is not worth even a penny. Both the episodes and the end sucks. I only enjoyed the first movie, and I must say that the movie was actually very good.But back to the series, I could go on and write a long and boring review of "why I hate the x files", but I won't. I came here as a sad man after watching the episode 6 of season 10 just to give the series 1 star and tell people to stay away. If you haven't seen this series before, trust me and stay away! That's all I can say.


                
