I watched X-Files first time when it began airing regular episodes here in 1999. I followed it devoutly. It had a dark , serious sometimes sinister tone with lots of mystery and open endings. The main characters , Mulder and Scully , opposites working on unresolved paranormal cases were written as loners , dedicated professionals and trusted partners/friends for each other. The conspiracy mythology started great and went on OK for first four or five seasons with different elements adding on top of each other. The X-Files movie in 1998 was cherry on the top for that subject. Standalone episodes were impressive too. Episodes like "Jersey Devil" or "Home" scared the hell out of me and were just made fine. They usually kept a door open for different possibilities even at the end of episodes which I liked. Grittiness , scare and mystery factors with lots of creativity kept this show alive........until Season 6 I guess. That's when things began to go downhill. Season 7 was worse. A very unnecessary campiness and cheese factor was added to show , became a more dominant factor and it lowered previous quality. There were still some good stand alone episodes here and there but alien conspiracy arc became more and more complicated plus illogical , ignoring previous continuity. Story elements didn't make sense in larger picture. ( ultra powerful syndicate was wiped out all too easily at one stroke , Mulder came out as CSM's son , Mulder's father/mother plus ex-girlfriend was involved in conspiracy , Scully got pregnant , Mulder's sister became "starlight" , Krychek played double so many times and cheated death it became really silly. M/S became romantically involved and remained partners etc ) On top of that an unnecessary comedy and lightness element became more and more apparent even in stand alone episodes and it became very tedious. I mean this show was close to being a classic like Twin Peaks , Twilight Zone or Outer Limits but it became more like a stupid teenage fun romp like Buffy the Vampire Slayer or Stargate. When the series began to have fun with itself with episodes like "X-Cops" or "Hollywood AD" it sunk completely. During its last two seasons producers tried to save it by injecting new characters , plot elements and new layers to conspiracy. The new characters were OK. For example John Doggett played by Robert Patrick was a very well written and developed character. One exception aside all episodes around him brought back some of the serious air X-Files used to have. Unfortunetely the series was going all too long. Creativity was mostly gone. The conspiracy plot became more and more unbelievable and full of nonsense and became so complicated it was clear CC and his team hadn't planned ahead. The finale didn't bring any resolutions or clear answers either. It just confirmed what we knew all along with a date and showed some old faces , that's it.In my opinion Season 1-5 are golden years of X-Files. They are full of suspense, thrill and intrigue. After that it becomes more and more an action/comedy show and begins to repeat itself ( it can not be avoided after all it went on for nine seasons )
This is a moving series produced by the Fox Broadcasting Co. television , titled : The X-Files (1993-2002) . Based on the fictional characters about two obstinate FBI agent investigating unexplained paranormal phenomena and it had two theatrical films : I want to believe (2008) by Chris Carter and X files : Fight to the future (1998) by Rob Bowman and both of them based on the series , being all of them played by David Duchovny and Gillian Anderson . The two colleagues Fox Mulder and Dana Scully , work in the X-Files office , which is concerned with cases with particularly mysterious or possibly supernatural circumstances that were left unsolved and shelved by the FBI . Along the way they attempt to resolve any other cases at whatever risk , usually related to fantastic deeds , weird events and paranormal happenings . Meantime , dark forces attempt to get their strong efforts have fruitful results . As Mulder and Scully must act in order to avoid plots , deadly virus , alien colonization of Earth and save everyone on the planet , among others . The series being formed by 217 episodes, during 1993-2016 . And directed by prestigious TV filmmakers as Kim Manners , Rob Bowman , David Nutter , Tony Wharmby , Michael W. Watkins , Rod Hardy , Jerrold Freedman , William A. Graham ,Daniel Sackheim , Peter Markle , James Wong, Thomas J. Wright , Joe Napolitano , Larry Shaw and Vince Gilligan of Breaking bad . Chris Carter , the actual showrunner directed 13 episodes . Special mention for the mysterious and thrilling musical score by Mark Snow .Stars two wonderful characters Fox Mulder well played by David Duchovny who directed 3 episodes , Fox is a true believer . As he believes on UFos and thinks his sister was abducted . Mulder believes on alien conspiracies within the U.S. government and perceives his cases from view points of the paranormal , supernatural and conspiracy . He is a Special Agent of the United States' Federal Bureau of Investigation, partnered most often with fellow Special Agent Scully , as Dana was paired with Mulder to keep his investigation factual base . Fox William Mulder nicknamed "Spooky" Mulder, is a FBI Special Agent who believes in UFOs and a government conspiracy to hide or deny the truth of their existence . Mulder's drive in finding the aliens is his sister Samantha Mulder . As children Samantha was abducted from the Mulder home and Fox has never forgiven himself for not fighting harder to prevent the abduction . Samantha is the drive behind all of his investigations to get redemption that she may still Mulder considers the X-Files and the truth behind the supposed conspiracy that he has made the main purpose of his life . -And Agent Dana Katherine Scully , M.D. ; Dana Scully was born in 1964, into a close-knit Catholic family . Dana Scully attended University of Maryland , and earned career in Physics . She earned the degree in Medicine and while lasting medical school , she was recruited by the FBI . Upon being partnered with Fox Mulder , she maintained her medical skills by acting as a forensic pathologist , often performing or consulting on autopsies of victims on X-Files cases . This role in the beginning was the naysayer and she debunked most if not all of Mulder's findings . As the season pass she witnesses her own evidence of an alien presence and their potential danger to humanity . In the first movie she is almost a victim of an alien abduction . From this point on her science is tilted towards Mulder's thinking and is no longer considered objective by the FBI . Other essential roles appearing are the followings : Mitch Pileggi as Walter Skinner , Robert Patrick as John Doggett and William B. Davis as Smoking Man .


                
THE X FILESI remember watching the TV show when it originally aired on TV... I loved it. So I recently started watching them all again on DVD... and have just finished season 5 which means that it was movie time.I liked this film... it was definitely the X Files but on a bigger scale. It felt more Hollywood... the soundtrack was not a TV soundtrack... you could tell the budget on this was a lot bigger than the budget for the show.There really isn't a lot I can say about the cast in this film as it's mostly the cast from the show so we know what they are like.There were a few bits in it that changed slightly from the show though... Scully seemed to have more of a sense of humour... she was messing around with Mulder a bit more in this, and they seemed closer too. The language was different too... being a movie they could get away with a little bit more then they could on the TV. It was weird hearing Mulder saying a few soft swear words.The aliens that were seen in this film were awesome... I loved them. They reminded me in a way of the aliens in 'Alien'. The effects were really good too... I honestly think that even if you are not a fan of the show you would like this film. It is a good sci fi movie.I will give this 7 out of 10A really good film that you should see, even if you don't watch the TV show... which you should. :)For more of my reviews, please like my Facebook page:http://www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl


                
What happened to X-Files over the years??? It started out so perfect and exciting to watch.What happened, the writers/producers took themselves too seriously and believed they were creating great art by turning the lights off on the set and cranking up the music so viewers would feel like they were listening to a radio show.I stopped watch the last couple of seasons as it got more and more boring with each episode


                
The X Files combined all three genres very well, and threw in alot of conspiracy theory as well.Whatever magic wand was used, almost every story grabbed your attention, and kept you wanting more...seldom does a show take story telling beyond scene by scene positioning, yet this one literally wove the plots into another world entirely...


                
This show more than repaid any interest a viewer invested into it. There were episodes that were simply amazing; Burt Reynolds as God (Improbable), the forest dwellers with red eyes (Detour), the episode on the Queen Anne (Triangle). Has there ever been anything shot for TV that is more visually beautiful than the "Post Modern Prometheus" episode? There were definitely many average episodes, but on what other show was a "special episode" actually special (meaning memorable & exceptional)? As an actor, it must have been a pleasure to get each new script, knowing even if it didn't look too promising, the care taken with production would probably send it over. Most but not all episodes took the shape of a sci-fi mystery. Almost every standalone was at worst, atmospheric, fun cheese. And occasionally the show had some good scares. X. F. was always an enjoyable way to kill an hour. One does tend to wonder after a while why hospitals, courtrooms, office buildings, laboratories and homes all haven't paid their light bills. The episode "Rush" (7th season) features the gloomiest high school ever built.But I'm not the typical fan, and I hate the soap opera storyline of the mythology. No one, has ever sustained the soap opera format in my eyes (Not Twin Peaks, not Lost, etc.). So, I intensely disliked the myth-arc from the beginning. The episodes where the Mulder/Scully/cancer man/alien running story is explored, put me into a coma. I just don't care about these characters, except as conduits to scary, weird events. I never watched the show to have someone or something to care about. These are dependably the least entertaining, least compelling episodes in the series. I couldn't find my interest in them, if I watched them with aliens probing my butt. The ponderous seriousness/moodiness which gave weight to silly topics (in the standalones) make the mythology episodes terminally lethargic. Every mythology episode is as dull and pointless as every other one. They lack art, effort, interest and especially, forward momentum! Kricheck? pregnancies? antidotes? implants...? Snoooooooze. And Scully seems to have drawn the last three melodramatic ideas from the idea jar (cancer, child who died, crisis of faith) Just atrocious. Not a single thing could breathe life into those leaden ideas, and they work against the unknowable aspect of the show.I understand the fans of Agent Dogget here (I like him too) but he's very serious. I missed Duchovny's frequent humorous line readings.
OK first things first - I liked it.BUT -- As cosy and warm the opening episode felt god damn everything was SO SO rushed.Mulder's opening speech before the credits was like some kind of word speed test. He managed to condense the X-file premise into a one minute garbled speech... not a bad thing, it just felt rushed. As did the whole episode. Old characters were brought back conveniently with a script that felt very very awkward. Duchovny is an odd actor. Sometimes he convinces, even impresses with his portrayal of Mulder. Then in another scene it is like watching a teenager ad lib very very badly.Nice flashback to the Roswell crash. Loved the AVR scene.I am IN as far as this six episode series goes. But far from totally happy. Hopefully be the end of the sixth episode that lovely glowing warm cosy feeling that Mulder and Scully are back again will remain.


                
As a kid, I watched occasional episodes of this cult series now and then, and I could say I liked it, but without continuity, I could not get the right impression, nor did it matter to me then. As they decided to revive it, I decided to watch it properly."The X-Files" is an SF mystery-thriller based on unresolved FBI cases that in one way or another involve extraterrestrial life. Some episodes deviate from this template and deal with other supernatural and unexplained phenomena, but the series as a whole concentrates on the relationship of two agents, one of which believes in extraterrestrial intelligence, while the other is a skeptic, believing only in scientifically proven facts. Among them, of course, there is strong chemistry, but they persistently remain only partners, and over time friends, which further boosts the power of stories.Gillian Anderson is quite antipathic to me personally, but I admit that I can not imagine any other actress in that role. On the other hand, the majority of the audience identifies actor David Duchovny with the character of Fox Mulder and for years I was convinced that in every other role he would always be Mulder to me. Until the series "Californication" appeared, in which the character of Hank Moody completely wiped out any identification with "The X-Files". This is one of my favorite series, and Hank Moody is definitely my favorite television character, so when I started to rewatch "The X-Files", I was surprised how easily he became Agent Mulder again. This level of credibility and commitment to such different roles made him one of my favorite actors.From today's perspective, the series is quite outdated, but in its time it fascinated both with originality and special effects extremely imaginative and quality for the television budget. But what gave it the greatest strength to achieve the high tension and even horror effect, is the motto of its creator Chris Carter, which I used as the title for my review. There is no such technology, such budget, and such special effects that can be measured in the intimidation of the audience with the imagination of the viewer. A hint of horror will always achieve a stronger effect than explicitly shown alien or monster, which in most cases, however well-done, only weaken the credibility of the situation and turn terrifying into ridiculous, or miserable. I must also mention the fantastic music by Mark Snow. "The X-Files" theme is one of the best out there. It's spooky and mysterious and it echoes deep into space, like the music itself is trying to reach distant worlds.So far, I saw the first season and I'm not particularly thrilled, but, if I remember correctly, the series keeps getting better. For now, I'm rating it7/10


                
The 7 stars so far is because of the new season 10 and 11. Season 10 puts my rating down severely, or it would have been a clean 10 out of 10 for me.First episode of season 11 starts off to my liking.Season 10 was a joke for me, and couldn't stand the use of an agent called Einstein, and hate to see she is in season 11 as well, albeit so far at a much low level. TOO comedic for me.I've been a fan of X-Files since the first episode of season 1, and been an avid watcher and believer of the show and hold it with high regards.I seriously hope that season 11 will do justice to the conspircy, where season 10 utterly failes my expectations.So far so good on first episode of season 11... Will be watching and I do love having Mulder and Scully and Skinner and CGB back. I just hope they follow this through in this mini-season of 10 episodes.


                
I do like the mystery and conspiracy aspects of it, and Mulder's quest for the truth invites you to join him. However, Mulder's only downfall is him rarely ever putting any an emotion in his voice. I get that's one of David Duchovny's trademarks, but I think even Leonard Nimoy's Spock sounded a little more alive than him. I like how Scully is investigative like Mulder is. Yet my only two problems with her are Gillian Anderson was 25 when she first starred in this show, but she acts and looks like she's a 40 year old tight-ass (and she's fairly new to the FBI). She also acts like a well-trained sheep whereas Mulder tends to think outside the box. Probably if Scully were to experience unexplainable situations like Mulder has, she wouldn't act like that. Other than those flaws, Duchovny and Anderson make their characters believable and the drama is really good.


                
It was assumed that the unsolved mysteries that made the basis for this show would in time be resolved, or at least fully explained by the last season. No such luck.The show was very entertaining, and legions of people were so hooked, they formed chat groups to discuss possible theories and explanations together. Perhaps Chris Carter should have poked his virtual head into some of these chatrooms - he might have found a viable ending.But the unanswered questions remained unanswered, for the most part. The few explanations given were weak and unsatisfying. By the end, everyone I knew that liked the show was disillusioned & disgusted. I, myself, didn't even watch the final episode until about a month after its airdate. I just didn't care anymore, and I understood that it would not (& could not) contain the missing pieces of the puzzle I so wanted to see.It was a good show, worth watching, but know going into it that you will not get any kind of resolution in the last episodes.Gillian Anderson & David Duchovny had excellent chemistry together, and William B. Davis played an excellent villain, but the story just didn't hold up.
As so many other long-running TV shows, The X-files run at about the same quality - the first season was shaky but got better, not the least helped by the fact the actors themselves gelled with each other. The second season kicked up the pace and quality, and this was consistent until in my opinion the second half of season six when it started going downhill, to become quite ridiculous later on, despite especially Patrick's performance: he lifts the show but has not the same charisma as Duchovny. Gillian Anderson is consistently great throughout the seasons and most of the supporting cast do as well as they can with the limited screen time they get.Few shows survive long without casualties (Scrubs, which went on for 8 seasons is an exception I can think of), and the X-files is no exception. What is more annoying is the fact that the casualties here are the main characters for long periods of time (Anderson for a long run in season 2 because of pregnancy, Duchovny in season 8 and 9 for reasons unknown to me), but what is even more serious is that the show lose track of what it is doing, and what its purpose is.That means that we loose the plot of the great invasion/extinction, black oil and conspiracy and instead are fed a half-hearted story about super-soldiers. AND we learn that Mulder and Scully jumped in the sack with each other, when part of the charm with the relationship was that it was non-sexual.The show was meant to end after season 7 so I see no reason to watch anything after the last episode, Requiem.
Hopefully this try-out of the 'new' files doesn't go down like True Detective. After only to episodes I can't help myself noticing the way the the series (nowadays) are cut & written: short scenes, snappy dialogues. It keeps you wondering where the character building and story lines are gone.Perhaps writers & producers nowadays are over-consumed with the fast pace of money & life - that they don't even have the time to write proper story lines. Stories even on TV, need there time. Even snappy flashbacks - don't help. They just seem cheap. Like the producers & writers forgot something.Gradually easing in to an episode, being captured by either the character building, story developing or just plain entertainment. Where is it all gone? 'I refuse to believe' ..... this is the new way of producing a proper cutting edge series.


                
I was a big fan of X-files back in 1993; in fact, I was taping every episode on my VCR because I was sure it would be canceled before the first season finished, and back in those days, there was no guarantee it would end up on VHS tape (let alone DVDs). Yes, children, there was a time when a short-lived series without a big fan base simply disappeared into the ether! And I loved it, and wanted to preserve it.Silly me! it went on to become a mega-hit and one of those defining series that (like Star Trek or CSI) has become part of our culture and even our language.The show was always uneven -- a superb episode would be followed by one that was silly or illogical. They would set up character parameters, then violate them. The show would veer from a kind of serious, breathless "alien invasion" theme -- to one about people with tails, or deformed hillbilly mutants. (Some of those episodes are quite funny, but seem to be another show entirely.)A move in Season 5 to LA from Vancouver ruined the gloomy Pacific NW mood of the show in my opinion. It became more and more uneven in quality and illogical in theme (though I kept watching) until the original actors quit, and were replaced (Robert Patrick, Annabelle Gish). After that, really, it was not the same show AT ALL. A case of "false advertising". It was so profitable, that the producers (and Chris Carter) simply could not let it (and the $$$) go. A couple of lame theatrical movies followed, never able to remotely capture the magic of the early years of the show.So -- now, 23 (!!!) years after the premiere, they have rebooted the franchise....keenly aware that fans really only loved the early years of the show. So they copied everything, even the titles down the last molecule. For me, it's very nostalgic. I half expect to find Bill Clinton is still President! LOL! Only....only....well, it's not 1993 and a lot of water has gone under that bridge.For starters, David Duchovney (Fox Mulder) and Gillian Anderson (Dana Scully) are just....old. (Hey, I am too! I was a young whipper-snapper of 37 when this was first on! But folks, I am not seen in closeups on HDTV.) And frankly, they look tired and worn out. I don't blame them for aging. I blame them, Chris Carter, the writers & producers for not accepting that people age and change, and failing to show the characters as having moved on in some way. You can't just put your same outfit on, go back to the same office with the same poster and pretend it's 1993 and nobody will notice your wrinkles and crow's feet.Somehow, Duchovny manages to now look OLDER than AD Skinner (Mitch Pileggi) -- how'd that happen? In '93, Duchovny was 33 and somehow looked 25. His behavior and his crazy beliefs seemed absolutely believable in a young, brash guy a few years out of college or the FBI Academy. Today, Duchovny looks every year of his 55; tired and without energy.And Gillian Andersen? honey, you need to stay out of the sun or use more sunscreen. And what's with her hair? I think somewhere here it says it is a wig, because she didn't want to dye her blonde hair red again for the part....well, it looks strange. Greasy, flat. She had such gorgeous hair back in the 90s....she was an archetypal redhead, with peaches & cream skin. I guess that type does not age well. She's only about 47, but looks 55. (Frankly, this shook me up.)On the other hand: the 3 new episodes (2016) of "season 10" -- as if the years 2002-2016 are brushed off, as irrelevant? hello? -- have been all quite good. Vintage X-files, as if the bad years (roughly 1998-2002) of the show, where it clearly jumped the shark (or had different lead actors) never happened! If you can overlook the aging stars... then the writing and special effects have been excellent. I thoroughly enjoyed each show, despite the pangs I felt every time I looked at them and realized 23 years have gone by (and that the world itself is a very different place today).I suspect this will work nicely for a short 6 episode run....but I hope nobody gets the idea of bringing the show back on regular series basis. I don't think it could work long-term. It reminds me, in a way, of those Star Trek movies, where the original cast got older and heavier and sadder looking with each outing, until you sincerely wished they would check into some 25th century Assisted Living home. Sometimes TV series are best left in the era in which they were created; a kind of time capsule.Was there a real reason to reboot X-Files (besides the obvious: money and the fact that nobody involved ever had this kind of mega-success again)? The creative process means we have to move on and invent NEW things, with each generation....not endlessly recycle and reboot the old.In short: bittersweet....and yeah, I'll watch all six new episodes. After that, please: R.I.P., X- files. Let the 90s be in the past, and move on.
If you like X-Files the series, then of course you will enjoy the film. The Film is like a feature-length episode, which follows on after series 5 and answers some questions/ties up some loose ends. The film is part of the alien invasion arc within the series and sees Mulder and Scully fight to save their jobs and the X-files yet again. Yet again, also, one of them is in grave peril and the other must come to the rescue in the nick of time.Tantalisingly, you see their relationship move on a little bit, and they are closer than they have been thus far in the series. The Smoking Man of course puts in an appearance, as does Skinner - backing them up again.It's a good sci-fi film but it doesn't stand along as cinema as I doubt it would make a lot of sense without seeing the series first. Like the series, some of the leaps of deduction and chance ease of solution of problems are a little annoying but the SFX in this and the general cinematography of the film are good but there's a lot that is a bit ridiculous (alien visitation aside!) in terms of realistic survival chances etc. Tense and gripping, this is one of the most daring and dangerous adventures the X-Files due have encountered to date. It makes sense of Mulder's sister's abduction and pushes that arc forward a bit.Definitely enjoyable but I think they had to stretch imagination and suspension of disbelief along with time in moving from a series episode to a feature length film and I think the storyline suffered a little on that account. Entertaining but frustrating and implausible too, in places.


                
