I started watching the X Files years ago, catching an episode here, an episode there. And I have to say that most of the underlying conspiracy plot was lost to me as a result. Consequently, I rated the show as OK, but nothing special. Something to watch if you happened to turn the TV on and it was playing, but not something to actively seek out.However, I recently acquired all 9 seasons and set about watching them, in order, from start to finish, at about a rate of an episode a day. I have to say it all makes a lot more sense now. The conspiracy theorie's "on-off is it-isn't it" nature makes for confusing twists and turns which is exactly what it is supposed to do.I can't really say whether the earlier seasons are better than the later ones or not. When you watch that many episodes over a few months they all seem much the same in terms of quality. There are standout episodes just as there are the odd turkeys, but overall the quality is good and fairly consistent.What most people don't get, I think, is that the show became less about the conspiracy theory and weirdness and more about Mulder and Scully as the seasons rolled by. Perhaps this was why it was such a shock when Mulder vanished at the end of season 7 and was replaced by Doggett and Reyes. I too, was inherently antagonistic towards them but, I am very glad to say, they do grow on you. But the two seasons they were in were not really enough for you to get to know them intimately, as you did Mulder and Scully.The show was filled with memorable characters such as CSM and the Lone Gunmen. Special episodes gave you an insight into these recurring characters and how they came to be who they are. Indeed, the Gunmen got their own show, albeit only for a run of thirteen episodes (unlucky for them!). Other characters like Gibson Praise, The Alien Bountyhunter, Pusher, Tooms and Agent Harrison also recurred and were pleasant enough to watch whenever they were on screen. Old faithfuls, if you would.I've become, from an indifferent beginning, a definite fan of the show. It was a shame to watch the final episode and think that it was over, but here's hoping they make a couple more movies. I think it's probably a foregone conclusion that they will, since the ending of the show was left wide open with unresolved issues. But maybe that's what was intended, that the ending be a non-happy one. Only time, and another movie (or series) will tell.EDIT FOR SEASON 10: Well, this is a review I never thought I'd update! A new series picking up where it left off, though years later, of course. It is looking pretty good so far, though the pilot was a little odd. Ep 2 is an improvement and Ep 3 shows that the show can poke fun at itself. Ep 4 is the best so far. Here's hoping it continues to get better and better.
the X Files was one of the greatest TV shows ever and the acting was intense and totally believable. Then we became entangled in a silly alien invasion/civil war/whatever the hell it was and the last couple of series became too stupid to even laugh at. It finished undeservedly in a mire of dog poop alien codswallop.Now it's back and we take up the story but with a twist. It is not the aliens who want to take over the world but humans using alien technology.Who all these warring aliens were at the death knell of the X Files seems unimportant now as like Bobby Ewing in the shower it was all a dream/lie.Sadly our crusading duo look tired and old now and their performances reflect that. Once I believed in Mulder and Scully and I approached this new revamp wanting to believe again but sadly the same old tired nonsense is being dribbled out that killed the uniqueness of the show.The pair look like they are doing this to avoid jail time for some felonious behaviour. They no longer have any spark together.If all this mini series is about running over the same old garbage it ended on then sadly it will be a mega waste of time. The old X Files was great when it was a one off investigation and the early alien arcs were interesting but became boring due to the writers trying to be far too clever.I will stick with it as I always did hoping for a spark of the original idea but the opening episode was cobblers.This happens a lot when old TV series are revamped decades later and fail to recapture the magic. Absolutely Fabulous a great example and Red Dwarf another. Once great shows that had a magic about them trawled out with a tired cast that can no longer harness the electricity between them. Add The X Files to that list.The truth may be out there but its boring so far.
As a guy who has never followed the original X-files but i watched more than a bunch before, I'd say the Pilot in here went really fine and surprisingly so much better than i expected.The story and the plot is easily followable even if it is your first time watching the show, they explain everything with a fast yet organized throwback, the script seems to really having a great potentials with new story each episode (like most Sci-Fi shows) and mysterious new faces with new secrets.I'v noticed a couple of times in the pilot that Mulder Maybe is trying to make it clear that forget about the last seasons this something new, this is a new conspiracy, which is good for me again as i didn't follow the last series that much but i don't know how the show "lovers" would feel about it ;)As for the cast, well lets be honest David Duchovny is more than 13 years older than the last time we've seen him on the show, and for me i was used to seeing him with that witty, careless, snarky character in Californication so here he's well the total opposite but still he has that factor of "follow me , and keep it up" so you can't stop yourself waiting for his next move... Gillian Anderson is back too .. and generally the whole cast look original and fit the story of the "X-files" perfectly.also if you noticed too, the special effects are much better than 13 years ago ;) so that was noticeable in the cinematography part, so we'd expect a much more realistic freaks and much more thrilling explosions.Finally as a "new series" overall i am down with it and already going to follow it week by week as it has shown so much potentials and it reminded me of "Fringe" which was also a big hit.so good luck for Fox, even though they don't need it , they're not new at this :D


                
I see the pilot of the new season and Im a little bit confuse about few things:SPOILER HERE:1.-The intro is exactly like the first season, I think it would be better if the opening titles were more sophisticated (like seasons 8 & 9).2.- Skinner looks younger than Fox Mulder.3.-Scully and Mulder has no chemistry on each other or at least I feel that way.4.- The plot and the story presents some modern conspiracy theories but still there is nothing new here.SPOILER AGAIN:5.-"Tooms" actor appears in a black and white scene.6.- Joel McHALE is not an actor, he is a comedian or else, but this dude is terrible.7.-I feel interested in the development and the great ending of this chapter. However, I hope Chris Carter don't let me down.Dana Scully still ROCKS¡
I just finished watching the entire series from beginning to end. It took me about a month, I got the box set. I hadn't seen the show sense the series ended back in 2002. I originally gave the show 5 stars but after watching it from the beginning to the end after all this time I gave it a 4. I was going to give it a 3 or a 3.5, but the last two episodes were just great so I bumped it back up. Now onto the review X-Files, a show that lasted a few seasons to long but still ended on a high note.X-Files was a unique show when it first came on back in 1993, I'd never seen anything like it. Capturing my imagination about aliens, monsters, and the like. The characters were great. I'd break down the series into four chapters.X-Files seasons 1-2: The beginning we see Mulder and Scully for the first time and are introduced to many other like the THE LONE GUNMEN, CSM, Skinner and others.X-Files seasons 3-5: The relationship between Mulder and Scully crows even more with Scully's cancer. We go deeper into the alien conspiracy and into other characters lives and characters die like X. The stories are great and are leading to a climax.X-Files seasons 6-7+movie movie: At the end of season 7 is when the show should have ended. David Duchovny was leaving the show. The characters of Mulder and Scully had reached a point where they loved each other even if they didn't say it. The stories were reaching conclusions, we learned what happened to Mulder's sister, the group behind the conspiracy were all but dead. In my opinion the show had reached it's climax. There wasn't anything new to add. This is when the show was 5 stars.X-Files seasons 8-9: The show goes way down hill here. First Mulder is gone, then we get Scully's miracle baby. I mean come on, that was defiantly a desperate attempt to keep the show going for another two years. The addition of John Doggett played by Robert Patrick, and I like the actor he just didn't fit in well with the show. The stories began to go way down hill unless they focused directly on Mulder and Scully's relationship, everything else sucked. The only thing that saved the show from getting a 3.5, 3 or even a 2.5 was the series finale two episodes. They were just great, you could tell the actors were moved by it coming to the end. Ultimately the show wasn't a classic or great but very good and I would recommend everyone to watch the series.
Like many fantastic shows, I believe it is the kind of series that you either get into or not. Myself, I was a bit in the middle. The reason is that it was one of the most popular shows at the time so it was worth watching anyway. Much closer to Skully though, I had difficulties to ´buy´most of the stories and found ´frustrating´not to have a rational explanation in the end. What I did appreciated is the dark ambiance, the writing, and the actors that fit perfectly in the characters. I do must admit that I had a better understanding of the show as the seasons went by, probably as I matured with it and got attached to the characters.
I am rating 8 as I think that someone who likes Sci-Fi will enjoy it


                
I think many of us adults now hold X-files as a sort of a holy relic. It is one of those events from our childhood that kept our eyes fixated at the TV in awe, keeping us past our bed time. Gillian Anderson provided adolescent boys with material for sexual fantasies. Mulder was the cool adventurer with a gun and a suit, guiding us through the creepy mysteries.However, looking at the whole show from a closer perspective now brings in light the imperfections, like the closer inspection of childhood heroes often does.One of the first noticeable things is the difference in acting quality between the two main protagonists Mulder (David Duchovny) and Scully (Gillian Anderson). Maybe it doesn't help that the dialogue given to the skeptic agent Scully is so dry, especially in the beginning of the 1st season, but her acting feels one level below Duchovny's. There are only so much skeptical eye rolling and tired speech a viewer can take. Ms. Anderson does get better as the series progress.Believability of the characters also becomes shaky after just a few episodes. The main relationship between agent Scully and agent Mulder, which is that between a skeptic and a believer, is one of the defining features of the show, but in the first few episodes Scully already manages with her own eyes to witness several UFOs, confirm that the government is brainwashing people and see a ton of monsters and yet, several chapters into the series, she is still keeping up the disbeliever act. Many shows with two main characters suffer from this problem, not being able to build a believable character arch throughout the show out of fear of changing the working formula.The story line is the next issue. Part of the curse of the X-Files is that the makers were trying to incorporate in their show all the main folklore tales known to man and do so with a straight face and believability. It can be done if you put some brain into it, but unfortunately logical bloopers in X-Files are common and the quality of storytelling varies from episode to episode, because different episodes are written by different people. There is corner cutting, like when the military uses the same looking uniformed men for military police as the the police uses at another place in another episode; there are occasional illogical plot points, like the by now infamous disappearing tattoo to indicate that a person's soul left the body. Good storytelling is one thing that should not depend upon the size of your budget and therefore X-Files cannot be excused from this flaw.Thankfully these issues are insignificant and the quality of the show gets better as seasons go by, at least until the later seasons, when the spark ultimately dies out and the plot gets stuck and even Duchovny finally leaves the show. Acting and story glitches apart, the show is quite awesome and ages well. It manages to keep your attention using just the right amount of action, special effects and spooky sound effects to keep things interesting but not so much as to become boring or...bankrupt. There is a wide range between the stories presented. X-files goes from political thriller to mystery to horror and manages to keep that variety up for quite some time.


                
Since I saw the movie in the summer I had to watch the series.  Before I was into the X-Files, I watched a couple of episodes, but never really paid any attention.  Since the movie, I had to watch it.  Now, before and after the 10PM news, I watch the X-Files.  I must say, the holiday episodes this year are really "X"-cting!  For those of you who don't watch the show, it's pretty good!


                
I decided to give this show a chance as Vince Gilligan talks about writing for it in almost all of his interviews. The Pilot did not get me hooked right away but it did peek some interest for me to check out more episodes. Am I now glad that I binged the entire series :)It is mostly episodic with plot points that range from alien abductions to govt conspiracies to vampires to monsters of every hue and color to paranormal and sometimes just incomprehensible s**t! But what sells every plot is the stellar acting from David Duchovny. Mulder believes, so you believe. Mulder's conviction is your conviction. While Mulder believes (he has a compelling personal reason to 'believe' and it is not blind belief - you can also say that Mulder is a seeker with an open mind), Scully acts as the rational mind who cannot accept anything that has no scientific explanation yet. However, she always gives in and helps Mulder pursue his belief. The mythology plots in the show are done beautifully and even if it feels unbelievable at times, the lead pair sells it convincingly. The plots with starlight, Scully's recovery and multiple other plots would have been beyond acceptable if it were not for the lead pair.Mulder and Scully have a deep and meaningful relationship that is beyond what most people would ever experience in their own lives. It is one of the most interesting relationships I have seen on TV. The relationship is of deep and unconditional love and care, but it is mostly platonic. They love each other, they take care of each other and the show is peppered with lovely moments between the two. There are many many dud episodes throughout the series that make you wanna skip them completely but that is expected when they churn out 22-25 episodes per season, and not all writers are as good as Vince Gilligan or Frank Spotnitz. The show does get quite bad in its last two seasons although I did enjoy a few episodes just for their concept. Robert Patrick and specially Annabeth Gish are great as the new agents assigned to the X-Files but one does miss David Duchovny in them and the Mulder-Scully dynamic is sorely missed. Also, the kind of personal connection and passion that Mulder has for the X-files is incomparable.I have not bothered to watch season 10 of the X-files but among the 9 seasons, I would pick the following as my favorite episodes (not in any particular order)------ Milagro, Clyde Bruckman's Final Repose, How the Ghosts Stole Christmas, Monday, Small Potatoes, Bad Blood, Paper hearts, Pusher, Memento Mori, Triangle, Quagmire, Dreamland 1 and 2, Hungry, The Goldberg Variation, all things, Je Souhaite, RequiemSome of the other episodes that were quite good and had interesting plots------ Eve, Fire, Anasazi, Blessing way, Paper Clip, Soft Light, The Rain King, Arcadia, D.P.O, 2Shy, Herrenvolk, The End, Musings of a Cigarette Smoking Man, The Gift, Redrum, 4-D, John Doe, Audrey Pauley, Release
A series that lasts nine years has to cross many fields and terrains and meet many challenges if they are not terminating dangers or potentials. The general idea is in itself submitted to such eventualities, either Fox Mulder is menaced in his integrity, in his life or in his FBI position and we end a season on a cliffhanger that is uncomfortable and then tricky to solve.This very long series correspond to the strangest period in the history of the USA – and a little bit, a very little bit the world often reduced to Russia. It is the period covering Bill Clinton's presidency and the first two years of George W. Bush's own presidency, hence up to the campaign against Afghanistan and Iraq, the lies in the United Nations and the perverted objectives and ambitions that have set the world upside down. The conspiracy, if conspiracy there was or might have been, could no longer be seen as coming from inside the US government, the unseen dark aisles behind and under the Pentagon and the State Department. So it had to go back to an older fear, and that was extraterrestrials, the War of the Worlds and other Martians story but on the bleak side. No Encounters of any third type. Just plain hostile and warlike.The general idea is that some obscure committee composed of a camarilla of obscure biggies in the world came together just after the Second World War – we are of course speaking of the West as opposed to the Communist block reduced to being the USSR often called Russia or Siberia in this later period – to face a danger of a new type: the famous extraterrestrials that landed in Roswell. The general idea is that humanity as such is of extraterrestrial origin – note this forgets to answer about the origin of this intelligent life that was able to roam in the cosmos some millions or billions of years ago, making God the Creator an extraterrestrial himself – and those in 1946-47 started plans with some humans to prepare some mix of human and extraterrestrial genes to produce the people who will be needed to take over the planet again when ready, or to produce super soldiers in another shade of the tale.This nostalgic comeback, nostalgic on the side of the extraterrestrials but also on the side of the aficionados of the war of the world and Orson Welles, is modified from time to time with the principle that an extraterrestrial virus is being spread in the world via bees, corn or whatever, after a great number of humans had been abducted to be implanted with a controlling capsule, and even by the hypothesis that it won't work anyway and it is better to plan the termination of the human race. The gist of the problem is that "the truth is out there" which means it is not in us, the humans. Yet "out there" has many meanings. It can be out there in the cosmos with the extraterrestrials, or out there in the black, dark and inscrutable alleys and aisles of the federal government buildings where some monsters may be roaming. To make them dark plotters allied to extraterrestrials look bad all means are used: a major one is a chain smoker. The others are either obese or on the very fat side, and they have heavy non-American including British accents, etc. The whole story then is that of a plot of some humans with extraterrestrials for these extraterrestrials to recuperate their extraterrestrial investment on earth by re-conquering earth, and these plotters use all means to control as many people in the state apparatus as possible. What is not explained is why the FBI, part of the innermost circle of power, decided to create a special department with only two agents but with great powers, to study all paranormal phenomena, and of course first of all the most paranormal if not the most abnormal phenomena having to do with extraterrestrials. It will never be clear if it was some guilt covering decision, or if it was some real anxiety of what may happen if it were true, or even if it was a way to sidetrack some agents and to satisfy the career-minded social climbing of some unscrupulous agents. Probably a little of all and many other motivations all around. What makes the series strange and fascinating is the fact that they deal with phenomena that really look at first sight banal. It is always dealing with some strange death or unexplained disappearance and/or abduction. Instead of solving the crimes in the good CSI line, or instead of clearing the plate in the good Supernatural tradition, it always has the bias of an obscure shady plot from inside the government of the US always having to do with extraterrestrials and only paralleled to the same but a lot more obscure dealings of the Russians in Siberia. The systematic victimization of the two main agents and their substitutes in the last season is also a hallmark of the attraction of the series. Just think of all the marginal political movements that have invoked in a way or another an unredeemably bad plot from the military forces, the police, the capitalists, corporations, high-tech companies, the you-name-them-you-have-them muddy and deeply egotistic groups. It is always such an idea that is behind all the protest groups in the world. At times it is rather realistic but in many other cases it is the sign of the paranoia or the schizophrenia of a vast number of people in our world. In older centuries that kind of ideology was covered by the street corner preachers announcing the end of the world or the apocalypse. [...]Enjoy the trip.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU
I just recently watched the X-files front to back again (2015) - because i kind of felt like childhood TV. ... And i have to say.. i was blown away!Not only does the storytelling easily hold up to today (if not exceed it) - but it offered many things i simply did not notice back as a little child.At that point it must be mentioned that i am utterly surprised that my parents let me watch this series at all - considering it is a LOT (and i mean a LOT!) more gory than i remembered - it almost celebrates it.Back to the review ... character development is very good ... with some "stutters" and lengths though. So while the protagonists evolve very nicely based on their experience in the series - not all the experience is taken into account and they sometimes seem to force themselves to stoically adhere to their old characteristics. All in all though it is very good. Scully and Mulder are likable, the "bad" guys - at least the important ones - are more than just one dimensional. The stories range from very dark and serious to funny like Army of Darkness funny. - The mix and chronology is well done.What can i say ... I loved the series once again - but that time even more than as a kid. I wish to mention that .. again .. i feel like those older shows were much more progressive than some of the new ones these days. The show is critical, motivates to ask questions. It is not censored like todays shows - so there is swearing and kids come to harm. All in all - the show does not compromise its storytelling for some network rules - which is refreshing.


                
A little more than ten years ago, this show was very popular among my friends. I watched the occasional episode here and there, but started giving it a wide berth after turning off the TV midway through the infamous "Home". (It's one of my favourite episodes now, by the way.) A little more than one year ago, this show crossed my path again. I was surprised to discover how fresh it felt, even with the odd hairstyle here and there in earlier seasons... and those glasses.The premise is simple. Two FBI agents solve mysterious cases that often involve paranormal or extraterrestrial "foes". Agent Fox Mulder, the "believer", and Dana Scully, the "sceptic", do not always see eye to eye. As the series advances, they gradually discover a conspiracy and finally learn about an impending invasion of aliens. By the way, William B. Davis as THE villain excels from the minute he smokes his first Morley of many in the Pilot. The recurring cast is fleshed out diligently and with consistence.The biggest forte of the X-Files is the chemistry between its leads. Until it eventually spins out of control into blandness as season 8 rolls around, Anderson and Duchovny are highly enjoyable to watch and make even weaker episodes entertaining - not that there are many of those. The writing is top-notch, so keep those seat belts at hand while you hover near the edge of your couch. The X-Files cases went in many different directions and seldom fail to entertain. The series has stories about albino humans gliding through the plumbing, ghosts, the Jersey Devil (no, not Gregory House), or demons, with a lot of humour thrown into the mix. At the same time, it never strays too far from reality. The aforementioned "Home" is one example of a case that could be happening in a place not too far away from you. When Dana Scully rattles down her scientific explanations, you should feel your spine tingling, because that monster of the week could be lurking in your sewers right now. The moment the writers have persuaded you that they have really done their homework, however, plot holes and an increasing number of tinny episodes after the revelation of the conspiracy paint a different picture. Especially the mythological arc suffers from chronic under-planning disorder. Eventually, the show raises more questions than it could ever answer, only to discard those loose plot ends, while a much lighter tone takes over, sometimes straying into cheese. (Hollywood A.D. in season 7 is symptomatic of that development.) After several great seasons, the final tune falls flat. The last two episodes were painful to watch after so much promise; they felt reiterative and contrived. Still, it was nice to see a scene from the pilot used again in the very last minutes of the finale; the interaction between Mulder and Scully is, after all, the heart of the series. Finally, the music is one more aspect to love. You'll find it hard to fast-forward the intro (I've only done it once). If you have not watched X-Files yet, please do so.Enjoy!
I am a big fan of Agent Mulder and Dana .. in term of their chemistry . even all plots made by chris carter are enough to satisfying a spoofing element i needed.but ALAS.. extension of season 10 and 11 cannot make it .. few episode of season 10 are not that much bad, but final episode is disappointing . while talk about season 11 . Opening episode is enough to eliminate interest, while on scale of 1 to 10 i give rating of 8 , while considering previous seasons.. they actually made it till Season 9


                
Widely regarded as one of the best series of its time and a stunning leader in the revolution of science fiction shows, the X-Files has made an incredible crater in pop culture. Personally, I think the show made its downfall after a big 7th season shocker, but for the amount of time it was broadcast, it was unfathomably incredible. My 8/10 is mostly because of the 8-9 season downfall, but the love I have for this show will make a lasting impact on my life, as did it on the millions of X- Files viewers. For my favorite characters, the tie is between John Byers and Dana Scully. The strong female lead and the dorky paranoid man in this show shall be regarded, well, forever.


                
One of the great things about the X-Files was that the show had two strong leading characters Scully and Mulder played by Gillian Anderson and David(I forget his last name, sorry) who should have got together but they wisely played it safe keeping them apart. I loved the relationship in the beginning but the show went off-track with conspiracies and craziness that the show became famous for. The cast is great and I loved the show when it was on location in Vancouver. I think the weather and environment was also a great addition. Then they moved it to Los Angeles, maybe that's when I lost track. The episodes in the beginning were truly high quality and first rate. I think they tried so hard to keep the momentum going that they lost the show somewhere along the years. I know that two stars wanted out to pursue other interests but I didn't think that was wise anyway. Anyway, I still wish them the best and hope to see a reunion film.


                
The X files was the brainchild of Chris Carter. It follows the sometimes dark and disturbing or scientifically challenging cases labelled pointless or time wasting by the F.B.I and dumped in what is known as the X files a project outside the bureau mainstream headed by Fox Mulder formerly a brilliant violent crimes agent and his new partner Dana Scully.The relationship between these two characters has to be noted as part of the shows success, we had two attractive intelligent and deep characters who weren't sleeping together or ever at any stage falling into the predictable cheesy formula of a lead in a television show. Fox Mulders character undoubtedly went through a beneficial change as the show progressed, in the opening season David Duchovny (an actor whose surprisingly monotone and sometimes deadpan style was perfect for the role) played Fox Mulder as somewhat geeky and childishly excitable over the investigation of paranormal phenomenon. Still Mulder is everybody's hero and as the show moved into the second season and beyond we saw a magnificent and captivating dark edge to his character evolving (perfect considering the personal trauma he has endured). Dana Scully started as she meant to go on played by the much more talented actress Gillian Anderson (whose high calibre emotional performances earned her award success) she serves as one of the most brilliantly intelligent and strong yet wonderfully vulnerable women in film or TV. Her traumas both personal and sometimes professional with some of the more disturbing serial killers they pursue are wonderfully portrayed by one of the most competent actresses to become a television star. The chemistry and spark between the two characters was ideal it transcended the monotonous sexual tension and formulaic witty dialogue between most other good looking male and female co stars, instead it offered a perfect balance between humour care for each other and professional commitment to the F.B.I.This review will dedicate itself to the actual x files the aspect that made this show one of the best. Most television shows in this genre die because the plots exhaust themselves. Chris Carter ingeniously proposed that the show could not sustain itself with only the mythology. The X files therefore adopted the cop show formula of having a different story each week these were essentially miniature movies that could be about anything. With a fantastic writing team and more importantly the best cinematographers and directors to have worked television the show made numerous brilliant shows completely original and enthralling. An episode would typically begin with a bizarre murder and then follow the agents through their investigation or pursuit of something or someone such as a serial killer. This was where the x files really shone no one else before or after in TV has ever done such a thing. Someone who had never seen the show could most nights turn it on and follow a little one-hour movie. Even better was how the creators worked these stories around the lead characters. Irresistible for example a thriller from season 2 followed the pursuit of a sexually motivated death fetishist who resorted to homicide to satisfy his desires. Here Gillian Anderson wonderfully portrayed her vulnerability with such a realistic and haunting case. Grotesque a very dark episode from season 3 did the same; here while investigating the continuation of brutal serial murder after the killer had been caught Fox Mulder began to fall deeper into the investigation than was safe for his own sanity. David Duchovny portrayed the dangers that face FBI agents who try to get inside a monsters head with subtle captivation, as Frederic Nietzsche wrote "In the pursuit of monsters one must be careful not to become one himself" This leads to another element of the shows success its following the scare formula. The horror movie style applied to some cases always attracts viewers in some cases the horror was so gruesome that a show was banned from network television (home season 4).To sum up two things made these stand alone episodes for the x files so very good. Firstly it gave the writers incredible amounts of artistic licence, their stories ranged from the implausible to the haunting to the dark to the monstrous and beyond. Secondly and perhaps more importantly is the atmosphere the show could create. This was for me what made the show so very special, they could create such incredibly dark atmospheres combined with brilliant artistic and skillful direction and a score from Mark Snow and you had creation as good as that from movies in the genre such as silence of the lambs. In essence the show had the potential to look very good.There is much to say negatively about such a good show however and that is surprising. Firstly the stand-alone episodes that could be so good had the potential to fail. The frustration here comes from the fact that a show that can be so good churned out stories that were not memorable or that were too far fetched. Furthermore the show in my opinion was not brilliant for all its years it began to deteriorate and transform into too much of a typical sci-fi show after 5 years. The more outrageous the ideas became the less the show could be dark and atmospheric. It was in some respects a victim of time, as the 21st century approached the newer the show became the more it lost its artistic edge. Even when the show was in its prime there were many average to poor episodes.I can hear the question already "how can you say a show was brilliant when it made some bad episodes in its prime?" Well you just answered your own question because the episodes in its prime that were good really were that good.
simply the best, best of the best, call it what you like. No series match this one. Never has... never will...


                
I don't hate Doggett and Reyes, I do however believe that they were fit for support characters at best. The reason I loved the X-files was the combination of a larger story, the humor and the relationship between Mulder and Scully. After Mulder left the X-files just felt empty. I'm pretty sure Doggett and Reyes weren't suppose to be exact replacements for Mulder and Scully, but I found them to be, although likable, very uninteresting. Although after season 7 the show with or without Mulder and Scully got to be less interesting, because both Anderson and Duchovny seemed to have lost a little of the charm that was so clearly present during earlier seasons.All in all, this show was amazing on all fronts, but shouldn't have gone on for more than 7 seasons. Now that they are making another movie: they shouldn't have killed off so many characters. Although I love Skinner, he is pretty much the only one left from the beginning.


                
X-Files was an instant hit on TV. It was so much fun, we loved the characters, and for me personally the series has enormous nostalgia value. It was series that reflected the descent into nihilism that marked the 90s. We see a lot of monsters and myths reshuffled, but with a lot of paranoia, confusion, and sense of being incapable to grasp even basic things regarding the purpose of life, let alone the meaning of universe. Also, the series presents us with an image of America that is very seductive, yet ultimately fake. The America they portray is as real as the government lies our protagonists keep running into wherever they turn. But it's charming. This series is well written, well acted, well directed, well shot, and well edited. The people who made it put a lot of effort in this project, and clearly enjoyed themselves while doing it. The enthusiasm shows, and so does the skill of the filmmakers.So what are the weaknesses? I guess when they started the project, the guiding idea was that there would be an arc connecting all the episodes, namely the search for extraterrestrial life and the answer to a personal drama of agent Mulder whose sister was supposedly abducted by aliens when he was a child. The problems arose when it turned out that the series would continue season after season, and the writers had to keep this arc going, which resulted in an incredibly convoluted plot with so many twists and turns and so many failures to provide any form of payoff, that the series got totally bogged down.Like so many people, I prefer the stand-alone episodes that tend to involve various monsters. These were great from the very start and became even more interesting as the writers started experimenting with the format, introducing reflexive elements, irony, humour, and so on. These were far superior to the ones about aliens, which never seemed to go anywhere.Another thing I don't like is the fact they kept filming after David Duchovny left. Seasons 8 and 9 were basically a chase for more money. The quality of these episodes was noticeably lower, the writing was lazy, and the magic was gone. And still the aliens arc remained as confusing as ever. I have recently watched all the episodes of the tenth series, where they finally brought Duchovny back. Sadly the magic is still lacking, and I enjoyed only one of these new episodes. However, there is still potential here, and I would love to see more episodes, but they need better scripts and they need to find ways to inject life into these middle-aged protagonists. They need new forms of motivation to drive them, and the writers need to exploit the potential to be ironic and self-referential - without being cheesy.


                
I don't believe.However, I found this series, back in the 90's, to be good clean fun to watch. Some of the stories can be a little scary for the kids but overall there is no graphic violence (in the television series). Most of the stories are too far fetched to be realistic and end up being fantasy or folklore. However that shouldn't detract from your enjoyment.The 10th season is still good, but I think that the direction of the show is bi-polar. I say this because I just binged the first six episodes and the first two were awesome. The third and the fourth episode were total crap, but then the fifth episode was sort of good and then the sixth episode (while getting back on track) felt rushed and misplaced.I really want this show to succeed but they can't keep coming up with silly stories (such as the episode with a lizardman). Sorry. That is just plain horrible writing and completely out of place for the story line.Overall, I still give the show an 8/10 for ratings.


                
The show features Fox Mulder (David Duchovny) and Dana Scully (Gillian Anderson) as FBI agents charged with investigating cases that involved the paranormal. Both creepy and intriguing, "The X-Files" was hugely popular during its nine-year run on Fox in the 1990s and early 2000s (it now airs in syndication and is available on DVD). Folks who like sci-fi or horror will enjoy "The X-Files" for its complexity and rich character development. Parents may want to preview episodes for appropriateness for younger or more sensitive kids, since some shows are scarier than others. Viewers jumping into the middle of a season may be confused by the episodes dealing with detailed back stories.


                
I would rate this by 9 or 10 out of 10 but last 5 seasons don't allowed that! Start was incredible during years when show was premiered but you can still enjoy it in this days if you re watch...however with every season upcoming the show fall and fall down hard - season 4 was yet solid, season 5 already too stereotype and what starts from season 6 is hard to describe:) The show doesn't follow the plot and even own atmosphere anymore and is filled by some very weird episodes! Yet you can find good story when you either suffer all these seasons through 5-9 or just directly skip to shows finale - The Truth. Two hour episode is an old good X Files thing and wrapped up the entire story pretty solid. So in overall - the show is very, very good but it struggles with consistency because of all these long 9 years...
