This is the kind of movie I run into sometimes where I didn't discover I hated it until I got to the ending. But hate it I do, hate, hate, hate, and I sincerely look forward to never seeing it again. When I find myself so hating a movie that the rest of the world adores, my standard procedure is to give it one star, just to balance things. But in truth, this movie was so well made that I couldn't in good conscience give it only one star. So I gave it two."What's he talking about? How can he admit it's a terrifically made movie and yet hate it so much?" I hate it for it's message. I hate it for its point of view. I hate it for what it has to say, no matter how skillfully and artfully it says it. And it's not until we get to the ending that this message really becomes clear.The message is one of hopelessness. Grim, grinding, depressing hopelessness. This movie is absolutely steeped in a malevolent universe premise. Everything sucks and there's nothing you can do about it.The protagonist is a very likable guy. He clearly loves his wife and children and is trying his very best to somehow provide for them. When he manages to get his bicycle out of hock so that he can get the super-rare job, you exult with him that he's finally going to be able to make some money and feed his family. Of course, the unfortunate title of the film already leads you into instant stress over his situation, because you already *know* the bicycle, essential for his success, is going to be stolen (and you don't have to get very far into the film to realize that the title is probably going to end up applying just as much to himself, that he too is going to end up stealing a bicycle). And sure enough, on his very first day on the job, the bicycle is stolen. Now his only option is to try to find and retrieve the bicycle, a practically hopeless, impossible task. But one that could certainly be the core of an interesting, engrossing film story.And it *is* an interesting and engrossing film story. I was totally caught up in it. I really felt for the guy, and wanted him to succeed. I felt for him, I felt for his kid, I felt for his brave, steadfast wife. Like I said, the hero is likable. He doesn't give up, he doesn't despair, he keeps plugging away, and, against all odds, he *does* manage to find the thief! And yet... it's all for nothing. Because this isn't a movie about triumph, about success, it's a movie about failure. Because finding the thief doesn't help, he proves to be untouchable, the police can do nothing. With every other avenue exhausted, at the end of his rope, he does indeed try to steal a bicycle himself, but he can't even succeed at that. The movie ends with him walking away, a completely shattered, broken man.Well what kind of an ending is that?!? I watched the whole movie pulling for the guy, waiting for him to succeed *somehow*, and in the end, the message is, "Sorry, success is impossible, life is a stacked deck, there's no reason to even try." What kind of message is that?!? First off, it's depressing as hell, and I don't watch movies to be depressed. Second, it's a premise I strenuously reject. Life is NOT hopeless, the universe is NOT malevolent, happiness and success ARE possible.One of the most useful things I've ever read on this site is a thread in the discussion section about whether the message of the film is intended to be Marxist. I confess that one of my reactions was that it did seem vaguely Marxist, or at least anti-capitalist. But the thread makes a good case that it really wasn't Marxist at all; indeed the communist guys in the film are no help at all. Nothing is any help. This movie is Anti-. Anti-everything. Capitalism clearly doesn't work, communism doesn't, religion doesn't help, government (in the form of the police) doesn't help. A loving wife, a dedicated friend, nothing helps. This is a horribly nihilistic, depressing philosophy. Apparently the only thing that the movie makers believe in is making artistic movies.I suspect that the movie makers thought it was chic, or sophisticated, or artistic to be anti-everything. Well, not in my book. You have to be *for* *something*. But in one limited respect, I'll buy into their anti-everything philosophy: I'm anti-this film.
This is one of those overrated movies in top 250 which take a rank in top 250 but which were not voted by enough people actually!It did not take even a ten thousand votes! Just because it is old and it seems like a powerful drama it is not supposed to be a great unforgettable movie!Antonio (played by Lamberto Maggiorani) is an unemployed guy during the depression in Italy following World War II. He finally pawns the family linen for a bicycle and gets a job hanging posters around the city. Until the day his bicycle is stolen everything seems back on track in his life but this unfortunate event thwarts his plans.The thing is that it has not even a great plot .I don't live in an environment where cinema is taken for granted as action,dumb martial arts or some stupid technology effect.I know what real drama is supposed to mean!and this one may look like a powerful drama at first look but the actor's performances are really bad.Lamberto Maggiorani cannot reflect the helplessness of a man whose only bicycle(his treasure) is stolen.The kid who plays the role of the son of this poor man is not good either. I just don't understand why it is even a classic neo-realist movie. It has nothing extraordinary!


                
