A poor man relies on his bicycle to do his job, but it is stolen, leading to much angst. This landmark film of the Italian neo-realism movement has some fine moments and is ultimately touching. However, its historical significance should not be confused with its artistic merit. The simple plot is drawn out too much, and for a film made in 1948, it looks rather primitive, as if it were made two decades earlier. The acting by a cast of first-time actors is nothing more than average, although the little boy is adorable. Maggiorani looks like a cross between Humphrey Bogart and Clint Eastwood! It's a decent film, but falls far short of its reputation as one of the all-time greats.


                
Just saw The Bicycle Thief and it certainly did not come close to being The Best Film of all time. I do understand the historical context of the film but where is the depth of character? What do we finally understand about ourselves and the world? Is the message of the film that men will sacrifice their values for survival? Not such a deep revelation in my eyes. Are we to understand that love continues despite the weakness of character? Again, no great shakes there! Yes, life is tough and in the real world things do not turn out OK and people get screwed with no recourse especially in the aftermath of war. Anyone surprised?I left this film saddened by the plight of the man and his son, but I didn't feel that this was enough to justify all of the accolades that this film has received. Nice film--nice photography--interesting historically--but way overrated.


                
I have seen and studied this particular film as a milestone in film history and a good example of Italian Neoclassical film, and as I can see it was a remarkable film for it's time, it still doesn't really last the test of time. The story is simple and universal, a man against society, pursuing justice and driven to defy his fate. At the time this was an unusual view of humanity. Now it surprises and reaches only those inexperienced in film. It's certainly a good example of it's genre, but it's no longer unique. Also,many may find the ending unsatisfying (as it may have been intended to be.) The film offers only a problem and no solution. However, it's characters are noteworthy. The main character, the father, is a struggling, moral every-day joe, and his son is an impressionable boy who at times seems more adult than his parent. In fact, if their personalities were swapped the outcome of the story may have been very different. It's a film I will not soon forget, but the only impression it makes is just another reminder of how horrible the world can really be.


                
I think that this movie is reasonably good but greatly overrated by critics and those who reflect their opinion and each others'. The action of the movie is slow, sparse and predictable, and the characters have little depth; they are mostly automata enacting conventionally established roles. The film stays rigidly within the framework and conventions set for it by the genre, or perhaps imposed on it _ad_hoc_ by the director. It is pictorially pleasurable, but as it is "neorealism" perhaps we are not supposed to enjoy the view but suffer from it. (Actually, from the point of view of Americans of 2005, there is nothing realistic whatever about it; we could be looking at people living on the moon.) Its closest relatives would be from the genre of Socialist Realism, but in the USSR the protagonist, instead of suffering a moral catastrophe at the end, would probably have to get religion with the Party. Of course such conventions are fundamentally no more "real" than the weirdnesses of Antonioni or Fellini -- who also knew how to make the sufferings of the poor entertaining, although they didn't focus on them with such rapt attention.Many people say this film had great influence on those which came after it, which may explain why I feel that it is not tremendously interesting and certainly not up to the adulation which has been heaped on it. The reasons for _that_ might be an interesting question, but this little message is a review of the movie, not its audience.
While infusing a beautiful depiction of post-war Italy with the bitter tale of a man struggling to survive, Ladri Di Biciclette is a perfect example of neo-realist film. This film takes place at numerous locations around Rome, Italy. A church, a restaurant, a busy street, an apartment complex, and a warehouse are all depicted. The picture shows many artistic shots of the landscape such as when all the bicyclists ride through the streets, past parks, and around monuments of Rome as Antonio reports for his first day of work. Shots of glistening bicycle parts on a sales table, or a trolley slowing down on an empty street to drop off passengers have been inserted to artistically enhance the film. This reflection of traditional Italy can be contrasted to the fast paced modern look in French New Wave films such as 'Breathless,' directed by Jean-Luc Goddard, yet both achieve the documentary feel associated with their respective film movements. De Sica's film clearly advocates a realistic depiction of life including its less pleasant aspects. It explores the human condition and questions society, family, law enforcement, alliances, and mental anguish impeccably. The audience experiences the erosion of Antonio's pride. He is exceedingly proud of his new job and his new bike and takes great care to inspect every smooth edge of metal on his bike when he first receives it. This serves as the antithesis to the conclusion of the story, where he is caught trying to steal a bike. Though his intentions are merely to support his family he is ultimately stricken with shame and feels the lowest blow when his son, Bruno becomes aware that his own father has stooped to such a low level. The men who catch Antonio acknowledge that his broken and ashamed state is an even worse punishment than being arrested. The film closes here in true neo-realist style, leaving the hero void of all pride. The film also exemplifies the ineffectiveness of institutions in post-war Italy. "There's just no work for you!" states the man in the opening scene of the movie as a crowd of desperate men stand around in hopes of gaining employment. As the film shows a glimpse into this period of Italy's history, it also explores the uselessness of the police force and the social disarray of the era. Though subjective, told through De Sica's perspective, the police force is treated with derision. The premise of the protagonist's bike being taken is an example of the structural problems facing Italy. At the market it is believed that many of the bike parts are stolen, and it is impossible for Antonio and Bruno to locate parts from Antonio's bicycle. In a scene later on, Antonio confronts the "kid in the German hat" who is believed to have taken the bicycle, but is immediately shut up, verbally and physically, by a mob of neighborhood cronies. In this 'kangaroo court' the mob insists Antonio is crazy for accusing the boy. When the police do arrive to this scene, they are once again ineffective in restoring order as the cronies continue to shove the antagonist. One viciously yells, "Want to lose your wallet too?" This portrayal of the harsh and brutal nature of society is a seemingly accurate depiction of Italian history, and a clear presentation of the social ills. Its pessimistic view of the human condition is effectively disheartening, and at the same time a perfect example of Italian Neo-Realism.


                
The reputation of this celebrated Italian neo-realism film preceded itself a little with me but on reflection I think I can understand why it is such a highly regarded movie. A comi- tragedy as opposed to a tragi-comedy, it has a very simple but well delineated narrative, with an ending of rare pathos and sadness.To watch this honest, hard-working and well-meaning family man brought down by wretched luck to the extent where in an act of desperation he debases himself in front of his adoring son, is almost like intruding on private grief. Earlier on in the film, before the father loses all hope in changing his fortunes, there are some nice comedic touches, with the young son "caught short" at one point and later when the father blunders into a brothel in pursuit of the bicycle thief, with his infant son in tow.This was my first experience of Italian neo-realism and while I more usually prefer some escapism with my movies, I was quite absorbed in the story here as it unravelled with an inevitable certainty which could never end up well, indeed I guessed that the father was going to lower his scruples by stealing a bike himself, long before he actually did.Yes, it does have some longueurs and the landscape of post-war Italy as well as a full understanding of the Italian psyche was difficult for me to naturally relate to, but the universal themes of honesty, self-respect, human dignity and of course father-son relationships shone through.The open-air cinematography was excellent, the background music was sympathetic to the action and the acting unsurprisingly wholly natural, engaging and involving, given that most of the participants were amateurs. The young lad playing the son, in particular gives the best performance by a child actor I think I've ever seen.For my tastes, I wouldn't include it in my list of favourite films, but can certainly appreciate its qualities and why it's so beloved of critics and cinema-lovers alike.


                
I would have never imagined that I would end up writing a review for Ladri di biciclette. I was born in 1960, and considering the year this film was made, I must tell you that the only reason I took the time to watch it was because I was trying to shorten a list of movies I'm just curious about and that made it to the top 250. Up to now, I've felt terribly disappointed by the Hollywood crap of the '40s the '50s and part of the '60s and the '70s, and I mean how unrealistic films were. For example "Gone with the wind" is nothing but UNREAL CRAP, and the same can be said about the "Bridge under the river Kwai" (and even a sort of recent remake called "To end all wars" is also quite unreal, though in a way I shall not discuss here), and the same goes for most of the movies at that time. Unreal, unreal, unreal. Still they won Oscars! Jee! There are a few exceptions which are Stanley Kubric's work and some mild exceptions as Doctor Shivago, but again... they couldn't be more unreal. So... back to "Ladri di biciclette" I was nicely surprised to find out how REAL and POSSIBLE its script was. De Sica was undoubtedly with his feet on the ground when he did this. Besides, Lamberto Maggiorani's performance is simply ASTOUNDING. The film, of course, can't be compared to anything of the recent best, however, it comes quite close, and the second half of the film catches your attention quite well. The flick is decently short; it does not include any unnecessary material to make it unnecessary longer... What else can I say? I must recommend this film. It's not the best I've seen, but all in all it undoubled deserves a watch, if only for the sake of knowledge.


                
'Bicycle Thieves' is a sometimes poignant film about the plight of the 'little man' who has no contacts, no influence, no money, no nothing'.I must admit that the extremely high esteem in which it is held leaves me slightly at a loss. Its themes of wealth and class are clear but they rarely evoked much emotion within me for Antonio - our protagonist and victim of the titular bicycle thieves - is rather dull. The one and only exception to this is when he gleefully indulges at a local restaurant with his son Bruno. Alas, the pleasure it brings them is fleeting.I felt a modicum of indignation here and a degree of pathos there, but ultimately, 'Bicycle Thieves' did not compel me. Certainly not compared to the gritty kitchen sink fare of the British New Wave some years later. Rather, I appreciated it as a cinematic artefact; an educational experience rather than an entertaining one.


                
Set in Italy after the second world war, Bicycle thieves is an example of Neo-Realism Italian cinema, looking at broken Italy and its broken people trying to survive in poverty.From the opening shot we can see Antonio Ricci as lost all hope. He is in the margins of society and suddenly there is a job opening for putting up posters that requires having a bicycle. However he has no bike, he pawned it. His wife Maria pawns their bed sheets and uses the money to get the bicycle back.For the first time in a long time Antonio believes life is on the up. With the wages and the family allowance he reckons he can look after his family. He finally has hope.This hopes come crashing down when his bicycle is stolen by an opportunistic thief and he searches all over Rome with his son Bruno looking for the bike and thief.Antonio gets increasingly desperate in the search for his bike, by the end he is humiliated and fatalistic. See Antonio almost get knocked over by a truck he does not care.There is a key scene at a restaurant with his son where Bruno eats a pizza and drinks water and Bruno sees a wealthy family eating a sumptuous lunch. Antonio explains to him how important this job was and the money he was going to make meaning he could afford treats like this for the family.Antonio may not had been good in his job but the film explored the men who were marginalized in Italian working class society and it was their wives who had to be practical in order for the families to survive.This is a raw film it is not an easy watch, you suffer as Antonio goes on his fruitless search and you will him to steal a nearby bike and just ride off.


                
Set in post-WW2 Italy, a working class man's bicycle is stolen. Him and his son set out to find it.Good, but not great. The central theme is great, and posed an excellent moral conundrum. However, the sub-plots and middle section of the story are quite unfocused and the story drifts.It also hasn't aged well - the cinematography is quite basic, even by 1948 standards.This is all said, this is a classic, and a must-see for historic reasons. It created a template for neorealist drama, and poses some interesting moral questions to this day.


                
The story picks up very meagerly but is based n a very interesting time frame. In post World War II Italy, where the nation was one of the war's loser, economy goes hard and unemployment goes rampant, so keeping a job is crucial for any man, especially every head of the household. This notion gains importance slowly but surely as the movie depicts Antonio trying his hardest to locate his stolen bicycle. The movie brings the audience into some sense of hope by following Antonio's journey with Bruno through all the bitterness of search. Yet I feel that the movie gives a very good slap to the audience with it's complete sad ending. It's like the movie's saying harshly that we don't always get what we want, even if we're down on the ground. The acting overall is not good, even though I'd say that Lamberto Maggiorani's acting adequately brought Antonio's emotions to life.


                
This movie gives us a perfect example of which problems Rome had in the 40's. In the start of the movie, Antonio's bike gets stolen. During the research to get back the bike, Antonio and his son Enzo feel alone in the world, with no one to help them complete their mission. Suddenly, Antonio sees his chance to steal another guys bike, but as soon as Antonio tries to steal a bike, everyone are looking, and ready to catch him, even if they don't know the bike's owner.In the moment when Antonio steals the bike, or actually already when he thinks of the possibility of stealing the bike, the breaks the moral value of his own thoughts, and becomes his own very worst enemy. Fantastic!Even though the moral consideration is very interesting, the movie's buildup is very long, with a lot unimportant, very boring scenes. And the moral issue about break one's own moral ideals is seen many times in better stories (Of course this movie is from 1948, and one of the first to manifest the moralistic issues on the screen). I'll end up with giving this movie 7 of 10.
I don't understand all the praise that this movie gets.  It does not make sense to me.  I'll have to watch it again.The part of the movie that works for me is the reaction of the son, Bruno, to problems his father is having.  He wants to be proud of his father, but things only go from bad to worse.A guy with no bicycle gets a job that requires a bicycle.  He relies on his wife to solve the problem by pawning their new and used sheets to get their old bicycle out of hock.  Why would a pawn shop value a bicycle the same as used bedding especially when they already have a warehouse full of pawned bedding?The job entails carrying a big ladder, a bucket of paste, a big paste brush, and movie posters on a bicycle and putting up posters. That would seem to be a dangerous and stupid balancing act.  Why aren't the people and supplies delivered by truck?The bicycle gets stolen from under his nose at the first job and he is unable to catch the thief even when he is "aided" by someone in a truck. Why didn't he put some kind of restraint on the bike?  Why didn't the thief choose an unattended bike?  It is hard to believe he could not catch the bike thief.He tries to find the stolen bike and then gives up.  Why couldn't he borrow someone's bike or even promise to pay someone part of his new big salary to use their bike?Spoilers: As a last resort, he grabs an unattended bike, but as soon as he touches it, ten people appear out of every door and window and chase him down and catch him.  It is incredible that out of all the bicycles in Italy this guy chooses the one that is guarded by ten athletes that are able to outrun a bicycle that has a big head start. You have to wonder if this guy is too dumb to function in that society.  He takes a ridiculous job, depends on his wife to get a bike, is unable to hold on to the bike, unable to catch the thief, unable to find his stolen bike, unable to come up with a plan to get a new bike except for theft which he bungles.  When you see him putting up a poster, he seems very sloppy and the results do not look good.   So even if he had a bike, he would probably be fired for sloppy work.If you a looking for a real masterpiece of Italian cinema, look at Nuovo Cinema Paradiso, a movie that is much better.
This film is about the Italian economic crisis after world war II. The hunger and the unemployment.A man have a good opportunity to have a job, a job that will provide the need of his family. He only need one thing to obtain this job; One bicycle. He and his woman to pawn any clothes of home to obtain the bicycle. It's all right now, They surpass the problem and will obtain the wage.Is the first day in the job, Antonio Ricci learn about the office of stick posters, one fellow worker teaches to him, clumsily begins but improving, but It's happen the tragic thing, and the leading of the drama. As you already imagine, they rob the bicycle to him. The rest of the film He an his son, will try recover the bike. At the end They find the thief, and his home, but the other residents of the street defend the neighbor thief.At the end, Antonio will try to become a thief, but it does not come out the play well to him and it is retained by most of people, while his son contemplates the tragic scene.I can't understand the voice in off that is listened to at the end of the film, perhaps It's a political message about the future of a nation.


                
This interesting and rather unusual classic succeeds in being memorable and sometimes affecting, despite the rather plain characters, the inexperienced cast, and the relatively simple story. The careful technique certainly has a lot to do with that, and in addition the simple sincerity of the characters and situations generally works better than you might have expected.Following the basic daily concerns of a working man and his family makes for a sharp contrast with the material in most well-known movies, and that kind of story in itself is enough to make the "neo-realism" genre worth exploring. It's not easy to hold an audience's attention with such material, and the unadorned appearance of the movie conceals a fair amount of skill, planning, and even a little artifice.The story-telling technique itself is polished, proceeding at a pace that draws the viewer into Antonio's world through the kind of understandable problems and worries that he has. It takes a while before you realize that you don't really know much about him except for his concerns of the present.Only in a couple of later scenes, such as the sequence with him eating in a restaurant with his son, is the character developed a little more fully.It all has a curious feel, as if the specific characters and events were not as important as the experience of being in their world for a little while. In a number of scenes, the situation readily suggests many other circumstances with different details that would produce the same kinds of feelings. Even Antonio's frustrating dealings with the police are not focused on taking cheap shots at the authorities, as would likely be the case in a Hollywood film, but on the way that the reality of things affects Antonio.It's probably a film to be respected rather than enjoyed, because of the often downbeat subject matter and the lack of strong characters. It's a little hard to call it a truly great film, yet it's well worth seeing, and it leaves an impression afterwards that may be somewhat stronger than any feeling it arouses while you're actually watching it.


                
A good film, when one appreciates when it was first made. this film has to be appreciated within the social contents of the times we are dealing with here, but not only. i must say the ending is heart breaking. i had a few comments to make regarding the main actor's pace, there was a moment when, come , on he could have caught the guy had he not started screaming "Thief!". I'm not on about when the bike was first stolen but when by pure chance after the rain he sees the culprit not too far off, he could have bee a bit more subtle and wiser in his approach. But apart from that brilliant, I am very sure things turned out for the best since he did not lose the most important thing that is his family, his son who remained ever loving by his side. One notes that he was a bit careless in keeping an eye on his bike, we could see early opportunities for the thieves to snatch it before it was actually stolen and same could have happened to his son all throughout but thank god that never did. I am very glad I finally got to watch this all time classic.


                
A simple sad story of reality in poverty. A balance depiction of the cases of poor and rich. Most scenes are kinda boring.


                
Director Vittorio Due Sica is an influential figure of Italian neorealism, going so far as to use everyday people as actors in this masterpiece of his. Not that you'd notice. The actors in this film are all remarkable, especially the two playing the leads. Lamberto Maggiorani as Antonio Ricci and Enzo Staiola as his son are both haunting in their roles, conveying in their roles far more emotion than many A-list Hollywood stars.The story goes that Antonio is a family man living in post-war Rome. Work is hard to get so you can guess his excitement when he lands a job as a poster of advertisements. Unluckily for him the job absolutely requires a bicycle and his gets stolen on his first day. Thus begins a frantic search throughout the streets and markets of Rome, helped by friends and his son.And as much as I have to praise the acting and emotion in this film, I do have to admit that the majority of the film is rather boring. The initial setup is interesting enough, but the search itself goes on way too long and consists mainly of the father and son aimlessly wandering around, searching for clues.So why is this such a classic? I mean, I guess it's an interesting look into post-war Italy, but there are many a film about that precise subject. And it is a tedious experience to sit through. But all that wandering, all that prolonged misery is necessary because of one thing. The ending. This film has one of the most poignant, most powerful endings I've ever seen. In it culminate the themes and hardships of the film in a way that's rarely seen.This is a hard film to recommend. It has power and depth, but it's also told in a way that's hard to sit through. Nevertheless, I do ask you to give it a chance.


                
Watching Vittorio de Sata's 1948 film 'Bicycle Thieves' one is struck just quite how poor post-war Italy was: not only might ownership of a bicycle be critical to your chances of earning a livelihood, you might even pawn your bed-sheets when in need of money, while in the most deprived districts, people lived in almost medieval conditions. The film is rightly celebrated for its naturalism, although the story is essentially a shaggy-dog tale, and the primitive state of film-making 70 years ago cannot be totally ignored: the camera is just so much less proactive than on modern movies. But the heartbreaking ending, which finally explains the plural in the film's title, is perfectly judged. To an audience for which such tales really were their everyday reality, it must have been powerful stuff.


                
