It's been a while since I last watched "X-Men," the animated series from the early 1990s, but I do remember that this is/was one of the greatest comic book superhero shows I ever watched during my childhood. I was a reader of the Stan Lee-/Jack Kirby-co-created X-Men comics for Marvel Comics as a child - along with Spider-Man, who remains my favorite superhero, and the two Marvel Comics titles formed the cornerstone of my fascination with comic book superheroes. The "X-Men" titles struck a personal chord with me as I got older because of how its world re-defined people's hatreds and prejudices against each other to accommodate people with mutant powers being discriminated against by the powers-that-be. Being a black American, I instantly related to the plight of the X-Men and any other mutant character who was the target of those who ultimately wished the destruction of anyone with mutant powers. That was ultimately the greatest element about the comics, and this incredible animated series. It's the reason why I grew to deeply appreciate Marvel Comics more than any other comic book publisher in the industry. "X-Men," "Spider-Man: The Animated Series," and "Batman: The Animated Series" were all the reasons why during the early '90s, I loved comic book superhero cartoon shows.10/10


                
I remember back in 1992 when this show debuted, I thought it was one of the best cartoons on the air, along with "Batman: The Animated Series". The characters had great powers but no one was so incredibly powered that they couldn't get knocked down and knocked around. Plus they were always getting on each others nerves. As cool as Wolverine and Gambit were, I always held great fondness for Cyclops and Beast, I guess because I admired Cyclops for being so stalwart and steadfast and Beast for being so damn smart, laid back and intelligent. Gambit's love/hate relationship with Rogue, the hottest virgin super-heroine in comic books, was always good for a laugh and only occasionally got dramatic but never so much that it got sappy. Professor Xavier, Storm, Jean, and Jubilee rounded out the cast of heroes with their own powers and self-doubts and dreams. Well, actually the only character who probably didn't benefit from the series was Jean Grey, who for some strange reason was always fainting in action scenes. I'm guessing the writers simply didn't have a good grasp of her character or a strong idea of how to make her powers look cool and dynamic compared to the weather controlling Storm, high flying super tanker Rogue or even fire work shooting Jubilee. One of my few regrets/complaints about this show was that the X-Men's big villain, Magneto, was only a villain or rather a well meaning if twisted and tainted anti-hero for only the first two episodes in which he appeared, and so the role of #1 agitator to the X-Men went to Mr. Sinister during the 2nd season along with the usual stock villains of racist Americans. The first 3 seasons were probably the best, after that it kind of started to wane. Also I regret that Colossus and Night-Crawler were not regular members of the cast, as Night-Crawler was a very soulful character and Colossus, well, he's just so damn cool.But these complaints are very minor in light of what was otherwise one of the best comic book to cartoon adaptations ever to air. Certainly superior to the now defunct Wolverine & the X-Men, though X-Men Evolution featured a stronger version of Jean Grey.The X-Men later made some guest appearances on "Spider-Man", which had a lot of promise and brighter animation but ultimately squandered its potential. Captain America later guest starred in both X-Men and Spider-Man.


                
First of all let me say that I am not a comic nerd, I maybe owned a couple through my whole life (wolverine was my fav and probably because of this show). I have never liked other superhero shows (another critic said he liked the batman cartoon but that show blew, maybe i just didn't like the cartoon style). Basically what I am trying to say is that I am not a superhero guy but this show might be the best cartoon ever ...You know those shows/movies you loved as a kid then re-watch as an adult and they just seem corny and/or stupid, boring, childish or just plain lame? (i remember loving "labrynth" the movie as a kid, re watched and realized its just a long and boring David bowie music video). I recently got all 5 seasons of X-men for my kids to watch because I remember absolutely loving it watching it new as a kid myself, it was my most anticipated cartoon (besides the simpsons) and I thought the kids would enjoy it...the theme music gave me butterflies, so lets start there. What a theme song !!! )best ever maybe), so good I can't believe it brought out emotion in me and that is rare. The video for the intro is pretty cool too, love that explosion.Now on to the show, a lot of reviews here hit it on the nose. The show is so complex and the characters are real. The opening scene of jubilee with her foster parents, man !!! TV shows still don't have the balls to put on content that real.Gambit hitting on the cashier, man !!! so good.The characters make jokes that are funny.They get in each others faces.The girls are more loving and the guys are cold.OK i could go on and on so lets just finish by saying watch the damn show and lets never forget it. shows like this don't come along every day and i hope people enjoy it for a long time.OK i feel like i should throw a couple negatives in just so i don't seem to biased (remember i am not a comic geek so i cant talk about comic book accuracy) just from the first episode though ...1. I don't like how gambit is just waltzing around the mall in his costume, storm and rogue were both in plain clothes though so i don't know why gambit had to be rocking his outfit? 2. The giant robot is hiding behind a tree as jubilee walks by going to her parents house to check on them ... please.OK thats about it for nowum fav character has gotta be gambit, love the accentsthis show embraces diversity but not in a captain planet kind of wayalright i am outthanks


                
In my humble opinion, this is the greatest cartoon of all time. Certainly the greatest comic-book adaption of all time. For all you kids out there, if you want to know why the 80s and 90s were the glory years for cartoons, go on youtube and check out some of these episodes. The animated series is certainly exceptionally better than the lousy films. If the X-men films had been a tenth as good as the cartoons, they would have been awesome movies. The first three seasons were the best, the series wasn't quite up to snuff for the last two seasons (but it's still better than most of the stuff on TV nowadays). Season 3 was my personal favorite, as it featured an amazing adaption of the Phoenix and Dark Phoenix Saga. But I also loved the Mr. Sinister storyline in season 2. And the sentinel storyline in season 1 was well-produced as well, culminating in my personal favorite episode, FINAL DECISION, where Magneto helps the X-Men take out the sentinels and Mastermold.


                
I'm a huge fan of comic book superheroes and the X-men are my favorite from Marvel comics. This is the best interruption of the X-men. I LOVE the live action movies by 20th century fox with Hugh Jackman, Halle Berry & etc. But this is the best adaptation from the comics. This is also an iconic staple of Saturday mourning cartoons of the 1990s. In the comics about every decade there's a different X-men team with different characters and this cartoon is perfectly based on the 90's team of X- men, which might be the best one. The show does an EXcellent job at staying true to the comics, the animation was great, the action was great and the stories/episodes where great! The best thing about the X-men in general are all the wide range of great characters. Marvel comics done a great job in creating many, many truly interesting characters with great powers, back-stories, personalities and cool looks. It's the colorful characters that makes the X-men so iconic. First there's Charles Xaviar aka Professor X voiced by Cedric Smith. He has a great voice for Xavier. He's the leader of the X-men and one of the world's most powerful telepathic. They did a great job at always giving him an important part in the show not just the typical boss role. The field leader of the X-men is Scott Summers aka Cyclops voiced by Norman Spencer. His voice is perfect for Cyclops. He has one of the most tormenting powers as powerful rays shoot from his eyes which can only be controlled with a visor he wears but he can never look at anyone with a naked eye. They did a great job showing his personality and how serious he takes things as well as his rivalry with Wolverine. Catherine Disher is great as the voice of Jean Grey, who's power is telekinesis(moving objects with her mind). I like her romance with Cyclops and like Scott she takes things seriously. The 2nd in command after Cyclops is Oroa Munroe aka Storm voiced by Iona Morris. Her voice is perfect, I love her African accent. She can control the weather around her and I love how she makes dramatic statements when using her powers like a God commanding the weather to act by her will, even Rouge commented on it by saying "lighting up with the speeches". I love Hank McCoy aka Beast. He looks like a fury animal but is actually an sophisticated Genies scientist. George Blaze is great as his voice, I love how they show his love for reading, poetry and art and how he quotes poetry. I love Rogue, she's a great character. She has one of the best personalities and back-story. Lenore Zann is great as her voice, I love her sassy southern accent and flirtations. But she is also tragic as her power is to absorb the life force and/or powers of anyone she touches, making her incapable to touch anyone. My favorite character is Remy Lebeau aka Gambit, who's power is to turn any object into an explosive by touching it. He just has a cool personality. I love Chris Potter's voice, his French accent is perfect. I love how he uses game cards as weapons and all of his "card talk" like saying "five card stud" before blowing something up. I also like how for some reason he always talks in a 3rd person. The youngest member is teenager Jubilee voiced by Alyson Court. Her hands can create fireworks like sparks. She's cool but I think they made her too immature. But the breakout star is Logan aka Wolverine. I love Hugh Jackman but this is the best take on Wolverine ever. His scratchy, Clint Eastwood like voice by Cathal Dodd is great. His heart's always in the right place but he has such a bad attitude and unlike the other X-men he'll kill . They couldn't show him actually kill(like in the comics) but heavenly implied he's willing to kill. I love his rivalry with the vicious Sabbertooth and how he's in love with Jean Grey. He is definitely the most interesting & complex X-men character. The show also did a great job with the villains. The mutant- hunting giant robots called Sentials were perfectly done. Professor X's former college, the non-mutant hating Magneto is good but unfortunately he dosen't have the brotherhood in this show, he works alone. I like Mystique, Avalanch, and Pyro. Mr. Sinister is one of my favorites, he's really creepy. I love the Juggernaught, he's a smart-ass, a bully and his super strength makes him literally unstoppable. The biggest villain is Apocalpse, who's really scary. Other X-men characters from the comics appear like Collosus, Nightcrawler, Iceman, Angel, Dazzler, Cable but unfortunately no Kitty Pryde. I love the opening credits and theme music, there's no lyrics but the music is unforgettable. The series is very mature and deals with intense issues like prejudice, bigotry and abuse. The 1st season is the best but the entire series is fantastic and is the best from Marvel comics.
After 16 years since its release and almost 11 after its last episode, I still think that X-Men TAS stills being the perfect animated series ever based on a comic book so powerful as X-Men ever was. I still miss it.You can feel the difference between X-Men TAS and X-Men Evolutions with the ages. Today I'm 26 y.o. and until now I watch TAS and feel excited about it while I watch Evolutions and feel bored with those teenage jokes. TAS was an animated series for teenagers and adults, because it was fun for the kids and mature on its plot and all its stories were very consistent for the adult audience.I must say that I like a lot the movie trilogy, but just because I'm a huge fan of the mutants, but the movies wasn't faithful to the comics at all. I agree that some changes were needed for the movies, but a lot was changed... and a lot change for the comics after the movies, and Evolution is the proof of that.X-Men TAS was extremely faithful to the comics and a lot close to the comics stories. It was like seeing the comics in the TV. All the main character and villains were there, with all their powers, original costumes, personalities, all their stories were well explored during all the 5 seasons. The other supporting characters also had their important moments. The important stories like The Savage Island or The Genosha Island, Apocalipse and mainly (I SAID MAINLY) The Phoenix Saga and The Dark Phoenix Saga were masterpieces and I still watch to them till today like they were the real movies that I though one day X-Men would be, but never was.They tried to insert some kind of Phoenix in the movies but it was a joke comparing to the importance of this entire saga in the comics, and TAS did an amazing experience with entire saga for over 9 episodes. I still think that all the Phoenix saga should become a movie series because it's a sci-fi epic that everyone would enjoy, and a sci-fi epic that the movie series fails to be in some moments.Today the art work in TAS stills being something great because it was entirely colored by hands and not by computer. All the animated technique used in production are no longer in use by any kind of studio and that's another great thing to admire.X-Men TAS is a strongly recommended series for those who enjoy a lot so loved mutants and also for those who became fans after the movies and don't know anything about them in the early years or think that Evolutions is a great piece of work. Yeah... Evolution is all about a great PIECE of work, while TAS is an ENTIRE great work.


                
I love everything about X Men. The animation is very detailed and atmospheric, and the character designs especially with Wolverine are quite sophisticated for the time. The action sequences, which never suspended disbelief and had some wondrous elements for kids and adults alike to savour, have a lot of fluidity in that regard. The music is wonderful as well, the intro is one of the coolest of any animated series of the 90s(and there were a lot) and the background scoring manages to be beautiful and haunting. The writing is intelligent, sometimes affecting and sometimes humorous, though any sense of conflicting emotions are equally convincing, while the story lines are daring and always interesting and the characters right from charismatic Wolverine, sexy Rogue to the appropriately antagonistic villains are very well-written and likable. The voice acting is always expressive and never felt stereotypical, bland or overdone. In conclusion, a superb series. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
X-Men is one of the perennial favorites in the Marvel catalog, maybe as well known now as Spider-Man, and seeing this TV series it's not hard to see why. This is taken, as far as I can tell from my limited knowledge of the original comics that featured the main cast assembled here (Cyclops, Wolverine, Rogue, Storm, Gambit, Jean Grey, Xavier, Jubilee), right from the source material, and it's a pleasure to see how the series in the first two seasons followed a fairly straightforward continuity. Indeed it's like going through a comic book series; you can't really jump in on any episode to really gage the plot (albeit there are some great stand-alone episodes, particularly in the second season where we get some backstories on Gambit and Rogue), though at the least you get an idea of who every character is and what their interests, powers, concerns and little dramas tend to veer toward.This is not to say sometimes it can't get a little confusing; by the time it gets into time travel with Cable it can be a little crazy, especially in terms of how much affects what or why an apocalypse still seems to be taking place. But aside from that, it's a classic Saturday morning serial, with lots of adventure and action and colorful villains. And they're all given some meaty comic-boom dialog, too, and it's a step-up usually from the times in the movie series when they've tried to go too far (i.e. X3, Wolverine) in defining personalities. Here it's done just enough as to get a grasp of everyone, but relatively so. And along with the breakneck animation (some of it quite sophisticated for the time, some on par with the Ninja Turtles cartoons if not quite up there with Batman), there's the whole issue of being a mutant, the identity of it and how it is to be a human and an outsider in society that works its way into the show and theme in general.It's got a message but it doesn't overstate it, it's got action that is believable enough so that we don't roll our eyes and incredible at times to keep the kids wondering (there's a moment where the flying-angel character in an episode asks Rogue how she can fly and she gives a shrug kind of answer, a perfect little comic-book moment), not to mention characters like Beast and Wolverine and Magneto, who are the kinds of icons that need strong storytelling to keep them interesting to new and old fans. This X-Men series, frankly, is the be-all-end-all for me, bad-ass and an all-around crowd-pleaser.


                
Growing up in the 1990's I loved this show and watched it with great enthusiasm on Saturday mornings; it had everything a great children's show lacks today...Action, great dialogue, brilliant story lines and more importantly the most accurate interpretation of the comics.Some sort cuts were taken during the running of this show by the writers but only the things that weren't necessary or...confused people...Like Lady Deathstrike being Wolveirne ex-lover and her dad being the 'professor' who infused Wolverines bones with adamantium.I fell in love with Wolverine and the gang right here...And still today consider X-Men the greatest superheroes in Marvel...This show explored all the characters and their own worlds, making the audience empathise with them, cheer them on. The show also had a 'sex' factor..hidden as it was...But c'mon...some of the characters were hot...Lady Deathstrike was....Hot...The show also had one of the most memorable and amazing theme songs ever composed....The song just made you jump up with adrenaline...If only they used it on the movies.All in all one of the best X-Men interpretations ever established..Probably better then the movies..
Unlike many people on here, I am not familiar with the comics but I can safely say, if you liked the movies, then you are bound to enjoy this. It can appeal to kids as well as adults as it deals with some personal issues as well involving certain characters. The main characters in this series are as such: Wolverine, Xavier, Jean, Scott, Rogue, Gambit, Jubilee, Beast and Storm. Each are unique in their own way. Other characters such as Nightcrawler, Iceman and Colousess and not main characters and appear in few episodes but it was interesting to see how they were portrayed and characterised and I think they did it perfectly, considering that they didn't get much screen time. I was glad to see that it involves the love triangle between Logan/Jean/Scott and Rogue/Gambit and was done reasonably realistically but without getting in the way of the main story lines.Moving on, some of the story arcs were fantastic, particularly the Dark Phoneix saga and Days of Future Past. Some however (particularly Beyond Good And Evil) felt a bit out of place and long running. It also deals pretty well with the fight between mutants and humans while not going over the top. The animation is spot on and characters such as Logan and Jean look amazingly like they did in the movies! The fights are fun to watch and are fast paced and for once, they are allowed to punch! There is plenty of action and let's face it - who doesn't enjoy watching that? But what would this series be without humour? There are some extremely funny scenes and funny lines that you can't help but snort at. Logan and Gambit must have the best sense of humour in this particular series. I definitely recommend this series, it may be old but it is classic! 10/10.


                
I was 12 years old when i have seen for a first time x men to my home. I love this series from the first time. I saw characters with different powers and abilities. I have seen for a first time super heroes to not be popular to their universe but instead of this people afraid them, people to not want these super heroes to their world because they do not like any different man or woman to exist near of them. What can i say about "Beyond good and evil" episodes or "Dark Phoenix Saga". I like for the first time Wolverine. I do not know why but for different reasons Wolverine is still my favorite character. Then because he was lonely and one of the most powerful mutants. Now because he is the darkest of the x men, because he has a great past, and because i still like his powers: "adamantium" (which is indestructible) and healing factor.


                
The X-Men TV series has been cited as one of the greatest televised- cartoons of all time. And I completely understand why: the characters are near-perfect reflections of the comic counterparts, the stories respect their source material(s) beautifully, and the music is a '90s nutshell! X-Men is still Marvel's best animated series to date, and though live-action shows like Marvel's Daredevil and Legion have overshadowed the show's legacy somewhat: I still LOVE this series!What's not to like? It's got kick-ass action, kick-ass stories, and Wolverine doing his thing: being a completely lovable bad-ass! Anything wrong with this series that comes to mind for me? Not really. Maybe some of the voice-acting does get a little corny, but hardly ever. Basically everything in this show is wonderful! It's a childhood memory of mine, I love it as much as Batman: The Animated Series and it's still fondly remembered by millions of fans to this day.If you're someone who was born in the 90s and somehow DIDN'T end up watching the series, what the hell are you waiting for?! Binge it right away! And thank me later.


                
I have been merrily working my way through not merely the Marvel archives but, to show I don't play favorites, the DC library as well. Series as well as features. Honestly (and usually I distrust anyone who starts a sentence with the word "honestly") the production standards here are the best I have seen. The animation is superb. Done in the 90s before the studio started to experiment with what can best be described as "stressed" or "overly geometric" figures. The writing? As good as or better than many features on the big screen decades later, and MUCH better than several X-Men features. Many two and three-parters, very brave for the era. The voice actors? Astonishing. Overall score? A perfect 10.
I started watching X-Men when I was in elementary school around the time it debuted on Fox. I never followed the comic books to closely, so I don't care if this series deviated from it. I was blown away by the art. To this very day, I have never seen any animated series drawn so well. The animation is not as fluid is that of Batman the Animated Series, but it's still ten times better than BTAS. Like Batman, however, the art changed some time during the later episodes, and it wasn't quite as good. Watching episodes now, I see why I fell in love with the show in the first place. Almost every episode was action-packed with the X-Men fighting ever more dangerous foes. We also get insight into characters, such as Wolverine and Gambit's, backgrounds. I would recommend this show to anyone who appreciates well-drawn cartoons and action-packed confrontations between good and evil.


                
The 1990s were a great time for cartoon adaptations of comic books superheroes, such as Spider-man, the Incredible Hulk, Iron Man, Fantastic Four and Batman. And X-Men was the best of them all. Here is an adaptation which that explores every theme that made the comics great.X-Men is about a group of mutants led by Charles Xavier. Xavier's dream is for mutants and human to live together in peace. But there are many factors that oppose this dream, from Magento, Xavier's old friend, who thinks a war between the sides of humanity, Mr. Sinister, a mutant who want to genetically enhance mutants, the Sentials, powerful robots programmed to kill mutants, the Friends of Humanity, a group of anti-Mutant extremists and the all powerful Apocalypse just to name a few. Many of the villains get to show their ideology that drives them, which makes X-Men so much better then most superheroes and I why I think they are the best.Within the series they is many different plots, some having massive arcs like the Phoenix storyline to stand alone episodes. Many of the characters get to shine, from Wolverine with his tortured background and rage, Gambit as a theft, Rogue with the inability to touch and suffers horrible memories, to Beast's intelligent, etc<U+0085> Many elements and story lines from the comics are brought into the series such as Days of the Future Past and the Dark Phoenix. Many of the mutants from the comics even get to play supporting roles or have cameos, e.g. Angel, Nightcrawler and Psylocke.They is good animation, excellent storytelling and writing, strong character development and lots of action to satisfy fans. The series use all the sci-elements available and even some of Marvel's other character have brief cameos.I only have 2 small criticisms of the series. First is Xavier's school focuses on the adult members, and only has one student, when for the most time there are a number of students of all ages living at the school. My other criticism is the limits that were set on the violence, this was because of the American censors limits on many American cartoons at the time. They were no deaths or even guns shots or punching. Wolverine only gets to slide and dice robots and not people.It's a very enjoyable cartoon for both purists who even hated the Singer films, and to outsides of the comic books. Great cartoon series.


                
I must say that the X-Men is the best series cartoon ever. I recommend to anyone. It has great story, some episodes are so great and have great, fast action. There are so many different characters and many different special powers. Many episodes are great, but the best episodes are with mutant Apocalypse. Those episodes have the best stories and best action. Most of them are mind-provoking, not like some Spider-Man. The one (Spider-Man) has cheep stories and many other series cartoons. Both X-Men movies are good, but they can never be so satisfying as X-Men cartoon series. So, if you want good cartoon, which is more mature than average cartoons, it's X-Men.


                
guys, i grew up watching this animated x-men series. in fact, this has more credibility than that of the x-men evolution. can anyone help me find a site where i can download the intro music? every time this music plays, it just gives me a classic thrill of x-men. what i love about this song is its intense and exciting beat. i will never ever be tired of hearing this soundtrack. the movie should incorporated this music just like in superman's. i think lots of x-men fans were a bit disappointed. for me, this music was the signature sound of x-men and this was inserted in the movie, it would have been better because this would have brought the old and new generation fans together. anyway, i hope you can help me find this music. my e-mail add is gerard_fernand3z@yahoo.com


                
I saw a web site that you can purchase the entire X-MEN TAS for &39 I lost the link but looking for it but will post as soon as I find it. Its out there.....Or you can copy the TV show if you have your computer to tape the shows via the XP software. And then there is software available to compress it. the entire show is quite large and you can also use XP software to remove the commericals.I do not think that is too much for the entire series. You may be able to find it on Ebay from people that have purchased it and then no longer want it.


                
