I was in my early teens when I first saw this cartoon version of 'X-Men' on television and it was what ignited my long-standing interest in the Marvel universe. If there was ever a lesson to be learnt about what it is to produce a faithful, involving adaptation (be it from a comic or a book) this show was the perfect example as it managed to successfully transfer the characters and plots from page to screen without dumbing down or altering things for the sake of making them 'cooler'.The cartoon focused mainly on 'X-Men' favourites including Cyclops, Jean, Wolverine, Gambit, Rogue, Storm, Beast, Jubilee and, of course, Xavier. But there were also episodes involving characters in supporting roles such as Archangel, Bishop, Nightcrawler and Cable. In terms of villains, all the usual suspects of like Magneto, Sinister, Mystique and Apocalypse turn up at some point. Unlike the recent films, aimed at pleasing teenagers and casual cinema-goers, this series was more intent on depicting the characters properly so there is the same interactions as seen in the comics including the Scott/Jean/Wolverine triangle, the love/hate relationship between Gambit and Rogue and the sibling bond that Storm and Gambit share. It also wonderfully portrays Wolverine's darkly sarcastic side, which brings humour to the show.While the films (and the childish 'X-Men: Evolutions') show the X-Men having rather calm, settled lives on the whole, this series gave a darker view of the universe, showing the team striving to do good in a world where much of humanity loathed mutants and saw them as the threat. It also tackled story arcs, like Onslaught, Dark Phoenix, Days of Future's End and Angel's transformation into Archangel, that appeared in the comic-verse in a way that retained the essence of the stories.This was certainly one of the best cartoons to come out of the Nineties and still holds appeal to me even now that I'm an adult. In fact, I think a few of the time-travelling episodes would probably be a bit too complex for the usual eight- to twelve-year-old demography who watch Fox Kids. I'd highly recommend this to fans of the comics and those who enjoyed the films but felt they were too flat and want to see something that preserves the spirit of the comics.


                
This was a quite good series, as far I remember. The animation wasn't very good, actually it was the worst aspect of it, but the plot and the characters were excellent: Even as a child, I admired this series for the interesting plots and the rich complexity of the characters, dealing with themes as intolerance, racism, war and divorce. Also, it was pretty funny to watch, mostly because I always was a huge fan of the "X-Men" comics (Which are my favorite comic book characters) and this series made justice to the original source material. This was the best of the animated adaptations of the X-Men comics into an animated form (Compare this with the short "Pryde of the X-Men", "X-men: Evolution" and "Wolverine and the X-Men") I highly recommend it to anyone.
Best adaption from comic book to screen ever made. This show made waking up before 10:00 in the 90s worth it.


                
...I have to be honest. I only have seen about 10 episodes of this show. I enjoyed the show based on that and I do want to see more than the ones I found when I was 12. I watched everything Marvel had to offer at the time and I think that this is actually the best cartoon Marvel has to offer.Now instead of analysing the cartoon itself I am going to go through the other cartoon incarnations of X-Men. Wolverine and The X-Men was brilliant, I enjoyed the show immensely and at the time sat down every time it was on (I was a kid!). X-Men Evolution on the other hand, I liked that it created some really good characters who will later be in their own comic book series (but given better back-stories such as X-23) but on the whole the show wasn't that great.I like the characters of this show. Everything is balanced out perfectly in terms of that area (unlike other incarnations) and all of them (except maybe Jubilee) are very likable and all of them have their distinctive personalities and traits and none of them differ from the comic books.I have seen very little episodes as I said above but based on what I have seen it is a solid 9/10. The only real faults is that the writing does become cheesy in some places, but it's a children's cartoon made in the 90's and considering some of the other cartoons I used to watch (such as the 1960's incarnations of marvel Superheroes) that can be overlooked.


                
What I mean is that the storylines adapted in Marvel's X-Men are very well done and give us loads of action, lots of character and an enthusiastic voice cast of which many can be considered THE voice of their respective character.You can't go wrong with the X-Men and their enemies being great opposites to each other, but still more often than not, having a connection to each other which make them complex and great to follow on their journeys.But since I said that you should look the right places, I must confess that I had my issues with certain parts of the final product.The first being the animation which even for its time was not that flowing or smooth looking. It was true to the comics, and that was great, but the movements were a little stiff here and there.The second was actually the voice acting. It wasn't bad, because Wolverine, Professor X and Magneto are still THE voices of those characters, but more than once I found many voices to be overly theatrical and some even unpleasent or annoying to listen to.And that sadly held back my expirience from being fantastic very good, but it is still highly recommended that you check X-Men out, because the substance was present and make up for the surface level setbacks.


                
Having reviewed every cinematic adaptation of the uncanny team, I though that "Waite what about the original animated series on Fox?". So to start this series is easily in the top ten of the most beloved superhero series even more than twenty years afters its opening in 1992, wait(!) Am I writing about an animated series that is on reruns since the turn of the new millennium? Wow I feel old! So X-men(1992) was my first encounter with the mutants and their adventures, the issues that they faces and why the team is the way it is. What I loved even to this day is the designs of the character, those colorful suits ,which 1. make it easy to distinguish for instance Cyclops from Beast and 2. show looks awesome and I wish some day to see something like that on the big screen. For real this has been sixteen years ,nine movies and two incarnations of the major players of the mutant group and the most only suit that look some like the ones from the series and comic are the ones from First Class and Deadpool.Another nice thing is that the mutants under the command of the main adversary(not enemy) of X-men, Magneto aren't evil for evil sake, but the society treatment of each and every one made them like that. In simple words they act in evil ways because this is the only thing they ever took from the regular humans. For that reason ,though I don't condole with their approach ,I get the why of the situation. Also no one can forget the amazing story-lines that the series adapted from the mythology of the team up to that point in time, from the Phoenix saga, the Age of Apocalypse, Slave Island and Days of Future Past just to name a few of them. And in some cases this adaptations were better than their feature film counterpart ,I am looking at you X-men Origins and Last Stand! And the opening theme, how could I not mention this amazing theme, what every fan of the series has memorized. Hell you can't say you are fan of the X-men if you don't know this song, period!!!!If you are a fan of the X-men this is for you and me the same as the Jesus of Najaret of the religious guys: The basis with what anything related with the subject you love is compared. And now let's get dangerous, what I don't like with the series.1) The animation is a bit stiff compared with modern-day animated projects. 2) At times the series is to much a product of its time, which means that some quotes at the nineties worked now sound dated and over the top.3)...The audience that is so devout to this series that like to shot out of the sky the feature film adaptations. But that is more a problem with the angry nerds and not with the series per say.Over all if you want your kids to get in to the X-men then show them this series and if you have the time watch it with them, in the age of the internet everyone can and usually relive his childhood by watching something this series.


                
X-men one of the many shows I remember watching as a kid on TV and on VHS.Marvel comics has been known for their many characters and X-men is one of them.The X-men team contain Cyclops (voiced by Norm Spencer) Wolverine (voiced by Cathal J Dodd) Rogue (Voiced by Lenore Zann) Storm (Voiced by Iona Morris then later by Alison Sealy-Smith) Beast (Voiced by George Buza) Gambit (Voiced by Chris Potter) Jubilee (voiced by Alyson Court), Jean Grey (Voiced by Catherine Disher) Professor X (Voiced by Cedric Smith)They fight for Human mutant peace while their enemy The Brotherhood lead by Magneto (voiced by David Hemblen) fight to ruin their plans.What makes the show a classic is the strong character developments the producers and writers took the time to stay true to the characters of X-men which is a plus for any fan and for those who enjoy comic books.The animation for each episode really dark and a lot attention to detail. The show's animation style fits the story line of the series which is important for any animation show.The voice acting is pretty good and you can feel the emotions of each character. They made some wise choices with the actors they pick to voiced the characters.The writers for the show were very wise for the show and the writing is very intelligent for kids and adults. X-men The Animated Series is one of the best cartoons ever made and one of the few that gives justice to the comic book it's based on.If you're a fan of X-Men you will enjoy this classic series for it's strong characters, animation style to tell the story and smart writing
