This movie consists of the following - our heroes immaculately coiffed and dressed looking soulful. By the end I was longing for either some depth or some crudity to invade this ever so stylish work. Recommended if you think that fashion catalogues are works of literature. I would give this a 0 but i'm shocked to see that I have been forced to wildly overrate it by giving 1/10


                
I say this in complete honesty: this is the first film I have ever rented or bought that I have not watched until the end. Why this film received critical acclaim is beyond me.It was painfully dull and I was checking for dirt under my fingernails after about 10 minutes. I really wanted the film to develop into something worth watching, but it never did. It was not exciting, it was not moving and it was not thought-provoking. It did absolutely nothing for me.Truly awful - do not waste your time and money on this. If you want to bore yourself senseless, there are cheaper ways of doing it.


                
This film was one of the most boring cinematic experiences I have ever had: the plot was non-existent, the acting an exercise in posturing and the direction seemed to be a poseur's attack on celluloid. I actually burst out laughing at the end of the movie and apologized to my date for the disaster that I had asked them to come see. I'm not quite sure why this movie has created such a sensation in SOME minds but I see everything and go into movies with an open mind. I think a lot of people are claiming this is a great movie because they THINK they should acclaim it. But that's just one guy's opinion...Save your money.


                
Until I saw this film, _Rhinestone_ was the worst film I had ever seen. Now, _Rhinestone_ has be de-throned._In The Mood For Love_ has several problems.  First off, the movie has no plot.  Yeah, 2 poor suckers talk about their possibly cheating but never seen mates.  So what?I've read that the film was shot basically without a script.  I don't know if it is true, but it is believable.The soundtrack is repetitive and bad.The characters, save one perverted gambler, are boring and dull.Everyone talks about how "visually stunning" this film is.  Well, maybe it is visually stunning, but that's a quality I want from a photo album, not a moving picture.So, no plot, bad over-used music, and boring characters.  The last time I checked, there were no other reasons to see a film.Do yourself a favor-- skip this movie.


                
Are you kidding me? It felt like a slow, boring suicide. I get to know the characters as much as a front door camera does. The dresses make this film watchable, so in case you want to see it and enjoy it, look them up on Tumblr or YouTube - it will only take several seconds or minutes of your life. And it won't make you sad. The film is so cold and grows more cold and distant as it progresses, and combined with the boredom that starts about 10 minutes into the film, by the end of it you feel like sitting alone at a station with your feet cold, getting old and gray.


                
I don't understand all the fuzz about this movie.  It is so over-rated. Tony Leung and Maggie Cheung are the two big names in Hong Kong cinema but that does not make this movie the best love story of all time.  This movie "tries" so hard to be "artsy."  But unfortunately this is not a French or Spanish movie.  If we want to see a real good authentic Chinese movie then this is definitely not the one.  I give it 1 star out of 5.


                
This was a total deception! Nothing happens! Can nothing happen slowly? In this movie it can!!! I dont want to talk about the 'come & visit touristic places in my country' scenes which was non sense (and very long) at the end! The only thing i liked in the movie; it ends suddenly without any reason to be conclude!!! Boring session is enough for even crew & cast!!!!


                
My Rating : 0/10Not sure why this is rated as highly as it is. I found it utterly lacking any depth. It's too boring and feels much longer than it is.
It's annoying to watch the same slow-motion music sequence play over and over again.Boring, lacklustre...mediocre. Zero stars.


                
