The best thing I can say about this film is the art direction, which conveys the claustrophobic inner world of its characters. Virtually without exterior shots, possibly due to budget constraints (i.e. trying to recreate early 60s Hong Kong), the film relies heavily on its lush, over-saturated interior surfaces to create the mood. Yet I would suggest that beyond being representational of the repressed passion of the characters, there is little more to see here besides the sets. The performances have been outlandishly overpraised by the "less is more" crowd. In particular, the often-wrong Cannes judges bestowed a best actor award for a performance that in fact does not even create a three-dimensional character, but focuses on long pulls on cigarettes and blank staring into space. Yeah, great stuff. Both my wife and I have seen thousands of films combined, and we both thought it underwritten, underacted, repetitive, and akin to watching paint dry. Beautiful paint, yes, but that's all.What is more intriguing is the praise the film has gotten. At least one critic mentioned how he thought the film would have been dismissed as laughable if it had been Western actors in a less exotic locale. Could be. It is baffling that so many can be taken by something with so little merit. I could only find one major critic who panned this film: Peter Rainer in New York Magazine. His comments are spot on, in case you want a more thorough argument regarding its self-conscious aesthete mindset.


                
This is my first review of any movie on IMDb; I am a busy person and I can never find the time to write such reviews; but this time it is different; because I always check IMDb ratings before I watch a movie; and generally it gives me a pretty good idea about the movie that I will be watching; BUT THIS TIME IMDb REALLY FAILED TO DO ITS JOB!I watched this movie last night with my wife and we both felt like we had wasted 2 hours of our valuable time. This movie is one of the most boring movies we have ever watched. First of all, there is no plot in this movie. Music is romantic. It ends stupidly.. you never understand why the movie shows some historic documentary about Cambodia. Now, this is one of the most confusing moments I have ever had in my life. Because, I went ahead and started reading the comments to see what we are missing. Page over page, I read glowing praises about the movie and its artistic value. I have to confess that, I am not an art major, but I am really curious if the people who wrote the reviews are all art critics and they know something that I don't. ... Hence, one important task before me is to be able to explain why this movie got soooo many glowing praises and recommendations. Until I can do that, I will live with an inferiority complex due to the lack of art appreciation in me.One question to IMDb moderators: why did you put all of the negative reviews on the very last two pages!! Is there something intentional for doing it?


                
I really regret I wasted my time on this boring movie, the two people never smile or laugh, everything is so slow and meaningless, if you want, just love, if you don't want, just leave, why waste time and money on this stupid movie?


                
Very, very boring and senseless. Nothing happens in one hour and half.


                
This film is surely the slowest film I've ever seen, and I've seen a number of oriental (i.e. some slow) films. It must be that I don't get it, even the dialogues sounded weird to me. I know it's supposed to be deep, but I think it is just plain slow.


                
