Beautiful film set in 1962 Hong Kong about a man (Mr. Chow) and woman (Mrs. Chan) who become close friends when they suspect their spouses are having an affair. Stylistically, the film is also beautiful. Wong Kar-Wai uses a lot of slow motion and close-ups on parts of the body (feet, hands, waist). The film itself has a reticence and properness that suggests its time period. It's sexy without showing everything. Wong Kar-Wai  also doesn't allow the audience to see what the spouses look like, suggesting that Mr. Chow and Mrs. Chan should be together. Smoking is even made to look elegant with close-ups of the curls of smoke. A really lovely film. Just prepare yourself for the ending.


                
Set in 1962 Hong Kong (in turbulent times, as we are informed), this extremely intimate story of a failed romance between a two married people tied to their traditions manages to recall the essence of old Hollywood in scene after scene of lush colors, evocative yet restrained sensuality (as opposed of the requisite sexuality and occasional nude scenes which has become part of the norm of a romance in film), and the use of facial expressions to suggest subtle changes in mood or communication. It's not hard to see the influence of Marguerite Duras here, since she is known for minimalism in storytelling as well as describing powerful drama using the art of verbal and non-verbal conversation between two characters with a strong bond as well as the use of re-enacting scenes that could eventually take place in both the characters' lives. From Hiroshima MON AMOUR to MODERATO CANTABILE, her pen is strongly visible here from the moment we enter the cramped rooms of Mr. Chow (Tony Leung) and Mrs. Su Li-zhen (Maggie Cheung) to the last scenes which explain the intensity of regret that he feels as he recalls the opportunity which was lost in reaffirming this relationship.The plot even resembles something that Duras could have written: Mr. Chow and Mrs. Su Li-zhen, neighbors in a tenement apartment while both being fairly successful professionals, begin to discover in the most banal of ways that their spouses are cheating on them, and they discover quite naturally, it's with each other. The question is, should they act upon what they also feel towards each other or not be like their partners? Every scene plays with the notion that at any moment they will give in to each other, and at one point, it is suggested that eventually they do though as intrusive as the camera is in detailing to us their encounters (which seem to occur on a daily basis as seen by the frequent changes of Cheung's dresses), we never see it. And just as not seeing either of their spouses heightens their own love story, not seeing them carry through with their attraction makes the eventual separation even the more bitter because at every moment we want for something to happen -- some catalyst -- and the only one which comes is when Leung reveals to her that he loves her, followed by his quietly brutal revelation that she will never leave her husband, which implies that neither will he. It also gives us a glimpse of what culture and timing can do: from a Western point of view, a consummation of their romance into a more solid, lasting affair would have been possible especially in the 60s, but as it's Hong Kong, cultural values are markedly different.Performances here are of the high order: it's very easy to play a torrid love affair, but to continually play a repressed, platonic relationship that is brimming with desire only barely suggested is hard and makes all the sensuality more cerebral than palpable or visual. Cheung and Leung smolder and their blighted chemistry lingers long after the credits have rolled.
In Hong Kong, 1962, the editor Chow Mo-wan (Tony Leung Chiu Wai) and his wife, and the secretary Su Li-Zhen Chan (Maggie Cheung) and her husband simultaneously move to an old building. Each couple has just rented a room in apartments on the same floor. Their wife and husband stay most of the time away from home, and Chow and Li-Zhen have the same habits: they like kung-fu stories and noodles and soap from a restaurant nearby the building. Their close contact becomes friendship and a sort of platonic and repressed love. Later they realize that their mates are having an affair, Chow falls in love with Li-Zhen, but her shyness and probably repressed condition of married woman keeps her love in a platonic level. 'In the Mood for Love' is a very slow, beautiful, melancholic and romantic love story, with a wonderful photography and soundtrack and a very unusual edition. The film had not had a screenplay, and the actors were never sure about what they would be shooting. Later, the director edited his story based on the footages. When Chow moves to Singapore, there is a gap of many years in the story until 1966, when its conclusion is intentionally open and not well defined, leaving questions such as who is the boy with Li-Zhen. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil): 'Amor À Flor da Pele' ('Love on the Surface of the Skin')


                
It is a restless moment She has kept her head lowered, to give him a chance to come closer. But he could not, for lack of courage, she turns and walks away.I don't know why this didn't click with me the first time, as far as romance and style go this is right up my alley. An excellent exercise in subtlety and restraint, Kar Wai Wong's poignant drama is about those who are hurt and left alone rather than those who hurt and leave. The people getting hurt are Mr. Chow and Mrs. Chan, two neighbors in 1960s Hong Kong, abandoned by their spouses, who are presumably having an affair. The spouses are never shown on screen, as if to accentuate the sense of isolation and loneliness of the protagonists. Meanwhile, Mr. Chow and Mrs. Chan develop feelings of their own through mundane chance (or are they?) meetings in hallways and rainy streets. Trying to be better than their spouses, they hide their forbidden feelings from both themselves and those around them; as a visual representation, the two are often shot from strange, obscure angles, and in most of the scenes, you only see one of them (or neither) at the time, as if showing both their faces at once would be too intimate. Also, their little role plays, designed to practice how they would react if their partners actually admitted to cheating, subtly double as a metaphor for the façade they have to uphold for the rest of the world.Emotions or (futile attempts of) a lack thereof are in the foreground, but you can't not mention how this is a stylistic feast as much as an emotional. Lone raindrops poetically dripping on wooden boards, walls soaking in deep red, and that stunning L'eclisse-esque ending, all set to the nearly cartoonishly sensual theme, provides the perfect setting for a story as much about hands touching each other as hands pulling away.


                
one could get drunk on heady richness of the visuals, the smooth caressing camera movement, the undulating strains of music, and the emotional frustration from the understatement that is characteristic of the main characters' relationship.the film rouses, excites, and refuses to satisfy. but it's okay because you're too drunk to mind.what a beauty!


                
I always wandered how a WKW film would be, if it was less focused on atmosphere, and more concerned about its narrative. And In the Mood for Love is definitely this movie. The plot of this movie is more cohesive than of the other Wong Kar-wai films.The rest of his films don't have a conventional plot, but rather disjointed beautiful and hypnotic sequences that allow emotions to flow through them. This is not the case here. In the Mood for Love still doesn't have a linear narrative in the traditional way, I mean it's still a WKW film, but the movie has a more contained narrative to say the least.Unfortunately, the movie didn't hit me emotionally as much as it should. Don't get me wrong, I was moved by the movie even more than every WKW I've watched so far, with the exception of Chungking Express. The issues I had with Days of Being Wild and Fallen Angels are what kept me from being fully emotionally engaged, but as for In the Mood for Love, it's the over-control upon the movie's story that deprived me from being entirely connected emotionally. It may sounds strange, but that's what I felt, and in all probability that's what many people also feel if they have been already familiar with Wong Kar-wai style.I don't want to seem as if I'm just creating problems, or make some flaws up out of no where, but I felt that some emotions and feelings passed quickly without hitting me hard.On the other hand, having control on the narrative aspect of the movie, Wong Kar-wai's poetic visual style became more mature. You can easily identify his trademarks, which the movie is full of them; playing with the time, using elliptical editing, and repeating songs, but they are utilized in a more beneficial and purposeful way, hence more delicate and exquisite way.Even the beauty of the cinematography is different from those of Wong Kar-wai's other works. Here the beauty comes from the sumptuous colour palette more than anything else. In the Mood for Love is unquestionably one of the best movies in cinematic history in terms of using colours. The colours here set the mood, and keep enriching it throughout the film's fleeting runtime.However, the characters of this movie along with the performances are the real pleasure I got from. All the subtlety of the characters are brought out by a magnificent cast. Tony Leung Chiu-Wai is quite possibly one of the most talented actors ever. His performance is simply ingenious. Maggie Cheung is equally terrific, if equally, perhaps marginally inferior in comparison Leung, but it's her character that astonished me. Unlike Days of Being Wild's Su Li-Zhen, this character her is jaw-droppingly multi-layered. And the way the brilliant script delves into her is just mind-blowing. Every time Leung's character, Chow, shares the screen with her unravels a new layer in her character, while showcases the talents of the two lead, especially Leung's unique gift.The masterful combination of the ingenious symbolism of Wong Kar-wai, and the movie's sprawling and elaborate narrative is what makes In the Mood for Love stands out, either from Wong Kar-wai's oeuvre, or from the Romance genre. In the Mood for Love is undoubtedly worthy of being hailed as Wong Kar-wai's masterpiece, but Chungking Express is still my favorite among WKW's cinematic gems.(8.5/10)


                
Absolutely loved use of color,stunning(especially red and yellow).Great story and it's very reletable. Everyone should see this movie at some point in their life.


                
Not necessarily style over substance, because there is a lot of "hidden" substance here. The movie contains a very thin yet appealing plot; very subtle and very bleak and pessimistic; clearly not for everyone. Of course the cinematography is amazing - outstanding use of colors and camera movements.
I know it sounds paradoxical but I'll say it: romantic!
This movie is everything that I like about Asian romance movies - a different approach on romance; it's sincere and touching - a great blend of extreme romance and deep loneliness.
Also, the ending is the definition of pure bleakness, and the music helps a lot with the intense and sorrowful atmosphere!
This film might present the most unrequited pure romance in movie history. There's an ethereal quality to the picture, with close-up frames of the conflicted principal characters, and fluid slow motion sequences that add to the romantic nature of the story. For this viewer, the ambiance seemed to be French in a way, even though the story takes place in Hong Kong with an Oriental couple attempting to sort out their feelings after discovering their marriage partners are cheating on them with each other. I had to think about that, because the off screen relationship is insinuated quite strongly, but we never actually see the husband of Mrs. Chan (Maggie Cheung), or the wife of Mr. Chow (Tony Chiu-Wai Leung). They could have been carrying on separate affairs altogether.As odd as it sounds at first, the soundtrack with Nat King Cole singing in Spanish adds another layer of exotic mystery to the relationship between the chaste lovers. One may admire the way the couple resisted temptation to break their marriage vows, particularly in light of their own partners' indiscretions. To my mind, Mrs. Chan appeared to be the more resolute of the two, which makes it somewhat surprising that with the passage of years, she wound up living alone with a child, with one's instincts about the father left to the imagination. It's a rather ambitious film for director Kar-Wai Wong, who's unique filming style often involves characters having conversations off screen, adding yet another thoughtfully reflective layer to the story being told.
In Hong Kong in the 1960s, a man and a woman end up living as neighbours. At first they're casual acquaintances, finding some common areas of interest, but barely more than that. Their bond deepens when they find that their spouses might be having an affair with each other. This brings them closer, but they vow not to repeat the sin that has brought them together.In the Mood for Love is a very different kind of love story. It talks just as much about loneliness and the need for human connection as it talks about love or lust or any of that stuff. Both Mrs. Chan (Maggie Cheung) and Mr. Chow (Tony Chiu-Wai Leung) live lives surrounded by people. Their apartments are rented rooms in other people's houses. Those people are rarely more than a doorway away, yet a recurring theme of the movie is them eating alone in their rooms or out on a stand somewhere. Only in each other they find that something that sparks a connection. Yet in 60s Hong Kong their friendship is something they have to hide, something they cannot share with others, adding to their isolation.The story alone is strong enough, but it's also told beautifully. Both of the main actors are superb in their roles, with Maggie Cheung especially pulling off a role of a lifetime. But a huge part of the film's success is also thanks to its director Kar-Wai Wong, who gives the whole film a dreamlike existence. Loneliness is expressed through meaningless of time. Lots of scenes are very similar with one another or they seem to move fluidly from one to another, but suddenly you realize that a significant amount of time has passed. One of the tricks through which this is shown being the changing dresses of Mrs. Chan. The film contains multiple small touches like that, but I shall not ruin them here for you.In fact, time loses so much of its meaning that it's almost recommended to see this movie twice to get the full experience. The friendship and romance between the two main characters is a slow thing and sometimes you realize only a few scenes later that something important already happened.Powerful film and well worth a double-viewing.


                
Elegantly crafted, mesmerisingly told & brilliantly performed, In the Mood for Love is a fascinating example of restrained craftsmanship that paints one of the most enchanting, alluring & powerfully evocative portraits of love & romance on the film canvas and is further uplifted by its wonderfully detailed period setting, awe-inspiring photography & spot-on chemistry between its leads.Set in 1960s Hong Kong, In the Mood for Love follows the lives of two neighbours, a man & woman who find solace in each other's company after suspecting that their spouses are cheating on them. A beautiful relationship blossoms between the two as they spend more time together and attempt to reenact how their partners' affair must have begun but decide to keep their bond platonic.Written, produced & directed by Wong Kar-wai, the movie allows ample space for its characters to breathe and the bond that develops between the two isn't hurried either as Wong establishes their similar predicament first, while little details such as coincidental interactions & fleeting glances on a daily basis give their budding relationship a genuine touch & natural feel. And their well-defined arcs only helps the cause.The 1960s Hong Kong setting is expertly brought to life by its detailed set pieces & wisely chosen shooting locations. Camera follows our characters around like a silent observer and is thoroughly focused on their activities, however, what stands out are the brief slow-mo vignettes of their lives which is accompanied by a specific track that makes those particular sequences more memorable while enriching the overall experience.Coming to the performances, In the Mood for Love is steered by compelling inputs from Maggie Cheung & Tony Leung, and the sizzling chemistry between the two is the real highlight that makes their romance work so effortlessly. Both actors bring their A-game to the table and challenge each other to up their acts, while the emotional rush & sexual tension that's evident every time they are together makes their on-screen bond more authentic.On an overall scale, In the Mood for Love is a teasing, tempting & transporting illustration of love, longing & loneliness that brims with irresistible charm and radiates endless warmth from start to finish. Presenting Wong Kar-wai in total control of his craft, photographed with an aesthetic eye, and strengthened by measured performances, it is a masterly rendered love story that stumbles a little in its final act but its universal appeal & artistic approach is enough to catapult it into its genre's finest works. Definitely recommended.


                
I greatly enjoyed this film! Every single shot is a work of art. It is a gorgeous film with fantastic acting. The plot is quiet sad, and the movie slow, but if you can accept that from the start, and enjoy a film for its excellent cinematography, then you will enjoy your time with "In The Mood For Love."


                
I think that more than anything, more than the carefully-constructed screenplay that is able to engage its viewers with some simple, but delicate and powerful themes, this film's biggest achievement is due to its impeccable directing. I don't think its enough to have a great screenplay, I think the director needs to make it come alive and needs to make it feel palatable. The two leads' chemistry is really something to behold and the film comes across not just endlessly romantic without having any explicit sexuality, but also very lush. The production design and cinematography lend the proceedings so much vibrancy and energy. Wonderfully-directed film.


                
There is a technique that Wong Kar Wai always use in his work , that is Voice-over. Yet, In the Mood For Love has no any Voice-Over. we have to learn the story by ourselves, think along it by ourselves, if we get lost, we have to come back by ourselves as well. Many piece of Kar Wai's work often deal with a ordinary plot, normal plot. just like in this film, it is just about 2 couples move in to the same building and they think that their spouses have some affairs with others and they accidentally fall in love with each other. that's it ! Kar Wai use not many locations, not many characters and not many songs. (actually we could remember the only one score song when it is played again somewhere) That is Minimalism idea it Wong Kar Wai's film. dealing with some ordinary thing but expand it into limitless details. Less is more, always be elegant.


                
This movie allures me with its charming background of old 1960s Hong Kong middle class flats. Also the story starts up nicely with the well designed screenplay of coincidence. Having big names of Tony Leung and Maggie Cheung, that coincidence played out so very interestingly. At first I thought It was for the sake of art that the Mr. Chan and Mrs. Chow characters aren't in-frame. But later I realize that the thing is a guaranteed way to make sure that the focus only aims at the two focus characters that Tony Leung and Maggie Cheung plays. I really like how technicalities are done. The coloring of the entire movie emphasize the aura of the 60s era even more. The tight sets increase the implied focus of Hong Kong middle class workers. The camera angles really maximize the tight sets, and with all those sliding camera shots, zoomed stills, and detailed props, this movie makes you feel reeled into the exact time and place of the setting. The scenes also make the movie feel so lonesome, and even though it has some crucial scenes shot at daytime, the movie feels as though it's all at night. The acting is just great. Tony Leung and Maggie Cheung did great to portray the disappointed spouses. The story can be told implicitly and beautifully, with no graphic scenes. An 8 out of 10, which is quite rare from me, is very deserving for this movie.


                
Showcasing the potential of Chinese film, this movie is filled with love, drama, suspense and a touch of comedy. Taking place during the 60s, the film does a great job of picturing the social and economic environment of Hong Kong during that time. The music and slow motion shots creates a unique experience for the viewer and makes the movie more attractive to watch. The movie captures the tragic feeling of being part of an unhappy and dysfunctional marriage. Both main characters create an affectionate and strong relationship that helps them get through their hard times. This movie is an attention grabber and has the potential to bring out an emotional response from the viewer.


                
"In the Mood for Love" is a 2000 Hong Kong film directed by Wong Kar-wai. While the film is beautifully shot and directed, it can be a bit drawn out at times. Maybe that's the point though. The film definitely comes through in producing tension and a feeling of uneasiness throughout."In the Mood for Love" is focused on two neighbor characters, Chow, and Mrs. Chan. Both Chow and Mrs. Chan have reason to believe that their significant others are having extramarital affairs. It is through this common ground that the two bond and form a very unique relationship. The film spans several years, and as mentioned above, the film is really focused on the relationship between these two. In an effort to keep this review spoiler free aside from basic plot outline, I will refrain from discussing anything further about the plot details.There is a really moody quality to this film. For me, it is best illustrated through the use of slow motion, as well as the repeated playing of music throughout the film. "In the Mood for Love" is a great study of two characters and the relationship they develop. The final scene of the film is very memorable and is filmed in an absolutely gorgeous location. While this film may not leave you feeling in a very positive mood, it is a very poignant and beautiful film, and what is says about life, love, and relationships definitely holds truth.
Wong Kar –wai delivers a beautiful, delicate love story with a refreshing twist. Unlike most American cinema that ends with a predictable happy ending, Wong Kar-wai pushes the envelope and creates film that shows the hurt that comes with affairs and the nobleness that comes from upholding your values and not stooping to the level of a cheating spouse. Chow and Mrs. Chen both reveal that they significant others are cheating with each other and being to develop a friendship because of this. They are there for each other for moral support and comfort rather than sex/revenge (which would most likely be the case in American cinema). Together they create a beautiful pure relationship that is based solely on compassion and empathy for each other. No exterior motives driven by money, power, or revenge like most movies nowadays. Chow and Mrs. Chen never engage in any physical activity. Although they are very fond of each other, they put aside their desires in order to respect for the sanction of marriage and to "not be like them". Ultimately they know that they cannot be together and part in the end. They love each other but they love their prior commitments more.


                
In this assignment I want to introduce a film named In the Mood for Love, I choose this film because I like its director, Wong KarWai is a very famous director not just in China, he also got many awards on the world stage, I like his own shoot angle and the edit mode. He has his own way for a film and his way is influencing the new generation directors, many young directors try to use his mode and imitate his style. His films influence so many people so I try to use this film as an example and try to explain why he is so popular and successful.In the Mood for Love describe two people moved into an apartment, they have their own family and job. At the start their relationship is very normal. But on day they find out their partner already stay together and have extramarital love. From this, they try to start talking and exchange. This talking not just likes 'say hello', they try to talk some thing about their partner and their love and the content is more deeply. But when they find they can not leave each other every thing is too late, they beginning love each other but because they are married so they can not stay together, that is very excruciating for them. At the beginning, my thought just likes every people which first watch this film. This film is very long and boring and I do not know what is the director exactly wanted to show to audiences. But because of this assignment I think why not just choose this film, it is a good opportunity, so I watch it again and try to find out what the director want to express.Then I found out that is not just a normal city story, although the picture of the back ground is very common and the story is not very classic, do not have many circuitous like Roman Holiday, the heroine not a princess and the hero not very handsome, they are just average people like us. That is why this film will successful, this is a film for ordinary people and the story is ordinary, I mean every body will might be face with betrayal from partner or fall in love with another person, that story will make audiences feel more closer with this actors. Now I want to introduce some nice details about this film, the director try to use these details to magnify actors' mood through this way to let audience feel it more clearly. At 14M, 47S in this film, we can listen the back ground music is starting play and heroine walk in the screen, the music is slow and have a little sad. In this part the actor have no word but it can let audience feel what her feel, her husband have date with another woman but use work as excuse, audience can feel her aloneness from this part. And in the 36M, 10S, when they are in the taxi the hero try to hold heroine's hand we can see the heroine dodge his hand that means in her mind her husband still loves her and she think betrayal is not right thing, she do not like these people and she also do not want become person like that. Their partner betrayal them that are the same part for them but the different is the hero want intimate relationship but the heroine do not think so. Some times she wants to rely on him but some times she want to draw out from this relation, she seemed hesitant. She like the date with the hero, she like the feel when she is alone he can around her, that make her feel peace and genial. But when the landlord told her when she husband not around she should not frequent contact with other man, then she told hero this relation should be stop. In the film these tow people try to performed each partner and talk with each other, at the beginning of this relation the hero try to use this way to contact with the heroine and he told her the thing is happened, they can not redeem. That is very hard for each other when she said they should not keep this relationship, because she found she start to love him, although she do not want to connect with him but he is still in her mind, that is a kind of torment. So the hero chooses escape, he find a job in the oversea and no connect with heroine. She can not stand the missing so she tries to call him but she does not speak, she just wants to hear his voice. These things make me feel they are the true love. The hero said a story to his friend, when some person have a secret he will find a tree and excavate a hole on the tree then he can told his secret to the hole then he just need envelop the hole use dirt, his secret will keep in the tree forever and no one will knows. And at last, the hero fined a hole on the wall then he tells his all secret to the hole and envelops it. I think may be he let his missing go, finally feel at ease.
a masterpiece ever i'm in love with this movie perfect story and directing and actingI enjoyed with soundtrack and songs it's and make me in the mood of love a masterpiece ever i'm in love with this movie perfect story and directing and actingI enjoyed with soundtrack and songs it's and make me in the mood of love a masterpiece ever i'm in love with this movie perfect story and directing and actingI enjoyed with soundtrack and songs it's and make me in the mood of love thanks you
Wong Kar-wai gives us another masterpiece full of mood, atmosphere, color and music.  While not quite reaching his pinnacle in Chunking Express, nevertheless, it is still excellent.  He seemed to have done a turnaround and slowed things down a bit, instead of giving us the atmosphere of hectic coolness and mood of uncertainty in some of some of his prior films, he went with the slow and sullen pace for this doomed romantic encounter.  His use of slow motion for many of their encounters adds much to the slow build-up of the sexual tension in the film.The characters Mr. Chow and Mrs. Chan played out all their interactions with subtle facial expressions or body motions, along with the partner's reactions to it.  It makes their encounters even more erotic than if they had hopped into bed together.The set and cinematography captured the romanticized Hong Kong of the 1960's very convincingly.  Plus the many scenes are shot from behind doorways or as if peering from someone's back, giving us the sense of voyeuring into their private life.As described before, the film is on the slow side.  So those that wants a romantic film delivered on a plate for them might find it boring.An interesting deleted scene in the DVD includes the whole ending that occurred in Cambodia.  It describes a little more of the reason for his final action and leads to a better closure, but it also lifts the mood of the ending up a bit with their cordial encounter and polite inquiry of unanswered questions.  It would have been a mixed bag to add the scene, but I guess if the sombre mood of the ending is to be preserved, then the scene was left at the cutting floor for a purpose.


                
When I first saw this movie I was almost immediately charmed by the atmosphere, the music and the characters. They move so synchronized, so elegantly, to form a fascinating romantic story, that you can hardly believe that in these years there is still some of the old-school romance films. I recommend this film to anyone who wants to remember when movies didn't need sex to express the most intense of the human feelings. The clever love.


                
Pardon the pun, but the truth is I have seen this film twice. Once it just felt pretentious, frustrating and pointless. The second time it resonated with me and I could suddenly see the characters like a veil was lifted from my eyes. The movie's strength and weakness both stands in the way the characters express their feelings through micro expressions, through gestures that get unanswered or misunderstood.So it is pure romance, with the sweet agony of love, the bitter pain of betrayal, with tension that builds and builds throughout the film until one feels it must burst. Depending on your state of mind, it can be a boring story about people who don't know what they want, a painful depiction of people who cannot escape their culture, a cowardly dance or a deep characterization of real people who choose to make hard choices. The truth is somewhere in the middle with the film, though. Perhaps the ability to see different things in the film depending on your mood is a testament to its quality.This is not a romantic comedy, it's a romantic drama. It makes you think and feel and ask yourself questions, it doesn't release, amuse or entertain. The actors, the direction, the era, the music, all were chosen very well. A tad long, perhaps, but it is only to extend the viewer's perspective on opportunities lost and choices regretted and the feelings of the main characters. Good movie!


                
Of course this is not a movie for just about everybody but those who are able to appreciate a more subtle, quiet and artistic made movie, with great visuals and a slowly told story, this is a great watch! You could basically enjoy this movie for two different things; either its storytelling or its visual directing approach by Kar Wai Wong. Really, if you just don't care very much about its story, this movie might still be a very worthwhile experience, due to its great looking visuals and vice versa. Or you of course could enjoy the movie simply for both of these two reasons, which isn't unlikely you will!It's an odd thing, people describing this movie as a romance. Not that they are wrong about it, after all the movie is shot and told as such a movie but the story in fact is actually being far from romantic. I would even call this movie a reverse love-story, in which the main characters are loosing love instead of finding it and fall out of love instead of in love. It doesn't make this movie any less powerful, involving and even uplifting to watch though. It's not a depressing movie by any means, despite of its themes and more slower type of storytelling.So it's a slower, more subtle and often visual orientated movie. Normally this style of film-making would often come across as pretentious, also because it's all obviously done in a deliberate and perhaps somewhat forced way. I mean, it's nothing that the movie truly needed to have in it but still it manages to add so much to the movie. It really helps to let the story move along and to establishes the mood for its characters and all of the particular situations. Even when not much is being said, you still exactly know what is going on in the character's minds at the moment.It's a 'different' movie but that doesn't mean it's being a hard, or odd one to watch. It's a perfectly accessible movie, mostly also due to its clear and straightforward storytelling, that might dwell but never strays off. It's truly a movie you need to experience for yourself and chances are you'll absolutely be grabbed by its storytelling and visual approach!8/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
Intense, delicate, profound picture by Kar Wai Wong. Oriental movies are often said to be too slow, or boring, but they have no equals when trying to enter the deepest chords of human sensitivity. "In the mood of love" is one of them, I define it sublime in the romantic sense of the term, in that tension towards an unattainable condition of fulfillment and infiniteness. The two protagonists discover that their spouses (significantly out of screen) have an affair and, while comforting each other, happen to fall in love but decide not to become unfaithful like their mates. They spend much time together, even in the secrecy of a secluded room, but never give in to their attraction, being their inner moral consciousness too strong, their relationship remains pure and perfect, because unfulfilled, not contaminated by experience, although there is a kind of subtle pleasure in tending towards, but never attaining. An unlikely condition, but the interest lies exactly here, in that tension between morality and passion: love needs physical contact, and their condition cannot last for good, however, for the period it lasts (months, years, don't know, time does not seem measurable), it gives incomparable and deep emotions. Maggie Cheing as Mrs. Chan is sublime in her refined grace, her thin and wiry figure, enveloped by those wonderful silk Chines dresses, makes her character so deep, elegant, absolutely delightful. The soundtrack (above all the Yumeji's main theme), delicate and assertive at the same time, represents an emotional added value to the picture, capable as it is to touch some sensitive chords of the human soul. Obviously, it's not an easy movie, you have to be "in the right mood" to enter its mood, but if you are willing to be overwhelmed by it, you will be gently rewarded.


                
