Wow. I was blown away. The brilliant acting, the unique at times horrifying storyline, the editing and the natural flow between the scenes, the unusual beautiful music and a whole lot more. It gave me the feeling of watching a Nordic Noir production and this could have been the director's intention but I could be wrong about that.THANK GOD there was no sign of over-done actors and actresses, endless boring flashbacks, soapy unreal storyline that drags on in hundreds of episodes and constant over-dramatization with annoying music in the background which basically seems to sum up most of Turkish TV.This for me ranks higher than even the likes of controversial Behzat C TV series. Finally, the great Turkish talent is being used to its full potential and in something quite different.I highly recommend this series to anyone Turkish or otherwise who is interested in a high quality psychological mystery/drama with an engaging storyline which keeps you interested to the end.


                
In Turkey I was suffocating from drama,"history" and silly comedy series, but this TV series is something so ahead of these kinds. First of all this is the first one which was made on an internet based platform, like Netflix, which name is Blutv and this is the biggest advantage for the project. If it was on TV, there would be lots of censorship. Cast is could be one of the best in Turkey, even some of them played in international projects. And the intro music has a special place for me because of the person who sang it (Selda Bagcan). To sum up, projects which liked so much and was made in Turkey can't pass the numbers of two hand and Masum/Innocent is definitely one of them.


                
If you are a fan of "Leyla ile Mecnun" or "Behzat Ç.", this is at their quality scale as in acting and scenario. Haluk Bilginer is a huge actor, one must be remembered as a legend. Serkan Keskin, Okan Yalabik, Ali Atay, Nur Sürer and the other members of the show are brilliant and spectacular also. The event flow of the show is not linear; it focuses on the character development rather than the events themselves. It is based on a theater play called "Bayrak (Flag)" which the scenarist of this show wrote and adapted it for TV. Foreign people can easily watch and enjoy also; because it is an universal story about human relationships, human mind, love, neglect, crime and memories. I suggest this show to anyone who wants to spend quality time and take lessons from a good story.


                
A well respected retired police chief has spent his career chasing and catching psychopaths, sociopaths, murderers and thieves. Little does he know that his sons are no different than the people he has chased his entire life. The plot is very well done and takes you on a twisted psychological journey in the same manner as a Hitchcock thriller. Pay attention from beginning to the end when it all falls into place...


                
Story had me from the beginning of the series. Normally I'm not watching series on TV. I don't have any time to spend 2,3 hours for the crappy series. But this one is special, brilliantly written and directed. It's also Web-TV it's save us from endless commercial,and it's 45 min finally someone do it. another thing is, I don't know it is available different language or the country, if it's not - it should be. because world need to see series like this. Keep up, we need people like you who can broke the chain. and don't make us wait too long.


                
I really get excited after than seeing all the names of cast - but really cannot expect that much powerful product from a newcomer internet television, BluTV. They really made amazing job by taking all these people together with an awesome scenario. It has balanced suspense and horror and flow of scenario is really lucrative. Hope to watch more than one season but these 8 series were really engaging!


                
Innocent is truly a gem and it immediately succeeds in characters,scenes, twists etc. from the very beginning. It is a story gripping you initially and never letting you at the end of each episode. The script is totally convincing and intriguing and so is the cast. I really loved the tone and mood of the series. I believe one would enjoy the music too. The acting of great actor Haluk Yavuzer adds depths to the show. All in all, I would highly recommend this TV series to everyone looking for something new, genuine and captivating.


                
This series has not happened!We are used to seeing in mainstream media business, long glances, meaningless rewinds, tearing songs off the whole of the script, I'm telling the songs without worrying that this series does not exist either. If one of these nice things is not advertising, the other is the time (54-55 min) that does not last for hours. The least beautiful thing is "Censure" without hesitation. The most spectacular view ever presented to Turkish audiences with not so many is "Innocent".With the role of Haluk Bilginer (Cevdet) and Okan Yalabik (Tarik), acting actress flies in the first episode. Nur Sürer (Nermin), Ali Atay (Yusuf), Serkan Keskin (Taner) and Tülin Özen (Emel) shine brilliantly with their potentials. It is not wrong to say that you will already have memory as a production with a high level of satisfaction in terms of acting.Watching the first episode of the series and making a statement about the script is not exactly known, but for us who are transcending the foreign series of cultures, there is not a surprising / opposite corner for now. To see that many things that you first guessed happen can ask the question of whether there is weakness in the sense of fiction. I hope the producers are going to make a fall on meeting the scriptwriters and the directors.The easiest way to watch this series, which will be talked about with praise, is a weekly free bluTV trial membership. It will be difficult to find in Torrent and immediately watch sites with copyright law. My personal idea; Sherlock, Dexter, Prison Break, House M.D, Breaking Bad, etc. ... like to see the similarities that we have in this series. It deserves to be watched for a monthly fee of 10-TL in order to be able to see similar productions.


                
I decided to watch this series only due to 8.8 rating but was highly disappointed. There are far better Mystery series available on Netflix or Prime. This series at best can be termed as Drama with little bit of Mystery element. It is not worth spending your 8 hours of quality time. The whole series can be made as 2.5 Hour movie with better impact. Acting of all lead actors is good. Technical aspects of the series are also good. I would suggest to avoid this series an watch some other well shot Mystery series like Safe , Broad church , Tabula Rasa , La Mante ,La forêt ,The Chalet , La trêve , Deadwind ,Trapped ,Bron/Broen ,The Killing ,Happy Valley ,The Fall ,Marcella ,Hinterland ,Shetland . Most of the series are available on Netflix and Prime.


                
This series truly demonstrates what great writing and acting can achieve, anything else beyond that is just ornamental. Stunning performances by the actors, truly believable emotions, weaving through a complex plot. Even though you'll watch this with the subtitles on and you'll be alien to a few of cultural references, the true human feeling of the story is unchanged.


                
Firstly, what an excellent cast. These are some seriously good actors, even the child was quite terrific. Add to that a well-written, well-crafted script with high production values and a great attention to detail in the set and you have an excellent series.
By far and away the best I have seen out of Turkey. Well recommended.


                
Moments of brilliance, superb acting all very competent no outstanding performance, excellent storyline, my rating dis -improved in the last 2 or 3 episodes, too much back and forth in time which was confusing but i enjoyed and recommend.


                
Reading all of the comments here on IMDB i decided to watch Masum. Its very slow development made me sick but i wanted to see the final. I couldn't understand what the writer of the show was thinking but after watching hours and hours of meaningless dialogue i became irritated by the stupid motives of the characters. The human beings in this show (especially in the final episode) tends to behave abnormally and absurdly only to make surprises to watchers who are bored by the long non-necessary dialogues. The inconsistency of the reasons and the results of the incidents are laughable. If the writers of Turkish TV series (yes all of them) are reading this i want to say something to them : Please go out from your houses, connect with people and work hard at least to make characters close to real and believable. Nothing makes sense if you are living lonely in a weird unreal world and use only your stupid imagination to create characters and incidents.


                
I wanted to like this show, as quite a few things were nicely set up. The atmosphere, camera work, the scenery and the acting as well. But all these efforts unfortunately went down with the script. The suspense is there, but unfortunately dies a long and uneventful death. The ending is no surprise and there's a lot of whining, crying and adults, that obviously are so dependent on their parents, that it can drive the viewer crazy.
All of this show is blown up by a vast amount of unnecessary scenes and dialogue, that do not contribute to the story's progress in the slightest, overall a 90 minute feature could have told everything in a better pace and might have kept the viewer on.
What I really liked were the beautiful views over the Marmara region, a big minus however were a lot of stereotypes in regards to the standing of females, as providers and recipients of commands.


                
Enjoyed the first 7 episodes!! But the finale was a disappointment for me !!! I really hate it! And wasted my time
Sahaiyet is much better than this show


                
This is a police noir leaving the typical Turkish soap opera approach to drama, As viewer I enjoyed at times a creative script but also found flaws. A witty twisted plot distorted by a confusing screenplay. Appropriate ending with a sudden twist does not not make up for a shoddy treatment of events.


                
Wow lots of great acting / casting here.
If the mother of the brothers is a happy woman in real life she deserves an oscar because ive never seen such a perfect potrayal of a miserable selfish self-sabotaging woman.
The only plot hole i saw was why the bald brother killed the wife when it turns out he didnt kill the creepy stalker dude. (He was literally JUST proven to be an extremely patient and non-violent man in regards to his own wife.)
It's very rejoicing to see Turkish tv dramas are literally evoluting. It's So bold for Turkey and it contains almost no social message. This absence of "political correction" making this series qualified. Only human feelings, human thoughts, human problems. But that humanitarianity be formed by so much hard drama and so many sad stories of each of the characters. And these so many stories absolutely killing the realism. On that point you feel something is missing: the capability of making perfect dramas with less dramatic and more realistic stories.


                
