I really do not have words to describe this masterpiece! This must be kept as the series to compare with! Excellent writing and excellent acting! I'm a huge, HUUUUGE fan of YES MINISTER (and YES PRIME MINISTER of course). If you are even a bit interested about politics, you will adore it! I think you will adore it even if you are not! This is British humor at its absolute best!


                
JIM HACKER: Bernard, Sir Humphrey is not God!BERNARD WOOLLEY: Will you tell him or shall I?When I first saw 'Yes Minister' many moons ago, my initial reaction was: "This will never catch on. It is too good.". Making fun of politicians on television was not new then, of course - 'T.W.3' ( which Antony Jay contributed to ) did it two nearly decades earlier - but this was, I think, the first time anyone had done it on this scale, albeit with fictional rather than real ones. The premise is this; the well-meaning but naive Jim Hacker ( Paul Eddington ) is appointed Minister of Administrative Affairs. Though he has sound ideas, such as cutting government waste and ending bureaucracy, he is undermined at every turn by Sir Humphrey Appleby ( Nigel Hawthorne ). Jim is basically a figurehead, the real power lies with unelected civil servants. The show got much comic mileage out of the elusive gobbledegook spouted by politicians, and skilfully avoided naming Jim's party. but I think there was no doubt in anyone's mind as to which one it was. The superb titles featured caricatures of the cast done in his inimitable style by Gerald Scarfe. Ronnie Hazlehurst's theme was suitably bombastic, if a little similar to the one he did for 'To The Manor Born'. Along with Jay, the other writer was Jonathan Lynn, an ex-cast member ( and contributing writer to ) L.W.T.'s 'Doctor' series. Together they came up with some outstandingly literate scripts, which were then impeccably delivered by the cast. Hawthorne's 'Sir Humphrey' in particular was a marvellous comic creation, being charming and sinister at the same time. Hacker's habit of turning into Churchill regularly creased me up. Derek Fowlds likewise was hilarious as 'Bernard Woolley', who, while not actually stupid had an unfortunate habit of saying the wrong thing at the wrong time.The show caught on, won dozens of awards ( particularly for Hawthorne ), and was a surprise hit in Australia. I suppose that it was because politicians are much the same wherever you go.I do not know how accurate this depiction of British politics is. If, as was alleged, Ministers are nothing more helpless puppets in the hands of skillful manipulators such as Sir Humphrey, then the democracy in which we live is a sham. This subversive ( not to say depressing ) message could not have hit home with the then-Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, who pronounced herself a fan, and even participated in a specially-written sketch at which Mary Whitehouse was in attendance. Eddington and Hawthorne were not keen to do it, apparently, feeling she was exploiting the show's success. One of the best episodes was 'Skeleton In The Cupboard' in which Sir Humphrey's involvement in an old scandal comes to light. It was fun to see the tables turned for once, as poor Humph breaks down in front of the Minister. In another, Jim and Humph were at a reception in the Middle East ( where alcohol is not allowed ) and kept sneaking off to a fake communications rooms to imbibe. But easily the best episode was 'Party Games', an extended special which finally propelled Hacker into No.10. Everything about it, from Jim using a minor issue ( the E.U.'s renaming of sausages ) as a crusade to the blackmailing of potential Prime Ministerial candidates, felt right. Ludovic Kennedy obviously struggled to keep a straight face during the interview.Three seasons were made, followed by a sequel 'Yes, Prime Minister' which was, in my view, not as good. Eddington and Hawthorne are sadly no longer with us, but fortunately the repeats are. Unlike other sitcoms of the period, this has not in any way 'dated'. Its themes are as relevant as ever.With all the hoo-ha over honours recently, it seems strange no-one has questioned as to how Jay got a knighthood ( as well as co-writing 'Minister', he also penned speeches for Thatcher ) while Lynn did not. Surely he is just as responsible for the show's success? Perhaps him being openly left-wing had something to do with it.I will leave the last word to an outraged 'Points Of View' letter-writer. When the first season was being repeated, he/she wrote to Barry Took's show to complain, adding: "If this is the way the country is being run, I would rather not know about it!".
Yes, Minister and its successor Yes, Prime Minister managed the difficult trick of being extremely humorous, intelligent, and relevant, all at once. With the exception of a very few dated references, most episodes are as relevant today as they were when they were made -- quite a trick! If you want to know how parliamentary democracy *really* works (as opposed to the theoretical details they teach in school), this program will teach it to you, and provide plenty of laughs at the same time. Another nice touch is the fact that in the series, the deck isn't entirely stacked against Jim Hacker, and he does occasionally put one over on Sir Humphrey. Some of the shows greatest moments are listening to some of the incredibly long strings of government-ese gobbledegook that Nigel Hawthorne delivers with such aplomb. Perhaps the greatest thing that could be said about the program is that apparently both politicians and bureaucrats considered its portrayal of "the other side" as dead-on accurate.


                
This one sneaks up on you. As I have little knowledge of, or interest in British politics, I didn't really expect to like this when it first appeared on my local PBS, but I soon found myself rolling in the aisles. Paul Eddington(the Minister)is one the funniest actors you'll ever watch. His expressions are priceless as he struggles to process the verbal splendor of his Permanent Secretary, the staggering Nigel Hawthorne. Those familiar with Sir Nigel in the heart-tugging Madness of King George may be surprised to find that he can move you to laughter as well as tears, and frankly, Hawthorne has never been so ravishing as he is here.


                
Yes minister is true genius. I wonder how the writers came up with such excellent plots. I could never at any point feel anything overdone, the satire was perfect. Acting: just too good... Paul Eddington with his expressions, Sir Nigel with his dialogs. The comedy is quite subtle in a way that one would never feel at any point to laugh out loud and then think back at that incident and realize the act as being foolish, the only realization is that this is pure genius. I haven't heard a soul who has watched yes minister and said this was boring and in case if it is boring then the person should really grow up and mature before he is again 'exposed' to the series.One of the best works from the English. I suggest that this series will really help one in his personal life as well by realizing the stark reality of the Evils inherent in a human being


                
It's hilarious. The best comedy I've seen so far with amazingly constructed dialogs. The actors have impeccable timing. And how Nigel Hawthrown can say those freaking complex, nonsical yet logically connected sentences is a miracle.You can see that this is an 80s show but lots of the subjects are still HotTopics today. It's amazing that over 20+ years, politics haven't changed that much. Therefore my favorite quote is: "lots of activity ... aiming at achieving absolutely nothing." By the way, the foreign office honor GCMG, stands for -God Calls Me God-, apparently still exists. Doesn't this say it all :-)


                
The three excellent actors, Paul Eddington, Nigel Hawthorne and Derek Fowlds, in those two long running (several if not many years) mini series, are absolutely flabbergasting.The subject is simple. Jim Hacker, a Member of Parliament, becomes minister and later he will become prime minister. Banal. But what is less banal is the encounter of this newly appointment minister and later prime minister with the permanent secretary of his ministry first, Sir Humphrey, and cabinet secretary later when Jim Hacker moves to 10 Downing Street.Sir Humphrey, a knighted civil servant, is the most beautiful exemplar of the civil service functionaries: red tape, corporatism, elitism, systematic maneuvers and manipulations of ministers, prime ministers and other political officials to make them do what they, the civil servants, want them, the ministers and prime ministers, to do on any subject.And the subjects evoked in these numerous episodes of this political saga are quite evocative of corruption and aristocratism if not feudalism, and at the same time marvelously funny. It is true Bernard, the private secretary of Jim Hacker, a civil servant too but with a corrosive sense of black humor, is always there for a side remark that is superbly funny, like when the French President is trying to smuggle a dog into Great Britain in his diplomatic luggage, suitcase, briefcase or whatever. And Bernard to suggest a "doggy bag".At the same time this wit, this humor, this brilliant never ending linguistic, situational and existential irony, sarcasm or fun deals with fundamental problems.First of all the dictatorship of the civil service. The top civil servants are paid more than the ministers and prime ministers they serve and as such, as much as out of a feudal tradition, they are knighted and pretend to really manage the country in any way possible. This red tape defending privileges and rejecting the people into some kind of distant mist is a real problem in any democracy where politicians change but civil servants do not.Then education, real estate speculation, military expenditures and waste, foreign shady business if not plain behind the scene affairs, terrorism, the health service, the press and its passive or active manipulation or being manipulated in all directions possible, the blackmail of the ministers by the civil service or of the civil servants by the ministers, religion, universities, culture and so many other real concrete problems turned into a farce by the civil service and turned into a grotesque episode of political bravery by the politicians.This political satire and these caustic misrepresenting burlesque parodies of real life are a masterpiece in the field and is duly signed BBC. That kind of burlesque is no longer possible anywhere in the world with that finesse, that bright expertise and it is able to shame any other attempt from anywhere in the world because it is absolutely flippant and foolish but on subjects that are hefty and heavy and the moral of the story is not just fun but it is also ethics, ethical behavior and how it is possible to mend that frozen system into some thawing action.There is one limit and apparently only one: the queen and the crown and the royal family, royalty (but of course not royalties) and the monarchy are not supposed even to be evoked in any funny way. The rare mentions of the crown are always to remind us this crown is the standard by which ethics should be measured, the model for all politicians, the norm of all action.Of course the Queen is in no way present, even as a picture in these episodes, and her only appearances is a few times as a stamp on a letter, and no close-up view of it, of course not.Enjoy that marvelous buffoonery that is as light as air and as deep as the sea.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU
In my humble opinion, all things considered, this is one of the most original, consistently well-acted, deftly scripted television series ever conceived. The tenor perfectly matches the (at times) patent idiocy of bureaucracy, and its self-serving purpose, the bane of many a well-meaning politician and social reformist. Eddington performs newly appointed cabinet minister Jim Hacker to the tee, ostensibly appointed for his meek, seemingly compliant approach, his sudden elevation sees him start to consider preposterous fantasies like 'making a difference' and 'representing his constituency', much to the chagrin of his permanent secretary (Hawthorne), assigned to keep the Minister out of trouble. Throughout his initiation, Hacker is bullied and corralled by his 'advisors', the distinguished quintessential manipulator, Sir Humphrey Appleby, himself nurturing the younger, naive adviser Bernard (Fowlds) in the dark art of creating red tape.Highlights include the hospital without patients, but hundreds of administrative staff on the payroll, the nude-badger protest and Hacker's temerity in attempting to make the annual public service honours list dependent upon productivity improvements. Quotable dialogue that is priceless (CMG = call me God, GCMG = God calls me God) and has spawned countless expressions used amongst fans and public servants (in a jocular fashion, of course), still remains some of the best ever written for the small screen.This series was said to have been Prime Minister Thatcher's favourite, and perhaps in spite of her reputed absent sense of humour, her taste in this instance, is faultless. Might not appeal to those who take no interest in political satire, but should entertain those who appreciate an intelligent, sophisticated comedy that is possibly close to flawless. It's follow-up series "Yes Prime Minister", while still sharp, lacks the important dimension of Hacker (and Appleby) positioning himself in the party caucus, a void that is filled by a female adviser, and stiff competition for the once supreme Sir Humphrey.


                
From what I know, this is the best TV show I ever saw. Intelligent, complex for a comedy, extremely funny, and excellent acting obviously. Its a classic show, and I hope we have more like these.It is quite sad that this show has received little attention in north America. It played when I was younger in Canada, but few people noticed. Still, in Grad school in political science in the USA, professors and I were able to expose students to such an intelligent and relatively accessible show. Most students loved it! A must for any student of politics. I strongly recommend this show to everyone with interest in politics.


                
Yes, Minister and Yes, Prime Minister were the wittiest and cleverest sit-coms ever. Sadly, there is simply nothing these days to compare with them. The casting of Paul Eddington, Nigel Hawthorne and Derek Fowlds was absolutely brilliant. Whilst Sir Humphrey invariably has the upper hand it is delightful when Jim Hacker occasionally gets the better of him, the best episode being where Sir Humphrey has his wings clipped and is locked out 10 Downing Street. The look on his face when he's forced to try to gain entry via a window and Jim Hacker's comment 'Oh, look there's Humphrey' cracks me up every time I see it. Like Dad's Army it remains one of those series that never dates.


                
Yes Minister is probably the most intelligent and well-produced sitcom of all time surpassing even Arrested Development, Archer and Spaced. It will never replace Spaced in my affections but is still laugh out loud funny.Written decades ago it is still relevant topical and fresh. It could have been made last week.Performances are uniformly spot on.I suppose that one might argue that the series has one comparatively weak episode in the whisky priest but even Yes Minister's weak episodes are good. And, lets be honest, even Shakespeare wrote Two Gentlemen of Verona.This series deserves another broadcast so the new generation can discover it.


                
Yes, Minister explained the intricacies about life as a member of parliament. Paul Eddington CBE (The Good Life) is the minister of parliament elected by his district or constituency. His new adviser is played by the brilliant Sir Nigel Hawthorne and Derek Fowlds is also brilliant in his role. The cast and crew did a remarkable job in trying to entertain and yet inform it's audiences all about the politics in their government at the Parliament. Much like a good situation comedy, the show is smart and funny without talking down to the audience. This show explains the importance of voting and taking part in elections. Tim Russert probably loved this show since he loved politics and we miss him so much. It's still a show worth watching for kids and adults. Maybe kids in Briton could enjoy and understand the policies of their own government by watching this show and appreciate their member of parliament more.


                
this is one of the best ever script comedy show, the British Broadcasting Corporation have ever produced wonderful writing.the performances of the three leads are excellent, and sir Humprey speech that he run off are brilliant and the late Great Sir Nigel Hawthrone best work.the Late Paul Eddington is excellent, as Jim Hacker and underrated Sitcom actor of some note Jim Hacker was his best work also work well of Nigel Hawthrone.Derek Fowld does well as Bernard Jim hacker assistant,he does not look out off place alongside Two excellent lead in fact he help them by being top notch himself very good actor Derek Fowlds.


                
If only politicians could watch this program they would know what their political career is all about. Civil servants, whether they are in intelligence or whatever, are the ones that really run the show. What Trump calls the "swamp", or the "Deep State". Bloody disgusting! But, to hell with that! This is fantastically, brilliant comedy and well worth your time. I loved every minute <f0><U+009F><U+00A4><U+00A3>


                
Jim Hacker is a Member of Parliament and his party has just won the election. He is appointed Minister of Administrative Affairs, with power over the Department of Administrative Affairs (DAA). The Head of the DAA is Sir Humphrey Appleby, a wily customer, very experienced in the ways of government and how to bend them to his own ends. Mr Hacker soon discovers that politicians' aims and those of the civil service are not necessarily the same, and that Sir Humphrey will often try to thwart him at every turn.Hilarious comedy that captures well the Machiavellian scheming of politicians and the obstructiveness of bureaucrats, and how these agendas clash. While a satire, it could easily be a drama, exposing the methods of both sides so accurately. Cuts so close to the bone this series should be included in political studies qualifications.Clever plots, ingenious in their complexity and result. Great punchlines and one-liners. Sir Humphrey's obfuscating explanations/monologues are something to behold.Great work by Paul Eddington as Jim Hacker and Nigel Hawthorne as Sir Humphrey. Eddington largely plays the straight man to Hawthorne's plans and one-liners and the combination works a treat. Derek Fowlds is solid as Bernard, Hacker's secretary and the man often stuck in the middle between Hacker and Sir Humphrey.A classic comedy series.


                
Re-watching Yes Minister is like dining out at a favourite eatery from your past where nothing has changed nor deteriorated. You know what is coming but you still find yourself being delightfully surprised at just how good it is.Sadly, given the low number of reviewers here, this masterpiece of satirical comedy is on a level that all too few will ever experience. Why spend the time agonising over every line of the script when you can just phone in a run of cheap shot gags punctuated with a couple of bars of annoying up tempo music and some canned laughter and make millions right?But at least Yes Minister will continue to defy its age, playing as fresh and new as the day it was minted. This is testament to the superb writing skills, masterful acting and tight and uncomplicated direction.So do yourself a great service and slip back to a time before smart phones and social media and immerse yourself in some of the most incisive humour ever filmed. I promise it will get you laughing and thinking but also lamenting just how rare a gem you have uncovered.


                
Plus ça change...Undoubtedly the best political humour ever. Modern comedies tend to run too fast to be really funny - it doesn't have the subtlety and timing of this classic. Still relevant in 2019.


                
