I'd never seen these shows when they ran, so finding them now was a big surprise and a disappointment too that this quality of humor is apparently no longer available. By the time the series moved onto Yes Prime Minister it was beginning to creak - but even that creak was so much better than the top sitcoms today like Only Fools and Horses.Watching each episode was also an education in politics. And I think good satire should do that - not just amuse but also inform.This is humor that doesn't talk down to the viewer so you have to keep on your toes. Every now and then the writers 'explain' a joke just in case you missed it, but mostly you're expected to get the humor and be up to the ironies without aids.Great performances, GREAT scripts, and a real pleasure to watch.


                
I have been watching the box set of all three series. This is a fabulous comedy. Much forgotten in the '100 Best' type programs.James Hacker (Paul Eddington) is the slightly vague and much bumbling Minister for Administrative Affairs (yikes!!). He is torn between self, country, party and government (civil service). His permanent secretary & Civil servant, Sir Humphrey Appleby (Nigel Hawthorne) spends most of his time trying to stop the minister from actually doing any work or implementing policy as it will mean change, redundancies, effort and actual work. He very cleverly uses the system to prevent the minister's new policies and plans with the result that absolutely nothing ever gets done much to Hackers bemusement and frustration.The frightening thing about this program is that, even though it is 25ish years old it still rings absolutely true about how the system of government in Britain (and many others as they are mostly based on the British system) work. The only thing that dates this program are the clothes and cars.If you like cleverly written comedy with subtle asides and jokes then this is for you. If you are interested I politics then this is a fabulous training aid.A fantastic watch that I would recommend to new viewers and those that have long forgotten about the series.


                
Paul Eddington must have wondered whether he had a fairy godmother when he finished the top-rated comedy series of the 70's to walk into...well...the top-rated comedy series of the 80's. Talent will out, that's all I can say.First-class observations of civil service practise and government double-speak, coupled with a stonking cast, made this tale of a newly-elected government minister who is led a merry dance by his Machiavellian chief of staff, the thinking man's comedy of the early Thatcher years.The idea of a Ministry for Administrative Affairs isn't as ridiculous as it sounds, and its remit to cut government expenditure is on practically every party manifesto; but no minister ever had to deal with Sir Humphrey Appleby, who became a by-word for a decade, who sees it as his sworn duty to maintain that paragon of civil service states: the status quo.As with many series, it went on just a tad too long; it's tough, even for the best writers, to come up with red-tape jokes forever - and 'Yes Prime Minister' was definitely a white paper too far - but, for the first 2 years or so, it was a great show: witty, incisive; and, above all, *intelligent*.


                
Every now and then there's an article in the paper that's aimed at pointing out the differences between both the reader and the writer in terms of birthplaces and humor. No wonder this is the case, considering we live in an era of multiculturalism. I guess that due to geographical and more prosaic reasons "that other country" is often the United Kingdom.Humour is the key word here as there's a drive to stating how different British humour is. Whether or not it differs from other is of course up to debate. Yet, if there's one TV series that might come across as the perfect embodiment of British humour, that show is Yes, Minister. It aired between 1980-84, during the Thatcher years and this political backdrop es ever present throughout the show. A triumvirate of actors - Paul Eddington, Nigel Hawthorne and Derek Fowlds- play a minister of her Majesty government, a seasoned and high-ranked civil servant and the personal assistant of the Prime Minister, respectively. What stands out above all are the dialogues: quick jokes but also complex scenes where characters discuss their points of view while you burst out laughing.


                
'Yes, Minister' is a satire which offers us a hilarious but completely accurate portrayal of the functioning of a democratic government. The show is hilarious and witty with some of the most epic punch-lines. The humour is most definitely British, Polite with just the right amount of sarcasm thrown in.Jim Hacker is a first time minister, Who is naive and has no idea how the government actually works. Sir Humphrey is his Permanent under-secretary, He is shrewd and knows exactly how the government works. Bernard is the minister's personal secretary who is mostly torn between the two, He is the voice of the audience. The dynamic between Jim and Humphrey as they each attempt to get their own way is what makes this show engaging and quite frankly educational.The show is relevant even today as the topics are the same. It made me question a lot of things like, Just how democratic is a democratic government? And, Who is actually running the country?.


                
