SPOILER: Most of the ideas revealed through mystery by Bergman in Fanny och Alexander have already been addressed by others. The first time I saw this film was in 1984, on tv and with a much shorter version than the one released in England in 2002, which is the full 300-plus minute original.That day I was scared -really scared- watching the scene where Alexander is been helped to let out his most evil thoughts by Ishmael, a completely mysterious character with supernatural insight. And then, a blackout. You can imagine: if I was truly scared this left me breathless.Then, almost twenty years passed until I found this remarkable jewel, in its full version, perfectly digitised and audio-enhanced in dvd. I bought a dlp projector and used a previewing room to show it to my students. I didn't know what was going to happen. But that doubt was worth the waiting.I think it's very difficult to say any other thing than breathtaking to underline what this film accomplishes. It's the reflected work of years of understanding and hard work between Bergman and Nyvqvist. One of the most powerful, beautiful, fearful and perfect films of all times. An exaggeration, like. Yes, but I think that there are no words to explain how plainly perfect this work is. The way it was written. The way it was directed. The way it was lighted. The way it was designed. The way each and every character plays his or her role. The details -not a Bergman's new- to which they paid the most dedicated attention to. The luxurious use of available light. The setting of the story. The amazing locations. Everything in this film was perfectly studied, down to the colour shifts that would take place in every shot!, forget about whole scenes!The troubling minds of all those characters whose lives are at crossroads. The powerful and eventful lives of just one familiy. The small and big affairs that affect them. Gratitude and hate. Honour and shame. Guilt and love. Fear and joy. Selfishness and generosity. Every long scene exudes with tension, pure fun or pleasure; with increasing uneasiness and abrupt changes of demeanor. With a richness that could only be found where a very skillful eye -trained to see what most disregard as common- finds beauty and harmony. And a sound that is as exhilarating as the narrative depiction.When the maxim of making "every frame a Rembrandt" comes to my mind, this film makes me think Bergman pushed the envelope a little further: he gives (or I'd rather say, Nyvqyst) the tratment of Van Der Meer or Bosch or Cezanne or Michelangelo to some scenes. (Think the kids playing at the nursery, the housemaidens sewing socks, the meadow and the boat, the transfixing scene of Alexander in the attic with his mother).And a story told from the eyes of two kids worth a ton of gold. Alexander's (Bertil Guve, when he was twelve-thirteen) enormously powerful and convincing role can certainly be compared to any big-theatre-role actor.Superb. Don't think you've seen the whole thing until you get the 5  hour full-story.


                
Swedish director Ingmar Bergman has a reputation for dark, intellectual and introspective dramas, which is only partly justified because many of his early movies were rather light-hearted. Here is the longest movie he did (three hours), and the theatrical version is only half of the original which was twice as long. But length should not stop you from watching this jewel of a film, which is both complex and accessible. After all, "Gone with the Wind" is just as long."Fanny and Alexander "isn't exactly a family movie, but it is a movie about family. Family seen in all its different facets through the eyes of two children. The film is divided into three very different parts, each of them showing a different aspect of family life. It is set in Uppsala, Sweden (Bergman's native city), at the turn of the twentieth century. The story begins on Christmas Eve, and we are plunged right away into a fairytale atmosphere.Fanny and Alexander"s family seems a happy one, actually a family of theatre actors. During the Christmas Eve party held at the grandmother's heavily-furnished house, the atmosphere is joyful at first glance, especially for the children who obviously feel very much at home. But reality is not just what it seems. The children's father is seriously ill. One of the uncles is manic-depressive, and the other is a skirt-chaser who has an affair with the young maid while his wife shows a lot of comprehension. Even the grandmother keeps a secret affair with a Jewish banker (played by Erland Josephson, a Bergman regular) that has lasted for many years.The children's world collapse as their father dies. Soon after, their still young and beautiful mother marries the bishop, whose name is Vergerus (that's the name of the villain in all Bergman's movies, don't ask me why). The atmosphere in the bishop's house could not be more different from the children's first home. It is bare, silent, freezing. Alexander and the bishop hate each other from the start. This hate culminates when the bishop flogs Alexander to punish him, during a suffocating scene. War is declared from then on. Although the children's mother is pregnant, she already regrets her second marriage and seeks help from her former family.The grandma's Jewish friend, who is also sort of a magician, manages to kidnap the children by a clever stratagem. They are sheltered in his house, which is full of puppets and mysterious objects. There, a strange nephew of his lives in seclusion (the role is played by a woman). From then on, reality and fantasy get blurred, but what is certain is that the evil bishop meets a cruel fate, and the children's mother finally makes it back to her former home. The film ends as it began, with a party. Two new babies are just born : the mother's baby she had from the wicked bishop, and the maid's baby with the luscious uncle. The two of them are accepted immediately as part of the family, which is a rather precocious sign of Scandinavian open-mindedness (in 1900, illegitimate children were generally rejected as bastards).Despite the title, attention is focused much more on Alexander than on Fanny. She is there all the time but speaks little, while showing unconditional solidarity with her brother. A possible reason is that the movie seems to have strong autobiographical elements, more than any other Bergman, and if so, Alexander seems to incarnate Bergman himself as a child. Bergman's father happened to be a minister, and the director confessed that he was raised in a very oppressive manner. Thus, it is quite possible that Alexander's step family is a representation of Bergman's real family, while Alexander's real family is the family Bergman had dreamed of, unsurprisingly a family of actors.This film also displays the most accomplished use that Bergman's renowned photographer Sven Nykvist ever made of color. He was a long time reluctant to color and kept shooting in black and white well into the sixties. Bergman's first color movies had nothing special, until "Cries and whispers" where an obsessive use of red started to appear. The color contrasts are very strong in "Fanny and Alexander", and are especially used to underline the difference between the grandmother's colorful home and the bishop's house which is mostly all black and white. There are many characters in this story, and all the major adult roles are played by actors who are all very famous in Sweden. There is a special appearance by Harriet Andersson, who played the female lead in many Bergmans of the fifties, especially well remembered as the whimsical "Monika". Here, she is ungratefully cast as the bishop's elderly tormented servant who likes scaring the children with horror stories. As for the young maid, she is played Pernilla Wallgren, who married Danish director Bille August and became later famous as Pernilla August. She played the lead in "The best intentions" directed by Bille August but based on a script by Bergman, and also taking place in Uppsala at the turn of the twentieth century...


                
As Ingmar Bergman's "swan song" (which wasn't necessarily the case once After the Rehearsal and the recent Saraband were released), Fanny and Alexander was a film I saw many months ago, in its truncated, 3-hour version. I knew I had witnessed something special, something life-affirming, and above all a work that contained enough poetry, passion, and humanity for two movies. But I also felt as if there was something missing here and there. So, once the complete TV version was released, as with Scenes from a Marriage, I jumped at the opportunity to view it in its entirety. Broken up here into 5 Acts, Bergman takes another semi-autobiographical approach to his storytelling, and it's a sumptuous tale of a turn of the 20th Century family (the Ekdahls, comprising of Oscar and Emilie, the parents, Fanny and Alexander, the kids- Alexander being mostly the driving force behind the story- and also the other relatives Carl and Gustov Adolf, brothers of Oscar, Helena, Alma, Lydia, and also the housemaid Maj) who own a theater company.What makes Fanny and Alexander work as a major achievement, if anything else for my money is that all the elements seem balanced out over the acts, with story and characters, each sharply defined. The first act unfolds with attention to the little details and the more prevalent ones in a family gathering. A key speech made by Oscar is a haunting bit of foreshadowing before they set off for the family dinner. This scene, involving more or less two dozen people, is sometimes very funny, sometimes a little unnerving, and towards the end depressing. But scenes such as these reveal how wonderful and exciting Bergman can be with his material and actors- despite it taking place in 1907, you can see these people in modern settings just as easily. There's also the scene involving Oscar with his children before they go to sleep, in which he tells them a story, which ranks as one of the more memorable, touching scenes of the film - from here, we can understand how this brings to Alexander (Bertil Guve, in a performance that is touching by being so straightforward with the innocence of child-hood) to the state he's in for much of the rest of the picture.Then the second and third acts come around, and the tragedy unfolds as penetrating as I've seen in any film, much less from Bergman. It wouldn't spoil it to say that Oscar succumbs to an illness, and passes away. From here, Emilie (Ewa Fröling, a performance meant for Liv Ullman, which she fits just as well) tries to go on as usual, and it just doesn't feel the same. She seeks counsel from the village bishop, Edvard Vergerus (Jan Malmsjo, previously in Bergman's Scenes from a Marriage), and subsequently falls in love with him, or at least thinks she does. They get married, and the children are forced into leaving (almost) everything behind to live at his dreary, caged residence, a far cry from where they once lived, a place lush with colors and life in the rooms. Both of these assets are provided by an Oscar winning production design team, and the foundations of how these two, including as well the theater, display how period-perfect some of this can be.The last two acts are when things get rough, which is a standard Bergman is known for. This kind of standard, if I could call it such, includes his personal connection to the Christian church, in particular with his father being a Lutheran priest. I'm not guessing on how fact based Bishop Vergerus is to Bergman's life, and I really don't want to either. One of the things I loved about the film (than some likely hated on it's original release- I know, for example, that my father was devastated after watching this film) is how the good and the bad, or what could be seen as good and bad, are paired off, and how the middle-ground is just as clear or un-clear. Emilie is a good person, wanting the best for her children and for herself, but she doesn't know how to do that without someone to bring guidance when she cannot after grieving for her dead husband (who appears sometimes to Alexander, which is another matter). Alexander, who is a child raised with all the enthusiasm to express himself as such by his uncles and particularly his theatrical father Oscar, is good but lending himself to not being too firm on what's real and what is not. The Bishop, on the other hand, is one who, as he says at one point "has only one mask". His is a puritanical approach, who sees imagination in only one strict aspect, and has terms of love that are by his code of living and understanding of people. Veregus, along with his family that live in fear and suffering (Harriet Andersson's character, and with the character of the heavy, ill aunt), know little is anything about how the Ekdahls have lived. What ends up happening, even from the get-go of the third act, in the fourth and fifth acts Bergman reveals Bishop Veregus to be an immense antagonist, one that allows just enough sympathy in one or two spots to not throw something at the TV, but with the kind of language that only the most terrifying of movie characters possess. Bottom line, this character, whether you like the film or not, is one of Bergman's greatest creations, and is pulled off by Malmjso with icy, disturbing perfection; it's one of the most memorable of the kind in film I can think of, right up there with Nurse Ratched, HAL 9000, and Darth Vader.But what torment and anguish the characters, as well as much of the audience, seem to endure in the fourth/fifth acts; there also comes revelatory moments of sheer beauty and enchantment. A couple of scenes involving Alexander in the puppet shop, for example, display a level of artistry that goes between Bunuel and Disney. And a particular, long soliloquy by Isak (Erland Josephsson, not under-used at all) to the children is a poem unto itself that gives me an idea that Bergman had he not gone into theater and film, would've been one of the great poets of the 20th century. As the catharsis comes, it comes with a kind of justice that works in the only way it satisfyingly could have. With the fates of the Bishop, Emilie, and Alexander and Fanny brought to a close, as with the Grandmother, the uncles and aunts, and so on, it's all very symbolic, metaphorical, and real, and it gels together.One last note- Sven Nykvist, who one his second Oscar with Bergman for this film, creates the kinds of shots that some could only have in their dreams. When he visualizes something for Bergman with the forces of light and dark, with the subtlety and nuance, it's all the better. To put this all in another way, I could go on and on about this huge, heart-rendering work, but it all comes down to this- as an emotional, intellectual, and spiritual (surprisingly for me, who sees religion as a kind of fantasy) sort of film-viewing experience, Fanny and Alexander is one of the most profound I've ever had. Some may feel the same; some may want to forget they ever experienced it. But one thing the film does is stick with you, if only for a little while, and that's really what a film can and should do....by the way, the 5-hour version, at least in America, is only available on a high-priced special edition DVD pack from Criterion, but for the viewer who's already a fan of the film, it makes for a great holiday gift. A++


                
"Fanny and Alexander" (1982) was announced at the time of its release as Ingmar Bergman's swan song, his last film for the big screen. It is his most optimistic and enchanting blend of romance, tragedy, comedy, fantasy, and mysticism. Set in Sweden in the beginning of the 20th century, the film follows the lives and adventures of two children, brother and sister Fanny and Alexander Edkahl.I love Bergman in every mood and in every genre - I love him dark, bleak, harrowing ("Shame"), mysterious ("Persona"), merciless and devastating ("Scenes from a Marriage, "Face to Face", "Autumn Sonata). I love his lighter, smiling side ("Wild Strawberries", "Smiles of a Summer Night). Even for a master of Bergman's powerful talent, "Fanny and Alexander" is extraordinary - a profound film which is also one of his most accessible works.Pablo Picasso said once, "When I was 9 years old, I could paint like Rafael; as an adult, all my life I tried to learn how to paint like a child". In his final film, one of the greatest masters of dark and sometimes morose psychological studies looks at the world with a child's eye. The words he chose to finish his film with reflect the hope, the happiness and the magic that can be fully felt only in one's childhood: "...Anything can happen, anything is possible. Time and space do not exist. ..On a flimsy ground of reality, imagination spins out and waves new patterns." --- August Strindberg's introductory notes for A Dream Play.


                
This film could never have been made in the United States. I realize when it was made Bergman had been around for a long time and had his own clout but it still has too much of a philosophical slant to be mainstream here. This film is amazing. The first hour moves at a slow pace but it really sets up the rest of the movie well and then it really picks up. The cinematography is breathtaking and while this story makes you think a lot you don't feel ambivalent towards the characters through the rest of the first film after having been slowly introduced to all the characters you have a certain identifcation that is purely emotional and blends wonderfully with the other aspects of the film. It's truly great and should be considered one of Bergman's best works.


                
I have wanted to see this film for years but I have missed it several times they were showing it on television.And also because of my father does not like Bergman(why??) but still think that this film is fantastic.I saw it yesterday just after having read Bergman´s  autobiography and this film is much a autobiographical film.I would like to say something about the cinematography and acting.But what is there more to say about Sven Nykvist´s cinematography then MASTERFUL.Before I saw the film I read in a newspaper that this is the best Swedish acting film ever made and it was actually picked as number two as the best Swedish film ever made for a couple of years ago(film fans voted).The WHOLE cast acts SUPERB,I am not sure if I have ever seen anything more perfect.This is a chronicle over a family.It has a a great poetic script that combines just as it sad in a other comment:striking visuals.Bergman has really done this to a masterpiece.Now I want to see the five-hour version(i saw the 3 hour version).Colorful,perfect,frightening and sometimes even funny.What I guess I liked most was that they showed everything from the children´s eyes.One of Bergman´s best.5/5


                
You could call this my opinion of Bergman's Fanny and Alexander...as opposed to a review. I really don't feel the need in describing or summarizing this film. Any review, as I see it, would be pointless. Words just can't convey what makes a truly great movie as good as it is. The best "review" I could give Fanny and Alexander is to just see the damned thing. If you can't sit through it, so be it. But, those who are willing to give it their attention, I promise, will be rewarded continuously through the film's duration. Anyone who sits through the entire film, especially the full-length version, I think, will find it difficult to say that they were bored. More than likely, they will find it easy to say, "That was a damned good movie." I, myself, was surprised. Previous to seeing F&A, I had never seen a film quite this long. I'm glad I did. I'll also throw this in: most film buffs, I think it's safe to say, will always consider Bergman to be the master of gloom. This may be true, but I think Fanny and Alexander proves beyond any doubt that his ability to express the joy that exists in life is every bit as great, and truly refreshing.


                
There are so many things I want to say about this film that I don't even know where to begin. I guess I'll start by saying that this has been the shortest 5 hours I've spent watching a film. At first I had planned to watch it in parts as the film is divided in acts, but I was so instantly taken, engrossed and fascinated, that I just felt like watching the whole thing in one sitting. I know that a 5-hour long film can sound very intimidating and exhausting, but the film is specifically divided in 5 distinguishable acts that make it more digestible, and believe me, it's so absorbing that you will barely notice you spent all that time watching it; it's that good. I've skimmed through the 3-hour theatrical version, and while it is a great film, some of my favorite parts are either shortened or completely cut from the film, which for me, lessens the impact the whole 5-hour extended TV version has. Both versions work, of course, but if you want to get a greater understanding of Bergman's vision, I totally recommend the extended version.Now onto the film itself. What can I say? It's magnificent. A grand, rich and glorious tapestry of life, family, love, hate, imagination, art, fantasy, reality, religion, magic, death, faith, spirituality, God, despair, redemption, youth, innocence, maturity, old age and the supernatural. Fanny and Alexander is all of these things and even more. I don't want to go into much plot detail, but point out what I liked so much about the film by mentioning some of my favorite scenes and commenting on them. And in this film there are plenty. Rarely I've felt the sense of familial warmth and love in a film or elsewhere as I have with Fanny and Alexander. The first act shows us a Christmas dinner family celebration, and it is instantly intoxicating and beguiling, and you're instantly drawn to these flawed-yet-loving and caring characters that constitute this large, happy family and Bergman's direction is so vivid that you totally feel the joy in sharing and the affection and love. One of my favorite scenes in this part is Oscar's (the family patriarch and owner of the family theater) heartfelt and candid speech about the importance of the theater, this "little world" as it is referred to, and how art can reflect the "big world" and help us have a greater endurance during bad times. This theme is more thoroughly explored in an enchanting and beautiful scene in which Oscar explains to Fanny and Alexander through the simple story of a chair how art is connected to life, how important and essential art is in enriching our lives, helping us have a deeper awareness and appreciation of the world at large, and how there is more to what meets the eye, an inner life lying underneath the surface of things. Bergman was raised within a very strict and oppressive family, and I'm pretty sure that the Ekdahls is the kind of family (Loving, supportive, encouraging, freethinkers) he would've liked to be raised in. I echo his (likely) sentiment. Likewise, if I got a profound sense of love and family in the first act, when tragedy strikes in the second act, I got a great sense of suffering and despair. One of the most strikingly moving scenes in the film involves Oscar's wife, Emilie, giving these primal, animal cries of grief over her dead husband; the scene is simply heart-wrenching. Similarly engrossing, is the open and penetrating conversation between Emilie and the bishop about her faith and her spiritual confusion and longing. But in the third and fourth acts is when the characters' resilience are really put to the test. None of the pain, humiliation and the frailty of the human heart throughout the film is better illustrated in a scene of tremendous impact in which Alexander is severely punished by the bishop and Fanny has no other option but to stand and watch as her brother is being physically abused, only moments later to see her defiantly turn down the bishop's affections. Another favorite scene during this act is Helena's - the family matriarch - beautiful and eloquent soliloquy to her son Oscar about the joys and pains in life, the futility of fighting against its forces and just living it as it comes. It is what it is. Another standout is Isak Jacobi's (a family friend and magician) metaphorical story that encapsulates the importance and at the same time the futility of searching for meaning in life. Some of the film's most intriguing, revealing and fantastical moments are in this act. In what's probably the greatest moment in a film full of great moments, is Alexander's encounter with a mysterious character named Ismael. I think this scene is the climax of the film as it brings closure to Alexander's arch. There's also a deep sense of the supernatural as it is suggested that everything, fantasy and reality, the logical and unexplainable, the material and the ethereal, the good and even the bad, is a manifestation of God. I feel that with those statements, Bergman is telling us that he probably managed to finally exorcise the demons that had been haunting him throughout his life, or at least come to terms with them, as his on screen alter ego Alexander has as well. All of this told, detailed and presented with the skill of a master storyteller.I was fully enraptured by this film. I love the way it beautifully conveyed the relevance of art and imagination and how they're actually essential for humanity. I loved how it showed life in all its joyful, fantastical, realistic, tragic, resigned and ultimately hopeful glory. I loved its sense of completeness yet also leaving the viewer with an air of mystery that implies the endless possibilities of life. A masterpiece and easily one of my favorite films ever.
I absolutely detest making distinctions like this, but I would rate this the best movie of all time purely on the way it affected me. Viewing this film for the first time left me with the feeling that I would never again experience the world in quite the same way. The second time only deepened my appreciation for the simplicity of the story and the depth and precision of every detail. The third time I viewed the five hour Swedish Television version and realized that I was watching the equivalent of a Tolstoy novel on film. The highest compliment I can pay to this movie is that in being a child of the eighties, an adolescent and young adult in the 90's, and well, now venturing towards middle age in this young century, few works of media or "art" escape my mind's deconstruction of them, or my generation's greatest blessing (or greatest curse:) a very well developed sense of irony. Fanny and Alexander (along with a few of Bergman's other films including 'The Virgin Spring" and "Wild Strawberries") is the exception to this rule. There is no way to simply break down how Bergman casts the spell he does. His work gathers you in, completely envelopes you, and at the same time is utterly impenetrable to any form of rational criticism. In the end you are left with a pure emotional response to what you just experienced with little idea of how Bergman took you to that place. You believe television, media, advertising, the constant bombardment of images into your brain has desensitized you to pain, agony, regret, violence, disappointment, dreams, longings and questions of God and death, and then Bergman gets a hold of you. I can only say this work is what one would call truly "spiritual" art, and Bergman's films are the only place I have ever experienced this phenomena.If cinema is the closest we have to a truly "magical" experience, then Bergman is and perhaps forever will be the greatest magician of them all. Fanny and Alexander should be preserved along with the works of the greatest masters of art in any medium. Every time I see this film, no matter what state of mind I'm in, it somehow makes me fall in love with movies and life all over again.Thank you, Mr. Bergman, for spending your life sharing your dreams, visions and nightmares with us. You have made this world an infinitely richer place for your efforts.
This is, without a doubt, the single most perfect film ever made. No other film has ever left me feeling as fulfilled as Fanny and Alexander. It unfolds like a rich novel, full of multi-dimensional characters, and takes the viewer on a journey of discovery -- of love, loss, laughter, despair, God, truth, and the supernatural.This film is haunting and beautiful, more finely detailed, photographed and acted than any film I have ever seen.These were my thoughts upon seeing the 3-hour theatrical version for the first (and second, and third...) time in the mid-'80s. I was so enthralled by this movie that I was hesitant to see the recent Criterion release of the full 5-hour-plus version originally filmed for Swedish television. I was worried I would be disappointed or that my all-time favourite film would somehow be diminished.I could not have been more wrong. The full 312-minute version of Fanny and Alexander is even more rich, more haunting, more compelling, more insightful and more emotionally impactful than the theatrical version. It is more novelesque, and treats the viewer to the most multi-dimensional characters ever put to film, and with some of the best performances ever captured. It is a great work of film art and storytelling, with intricacies never realized before or since, made with incredible love and determination by the two most talented filmmakers ever to treat us with their skills -- Ingmar Bergman and Sven Nykvist.THE masterpiece.


                
Any serious film buff has to consider the master Ingmar Bergman one of the greatest movie directors who has ever lived. He has made great film after great film, and I think Fanny and Alexander ranks among his top three finest achievements (along with The Seventh Seal and Wild Strawberries). It differs interestingly from every other movie of his I've seen in its taking in large part a child's point of view. This wasn't only rare for Bergman but it's rare to see a movie made by anyone that shows children, in their viewing of the adult world around them, in such a realistic and interesting way, involving both trauma and joy in these young lives. Yet the children (Alexander being more prominent than Fanny of the titles characters) don't get in the way of showing the great dynamics and complexities of the adult world as well. And these two worlds—those of children and adults—interact in pleasant and somewhat grim ways.From the start with Alexander alone in his grandmother's apartment, through an extravagant Christmas party, to the richness of the theater, to the much darker residence of the next chapter of this family's life, the movie is simply an exquisite piece of artistic beauty of early 20th Century Sweden. On a visual level Bergman has always been a master, but here he showed a more lively and ambitious side than he had before. The performances are all terrific, and I'm particularly fond of Bertil Guv as Alexander, Gun Wallgren as his reserved grandmother, and Jarl Kulle as his boisterous uncle.The movie, in spite of some quite dark elements, is quite a bit more upbeat than typical Bergman film. Those that may have admired his earlier works but felt them a little overbearing and depressing will likely welcome this ride with the great peaks and valleys of this family. Whether Alexander really has some power to see these images or if it's only a child's vivid imagination leaves room for exploration.My rating here is based primarily on the over five hour version. The two separate versions of the movie are both great experiences, with slightly different moods and emphasis, though I prefer the longer television one and that's the one I will look forward to seeing more times in the future. I understand they wanted to get a reasonable length for the theaters, but for me the shortened version lacks a lot of the richness of the other, removing great scenes especially from the back half of the film. Though either way you view it it's very emotionally involving as a work of art. It's a must see.


                
Stately and magnificent. Every frame exudes aplomb: but it's like every moment, carefully planned beyond the tiniest minutiae, just happened, naturally, without any rehearsal.In the narrative there are all sorts of things happening: there's the theatre and the life of the Ekdahl family that loosely starts to resemble the theatre they're involved in — at first they play Shakespeare, but when Emily and her children move away, that life begins to rot as well. There's the idea of Shakespeare transposed to the domestic life of the little children, Alexander being the one who sees ghosts. Then there's the magician, Isak Jacobi, who obviously practices Kabbalah. It's his magic that frees the children, that is, Bergman's magic. The scenes in Jacobi's house are appropriate in how they reveal to us — if we hadn't guessed it already — the inner workings of this world. Some may see it is superfluously esoteric, but I see it only necessary considering Bergman's fascination with such themes, especially in "Det Sjunde Inseglet" (1957). And then there's the vanity of it all, strikingly on display in the scene where the two Ekdahl brothers visit the bishop's house to make their case. This film is also one of the most beautiful examples on how to use color cinematically, and I can't help but feel that somehow Kieslowski's "Trois couleurs" (1993–94), despite being more painterly and approaching Tarkovsky in its immediate abstractness, treads the same paths.This is a masterwork, so nuanced, so articulate.
This has been my third Ingmar Bergman picture, after watching 'the seventh seal' and 'wild strawberries' which i really loved.Still, I can state for sure that for now F&A has to be my Bergman favorite, it just moved me in a very special way! It made me laugh, it amazed me by its artistic beauty, it just satisfied me in every aspect. I have been trying to watch it for so long, that it made me happy not being disappointed by it. I really cant say anything negative about this film that shows the developments and experiences of the most amazing family i have ever seen on screen through the eyes of its two youngest - Fanny & Alexander.Don't give up, even if its hard, you have to watch this one!


                
It is like the Mahler 9 of films. A masterpiece, bottomless in it's preferences and filled with great acting like no other movie. But best of all, like in all the greatest work of art- it really is very simple. The performance of Ewa Frôling is so captivating, so beliaveble. In my opinion, one of the very greatest character studies in film. Ever:Alan Edwall, Known to us young(er) scandinavians as a rather cartoon-cut character from kids TV.. Such an intense portrayal of the vulnerable artist facing the realities of the world outside. Just wishing the real world would reflect his little world of theatre. Any artist will recognize this, and the movie gains painful relevance in Scandinavias current political climate.It goes beyond words, just see it-again and again.


                
What can one say? I don't know how many times I have spent watching Fanny & Alexander. Started at the premier in 1982 (when I worked at Sandrews), and the last 10 years or so after recording the 5.12 hour version. By the way, I would really recommend everybody to concentrate on the long version, since there are simply to many great scenes cut away in the 3 hour one. Its always hard to describe in words what makes this movie, that little extra, but I think it simply got to do with that everything is perfect. Script, personal characters, performance of the actors and so on. In its way its also a movie perfect to see again and again. You always find something new to discuss. Like what is Alexander's dream about, how do they succeed in kidnapping the kids, what really happens between Alexander and Ishmael, and so on? But you can simply forget all about that end enjoy this masterpiece. If I had to pick my favorite scene I think it would be the one when Gustaf-Adolf and Carl Ekdahl is having a meeting with the Bishop, trying to convince him to return Emely. I also heard that this scene is described by Borje Ahlstedt as the best he ever made, and then remember that also Jan Malmsjo and Jarl Kulle is performing at the top and the structure and dialog and the physiological undertones are perfect, what more is there to say? Many people go back to the bible to find piece and understanding. In my case I use Fanny and Alexander, it simply that good.


                
I only have one thing to say about this masterpiece: Fantastic In his last motion picture Ingmar Bergman chose the elite of swedish actors headed by the superb Jarl Kulle as Gustav Adolf. I highly recommend film-lovers of any kind to watch this film, and try to find the long version! You then have almost four hours of absolute magic in front of you.


                
This film is excellent. It's beyond words. The story is much based on (real, similar and imaginary) experiences of Ingmar Bergman's childhood. The story begins at the grand Christmas celebration of the Ekdahl family in 1907. The Ekdahl family run the local theater in Uppsala, and are a family of both shared and opposite opinions, but a perfect example of blood being thicker than water. They are partly a family of unpleasant experience, yet a joyful and humor group. No cinematography tops this particularly beautiful work by Sven Nykvist, and I couldn't imagine a movie being as warm and beautiful in its raw cleverness as Fanny and Alexander. From the opening of the first scene until the ending of the last, mesmerization is guaranteed. This was Bergman's last work in cinema (although 20+ years of directing and writing for TV and the theater was to come), and he definitely ended on a high note. At the moment the full 5+ hour version is only available on Artificial Eye (DVD), which is a shame, since the representation of the movie (mainly its sound quality) doesn't live up to the standard of the movie itself - furthermore the subtitles aren't optional! Let's all cross our fingers for soon being able to watch this film well-represented on DVD. The movie isn't worth less than the best treatment.


                
We are introduced to a large, well-to-do family, as seen through the eyes of young Alexander: Helena Ekdahl, his regally-looking grandmother and matriarch, who tries to keep the family together, his uncles, philandering Gustav Adolf and Carl, who continually has financial problems. Then Alexander's younger sister, Fanny, and their father, Oscar and mother, Emilie. Both their parents are actors (and some of the other family members too), whilst Oscar also works as director of the acting company. A large and generally happy family, as we see in hauntingly beautifully filmed Christmas scenes.Things change for the worse when Oscar suffers a stroke and passes away. Emilie manages the performing company for a year and then decides to withdraw from it. She is lonely and falls in love with the local bishop, Edvard, who conducted Oscar's funeral service. They get married and she moves to his household with the kids. They were in for a rude shock. They had to leave everything 'worldly' behind, no toys, their beloved books, or fancy clothes. The contrast with their previous lavish and luxury lifestyle and their new life behind cold, unadorned thick walls with bars in front of the windows, couldn't be more pronounced. In their new and austere, depressing household they had to follow strict new rules, something the kids were never subjected to. Furthermore they had to share the house with Edvard's vicious spinster sister, meddling mother and bed-ridden aunt. Alexander has a lively imagination and sometimes makes up stories, or tells fibs. He has a rebellious streak, too, and clashes with his stepfather. As a result he is caned and locked up alone in the cold attic. It seems as if Emilie is powerless, not knowing what to do to help the kids, entranced by the charismatic Edvard.The grandmother comes to learn of the kids' hardships; that they were practically being held prison, and decides to do something about it. But it is not going to be easy; the bishop is a very powerful and influential man... I watched the full, uncut and original version (part of the excellent 'The Criterion Collection'), nearly 5 hours long. (I also have the shorter theatrical version, but will leave that for another day.) It's length did not bother me in the least, and that should be a good indication of the quality of the film.The wonderful cinematography, music score, lavish sets and costumes are all out of this world. And particularly so the outstanding cast. All the actors were excellent, but mention must be made of the remarkable performances of Ewa Fröhling (Emilie), Gun Wållgren (the grandmother) and Bertil Guve (Alexander). And then the clever story-line, fluctuating between the real world and the acted world, the make-believe world. "On a flimsy framework of reality, the imagination spins, weaving new patterns."In my view 'Fanny and Alexander' is one of the best films I have ever seen. 10/10.


                
Ever since my first love handed me a worn VHS tape with the theatrical version of 'Fanny and Alexander' on it, saying: "This is you, this is your story", I became wildly curious to see it, as well as flattered by being introduced to a masterpiece in such a way. Of course, the tape was so worn from multiple viewings that by the time I got round to it I couldn't watch it properly. It took me a couple of years before I finally saw it in a cinema, and I came outside just reeling. Now, more than ten years later, having grown familiar with the TV version as well, I am still in awe.This week I am watching the TV version (on my Criterion DVD), one episode at a time. The Prologue alone just blew me away. Visually, it is as precise and complete as it gets; I wouldn't hesitate to say it touches perfection. I find it so powerful in the way it treats its themes - most notably the power of imagination in childhood - that most scenes have become an archetype in my personal visual vocabulary. I think that's the mark of truly great art. My first love and I lost touch long ago; I could never thank him enough for handing me this treasure.


                
I do enjoy Bergman...and not just ANY Bergman.This movie was a great one, building slowly. There wasn't a poor or mediocre performance in the entire work. My favorite was the performance by Gunn Wållgren (The grandmother). Like Catherine Zita Jones in Chicago, this woman steals the scene from all who share it with her. Not only is her acting flawless, but the character that she plays is easily the most compelling...although I cannot figure out why...My twelve year old (I fast-forwarded through the two naughty scenes) thought that the most brilliant sequence was the grandmother wailing in the room where her son lay in his coffin. The door was a little ajar and she simply paces and shrieks like an animal while her grandchildren watch through a crack in the door. I agree with him...Look for the movie to take off after the first extended scene of the grandmother with the holy man...


                
Fanny and Alexander not only encompasses all the work that Ingmar Bergman ever did. It is truly a symphonic film experience. It is musical in the way it flows visually the way the shots move and the way the story moves about from character to character. The music itself is sparse and perfectly placed the monotonous and ominous notes add the perfect weight to nearly the last half hour of the film.In this film there are so many brilliant and unforgettable scenes: Carl's breakdown in front of Lydia, Alexander's Story about the Ghosts, Alexander's Interrogation by the bishop and Alexander's meeting with Ishmael are all the quintessence of Bergman's greatness and absolutely unforgettable.In a much overused film cliché literally every frame of this film is a Rembrant and is also Sven Nyqvist's most accomplished work.The colors are vibrant and brilliant and the frames are intoxicating.Sight and Sound magazine consistently has placed Fanny and Alexander in the top ten films of the past 25 years a few years running and it is well deserved. It is absolutely brilliant and a masterpiece that is nearly without parallel.
Fanny och Alexander was a true magical experience. Seeing this film was absolute pleasure. Although it's very difficult to sit through 5 hours of film, at the end you are rewarded by majestic filmmaking. Ingmar Bergman uses autobiographical references through the family. Among my favorite scenes is where Death and God show themselves to Alexander. I must admit that the God sequence is so spellbinding words cannot describe it. Do yourself a pleasure and see this. Thank you Sir Ingmar Bergman.


                
Whatever you might think of Ingmar Bergman, PLEASE see this film before judging him or his work. Fanny and Alexander sums up Bergmans work over he decades and it contains some of the most powerful and emotional scenes in cinematic history. My two favourite scenes are the stepfather's punishment of Alexander for making up the story about him killing his wife and children and the scene where the two Ekdahl brothers are trying to convince the stepfather to let go of Emelie and her kids. Those two scenes includes brilliant acting and a display of powerful emotions. But Fanny and Alexander is so much more than that. It's humour, tragedy, love, hate, fear, you name it. It's all there. It is a film that will never leave you, it will stick to you in one way or the other. And I love it. See it, it is the best film ever made, but make sure you see the five hour version or you will miss some of the best parts.


                
I had feared that I wouldn't have much left to say for this, my fourth review of the film. Instead, I'm almost overflowing with thoughts about it. First, to address my two tiny nitpicks from the previous review. The fart scene... I don't really mind it anymore. I even kind of look forward to it. It gives Carl a mischievous sense of humor, something to take a little bit of the edge off his darker side. I also suggested that Ewa Fröling (Emilie, the mother) isn't quite as good as the rest of the cast. I will revise that: she isn't quite as distinctive as the rest of the cast. With so many grand personalities running around, it's hard for Emilie to leave a strong impression. But this time I realized how good Fröling is, nailing many of the subtle shifts the role demands.Speaking of grand personalities, among an amazingly strong cast, Gunn Wållgren (Helena, the matriarch) towers above them all. It was her final screen performance, and what a fantastic swan song. I want this woman to be my grandmother. She exudes endless warmth and compassion and patience. I must seek out more of her work, having only seen her in this and one of her earliest films, ORDET (and I can't recall her role in that at all).This is a film that celebrates the creature comforts of life, finding pleasure in "the little world." For as much as Bergman gets saddled with labels like "austere", here we see him practically spitting in the face of austerity. The Ekdahl home is joyously lavish, stuffed with artwork and food and precious items. And of course there's also the packed-to-the-rafters shop owned by Jacobi, filled with exotic and supernatural mysteries. Where Fanny and Alexander suffer is in the stifling environment of the barren Vergerus household, forbidden from bringing any of their belongings (the bishop reluctantly allows Alexander to hold on to his battered teddy bear). It's a wholehearted endorsement of material, physical decadence. "Let us be happy while we are happy." Bergman is careful not to completely idealize the world of the Ekdahls, however. We see Carl's unbearable cruelty to his wife, Gustav's endless philandering which is amusingly tolerated by his spouse (two more wonderful casting choices in Jarl Kulle and Mona Malm) and even hints that Oscar is sexually distant towards Emilie. As much as they revel in the joys of life, they haven't quite got the male-female relationships right... after all, it's still Bergman we're dealing with.The director is exceptionally generous with his faith in the audience. In some of the finest examples of magic realism, we are shown impossibilities without explanation, and are trusted to make of them what we will. It is a story that is much concerned with the power of imagination, and of course Bergman's love of the theater and its ability to fire the imagination. As Oscar spins an improvised fairy tale about a common chair to the children, for a moment we believe every word he's saying. With that same magical power of storytelling, Bergman makes us believe in ghosts and mummies and evil forces.It's such a phenomenally beautiful piece of work (thanks especially to Nykvist and the set design) that always offers me something new, and keeps me enthralled throughout the entirety of its 5+ hour running time (okay, the "Hamlet" rehearsal drags a bit, but it has such thematic resonance). I think I feel a stronger personal connection to SCENES FROM A MARRIAGE, but Fanny is an astonishing film on every level. It may or may not be my "favorite" Bergman, but I think it's his most stunning achievement.


                
As many already know, this exists in two forms; the original, longer TV mini-series, and a version trimmed down for theatrical release.But this is a masterpiece however you cut it. Somehow, in one film, Bergman has managed to combine tragedy, broad and subtle humor, melodrama, philosophy, mystery, magical realism, kitchen sink reality, controlled performances and big bombastic performances, etc. and weave it all into an organic whole with a wonderfully (and shockingly for Bergman) positive message about the joy of life, the importance of savoring family, friends, passions, and the moment itself while we can. Populated by an unforgettable gallery of characters based on Bergman's own familial history, this is an intimate epic that takes us inside the lives of an upper-class, artistic Swedish family soon after the start of the 20th century and the misfortunes and triumphs that befall them. Not quite like any other film I've ever seen – either by Bergman or anyone else. This is a child's eye view of the world, mixed with the wisdom of an aging man looking back, with a kind eye, on life itself.A personal note: It's strange to say, but I found the feature version slightly stronger than the 4 part TV version it was cut from. For me, there is something a little more focused and impactful about it. Perhaps that's just because I saw it first, but much like Altman's 'Vincent & Theo' (which also was first shown as a European mini-series) I found the extra material took my attention a few too many places, and sometimes answered mysteries I liked as mysteries.Your best bet is to get the beautiful Criterion blu-ray set, and watch both versions for yourself.


                
