I've seen a good amount of Bergman's films - I love Persona, Cries and Whispers, Scenes From A Marriage, and the Virgin Spring in particular - but this is the first one I've watched where I kind of reacted with a shrug upon finishing it. I didn't dislike it exactly, but the whole thing seemed to evaporate from memory afterwards and didn't leave a lasting impression on me like some of his other films.This seems to be one of those films where I can appreciate and admire many things about it: the performances, the elaborate production design, costumes, the ambition and scope ... but without any of it having any great effect.I suppose part of my problem with it was that I felt it was somewhat uneven and lacking in focus. It's supposed to be from the point of view of a young boy, but I never felt like we were ever following him - his character only really becomes of importance in the second act ... the rest of the time, he seems to only wander into the narrative from time to time as if he were a secondary character. Because of this, I never felt like I knew him as a character or the nature of his relationship with the father before he died ... as a result, Alexander's pain and preoccupation with death/ghosts/visions never felt earned and just seemed contrived and out of place.The first act reminded of the first third of the Deer Hunter where it's sort of a panoramic portrait of a close-knit group of people - this was interesting to me and I enjoyed the interaction between many of the characters ... but these relationships become minor subplots of little consequence or are left by the wayside altogether. So it's kind of like what's the point of introducing these narrative strands if they are not going to be developed any further? Basically, the film felt like Bergman had bitten off more than he could chew and wanted to throw everything he could into this story of a family (which was intended as his swan song), with several narrative strands that lack pay off or development - they're of little consequence and end up distracting from the subsequent focus of the narrative (the mother's marriage to the bishop).The second act of the film was the most compelling for me: the conflict between the bishop and Alexander ... but this shift of focus was jarring because after the first act, I felt like we get very little of the rest of the family. It's as if Bergman really didn't know what he wanted this movie to be: a tapestry of a family that chronicles each member, a coming of age story focusing on the child, a smaller domestic melodrama with an authoritarian bishop parental figure ...Overall, I suppose my main problem with the film was how Bergman chose to structure the narrative, which I felt was too broadly outlined ... which resulted in something very bloated and ponderous. Still enjoyed much of it, but not something I see myself revisiting anytime soon.
Some of the positive reviews I just read on IMDb make me wonder if I saw the same film they did. "One of the greatest films ever made" and "a masterpiece"???!!! Come on, this is a very good film but I would reserve these raves for other films! The performances and writing for the family is amazing at times--I particularly liked the grandmother's performance. Her use of expression and manners made me believe she was real and I wanted her to be MY grandmother. Her sons, daughter-in-laws and servants were also excellent. On the other hand, Fanny was practically absent from the movie and Alexander, at times, seemed like a zombie. I suspect it must be hard to direct and write for children, as their parts just didn't feel real to me. The evil Bishop and his family were well presented and I had no problems here. The only REAL problem I had was with the bizarre son of the Jewish man who rescued the children. He was kept locked away and was either some sort of psychopath or pedophile or witch--his part was so brief and poorly presented he was just a confusion. I know that Bergman likes occasional surreal touches but to me this just looks more like an omission versus a real attempt to challenge the viewer. I THINK Bergman was trying to imply that this man molested Alexander but whether or not this occurred it just didn't fit the film.One other gripe I had is that the film seemed a little too black and white in its presentation and seems to show a real bias on Bergman's part concerning traditional morality. The Ekdahl family is rather worldly (with son Carl's MANY sexual escapades and his family's tacit approval) and sweet AND the Bishop's family is stern, wicked and visually frightening.
Ingmar Bergman's farewell to cinema, being his last feature film. Or rather it got torn down into one as it was originally an over 5 hour TV mini series. The film depicts the lives of its title characters, Fanny and Alexander, and their extended family, the Ekdahls, a wealthy aristocratic family living in the early 20th century Uppsala, Sweden.I've personally only seen the mini series, so I'm a bit unclear as to what was taken out for the 3 hour feature version, but let's talk about the story as a whole. The film is a pretty straightforward period drama, which is a bit surprising, given that Bergman has a reputation for the artistic side of film making. And yes, there are hints of that in this film, but not all that many. It's mainly at the very beginning, and then during the fifth act. I'd even go so far as to say that the second and third acts are downright clichéd and dull. That's how formulaic they are.That being said, the acting is really good, the sets and costumes are gorgeous, there are some truly touching scenes even in the dullest acts, and the characters, the Ekdahls especially, are remarkably likable. The first act might be some of the finest character and world building I've seen in years. There's a metric ton of characters to introduce, all with their quirks and motivations, yet the film pulls it off flawlessly. Well, at least the mini series.Does the rest of the film meet the expectations laid out by this marvelous first act? Yes and no. As I've said, the second and third act are kind of clichéd, and the final act gets really bizarre, but I'll give it this: It's memorable. I'll remember this film. I enjoyed watching it, and while it might not be the finest drama I've ever seen, at least I got something out of it. Which is not as common as you'd think.


                
... so even elsewhere average men, there giants become. I'm a Swedish national, so I'm entitled to wright something like that, as a reference to the film-king Bergman.This movie, or TV-series, is enjoyable to watch. I actually recognize the Christmas part. Due to having a big family, that is. The rest is all but portrayal of Mr. Bergman's fantasies of what kind of a country Sweden used to be. And in the time of making, was in my view, his somewhat deranged view of contemporary Sweden.But really, this is nothing but a horror movie. At least for me as a national Swede. It brings back many memories of the self-despising views and ways of my parent generation. Their views and ideas about their own history, their ancestors and themselves and, unfortunately, about their children too. The golden generation headed by Mr. Bergman, spilling dirt on his parents, himself and his offspring. His signature, I'd say. But of course as a professional craftsman filmmaker, and a darn good one at that, quite enjoyable to watch.Says I as i former resident of Sweden.


                
"Fanny and Alexander" is a drama movie in which we watch a family gathering for Christmas and everything seems to be great but everything is going to change. That change happens when the father of the two adolescent siblings die and they have to stay with her mother and their step father who is a very strict bishop. In their new life the two children think the previous life with their real father and how great it was and many other things.I liked this movie because is a classic drama movie and as I said in the title I believe that is the definition of the true drama. I also liked the direction of this movie which made by Ingmar Bergman. About the interpretations I have to admit that I liked very much the interpretation of Pernilla Allwin who played as Fanny Ekdahl - Ekdahlska huset and also the interpretation of Bertil Guve who played as Alexander Ekdahl - Ekdahlska huset.Finally I have to say that "Fanny and Alexander" is a drama movie which in the start it makes you think that there is not something good or even hope but after some time all change.


                
Two young Swedish children experience the many comedies and tragedies of their family, the Ekdahls."Fanny and Alexander" won four Academy Awards, which is unusual for a foreign film. One was for Sven Nykvist, the cinematographer. Although this could be debated as his finest work or not, he was alongside Bergman since early on and deserved recognition for his contributions to cinema. He won one other time, for "Cries and Whispers" in 1973.Roger Ebert included this among his "Great Films" and said Bergman "creates a world in which the utmost certainty exists side by side with ghosts and magic, and a gallery of characters who are unforgettable in their peculiarities." Other films Ebert thought were "great" included Bergman's "The Seventh Seal", "Cries and Whispers" and "Persona".


                
After seeing _The Best Intentions_, which Bergman wrote and based on his parents' early relationship (though he did not direct it), I was very eager to see _Fanny and Alexander_, as I had read that it was also somewhat autobiographical and contained many similar themes. I was blown away by _The Best Intentions_ and thought it was one of the most thought-provoking, emotionally engaging, and well-acted films I had seen in years. I was disappointed, though, by _Fanny and Alexander_. The story seemed jarring and incomplete at times (to be fair, I saw the 3-hour version, not the 5-hour version). I especially thought that the relationship between the Bishop and Emilie was depicted so sparely as to be nearly inexplicable, particularly in its decline- Emilie goes to the Ekdahl's, declaring her hatred for the Bishop, *at the same time* as we see the Bishop's cruel punishment of Alexander, not *after* the punishment. There is little indication of what has actually been happening prior to Emilie's visit to cause her hatred of her husband.I also found the scene with Ishmael to be so over-the-top that I found myself stepping back from the film to say, "Oh, come on!" Many scenes are beautifully filmed, and most of the actors are excellent. Overall, though, it wasn't a "10 out of 10" for me.
The first Bergman film I've seen is the director's last: I was excited, his reputation puts him in the upper echelon of directors, as far as I'm concerned, and I thought I could stomach his 'more accessible' film easily- I've seen tougher. This is a review of the 188- minute version, and perhaps that influences some of my opinions.Took in all kinds of things- why does the statue move? What does it say about Alexander? I tried to get a grasp on who's in the family: but then it all- falls- apart. Maybe I'm not yet ready for this type of film, but my god as an objective viewer I was sadly, sadly disappointed. The exposition at the very long Swedish version of the Godfather's opening fails: which bearded man is which? Who is the old lady? Who the hell are Fanny and Alexander's parents? On that note, where's Fanny? The titular character doesn't appear for nearly an hour and never does more than stand around and sometimes stick up for her brother, but she has about as much emotion as Bella from Twilight- yes, that comparison just happened. I didn't know who the father was until he died (that's not a spoiler) and didn't connect with who the mother was until we see her grieving in admittedly an excellent scene, one of the best.The kicker is that the family is interesting but it doesn't come to much. Helena, the grandmother, is a wonderfully warm presence and one of the film's great cheers. Gustav Adolf is very lively, but I am baffled that the whole family is OK with him having impregnated his mistress, one of Helena's housekeepers. His wife is OK with it! Everyone treats it like a normal thing! Carl and his wife are just miserable, but their plot goes nowhere, and finally Isak is cheery and likable. The film's greatest, saving strength is its acting: the performances are sublime, and the chemistry between actors is that of a tight- knit family. The tyrannical Edvard is not even that horrible of a person, only a stark contrast from Oscar, but his portrayal and the way the film plays out leads us to see him as a monster.So after the ridiculously long party, and once Oscar dies, we see what the new home life will be like and then the intermission occurs. After that things change radically and things become surreal. It's captivating, especially with the minimalist piano (fantastic music throughout) but I was never sure where real life ended and fantasy began. In its context, talking to the dead makes sense: but miraculous mirages? That's the best answer even Bergman came up with, miracles. Telepathy? I couldn't buy it after seeing a family drama for 2 hours.So the plot trips all over itself, made extra painful by the aforementioned acting and the exquisite script, with amazing dialogues that translate well to English. That essentially sums up the film: top- caliber everything except for a failure to build initial thoughts on characters, and having a terrible plot rife with holes. I'm reminded of a Shakespearean comedy: I think they get buy just by having his name attached. Midsummer's Night Dream is awful. This is not awful, but not nearly what I expected. This is now the definitive example as to why plot overrules everything. 7.0/10


                
When I recently saw Fanny and Alexander, I really enjoyed both the Grandmother and the Father, It was touching and sad that the father died and I was so awed when the grandmother comforted Alexander. But the Mother Emilie was a heartless person, Seriously.First when he touches his fathers hand and he shrinks away in fear, she tells him not to be childish, how would you like if I told you not to mourn over your husband and to be more mature and stop bawling.Second, She has hardly ever shown him any kindness.Third she marries the Bishop and when Apparently he lies about them being in a traveling circus, she admonishes him instead of realizing, that maybe he feels hurt and lonely and simply wants his father back.fourth, When she makes a comment about how its not like hamlet, Hello you just married a Bishop right after his father dies, and now the Bishop is treating him cruelty, are you blind and stupid woman? I haven't quite finished it yet, but I hope to god that she shows sorrow and kindness for her stupidity to Alexander!
Staying with this film for the first hour and a half or so was an exercise in extreme patience - nothing happened. It was as if you were an observer at a family holiday dinner without participating in the meal. It was simply boring beyond reason, and if I weren't steadfast about watching a film in it's entirety in order to review it, I would have given up at the half way point.And then something interesting happened. Unlikely as it was that the widow Emilie (Ewa Froling) would have married that skunk, the Bishop (Jan Malmsjö), that's exactly what happened, setting up a nasty little adventure between the Bishop and the title characters. There was a point in the story I would have gladly handed Emilie or Alexander (Bertil Guve) a bottle of rat poison to take out that monster. Not to mention that maid Justina (Harriet Andersson) who couldn't help herself snitching on the young siblings. Couldn't you have just strangled her?So it wasn't entirely a waste of three hours, but quite honestly, the best thing about this picture for me were the lavish and ornate sets, and the cinematography that brought that richness out in detail to the audience. Reflecting on the title of the movie, I had to wonder why it wasn't simply called 'Alexander' since he turned out to be the principal player. Little Fanny was cute enough but without a whole lot to do and wasn't on screen very much. My best recommendation - start watching the film about half way into the story and you'll get most everything you need to know about in the young life of Fanny and Alexander.
I decided to watch this movie because it appears on the Top 250 of IMDb and i generally prefer the director's cuts to normal ones. I didn't know this version was two hours long so the shock was huge, i thought it was going to be something like twenty minutes more. I watched it in one day but i made few breaks.The director's cut is the TV version, it's divided in few parts.We follow a Swedish family during the twentieth century. Bergman decided to start the movie with the celebration of Christmas but this movie is not a Christmas tale. It was a bit boring but i enjoyed the magic of the last part and supernatural things. Bergman do a reference to Onibaba movie, we can see a doll with the same mask in the bishop's house.
Bergman's swan song bedeviled me pretty much. Movie lasts more than three hours and at the very beginning it already bored me to death. Still, I was aware it's Bergman so I didn't wanna give up easily. But hour came and passed and the film was close to half when I finally became agitated and pushed stop button. Settings, costumes, acting, camera work and directing are fantastic. Trouble is that it's beautifully filmed Nothing. For the duration of an average movie, we are looking at a somewhat unusual family that, at the beginning of the twentieth century, lives a boring day-to-day life. No plot, no story, drama, humor, nothing at all.One of the most boring movies I have ever seen. I went to eat something and make a coffee and after a while I got back to my computer to watch the show I started yesterday. But my precious OCD wouldn't let me concentrate. I never leave movies I once started and I simply couldn't do it now. So I got back to Bergman.Literally minutes later things began to happen and form one pretty decent story. Ok, it was still slow and nothing special, but satisfying enough to hold my attention till the end. First half of the movie had no story at all and all the magnificence of other aspects of the film is in vain when they do not have any purpose. Even if everything else is for ten, if story is terrible you get lousy movie. Story in second half of the movie is really nothing special, but it's good enough not to destroy beauty of the rest of the movie. If story was at level with everything else this would be 10/10. If there was no first hour of the movie it would be 8,5/10. But I simply can not forgive the agony first hour put me through. I'm not rating only camera or only directing, only it's soul or just the last hour. I'm rating overall impression of movie as a whole. And for that reason I rate it 7/10. But at the same time I want to recommend it as feat for the eyes of those who cherish aesthetics enough to ignore lack of plot.7/10Movie was nominated for 6 Oscars and it won 4. All 4 well deserved. In my opinion, Bergman also deserved his nomination for directing to win too. But nomination for the best screenplay sounds to me like bad joke.Actress who plays grandmother, and who is maybe even leading character of this movie, irresistibly reminds me of Cameron Diaz. I wonder is this just me or there's more people who see this resemblance.


                
I just recently watched this movie. It was filmed in 1982. I normally don't like old movies like Fellini etc. but this one is okay. It's quite slow however it's quite nicely done. I like that the movie effortlessly blend in supernatural and reality.Give it a try. It's a little dated but you can see that's very well directed and written.


                
This drama about a large, wealth family is an apt curtain call for Bergman. As is often the case with his films, he is not so much interested in telling a good story as in exploring themes. He touches on all the themes that have dotted his films since the 1950s: love, death, religion, marriage (and infidelity), family, etc. For good measure, he also throws in ghosts, magic, and flatulence into this one. It is little more than a soap opera, and it's in serious need of editing. The director can be forgiven for wanting to make an epic swansong even when he didn't have the material to support such an undertaking. In her final film, Wallgren is terrific as the matriarch.


                
