Ingmar Bergman's 'Fanny och Alexander', originally intended as the director's "swan song", is a five-hour five-act epic which explores the lives of the different members of the Ekdahl family. The First Act beautifully explores the family's get-together at Christmas, and sheds some light on the individual families of the three brothers as well. Then the remaining acts go on to follow the ups and downs of the two siblings, Fanny and Alexander, and their mother Emilie, and how everyone in the Ekdahl family tries to cope with it.Each of the characters in the movie is so uniquely fascinating, and really have something to offer to the combined family as well as the movie. The rich colours and cinematography, the in-depth exploration of the characters' lives, the movie is filled with heartwarming and hilarious moments; there isn't a single dull moment in it.All the actors involved with the movie have done a brilliant job, especially the beautiful and charming Ewa Fröling delights us with her talented performance of Emilie Ekdahl. I wonder why I haven't seen her in many movies; she really has the ability to captivate you with her eyes and emotions. Helena's conversation with his son's soul and Isak Jacobi's monologue with the children were really entrancing.'Fanny och Alexander' is an ornately shot period piece that beautifully studies both childhood and adulthood (not of the same character). As critic Aaron Hillis from 'Village Voice' says so aptly, 'nothing else in his (Bergman) oeuvre addresses so directly his childhood escapes into fantasy as the by-product of a harsh Lutheran upbringing.' It explores many themes like loss, prison-like childhood, polygamy, etc., but the story is essentially about the importance of family. Overall, the movie is quite life-affirming and memorable. Please watch the five-hour long cut to get the director's intended vision and proper impact of the epic.


                
To say that Ingar Bergman is the quintessence of Nordic film—not just Swedish film—is up there on the list aptly titled "Understatements of the 21st Century".It can easily be argued that he is one of the most famous Scandinavian figures, among such names as Ibsen, Hamsun, and Kierkegaard.So, what does his legacy leave us with? What does Fanny och Alexander, his last film and gift to his movie-going audience, give us? It gives us a cinematic experience as long, rich, character-driven, and complex as his own directing career. It also tries to be a bit more uplifting than the rest of his works, but joy is apparently relative. Apparently as relative as one's enjoyment of this movie. To begin with, Fanny och Alexander is quite obviously an Ingmar Bergman film. One can very well understand this from the opening scene, in which Alexander, alone, hears a clock chiming in what is very clearly an opulent home. It is three in the afternoon. Then the audience observes with Alexander a naked female statue begin to dance.Weird stuff is in store.From this first scene it is fair to deduce that you're going to be getting a good amount of typical Bergman fair. I f you're familiar with Bergman, there are some themes you'd expect from a product carrying the Bergman label: involvement of the theatre, involvement of artists and jesters, faith and doubt, and an observation of the relationships between men and women. This last theme is not just an exploration of erotic relationships between females and males. Bergman also portrays husband and wife, husband and mistress, clergyman and widow, adulterer and wife, and basic human camaraderie. Above all, the panoply of relationships in Fanny och Alexander goes to show how much Bergman intended for this last film of his to be a portrait of reality. If it does not seem as uplifting as some claim it to be, at the very least the relationships portrayed in it are for the most part not anymore dysfunctional than relationships in the real world.One scene in particular also exemplifies this intended "realism": an older man takes a gaggle of children up the stairs, proceeding to amuse them with his prowess at flatulence. For a world-renowned,artistic director such as Bergman, this scene seems childish, inane, and superfluous, among other things. Inane it is, but for a reason—this kind of behaviour is found in real life, even among the more well-to-do classes who are at the centre of this movie. Superfluous it may be too, but it is not the most superfluous bit about this movie. Perhaps it was due to the condensing of this film down from five hours to a mere three, but often times one will find that scenes drag on unnecessarily long, or are too long. Perhaps this is a technique Bergman utilised to add a further dimension of realism. But if this is the case, then Bergman's reasons for choosing which scenes he to drag out are puzzling at best. Christmas parties, especially ones where everyone is enjoying him- or herself, do not last as long in our memories as the Christmas party scenes in Fanny och Alexander.Undoubtedly the strangest and most controversial scene in the movie is the scene with Ismael and Alexander, in which Ismael (who is supposedly a man but actually a woman(?)) wants to become one with Alexander and help him fulfill his wish to end the life of his step-father. Ismael invades(?) Alexander's mind, and narrates the death of his step-father, step by gruesome step. It is not clear if these two actually caused the events which led to the death, or if Ismael has some kind of seeing power, or whether this bizarre narration was how Alexander's young mind choose to rationalise the death. One would presume this is an important bit of information if one wants to understand the story, but it is never clarified. The only thing that we do know is that the step-father really did die due to the events exactly as narrated by Ismael.So, what is reality? Perhaps the events Alexander encounters (talking with ghosts, a nonsensical layout of an apartment he cannot navigate, the bit with Ismael, and an eerie encounter with a puppet of God that at first strikes the audience as a dream sequence) is realism in that this is a realistic rendition of how children experience and rationalise reality. Alexander's family is not exactly "normal", either: his family owns a theatre, and is prone to drama. His mother is an actress, and does not behave as most other women would in the early 20th century. She is very much a child herself, and she admits at least once that for the majority of her life has not taken things very seriously.Alexander is a child. Children experience reality in a very fragmentary way, and magic is very much a real thing to them. Alexander also does not have any very good role models or adult figures from which to learn a good perspective of reality. As such, all of the strange things are perhaps Alexander's view of reality. Overall, this is a very Bergman film. It is pretty, complex, artistic, and driven by characters. Initially, too, it's full of whatever Bergman thought he should put into it. It is not clear, however, how much of this was essential to the film, and how much of what was essential to the film was lost when it was abridged. It ends up seeming superfluous and rambling at times. That, however, could very well be Bergman's intention. He was a director who knew what he wanted, and what he wanted made him famous. It is only to be expected that in what he knew was going to be last film, he'd direct whatever pleased him.
*****SPOILER ALERT********In first part of this movie, we meet a big family on the Christmas eve. This part is quite beautiful, but also a bit complex meeting all the new people at once. The story isn't a gripping one, but a movie grips you to the screen nonetheless. In the second part, the true plot of the movie begins. The Story of widowed (Oscar the theater man dies) Emma now marrying a bishop. And her 2 children from a previous husband. Fanny and Alexander. The bishop is strict! The movie does have a high watchability witch I did not expect. Still, some scenes are boring. Too long. Dull.. And most problematic of all, not likable! Ghosts? Weird thoughts etc..But I wasn't bored, maybe because I watched it on a DVD , via a VLC player and I adjusted the speed of the movie. Mostly watching it at double speed. Going normal only at very interesting scenes.I like the person to person, up close scenes, with some emotional charge and this movie has some of those.For some reason I really liked watching this movie, although there were quite a lot of things in it I did not like.I must say though, people, this is not a movie you have to love. I know I don't. So often, we fall into a trap where we look through a lens of "what does the world think". Even though "world thinks" (in this case the IMDb) that this movie is top-notch. If you don't feel that it is, just be honest. Not easy to rate this! Seriously. I just love how it's made. The pretty Swedish girls (Maj and Emma) , the sweet grandma (Eldke) , the kids, the bishop.. very colorful characters and an enjoyable ride. But I can't let go of things which I really did not like and of some "flaws" (the way Isaac smuggled those 2 kids is completely impossible, unless he was having a groundhog day, and played it 40 times till he got it right). And some totally not-likable scenes.Also, the kids. Not the best cast. I want to give it a 7 , but there is something almost magically that I just like so much. Just viewing people as they are. This movie is special that way.So, where do I draw the line.At...Real rating: 8.1 = 8/10!
Faith, men and women, and the artist. These themes, used by Swedish director Ingmar Bergman in his film "Fanny and Alexander" not only make for a compelling movie but also offer insight into Swedish culture along with hints of autobiographical elements of Bergman life."Fanny and Alexander," made in 1982, was the last feature film directed by Bergman. The film was released twice; first as a 3-hour long feature and second as a 5-hour long feature, which was intended to be shown as a TV-movie. In the 5-hour version characters in the film are explored more in depth. For the sake of understanding my review, I felt it would be appropriate to note that my opinions of the film are based off the 3-hour long feature."Fanny and Alexander" tells the story of a young boy, Alexander, and his family set in a Swedish town representing Uppsala, Sweden between 1907-09. Alexander's family, the Ekdahls, come from a wealthier background and are all gathering for Christmas Eve dinner. During a good first portion of the film we are introduced to a variety of the family members and exposed to their personal, and often troubled backgrounds. We also learn that Alexander's parents are involved with the local theatre. Soon thereafter Alexander's father dies of a stroke while rehearsing on stage for an upcoming play. Distraught from the loss of her husband, Alexander's mother, Emilie, finds comfort in the local bishop, and soon accepts his proposal for marriage. Emilie and the children then move in with the bishop. Quickly the children are forced by the bishop to give up their possessions and live under his strict, unforgiving, and at times, violent, rule. The family, longing for their past life, then becomes prisoners of the bishops house. Luckily, Emilie had been secretly in contact with her mother- in-law, Helena, and the Ekdahl family plans to intervene and save Alexander and his family. Without giving the rest of the film away, the ending explores Alexander's relationship with himself by questioning his faith and his hatred for the bishop.Faith is explored in the film the same way faith is viewed in Swedish culture- with skepticism. Alexander having encountered the ghost of his father and exploring his hatred for the bishop- a religious man- offer Alexander with a conflicted view of humanities goodness and its connection to a god. An example of this in the film is when Alexander meets Ismael. Through this interaction between the two characters Alexander confronts his inner self with the help of Ismael, who can be seen as the 'darker side' of Alexander. Alexander, through this connection, overcomes his fathers death and confronts his hatred for the bishop by imagining the bishops death. Bergman's own childhood comes into play with the use of a clock- used as a symbol of death or of a visit from a ghost. Faith is explored in a very self-oriented way that appears magical and surreal, while questioning human goodness.Man and women in the film is also another important theme in the movie and can be a peak into the taboo subject of 'Swedish Sin.' Men and women are shown throughout the film to be acting off the basic instincts of sexual desire. They first appear to be perfect citizens of society. However, they fall to temptation when the characters begin to lust after, and engage in behavior that 'proper' Swedish society tries to repress. For example, Alexanders uncle Carl's relationship with the nanny girl, May. Carl, who has a wife, runs off to engage in sexual activities with the nanny, which as a result, bares a child. Carl's wife seems to have no reservations against her husband for engaging in an affair. Another example is the abusive sexual relationship that Alexander's mother is put in. Though we don't actually see the acts, Emilie becomes pregnant with the bishops child even though she no longer loves him. She appears weak and bruised as the family lives longer with the bishop. This, among other instances in the film call into question the true nature of humanity and what roles men and women play in society.The artist in the film is Alexander. He is the one who creates and uses his imagination by making up stories, such as the time when he made up the story of how the bishop killed his former wife and children. The bishop tries to rid the artist from Alexander by punishing him, but is unable to do so. The use of a theatrical set in the Jew's household, and the puppets that inhabit it, also create a surreal and magical world that provide an appropriate context for Alexander to explore the question of faith during his confrontations with his father and Ismael. It is no wonder why Bergman, who was not only a playwright for theatre, but also heavily influenced by theatre for film, uses theatrical elements in "Fanny and Alexander" in order to express his themes. Bergman use of the 'magic lamp' in the film is also one of Bergman's favorite childhood memories, where it was common for him to make up stories with the 'magic lamp' pictures. The artist in the film enhances the context in which Alexander reflects personally on something as surreal as art- faith.Overall "Fanny and Alexander" was a great film, with an engaging storyline that is full of in- depth meaning that can be explored and interpreted in many ways. Between the relationships of faith, men and women, and the artist is society, Bergman offers a peak not only into his personal life, but also that of Swedish society and the relationship of faith in humanity.
Ingmar Bergman was, without question, one of cinema's truly great visionaries. His cerebral experiments with character and narrative in the 1960's with films such as The Silence (1963), Persona (1966) and A Passion (1968) are still as relevant and interesting today as his more conventional art films of the 1950's, of which Smiles of a Summer Night (1955), The Seventh Seal (1957) and Wild Strawberries (1957) are the most iconic and best known. He continued to make staggering films far into the 70's as well, long after many of his closest contemporaries had submitted to self-parody and over indulgence, and was still able to produce great work like Cries and Whispers (1972), Scenes from a Marriage (1973) and Face to Face (1976) even when working within the incredibly limiting confines of Swedish television.With this in mind, Fanny and Alexander (1982) would seem to be the culmination of everything that Bergman had been working towards throughout his entire career; with many of the themes, ideas, ghosts and characters that had appeared and reappeared not only in his work but also in his life and childhood being written into the script and presented on the screen. We also get many of the same narrative and thematic preoccupations here too; with innocence, death, ghosts, dreams, childhood and infidelity all featuring heavily, and with everything further cross-referenced to the films that came before. This isn't particularly surprising, since Bergman's work was always self-referential, but what does impress with this is the bold use of light, sound, design and composition, giving us bold and glowing colour where there was once iconic black and white and an enormous amount of vibrant movement where there was once static, highly rigid examination.Another impressive factor is Bergman's intelligent, self-reflexive use of narrative framing, which not only works in relation to the film and the characters therein, but in the presentation of his own life and the semi-autobiographical allusions made in the script. So, with Fanny and Alexander we have the presentation of a play within a play within a film. One play is created by Alexander, whilst the other play is created by Shakespeare, recreated by the adults and filmed by Bergman. In general, there are a lot of references made to plays and the theatre - which is very much fitting given the fact that it was Bergman's great love - with continual references made towards Hamlet, Macbeth and the work of Charles Dickens. We also have the more clear-cut, autobiographical aspect of Bergman "as Alexander", the would-be storyteller and narrator of the film itself, giving us the obvious representation of innocence submitting to adulthood and warm nostalgia.The key scene for me here, the one where the ideas of the film take flight and offer the viewer something truly magical, is the sequence wherein Fanny and Alexander stay with the Jewish money-lender. The imagery here is startling and eases us into the second half of the drama in which the vaguely supernatural elements begin to accumulate, either as a result of Alexander's burgeoning imagination or as a result of the continual meta-textual reference points to the play within a play. Certainly, it may be less concise and iconic than The Seventh Seal, or seemingly less experimental than Persona, but it is still, without question, amongst the very greatest European films of the 20th century; filled to the brim with intelligent ideas, raw emotions, fun and frivolity, grand spectacle, beautiful colours, Gothic melodrama, ghosts and apparitions, music and movement and, as thus, is clearly one of Bergman's most intelligent, imaginative and visually impressive films.Although he would go in to direct numerous projects for television - including the celebrated follow up to Scenes from a Marriage, Sarabande (2003) - Fanny and Alexander remains Bergman's ultimate final word as a filmmaker, and is a wonderful culmination of the themes and ideas that had been slowly gathering and evolving throughout his impressive and distinguished career.


                
After having seen many Bergman films, I finally got my hands on this, considered by many to be the master's masterpiece. Not really about the children Fanny and Alexander (as the title would suggest) so much as about the entire Ekdahl family, this film is meticulously detailed and highly autobiographical. It looks absolutely fabulous; cinematographer and Bergman regular Sven Nykvist outdoes himself with his crystal clear compositions. Bergman's directorial style is at times a bit too static; he lets his camera sit motionless far too frequently, fine when focused on a face or tableau, but uninteresting when simply filming a group or room from long shot. But overall, he is in complete mastery of the material.I saw the full-length, five-hour television version, and the first half of this is flawless. Documenting the Ekdahl family Christmas, the death of Oscar (Fanny and Alexander's father) and their subsequent move to the home of their stepfather and religious tyrant, this part of the film is compulsively watchable. The characters (with the exception of little Fanny herself) are painted with detailed strokes by the acting and writing, and Bergman uses his production design to great effect, juxtaposing the sumptuous interiors of the Ekdahl's home with the ascetic house of the stepfather.The movie floundered a bit for me, though, in the second half. Here Bergman indulges his preoccupation with many of the themes that he's visited so often before; because of their familiarity, they came across this time as pretentious and tired. The existential longing, the fear of death, the blurring of personas: how many times can you explore these same themes and keep them interesting? Perhaps if I had not already seen so many Bergman films I would have fared better here. As it was, I found myself checking my watch frequently in the film's final hour or so.But the overall impression I took away from this film was that I had seen an important work by an important film maker. I still think "Persona" and "Cries and Whispers" are better movies, but "Fanny and Alexander" is a must see for any Bergman fan, and really for any fan of cinema, period.Grade: A-


                
From Oscar and Golden Globe director Ingmar Bergman (The Seventh Seal, Wild Strawberries, Persona, Cries and Whispers), this was apparently meant to be his final film, he made a few more, it was however his last to be listed in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die. Basically, set in the early 20th Century in a Swedish town, for a while the focus is on the exuberant and colourful Ekdahl family and household, with the parents Oscar (Allan Edwall) as director and Emilie (Ewa Fröling) as the leading lady for the local theatre company. Their life with the many relatives visiting over winter and stuff is very happy, and we do not see so much of the children, Fanny (Pernilla Allwin) and Alexander (Bertil Guve). It is after the tragic death of father Oscar from a stroke that the children become much more important to the story, their mother Emilie is now responsible for them. She soon finds a new suitor with Bishop Edvard Vergerus (Jan Malmsjö), also a widower, and they marry each other, but this also means they are under his strict and stern rule. Alexander is particularly his target who he tries break by any means, especially when he mentions seeing ghosts of people he believes the Bishop knows about, the harshest punishment being a whipping on his behind. Emilie hadn't anticipated her husband's dark side and becoming, along with the children, virtual prisoners, so in secret she gets in touch with the rest of her family, including mother-in-law Helena (Gunn Wållgren) to intervene and help them out their dire situation. After Emilie is refused a divorce from the Bishop, it is a Jewish antiques dealer and magician friend that pretends to be interested in buying a chest, and obviously Fanny and Alexander are getting inside it to be smuggled out, this plan succeeds. While the children are safe with the Jewish man, and Alexander has met his nephew Ismael Retzinsky (Stina Ekblad), Emilie is pregnant, and she puts sedative in Edvard's drink who is feeling overly sleepy, a fire breaks out, and he is killed in it. In the end, after seeing some more ghosts Aexander, sister Fanny, and their mother with her newly christened daughter are brought back together, it seems to end on a happy note, apart from Alexander seeing the ghost of the Bishop saying "you'll never be free of me". Also starring Börje Ahlstedt as Professor Carl Ekdahl, Christina Schollin as Lydia Ekdahl, Jarl Kulle as Gustav Adolf Ekdahl, Mona Malm as Alma Ekdahl, Pernilla August as Maj,Gunnar Björnstrand as Filip Landahl, Erland Josephson as Isak Jacobi, Anna Bergman as Hanna Schwartz and Lena Olin as Rosa. I may not have understood everything going on, but there were plenty of highlights that made me enjoy the film, obviously the whipping scene being to me the most poignant, the costumes, and use of colour is quite vibrant in many of the scenes, and the atmosphere is both pleasant and scary, it is a must see period drama. It won the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Cinematography, Best Costume Design and Best Foreign Language Film, and it was nominated for Best Writing, Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen, it won the BAFTA for Best Cinematography, and it was nominated the Best Costume Design and Best Foreign Language Film, and it won the Golden Globe for Best Foreign Film. It was number 28 on Film 4's 50 Films To See Before You Die. Very good!
Released in 1982 in a 5-hour version for Swedish television and cut to 180 minutes for theatrical release, FANNY AND Alexander was meant to be Ingmar Bergman's last film. Though the great auteur lived on another 25 years and even wrote and directed some smaller projects, FANNY AND Alexander can still be seen as a great capstone to decades of legendary cinema.FANNY AND Alexander deals with the great two preoccupations of Bergman's career, namely the absence of God and the unbridgeable gaps between human beings, but the result is wonderfully life-affirming. Fanny and Alexander are the children of Oscar and Emilie Ekdahl, actors in Uppsala circa 1907, but the film gives a panorama of the extended Ekdahl family, presided over by grandmother Helena, uncles Gustav Adolf (a restaurateur and the film's most comedic presence) and Carl (a professor who has fallen into debt and is trapped in a loveless marriage), their wives and children, and the selfless Jewish shopkeeper Isak Jacobi. This Swedish family lives in an Old World opulence that is hard to believe for audiences today, especially for a country whose class system by and large disappeared after the war. The rigid interaction among people not closely acquainted and the deference of servants to their employers make for gestures as alien to us 21st century viewers as a Noh play.In a way, FANNY AND Alexander is like those big novels of a century ago, by Tolstoy or Galsworthy, dealing with the vicissitudes of a whole family. The vaster family drama, however, is only a backdrop to a more personal one: Fanny and Alexander are soon orphaned, and their widowed mother eventually remarries, this time with a cruel clergyman. The children move from the freedom and comfort of the Ekdahl home to the austere bishop's place, where the children are punished for the slightest infraction by beatings or being locked up in the attic. The Ekdahls' torment living under the bishop is the great crisis of the film, and their unexpected liberation from it presents Alexander with a burden that he will carry into his budding manhood.The original television version is the way to see Bergman's final masterpiece. Don't be daunted by the length: 5 hours should not be a problem in an age when people will watch an entire season of a sitcom on DVD in one sitting. FANNY AND Alexander is not slow, meditative cinema like, say, Andrei Tarkovsky or Béla Tarr, but rather Bergman is always presenting the viewer with some engaging little drama. The theatrical cut, which Bergman made only with the greatest regret, is a very different (and much weaker film), cutting out much of the film's magical realism, the touching meditations on growing old represented by the character of the grandmother, and some vivid depictions of early 20th-century Sweden.


                
Well, maybe not quite great, but certainly a worthy effort for Swedish director Ingmar Bergman, who directed some great classic films in the '50s and '60s. Fanny and Alexander debuted in 1982 as a three-hour movie that eventually scored an Oscar for foreign film. It follows a young boy named Alexander and his sister and mother coping with the father's death. Eventually the mother marries a bishop, but he is a stern authority figure for Alexander, who soon comes to hate him for that.Why is it three hours? That's long (considerably longer than The Seventh Seal or Persona), and the first hour is kind of a waste. There's much about the Christmas celebrations of the family before the father's death. I guess it's to set up the family as well off and happy to contrast with the rest of the movie, but nothing much happens in the beginning and the farting uncle was a vulgar low point. However, the story picks up after the father dies and it becomes a rather engaging film.Fanny and Alexander can be compared to Stanley Kubrick's Barry Lyndon (1975)- a mother remarries, the son doesn't like his stepfather, the stepfather physically disciplines the boy. This one differs in that there's a minor supernatural element- Bergman's film is more metaphorical. The stepfather isn't necessarily evil (discipline is important), and Alexander told a rather hurtful story about him, saying ghosts told him that the stepfather locked up his prior family and was thus responsible when they died while trying to escape. Alexander had lied before, but given the other supernatural elements of the film, it's possible the story is true. Either way, the stepfather goes a little far in the punishment. There's a sense of injustice when the mother wants a divorce but learns it would mean losing custody of her children. The news of the stepfather's death may consequently be taken with ambivalence. The film itself is harder to be ambivalent about- the bulk of it is wonderful, colourful and engrossing, and should leave the viewer feeling satisfied.
Here's a film that you will truly have no idea what you're getting into before you see it, especially if you're like me and haven't seen an Ingmar Bergman film yet. Fanny and Alexander is life through the eyes of a child. It's a highly autobiographical film that tells the story of young Alexander Ekdahl and his sister Fanny as they live their luxurious life with their mother and father. But unforeseen events strike down in their lives, making drastic changes that change the two children forever. This is an incredibly peculiar film that has an eccentrically offbeat feel to it. It is of a calibre that doesn't seem to fit a story about two children, but it does. This is a wondrous and magnificent tale that keeps you engaged and intrigued for its entire three hour run time.This film shows uncanny amounts of storytelling finesse. It tells its story so clearly and so eloquently that you forget it is just a film about children. You get the feeling that it is so much more, and indeed it is. It is a story about life, love, eternity, magic, mystery, the supernatural. The list goes on. It seems like a lot and that's because it is. This film covers a lot of ground both physical and psychological, even existential. There is so much to take in with this film that I'm not sure it is possible to understand it all after the first watch. It is easy enough to follow the surface storyline, which is excellent and greatly engaging. Underneath is a different story, however. What lies underneath twists and turns and makes you think more than most films do. It's almost overwhelming at times how much subtext is being quietly presented, especially when you don't even notice it until it's too late to decipher it all.I left this film with a lot of unanswered questions, but I certainly felt accomplished after finishing it. There's a certain nuance that causes you to feel something during this film, even if you can't quite place what that something is. For me I felt intellectual and existential as I absorbed everything that takes place in this film. I felt challenged by the depth and complexity of the film's subtextual level and so I greatly enjoyed interpreting the film for myself. But the great thing is that if you don't want to interpret or absorb this film you can still enjoy the fantastic storyline that lies on the surface. The story is told so skillfully and with such eloquence. Subplots weave in and out beautifully and the characters develop into such fascinating human beings as the film moves along. This film feels so real and you can feel all of the personal nuance Bergman inserted into the film, as it is very autobiographical.I'm not sure if the storyline itself is the autobiographical part. I'm sure parts of it reflect his life, but what I really think is the ultimate reflection is the look and feel of the film which Bergman illustrates so well. Fanny and Alexander is a somber film that ambles along quietly. It is subtle and immaculate. Bergman's quiet camera movements give the film its consistently calm yet distressed undertone. The film isn't loud or bustling, but there is a lot of turmoil underneath the quiet that is louder than any Michael Bay film. There is something so beautiful and so elegant about this film that you feel so engrossed in all of it, as well as touched by its somber beauty. This is true artistry at work. Bergman works his magic here to make a film that is so stunning and yet so subdued. It is a contrast that often comes off as too pretentious or too forced, but not in Fanny and Alexander. Here it is done just right.I'm not entirely sure what I've made of this film so far. It is so much to take in and so much to breath out. This is a beautiful film, no doubt, but it is just so difficult to get everything out of it that you know you can and this makes it difficult to truly fall in love with the film. I won't forget this film and I'm sure I'll revisit it one day to further my interpretation of the film. But what I can say for now is that it is a true work of art that deserves all recognition it gets. Few films can achieve the quiet illustriousness that Fanny and Alexander does, and that is something to be amazed by.


                
This epic Bergman film, edited down to 3 hours from the original 5-hour television series, is roughly divided into three parts, about one hour each. Part one sees the Christmas celebration of the Ekdahl family, in a lush and almost choreographed manner, in what is basically a series of "postcards" of traditional Christmas fable-imagery. Nevertheless, after the jovial start, the film soon turns to a portrait of family disintegration, with various Ekdahl family members revealed to be in turmoil.Part two is much more typical Bergman fare, with a minimal and austere direction accompanying a tale of religious oppression and suppression. Sadly, while a powerful drama, like most dramas it suffers from a hyperbolic and too-dramatized plot, so that the director gets the point across (in this case the usual Bergman obsessions: the "silence" of god, the tyranny of the church).Part three, and perhaps the most impressive, is a galanty show cast across an Ekdahl-family friend's antique-shop and puppet-show. Here Bergman turns to mysticism and subliminal imagery, in what is a seldom-seen part of his work.The conclusion (another family feast) centers it's orientation towards a celebration of family and art, and the message seems to be simply that life goes on.


                
