I am not one for putting up idols on pedestals; mostly Bergman's films leave me tepid or even cold. But Fanny och Alexander is a splendid production, beautifully made, so superb it even evokes feelings of having come from a novel. Excellent characterization throughout, all the way down the cast, lending that magic touch to the costuming of the early 1900s. Mesmerising throughout, the film is not a single minute too long. The development of the story-line is superbly handled in an absorbing and coherent manner, manifesting the great empathy between director and actors. If the cinematography is visual poetry, the script is philosophical and full of awareness or consciousness of things in life, but not at a pretentious, abstract and theoretical level, but at a real human dimension.If you only have 10 videos in your collection, Fanny och Alexander should be one of them. My vote is a bit higher than the IMDb average.
These comments refer to the 3-hour version.


                
Although I have disliked Bergman's earlier films and thought they were by far too overrated, that did not apply to this film. I saw the director's-cut version, over five hours. A little long, yes, and there is not much music, but it's not slow, like Tarkovsky's films can be. The opening is great, and the first act, the first one and a half hour, was the part I liked the very most. The realism is utter, so is the casting; the best acting I have seen in a Swedish film, it's amazing. I can't complain about any actor, they were all extremely good. So is the dialog. Alexander had a typical upper class look, so did his grandmother, who looked extremely fresh and healthy and beautiful, for her age. All together, the language and milieus are very credible. No over-colorful costumes and silly dialogs, that is such a frequent element nowadays in historical plays, especially from America. Bergman succeeds to capture the customs and behavior that were used (and to some extent still is used) within the Swedish upper class, as well as general Swedish customs and behavior. I know this, because I am familiar with it and have partly experienced it myself. The result is sometimes amazing. Bergman succeeds to capture the atmosphere of the old times, through language and decoration. The photo is at time dazzling; some scenes are identical to 19th century Swedish painting, and I get the thought that Bergman turned to these in search for the right setting of the film.
Unlike early works by Bergman, which tend to be somewhat theatrical, the keyword here is realism, which I appreciate greatly. The actors manage, like I said, to speak and play in a way that I feel was customary at that period of time. It might be too much to claim this work to be a Swedish Tarkovsky film, but I sensed it had some philosophical material, and it is definitely thoughtful. Otherwise, I think it is worth watching for the acting and dialog alone.One of the best Swedish films ever made, and Bergman's best, in my opinion. (9/10)


                
Why Swedish filmmaker Ingmar Bergman's 1982 final 'filmic film', Fanny & Alexander (Fanny Och Alexander), bears the appellation it does is a mystery- one of many in the film, since the first titular character, Fanny (Pernilla Allwin) is a third or fourth level supporting character at best, and in the three hour theatrical version of the film she is not even mentioned by name for nearly an hour into the film. The film really should be called Alexander & Fanny, or simply Alexander, since it most closely follows two years in the life of young, handsome, brown-haired Alexander Ekdahl (Bertil Guve)- the original 'boy who sees dead people,' from 1907 to 1909. Better yet, it should really be called The Ekdahls, for it is that whole family that is central to the film, especially Fanny and Alexander's beautiful blond mother Emilie (Ewa Fröling- a more intellectual, sensuous, and earth motherish version of Denise Richards, who bears a remarkable facial resemblance to Guve; especially in the cheekbones and puffy lips). Her deep, gorgeous blue eyes hold a viewer's attention, as do the eyes of Liv Ullman, who was originally offered the part, but turned it down. Yes, there are many things that do not make sense in this film- both in the internal narrative and the external aspects of the tale, but this is not necessarily a bad thing.The theatrical version did win four Academy Awards; for Best Foreign Film, Costume Design (Marik Vos), Art Direction-Set Decoration (Anna Asp), and for the cinematography of Sven Nykvist. This triumph is best illustrated in the scenes of the death of Oscar Ekdahl (Allan Edwall), where beautiful and ornate clocks and shiny accoutrements are contrasted with a bucket of vomit. But it is the 312 minute television series is unquestionably a great film, although it does not have the unadorned greatness of earlier Bergman classics, like Wild Strawberries, Winter Light, nor, most cogently, Scenes From A Marriage- Bergman's earlier TV miniseries that was also released theatrically in a truncated form, but which is a better film, especially in the comparative shorter versions. The shorter version of this film feels chopped up, has too many plot holes, due to some questionable editing by Bergman, especially when compared to the longer television version of the film. Why, as example, does Bergman retain any of the stand alone scenes of Carl Ekdahl and his marital woes in the shorter version, since they go nowhere and contribute nothing to the denouement, and where the best scene that character has is of farting out a burning candlestick to entertain the children? here is an example where leaving a bit of a plot does no good and it should have been wholly excised. By contrast, there are a number of scenes from the longer version that should never have been removed- such as Alexander's run-in with the ghosts of the daughters of the evil Bishop Edvard Vergerus (Jan Malmsjö- who was Peter, the feckless friend to Erland Josephson's Johan, in Scenes From A Marriage)- who torment and puke on him, or the dramatic showdown between Carl and Gustav Adolf and the Bishop, after they have engineered the rescue of the children from the Bishop's home, and revealed the Bishop as a philanderer who owes 110,000 kronor in debts.Yet, Fanny & Alexander deserves its place in the Bergman and filmic canons, even if it does occasionally suffer from some of what can be labeled 'old artist's syndrome'- i.e.- the tendency to over-sentimentalize the past. Bergman was 64 by the film's release<U+0085>. Fanny & Alexander, while a great film- especially in its longer version, is not all that its greatest boosters claim<U+0085>.Oddly, it is the shorter theatrical version of the film- with its many narrative gaps and unresolved issues, which feels a bit too long, not the significantly longer television version. Yet, despite the above named divergent themes, and the presence of 'the other' in the film, the inexplicable works, and works superbly- especially in the deeper, longer, and richer television version, where we get glimpses of the Bishop and his evil clan far earlier in the film, as well as more depth on important characters like Carl Ekdahl and Isak Jacobi. Perhaps it is because most of the film is told from a child's eye point of view, which always warps reality to its own psychological needs, or maybe the whole film is just a child's dream, for early on Alexander Ekdahl falls asleep. Does he ever really wake up?Whatever interpretation one wants to apply to this film, it is essential to the canon of Ingmar Bergman, and captures an essential bit of humanity past, just as superb films like Yasujiro Ozu's Tokyo Story or Martin Scorsese's Taxi Driver do. It will be relevant for as long as humanity exists, just as those other great works are, for despite its setting, we all know people like the Ekdahls and Vergeruses. That it lets us know a bit more about ourselves is merely icing on a damned tasty cake, one that remains tempting even as eaten, and gets better with each viewing. Having seen it thrice, both versions and the theatrical version with comments, this claim is no mystery. Swallow now.
This may be the most competent film ever made. It truly is magnificent in how effective it is in satisfying its intent. It has glory and pain, close to perfect in most respects, all the ones that matter theatrically.It is ambiguous in its gloom, which removes it from the relentlessly depressing stuff that preceded it. It is richly constructed, with lots of folded levels with: plays about plays in several different ways.So why do I not rate it a "must view?" My glib answer, one I actually gave once, is that 1982 was a very good year for film and I only allow myself two from each year at the supreme level. Technically, those two I selected aren't as gloriously balanced in the dimensions this is.But they instead take us somewhere that is useful, that challenges. This is a ride to the moon in a comfortable tour bus. Those other two visit less sophisticated theatrical landscapes, but they do it on foot, engaged in the hot, sweaty and dangerous transport of ourselves.So I will tell you it is sublime in many ways and not very useful to building a real life in film.Bergman himself is in three characters here: the boy (as widely known), the magical Jew who makes the illusions that we believe to be real as the film, and the stern stepfather. There's too much of this last, too much of the bitterness he forces us to swallow by surrounding it with sweetness.So instead this comment is on the Jew's perspective, the kabbalistic folding of the thing.The Jew is a master puppeteer in two young guises, Aron and (female) Ismael who we learn have created all that proceeds or follows, perhaps. That is roughly framed as Hamlet's play within the play, during a rehearsal for which we witness the father play the ghost, then become the ghost. Later, he is replaced by the stepfather through a similar channel.(Remember Hamlet's qualms about killing his stepfather without allowing him to confess his sins.) The thing begins with young Hamlet (Alex) as the stagemaster, and at night the filmmaker, showing slides and illustrating the ghost story. Then life at grandma's house as theater. In fact, at all three houses as theater.If it were just the Jew Isak behind the illusions, weaving the structure, we'd have something with emotional kinematics. But that guy with the spiritual pharmaceuticals gets in the way. Darn.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.


                
SPOILERSI'm not exactly sure I get Fanny and Alexander. On the surface, it looks most like yet another dig, the ultimate dig, at the Protestantism with which Bergman was tortured as a child (his father was a clergyman). But there're also some other things, or so it would seem. I really like all the scenes with the big, extended family and their servants, who are nearly equal to their employers. I don't know what Bergman's point is with this stuff, but it's excellent.Fanny and Alexander begins with this family's Christmas celebration. Soon afterwards, Alexander's father dies. A bishop consoles the mother and eventually proposes to her. When the family moves in with the bishop, they realize all to late that he is a cruel and evil man, a slavedriver whose punishments far exceed the crimes. This part of the film, which is probably the longest, is also the weakest. Edvard, the bishop, is so evil he's reminiscent of the emperor from Return of the Jedi, able to shoot bolts of lightning from his fingertips. I personally despise religion. It's the bane of the world, all religions. However, this wicked bishop seems far too easy. Other religious figures in Bergman films strike me as more interesting. For instance, Gunnar Bjornstrand's role in Winter Light.Finally the children and their mother escape from the bishop. The film's best scenes occur after the local moneylender (played by the excellent Bergman regular Erland Josephson) steals them away from Edvard. He brings them to his home, where he and his son Aaron make marionettes. All of these scenes are extremely frightening, especially when Alexander runs into the moneylender's other son, Ishmael, a hermaphroditic shut-in with supernatural powers.The final act brings the family back together (and kills off Edvard and the rest of his family), but there is an enormously uneasy feeling about the whole situation.Like I said, I don't exactly understand this film. It's in need of a restoration and a DVD release, neither of which I think it'll get anytime soon. MGM owns it, and their business is in dire straits right now. I hope that they'll let Criterion buy it. I'd love to hear a full commentary on the film. Its level of difficulty would benefit from one. Right now I'm giving it an 8/10.
This is a great film--if you are a fan of Ingmar Bergman, then you will love this film. It is superbly acted, beautifully written and directed and is definitely a must-see for all Bergman fans. Especially since this film is supposed to be loosely based on Bergman's own childhood Now, with all respect to the person who posted the previous comment, I must disagree with some of the points he makes. Not his overall tone, mind you, but rather some of his specifics. Namely, the film was not over 4 hours it was just over 3 hours. Second, congratulations on your superb observation of the extremely obvious: yes, there is much symbolism in this film. It is, after all, a Bergman film. And finally, while the movie does center, at times, around Fanny and Alexander, there is much more to it than that--and much of the movie is NOT from their point of view.I don't mean to nitpick but little things like that bother me. All that aside, a fantastic film.


                
This movie is a monument for European culture. In the Netherlands we see a similar culture to Sweden. All of Ingmar Bergman themes can be found in this movie. The cinema was recently showing in a few cinemas in the Netherlands.


                
I generally don't like Bergman's films, I find them generally boring and pretentious. Interestingly, Bergman once said that Citizen Kane was a bore and Orson Welles was a highly overrated filmmaker. However, I actually found Bergman was more fitting of "the boring overrated filmmaker" label than Welles.However, I found this film to be considerably better and more interesting than the other Bergman films I have watched. Some say its more "accessible", that is, people without the highly acquired taste for Bergman can appreciate this work. I would agree, I found this to be quite entertaining. Indeed, it even has a plot with characters, a protagonist and even an antagonist, like Hollywood blockbusters!


                
This picture is in the spirit of magical realism, where the elements of mysticism are interwoven, which play a role in the search for the answers posed by the author about the existence of God, about the crisis of religion and the value of family and love. The author of the film does not usually put points, but shows the final situation.This episode smooths out suspicion from the previous situation, there is no disharmonious sense of the possibility of tragic events and there is no optimistic mood at the same time. Everything is natural and everything can be.The picture really deserves the "Oscar" in the category "Best Foreign Film" and for Ingmar Bergman it became the third gift from the Academy.In the cinemas was a shortened version of the film little more than 3 hours, the full directors version is 4 series with a total time over 5 hours.Strong and beautiful film from Ingmar Bergman, I recommend to view. 9 out of 10.


                
Fanny and Alexander is truly an extraordinary film that is worth one's time. I cannot stress enough how much of a masterpiece this film was, and I won't let anyone tell me otherwise. The film version (which is what I saw) was actually the cut version. It was originally made as a four-part TV movie, that if watched all at the same time, would be a total of about 6 hours. Although very long, if it's at all like the movie, count me in!The beginning of the movie is a little slow. All the characters are being introduced, so the story isn't developed until Oscar Ekdahl passes away unexpectedly. Now before I continue, it's important to note that the Ekdahl family is very close. The one who keeps the family together is the grandmother Helena Ekdahl. She is passionate towards keeping her family together, especially during the holidays, which is like a marvelous party in the Ekdahl household. The Ekdahl family is so loving and wonderful, that they even consider their "help" family. The beginning of the film is based around Alexander and his imagination and thoughts. Fanny isn't truly introduced until Oscar's death, which was Fanny and Alexander's father. With almost no time to mourn, their mother Emilie Ekdahl marries the towns bishop, Bishop Edvard Vergérus, in hopes of starting a new life, little did she know, a completely new life is what she would get. Emilie, Fanny, and Alexander moved into the bishop's home where he lives with his mother, sister, sick aunt, and maids. The bishop makes it very clear that his new family could not interact with their "old" family, the Ekdahl's, and from there, things begin going down hill. Emilie thought that she would have the same loving and cherishing marriage and family like she did before, but she was wrong. Especially when she discovers the relationship between Alexander and the bishop. Alexander is abused and mistreated frequently, with no reason, and Fanny is always forced to watch. After such discovery, Emilie also finds out she is pregnant with the bishop's child.This movie made me cry, laugh, yell, and feel every emotion possible. I was hesitant to watch this film because I'm not a fan of reading subtitles, but Fanny and Alexander has definitely opened several cinema doors for me. I can safely say that this will not be my last foreign film. As much as I loved Ingmar Bergman's directing in this movie, I need to acknowledge the camera work by Sven Nykvist. He made the brilliant choice of having many wide shots of characters, which I thought really set the mood of each scene. Not only that, but he took advantage of the small spaces he had in some of the scenes by moving the camera around a lot. What was also outstanding was how the lighting was chosen throughout the entire film. It was always bright and cheerful in the Ekdahl household, but in the bishop's house, it was always dark and scary. Some beautiful art that shouldn't be left unnoticed.What I found quite interesting though was the fact that Fanny came first in the title of the movie, because the focus was mostly on Alexander, what he did and thought. Sometimes we would learn a little bit about Fanny, but only through Alexander. Might I remind you that Fanny isn't even really introduced until her father's death, and to top it off, she rarely speaks. So why was the decision made to put Fanny before Alexander? Is there a symbol or significant scene about Fanny that I missed? All in all, I would recommend this movie to any cinema lovers. It is a must see. If you didn't like foreign films before, you will after watching this film. It is powerful in so many aspects, and I promise, you will not be disappointed.
