This show seems to be unanimously loved by virtually everyone that has seen it. After I found out it was the launching pad for guys like seth rogen, jason segal, james franco, and judd apatow I felt obligated to give it a try. I downloaded all 18 episodes and watched them over the last week (i've had a lot of free time). I was really shocked at the lack of humor in the show. Every now and then I'd get a good laugh but a majority of it was dramatic or lame cliché pg jokes. The main reason I stuck it out the entire season was to watch the early work of the future stars. I found it pretty interesting. Also, the lead character Lindsey was shockingly beautiful. She definitely kept my interest. Although, I was a little put off by the episode where she tries pot for the first time and freaks out. It was so exaggerated, it literally seemed like something out of reefer madness. Obvious bullshit anti-drug propaganda. I also found the characters Kim (blonde girl) and Sam (lindseys little brother) to be sub-par actors... to say the least. Especially Kim, the acting was so ridiculous at times that it came to be really hard to take her seriously. Enjoyable series, I guess, but not classic by any means. I don't think I'll ever understand the cult following this show has established.


                
What a steaming pile this is. It's not anywhere near accurate of what early 80's high school was like. Everything from the wardrobe to the hairstyles are completely inaccurate; which would be okay if only there were *any* other redeeming qualities about this absolutely terrible television show. But there isn't. The staging is quite literally laughable; I think a moderately competent 12 year old could shoot a better show. The acting (and I'm being waaaay too generous there) is very, very bad and the writing stinks like fresh dog pie on a dewy spring morn. Seriously - this show is popular because the demographic it's meant to be consumed by have money and want to romanticize a past that never happened. This is junk.


                
My god, I will never know why this show was so well received. It's got obvious problems, such as AWFUL acting. Jesus it's terrible. I only watched the first episode, and throughout the whole thing, I found myself wondering; when the hell are these people going to realize that people don't act like this!?Another flaw is an incredibly flawed portrayal of high school. I understand that they can't swear on the show, but even so; couldn't the screenwriters come up with a better script than this. My god, I will never know why this show has a 9.0 on IMDb. It has to have been to lackluster t.v. Show I have ever seen


                
