This was a marvelously written and acted TV show. And, since TV is often a medium full of vacuous mind-numbing crap (reality TV, Jerry Springer, etc.), it's no wonder that this show bombed--it was just too good. It's really a shame, as I think the show would have appealed to people of all ages--kids as well as their parents.The show centers on two siblings, their family and their friends. The oldest daughter is practically a genius and a nice girl, but she longs for so much more out of life than just good grades. So, she leaves her old friends and creates a new identity with the "freaks". Her younger brother is one of the most geeky kids you could imagine--except for his friends which are even worse. Nice kids, yes, but total geeks.Each episode tended to focus on one or both of the teens and despite their differences, they both were basically decent kids. The parents, though pretty dorky (especially Joe Flaherty as DAD), were nice folks as well and you couldn't help but care about them all. AND, in spite of all I have mentioned, the show kept a nice sense of humor and was never saccharine! What a pity.


                
The show's creative team seems to have an eye for the high school experience and their vision transcends the setting. Freaks and Geeks is set at a Michigan high school in 1980 and the opening shot of the series sets us up for who the show will be about. We track across a football practice and up to the bleachers where a player and cheerleader are discussing how they love each other so much, it's scary. We linger briefly on this generic moment before moving underneath the bleachers to real life and a conversation about Molly Hatchet and Led Zeppelin. These are the Freaks. Then come the Geeks. They are three boys quoting Caddyshack, are bullied for it, and then saved by a girl. It's through these freaks and these geeks that we will relive the high school experience. Sure the names of the groups change, their lingo and the bands they listen to, but everyone can relate to the horrors and beauties of high school and the relationships that reside there.So many characterizations about this period of life are presented through the eyes of characters that virtually no one was. The characters are either too smart, quoting Kierkegaard at fourteen and making their own label-worthy clothing, or they are perfect, as if everyone's capable of making the game-winning shot. Our story here is presented through the lives of Lindsey and Sam Weir. Lindsey is the oldest. She's a former "mathlete" and "that girl in English who got an "A."" However, dissatisfaction with her life and an attraction to the easygoing ways of Daniel Desario, the head freak, leads her to a new group of friends and a shift in direction. Her successes as a student and the perception of her as a perfect daughter have left her feeling empty. So she trades her plaid dress for her dad's old army jacket and forsakes the library for the smoking patio. But Lindsey's is not simply a story of "teenage rebellion." Her's is a journey into the genuine as she finds a home in the murky adventures of friendships and a real life lived.Sam and his friends, Bill and Neal, are freshman, learning from the outset that "high school sucks." But their stories are not simply the ninth grade torture chamber they could have been. No, Sam, Bill, and Neal are redeemed by their acynical, wide-eyed approach to life and their affection for one another. This care they have for one another is refreshing and truthful. In one episode (The Garage Door), Sam suspects that Neal's dad is being unfaithful in his marriage. Bill reminds Sam that he has to tell Neal what he saw. There are no secrets. "Remember that time in science class when I tried to sneak out a fart and it came out a<U+0085>poop? Do you think I wanted to tell you that?" Their innocence isn't simply an extension of their naivete, (well, Bill is a little naïve) but flows more from their trust in one another and willingness to be faithful. In "Smooching and Mooching," Neal and Bill discuss strategy for spin-the-bottle at an upcoming make-out party. Bill asks, "What if they don't wanna kiss us?" Neal replies, "That's the genius part of the game. They have to." "I don't know. I just don't want to see the expression on their face when they see that the bottle lands on me," says Bill, gently. The geeks are not understated, and yet never over the top. They get their friendship just right.Freaks and Geeks also gives us two of the great television characterizations that I've ever seen, Bill, played by Martin Starr, and Nick, played by Jason Seigel. Bill is the anti-Eddie Haskel. He's brimming with authenticity and his laid back ways provide some of the shows greatest comedic moments. In "Girlfriends and Boyfriends," Bill gets to be study partners with Cindy Sanders, one of the cutest girls in school and Sam's big crush. At a study session, her getting up from a chair is accompanied by a noise that either came from her or from the vinyl seat covering. When she leaves the room he immediately switches chairs and scootches around on it to see if indeed the sound came from Cindy or the vinyl. (It wasn't the vinyl<U+0085>) Nick isn't quite so self-assured. If he is wide-eyed, its because he's staring into headlights. In fact, there are times when he comes off as manipulative and creepy and yet there is a sadness in his character that I haven't quite seen before. He is afraid. In "I'm With the Band" Lindsey encourages him to try out for a local band and fulfill his dream of being a rock-n-roll drummer only to find that his skills don't quite match his passion for the music. In "Discos and Dragons" he finally finds something he's good at, disco, and yet it's revealed to the viewer that the disco will close within a weeks time. He's the friend that has to be taken care of. (Ken smashes Nick's guitar so that he won't sing an embarrassing love ode to Lindsey.) Yet he wants to be the spirit of the group. ("Laser Floyd is playing at the laser dome!") But Nick isn't simply sad because bad things happen to him. He wants to be a deep thinker, but can't scratch the surface of things and conventional modes of "finding your way" seem only to backfire. He has glimpsed his place in the world, and he can't bear it.


                
I'll make it short because most comments here will already tell you how great this show is in detail much better than I could and in adding a lenghty review I would only repeat much of the other reviews. Freaks and Geeks is a wonderful show with real characters the viewers can identify with and it tells school life as it was with all the humiliations, pain, angst, joy, discoveries, secrets...it's a very honest and low key show with a slow narrative but the stories and characters really grab you by the heart. The casting was incredible and the chemistry between the actors is something else. Especially the geek trio is awesome. Sams unanswered crush he has on cheerleader Cindy is something all Geeks of the world can relate to, as we all know nice guys finish last :-) I was fed up with all the models and pretty boys who follow these stupid, superficial, oversexed and manipulative dating&love story lines a long time ago already and only recently saw these episodes of Freaks and Geeks. And it was like a fresh breath of air! I didn't watch it from the beginning unfortunately and zapped in to "We've got spirit". Then came the scene when Todd thanked the team and the high school and then he thanked God, and I knew I was in for something special. Only I didn't know right then and there just how great of a show freaks and Geeks truly is! The fact that NBC stopped this series after one season only is a true testament to the sad state of television these days.


                
Freaks and Geeks is quite possibly one of the best television shows of the last 20 years. Maybe even better. It's raw, real, full of laughs and pulls every heart string. I believe, wholeheartedly, that if this show was aired now, it was have a massive viewing audience. I think ten years ago, the public wasn't ready for it. Now that Judd Apatow has had some serious box office hits (Knocked Up, etc.) the public might be more receptive to F&G.My proposal: Judd Apatow, write a Freaks and Geeks movie with all of the same characters. Yes, John Francis Daly will be much taller and I'm sure some of the other freshman (i.e. Martin Starr) may look a little older. I don't care what plot twists might have to be added to make it work, but I think it would be incredible.I just watched the final episode, again, and was choked up. It never gets old. "Ripple in still water...."


                
NBC creates one of the best series to burn cathode particles into a screen...only to abandon it like one of those professionally choreographed orphans in Annie. Except this time Daddy Warbucks adopts all the children only to light their singing bus afire. Maybe NBC should join up with FOX.The best way to explain the scope of what this show could have been would be made in a simile--like The Wonder Years. Except that this show has a soundtrack on par that doesn't have too many legal tie-ups to be put on DVD. Simply the best show to portray what high school is ::italics:: ACTUALLY LIKE! Even though portrayed in the 70s, somehow it comes off as timeless. With so many one-dimensional shows about Abercrombie models being over-dramatic when not waxing and/or getting breast implants in their collective chests--depending on gender...or maybe not--there are few series that are willing to show a fair side to the rest of the hall populace.The writing and production are top notch. Enough so to make the series feel like it was scanned from the mind of Cameron Crowe. Seriously. Once the casting was secured, the only thing that could've sunk this show was a bad time slot and a lack of commitment. Firefly? Firefly, anyone? If only the fans could come together and pull another Serenity. Alas, the cast is now the better part of a decade older, and have moved on with their careers. In the meantime, I strongly suggest viewing of anything Paul Feig has written for. And buy the damn box set.


                
I live in England and to me High School always seemed like a way more exciting place to grow up than where I did. And this totally proves it. I binge watched my way through the whole 18 episodes of Freaks and Geeks on Netflix within a couple of days and when i finished watching it I was convinced I was a teenager again. It beautifully and hilariously reminded me of all those firsts you experience as a teenager. I then had so much withdrawal, I went on to look up as many James Franco, Jason Segel and Seth Rogen films to watch because I'm not sure which one of them made me laugh more or that I fancied more!!!! It's funny, honest and with a fabulous dose of nostalgia. It's a terrible shame it was cancelled, but it's amazing casting paved a long and highly successful path for it's alumni, our now stalwarts of comedy. Any Millennial's/Generation X'ers should thoroughly enjoy Freaks and Geeks.


                
This show is one of the best shows ever and probably the best one about teenagers.It is accurate - I really like the fact that there's no happy ending in every episode. Everything in life is not gonna be OK. The acting, the dialog, clothes are excellent, so are the songs played and characters have a lot of depth. I watched the pilot episode a month ago and thought it was alright. After the second one, I was hooked and watched the whole series those last three days. Eleven in a row, one of them. Well, that's what summer holidays are for, aren't they? It made me nostalgic about an era of my life that just end two months ago: High School. Because, in fact, it almost all still the same. Even in 2010's, in a French school. And nostalgic about an era I didn't even know - the eighties.


                
I had read a lot about this show and was dying to see it. I have watched all 18 episodes 4 times over. The first time I saw it I did a marathon run and stayed awake until I'd watched the lot. It really is that good.The thing I liked about it most is I could relate to the characters whether they were freaks or geeks. It was shot in 1980 a year before I left school. I was one of these characters even though I was in another country, it didn't make a difference. School is school no matter where you are.If you haven't seen this masterpiece then do so. Then tell everyone. Linda Cardellini is fantastic in this as are all the cast. There are so many future stars in this show it's amazing. I will leave it to you to spot them. Enjoy.


                
"Freaks and Geeks", a TV show that I accidentally saw on TV and then I became a fan. There is something about this show that made me watch every episode several times and I think, it is because of the reality of the situations in witch characters were in. There you can see real problems that teenagers deal with back in the 80s, 90s and even nowadays teenagers can relate to "F&G". The cast is excellent. Unlike in some teen comedies and series, the actors look like they really attend high school. The show presents two high school cliques, "feaks" and "geeks". Freaks have some troubles of having to get their lives together, trying to solve family problems, deciding what do they want to do in their lives. But on the other side we have geeks. They are trying to fit in and be accepted, they are searching for love and respect. And there is another thing that is great about "F&G", the music. You can hear The Who, Lynyard Skynyard and many others. 10/10


                
When I was in high school, the most popular TV show about people my age was Dawson's Creek. As someone who was on the outside looking in to the kind of teenagers this series featured, I avoided it because I thought it would be as incomprehensible as some of the lectures on C-SPAN. Before Freaks and Geeks, the supposed antithesis to shows like Dawson's Creek, came along, my first thought was that with a title like that and a tag line of "what high school was like for the rest of us," it would be along the lines of the typical '80s teensploitation movie. Instead, we got a show that is intelligent, heartfelt, genuinely funny and - best of all - real. Instead of stereotypes, Freaks and Geeks gives us characters who seem so authentic that it is easy to mistake their names for the names of similar people we grew up with. I knew at least one dismissive, sarcastic man of few words like Ken, a constantly fighting couple like Daniel and Kim and was, ahem, knew an awkward, all-around geek like Bill. Despite focusing on the titular cliques, the show covers facets of high school life both in and out of the classroom that all students regardless of social standing encounter. These include romantic relationships that end before they begin, initial exposures to sex, drugs and alcohol and what could be the overarching theme of the series: how difficult it can be to discover who you are and where you belong. My favorite episode and the one where I feel the series hit its stride is "Carded and Discarded," particularly for how it reveals the unfortunate fact that some high school friendships are merely confidence-building stepping stones to bigger and better things. Freaks and Geeks only lasted one season, but since its portrait of the high school experience is so complete, this is hardly a drawback. For this reason and for the show's hilarity, authenticity and that it never hits a false note, Freaks and Geeks deserves to be on a list of the best TV shows of all time.
I love this show, there really isn't anything to not like about this show (except that it ended so early!) My two favourite shows are Freaks and Geeks and The Simpsons, and they have the opposite problems. Freaks and Geeks ended WAY too early, I would have loved to see more. And The Simpsons has gone on for too long, it's been going downhill since season 20. I love all the characters on Freaks and Geeks. At the beginning of the show I didn't like Kim Kelly at all (SPOILER ALERT) but then she stops being such a jerk to Lindsay and they become friends. This is when I started to like Kim Kelly too. I think that every episode was better than the last. The episodes kept getting more funny and the story kept on getting more intense. This is why I really would have loved to see more. It really is a shame that it ended so early. Not only is the acting and story lines amazing, but this show also has the best soundtrack ever. It's just an awesome show all around. Judd Apatow and Paul Feig did an amazing job making this show! Anyways, if you haven't seen Freaks and Geeks I highly recommend it. Also, I recommend buying the DVD set. I bought it and it was worth every penny!
Just about perfect in every way. Just a real and authentic portrayal of teens that comes across as so genuine and funny. And I loved how the series followed different characters in each episode and fleshed them out. Kudos to all the actors, writers, directors and editors that participated in this series . . . from the leads to the smaller characters. So many talents seemed to really find their start with this series. In fact, re-watching the series this last year, I noticed Ben Foster in a really small role talking about "Three's Company" and he seemed almost in-recognizable . . . but he's so funny -- he commits so completely to his role. It's never overplayed for laughs, and I think that's what makes it so timeless and so great. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED for those of you who haven't experienced this TV series.


                
OK... this show is as perfect as TV gets. As a 1979 HS grad, I can totally relate to both Lindsay and Sam. I was a music nerd back then, but was able to relate with all cliques (one of my best friends was a jock). This series caught my attention when it aired way back when, but upon recent reappraisal, lives up to the highest standard of scrutiny. All the characters are insanely believable yet entertaining. I literally had tears in my eyes at a disturbing number of junctures whilst re-watching this stuff. Not only do I firmly believe that Linda Cardellini was/is maybe the best actress of the current era, but the recurrent themes of fitting in with groups outside one's comfort zone really rang a bell with me. Kim Kelly? Holy crap! I knew her as Donna Hole! And Bill? I pretended at times not to know him, but he proved to be a lifelong friend. The writing and set design on this show are so far beyond the norm as to defy description. I'll always love you Lindsay Weir. Too bad ER sux...


                
Not since The Wonder Years have I seen a show that has managed to capture the angst of growing up with such honesty, originality and humour. This show brought the characters to life and actually made you care what happened to them. The actors were great, the scripts were great, it got rave reviews from critics, the only reason this show isn't still on is because NBC never gave it a chance. The people who run the networks should be ashamed to have let such a quality program fall through the cracks. This was an extremely good show that deserved better. If NBC was complaining because no one watched it, they should've tried advertising it more and keeping it in the SAME timeslot instead of shuffling it around and weakening the small fanbase. Had they done those things I have no doubt in my mind that this show would still be on today or at least would have had more than just 16 episodes. I strongly urge the fans of this show or people who are curious about it to go to Amazon.com to vote to have it released on DVD. You will NOT be disappointed.


                
I'm 16 in high school and I have to say this show describes how teenagers feel perfectly, I related to each and every character and once I finished the season, it left me thinking about my life. I wish it never ended. I have never gotten attached to a show like this before & I also loved how the actors probably had no makeup on at all, it really showed the skin of kids and that made it more relate-able. Although it hit you with the depressing truth about life it also had it's joke along side to keep you laughing. I have a feeling that even if they were to bring back this show ,with new actors, it just wouldn't be the same. The way the show ended was brilliant, it just left me sitting there wanting to know what would happen to all those characters, and I started thinking what would happen to me? It's almost like it was supposed to end just after 1 season on purpose, it was like a slap in the face really lol


                
There are plenty of TV shows out there that try to relate the High School years. Many of them aren't able to control all the characters, making them cliché and one dimensional characters, or struggle to tell a good and interesting stories.'Freaks and Geeks' manages to present High School in a damn near perfect way. Despite being set in the 80's, the show can be relatable for you who was born in the 90's, 00's... The characters are easily likable and all of them are developed throughout 18 episodes with depth and the attention required. Not to mention the incredible cast and soundtrack.If you haven't watched Freaks and Geeks, then I'm sorry for you.


                
It only took me a week to watch and I never wanted to stop. The depiction of school life in the 80s is so well depicted and is something for me to relate with. The characters are people you can care for. And this show is also responsible for jump starting Seth Rogen, Jmes Franco, Jason Segel, and much more. The show does an un believably perfect blend of drama and comedy. At times it could be laugh out loud funny and the next could also be a heartfelt moment in which you learn more about the characters. Fans of Seth Rogen films and Apatow films are in for a treat with freaks and geeks. For as long as I live I will never forget this show and can't wait to buy it on DVD.


                
This show is so awesome! Existential question:Is it possible to be both a geek and a freak? Why did this one get cancelled while some shows get, like, 30 years on television and then, like, 15 spin-offs that are all exactly the same as the original? I watch way too much TV, so I'm totally addicted and so I need to know what else happens to all "Freaks and Geeks" characters. And, yes, I know you just thought, "This person needs to get a life." Maybe I don't have a life. Probably. Well, lifelessness is pretty great if it means I can appreciate life from an outsider's point of view. One thing I get to appreciate is "Freaks and Geeks."


                
Sometimes creators, writers and producers come together and hit symbiotic pay-dirt. There is no way that any of the people involved with putting this show together will ever be able to top it in the course of their careers. The reason is because it's about as close to being perfect as a show gets. The writing is based in reality, the jokes are good, its softer moments work well, the characters are well drawn and perfectly cast, the acting is great - there's nothing to dislike about it as far as I can see. Everyone involved with this show, especially Paul Feig, should have the lifelong satisfaction of being a part of a masterpiece. The worst thing I can say about it is that there aren't enough episodes.


                
Freaks and Geeks was a fantastic show with an all star cast (at the time they were soon- to-be all stars) about growing up and dealing with the struggles of high school. This show impressed me mostly by accomplishing its goal in 13 episodes. It's clear to a lot of people that this show should have lasted for years and multiple seasons because of how good the story and the characters were developing, very good acting by very talented young actors/actresses. It's pretty much telling us how life was for teenagers in the 1980s through the points of views of different high school social groups like the stoners, nerds, cheerleaders, etc. and does a pretty good job of that. The show is pretty funny but can also be serious yet smart and clever at the same time. All in all a very good teenage show, probably one of the greatest of all Time. My review: 10/10


                
I started high school here in Spain in 1982, and I could say that this show gets absolutely the spirit of those times. You had the nice people many times not so nice; the geeks with their comics, sci-fi, weird movies; and the rebels, listening to rock'n roll, living through music so many experiences.It shows you so many experiences we had, sometimes situations that at the moment were hard or at least uncomfortable, evolve here in a nice way, sometimes even funny, that creates a very good mood watching this show. I can see a mirror of a part of our lives in those years, a mirror that speaks about friendship, about life and about so many grey situations and people we met. Not black or white at all.If you even can laugh, and get a good mood, what else you can ask for? For me it's a ten, it's even inspiring. A shame that it didn't last long, but comprehensible, too smart, they better prefer something more stupid.


                
I stumbled upon this show on Teen Nick, I watched it because I recognized so many of the actors. It turns out the first episode I saw was the last episode. Anyway, I fell in love with the characters and the realistic depiction of a high school. It seemed all to flow so well together and yet for some reason this great television series was canceled. I have told some friends about it and am passing it around, getting word out. I just finished watching the final episode again about half an hour ago, it is very depressing because I want more. Well, I am surely going to be buying the DVD for this show, it is just so amazing, and if you are reading this and have doubts about the show, trust me, you will love it. Also, Linda Cardellini is beautiful.


                
I won't drag on too much about the stars that began their careers on this show, we all know about that already. But I was absolutely thrilled to finally get a chance to watch this show all the way through on DVD.I'd been looking for it for some time, knowing that Paul Feig and Judd Apatow had collaborated on a TV show that aired in 1999. Then I heard who was in it, the obvious names like Jason Segel, James Franco, and Seth Rogen. That was more than enough information along with zero negative feedback to make me entirely interested in this show. But when I finally got it, I was blown away, mostly, by the character's that I hadn't even bought the show for.I loved all of the little moments in the show. They're fleeting moments between people that normally are forgotten, and this show includes those moments and causes you to recognize how related to each other people can be whether or not they know it. Certain people act certain ways around certain people, and differently around different people, it's how life is, it's how reflective personalities can be.The relationship between Sam and his sister is as real as it can be between two people that age. The friendships that have been around and the ones being forged are depicted beautifully. The depth of these kids causes you to love them and root for them in ways that are specific to them. And we've all been there. High school... the pinnacle of pain, and the most influential and experimental time in our lives. When you make a show about a time when kids are becoming who they'll be for the rest of their lives it needs to be done in a way that allows the viewer to reflect on their own lives and think about what they've become. And that is exactly what this show does, and it does it nearly flawlessly.I only wish I could have seen more, but what a beautiful eighteen hours of my life this show has given me. Always funny, at times heartbreaking and dare I say powerful. Most of all this show is, nearly to a fault, so achingly and wonderfully real. I'm in their world when I'm watching this show, and that's all you can ever hope for when engaging a television series.It's a new favorite show of mine. It's truly touched me more than anything I've ever watched. A spectacular, relatable, and happy show. Wonderful.10/10


                
I'm just now beginning to catch up on my recordings from the IFC marathon of this show over Christmas weekend.What impresses me most is where the talent seen this show has later turned up.There's John Francis Daley, lately of House; James Franco and Seth Rogen, who moved on to a number of movies; Jason Segel, now in How I Met Your Mother; Busy Philipps, who is currently one of Courteney Cox's sidekicks in Cougartown (I had so forgotten about her in F&G); even spotted Ben Foster from 3:10 to Yuma as Eli in a couple early episodes; and Ben Stiller, who was a guest in another (apparently not credited on IMDb).It is so much fun to watch these folks at work before they became more familiar faces.Thanks to some incredibly perceptive and culturally-literate writing, the stories flow smoothly and never insult one's intelligence.On the down side, the show lasted only 18 episodes. But let's turn that into a positive, by recognizing that it enabled the show to become a cult classic and leave us wanting for more.


                
I can NOT believe it!!! I just "discovered" Freaks and Geeks and I gotta admit that at first it took me some time to get into it because I was kind of expecting a more broad, punchline based comedy but the more episodes I watched, the more I started to really dig this show AND to love the characters and I really mean LOVE! Except for Undeclared, there is not ONE TV show which develops such really and truly lovable characters. You start to feel for them in every step they take throughout the episodes. Freaks and geeks made me cry. It made me freak out. It made me jump around in my room.That it got canceled just proves once more that no one realizes anymore what a good show is supposed to achieve. To create characters whose progression in their lives is worth watching. Just as Undeclared, which also got canceled after one season, this show is a stroke of genius which every fan of a good TV-show and yet every fan of something good at all, should watch.And now I'm sitting here, disappointed that I will NEVER get to know how Freaks and Geeks could have continued. It's just good to know that the makers of this are still out there doing the best comedies around.


                
