The show Freaks and Geeks is one of the best, most realistic shows about teenagers I have ever seen. It perfectly portrays all layers of society a teenager is aware of - the high school hierarchy and parents. It is timeless.I was two years old when this show went on air, and I was not even born in the era that it is located in, but, still, I can relate to the main character and the other characters, sometimes, as well. The show just speaks the truth and doesn't separate humans into categories - but shows them in their entire complexity, within the categories they've created for themselves. I would definitely recommend this show to everyone, honestly, hoping that it would bring more understanding among our society.


                
Brother Sam and sister Lindsay (Linda Cardellini), the Weir siblings, are in high school. Sam is with the geeks. Lindsay, a former mathlete, takes to the freaks (basically stoners). This is their first year...This show got hosed. Not even a full season on the air (you really have to get the DVDs to appreciate where it goes afterward), but it could have easily gone four or more. This was another kind of "Dawson's Creek" or a smarter "Saved By the Bell". Some have compared it to "My So-Called Life" and that seems fair.What I love about this series is not only the wit and humor, but the fact that even though this takes place in 1980-1981, I can see how my own life was similar (and I entered high school in 1995). That means something: this story is timeless. Outcasts trying to make their own life worthwhile. Whether they succeeded or not, I don't know... the show ended! But perhaps it was for the best... James Franco, Jason Segel and Seth Rogen all went on to bigger and better things (thanks to producer Judd Apatow). The geeks didn't fare so well...


                
Watching Freaks and Geeks was a great experience, the characters are so relatable and all their experiences are so credible that the show totally brings memories to anyone watching it, either because you were born around that time and relate to their culture or because you've lived pretty much the same routine as them while growing up. I was a geek in school until I hit adolescence and became a complete freak so I've been through both parts of the story and totally relate to them: the problems with parents, all the relations around school (friends, enemies, frenemies) and the pressure society puts behind a student. And between all that, we still have time for our crushes, (video) games, rock bands (that need a lot of practice to get somewhere, Lindsay was right) and, of course, weed breaks.Although the story isn't so linear, having some continuity problems, it is a great debut for all the crew and I wish we would have more seasons to see everybody growing up, going to college and facing new challenges that we all have to go through in life as well.


                
Why does only have eighteen episodes? What a shame, it's such a great TV show. Jason Segel really stands up for it's character, Nick, which in my opinion is really similar to the one he plays in How I Met Your Mother, Marshall Ericksen. The writing is probably one of its best features. For a high school show Feaks and Geeks has so many hidden depths to it.


                
I'm 18 years old and I have just finished watching the whole season of Freaks and Geeks and I loved it. Maybe it's because lately I've been watching numerous high school movies and I always have this feeling that's a bit nostalgic. I don't why, but even though I haven't lived some things or been in some places, I feel nostalgia for them. So I found out about F&G when I was reading some article on the internet about the best TV shows of all time. So I started watching the first minutes of the pilot and I was a bit disappointed because it was a bit corny and didn't look really good. Despite this, I tried watching it again a few weeks later and I was hooked on it. The characters, the whole high school vibe, the family, everything. I'm a bit cynical about feeling identified with characters in movies or TV shows. But to my surprise, I was particularly identified with most of the problems that Sam Weir (John Francis Daley) encountered during high school. I think that the problems chosen are very accurate and the acting is great too. Regarding to the music, I think it's amazing; I just loved it. Although it annoys you if you watch many episodes on the same day, I think that Bad Reputation is a great choice as a theme song. And if you watch the whole season you'll see which album is amazing too<U+0085>So if you want to have fun or if you want to revive your high school years, I recommend watching F&G. It's a really good TV show and it has lots of deep issues, such as how important are our parents and friends and even our own decisions in our teens. 9/10 stars.


                
Have to say, back when it first came out, wasn't my favorite show. Never really got the chance to get into it. But I was flipping through the shows on Netflix and came across it. Now I absolutely LOVE it. I think it was ahead of its time (and also got pushed to the side by the network. Worst time slot, up against a popular game show, and never consistent with it's airing!). Anyway, just glad I got a second chance to love this show and its characters!!! It's obviously too late for a come back (and I'm bummed that there are so few episodes), but the casting of it was perfect (obviously!! many of them went on to become major stars) and every episode is a gem!!! And I have loved reliving my high school years (so perfectly told) through this show. It was a short run for this show (unfortunately), but I'm glad for all of us "freaks and geeks" out there that at least it got made (and was written, acted, and directed so dang well) AND that we're getting a chance to watch it all again!!! That's all I wanted to say. I'll get off my soap box now :)


                
I watched the whole series in one day and it was amazing I couldn't stop watching the storyline about the freaks and geeks was so relateble and showed how hard it is to be yourself without getting judged because when Lindsay was a geek she was obviously hated and judged for a being a geek but when she becomes a freak she still gets judged,even by the geeks who shouldn't be so judgemental because they hate getting judged, buts thats how school is and this series it shows that no matter what clique your in you're still going to get judged and that's why you should just be yourself because you're going to get judged and be hated no matter what clique you're in.


                
Easily one of the finest shows in the teen genre. Tons of great talent came from the show, notably from the freaks group. Rogan, Franco, Cardellini, Phillips, and Seigel all have real talent and have gone on to have good careers. Cardellini is particularly excellent as Lindsay Weir IMOMany problems still exist, notably for me is that the "geeks" are played way too young to be freshman in high school. In one episode for instance Sam gets confused by watching a porn film...sorry but that's not any 9th grade boy I've ever met. It seems clear they put them in 9th grade so that they would be in the same school as the older group of kids without thinking it through. There are also some after school special type moments that I'm not a fan of. Still very minor problems in comparison to others in the genre like Dawson's Creek or Saved by the Bell.


                
This television series, from 1999, was produced by none other than the currently popular Judd Apatow and I have to say that this is perhaps the finest work I've ever witnessed from the man. While it was canceled by NBC after its first run, it also happens to be, in my opinion, one of the finest shows that they have ever committed to the small screen.Set in the early 80's, "Freaks and Geeks" follows the trials and tribulations of the so-called freaks/burnouts and geeks. Our primary protagonists are the Weir children, Lindsay, a good girl who befriends the freaks after a troubling event and, Sam, her younger brother, who is firmly cast into the geek category.One thing I love about this series is that it has this remarkably warm and very real tone to everything and much of the humor is grounded in the kind of ironies that you probably can think back to with some sort of wincing, provided that you understand how these two social groups function in high school. Furthermore, while being a comedy series, it doesn't hesitate to explore the drama present in the characters' lives and draws very real characters, who may seem like archetypes at first, but end up being a lot more than you might think.I love the attention to detail when it comes to the time period, how each main character and even a few side characters are treated with depth and complexity, and how real all the characters and their relationships seemed.The only thing that I have an issue with in Freaks and Geeks is that the series occasionally suffers from a little bit of the over-linger present in many Apatow works, where it feels like a scene goes on too long and could've been edited down to keep up the pace or not lose focus on the narrative of the episode. But, really, that's such a little thing compared to the overall high enjoyability of this series. Honestly, some of the finest television that I've ever seen. It's too bad it got canceled. Highly recommended. 9/10.


                
People not having an education system like USA or system similar to this one most likely wont find this relatable...for example education system in Asia is hugely different from this.I think most of its followers like it a lot because they can relate to this. I couldn't relate myself to this but i liked it anyway.At the beginning I was puzzled at it's high ratings. I saw normal actors playing normal role in a normal story. To be honest the story in some episodes is not close to decent. Some key characters don't have enough buildup. A lot of the times they don't have anything to do in the story being told in a particular episode, they are just in the frame being useless although despite not being extras.But after a while I started to understand how nice the making is. Obviously it's making is not comparable to Game of Thrones, Breaking Bad or other super popular modern series but its properly executed. I liked how Lindsay's parents became minor to key characters throughout the run of the show. There are small characters in this who has more impacts than a major ones(say i don't see what Seth Rogen is doing here at all)To summarize a decent TV series. Has some horribly unnecessary characters. Has some very lame episodes. Still the ones which doesn't have these flaws are enough to justify the cult followings it has now.


                
How did this show only get one season, it breaks my heart not to see any of the characters develop further, one of the best shows on tv ever made, watch it and love it.


                
Lindsey Weir and her younger brother Sam attend William McKinley High School during the 1980-1981 school year, there Lindsey befriends the "Freaks" of the school Daniel (James Franco), Kim (Busy Phillips), Ken (Seth Rogen) and Nick (Jason Segel) and tries to transform herself from the good girl with good grades to a rebellious teenager. While Sam, who is a part of the "Geeks", tries fitting in his new school with his best friends Neil and Bill. To be honest this show should have never been cancelled, the cast was awesome, the storylines were fun and it felt different by not having the cliche happy ending at the end of each episode. This series lampoons real-life adolescence while also embracing every growing pain along the way with refreshing honesty and I'm going to say it again: It should have never been cancelled.


                
Freaks and Geeks is amazing! Judd Apatow and Paul Feig do an amazing job of showing really sad, heartbreaking stories and blending it with amazing humor. Linda Cardellini does an amazing job of showing a teen questioning herself about her looks, personality, and who she wants to be. She is drawn to the burnouts of William McKinley High which include James Franco, Seth Rogen, Jason Segel, and Busy Phillips. Linda Cardellini plays Lindsay Weir and I like that she comes from a very nice, proper family. All of the burnouts have suffering families and it is interesting to see their home lives represented in such a descriptive fashion. I have a great family and Freaks and Geeks really showed me that other people have really hard families to be around because of absurd expectations, alcoholism, abuse, or parents simply ignoring their kids because they are too wrapped up in themselves. There is some great mentions of music and movies in the show too. There are incredible guest spots by actors that I will not go into because I do not want to spoil, but they are amazing.I highly recommend this show! Very well done and absolutely incredible!!!


                
I managed to avoid watching this show until 2018. I'd heard good things, but I wasn't expecting this much of a gem going in.As someone who has spent was too much time watching modern "teen dramas", this show is so refreshing in that it technically would fall under the category of "teen drama" but does the exact opposite of what I expect from tv shows under that category.It doesn't treat every event with this air of drama, where everything is supposed to be this giant reveal. The way situations are played out is rarely how I would expect.What's striking about this show is the way that it handles its characters. Most high school shows force its characters into stereotypes, much like the freaks and the geeks, but this show gives each character depth. It delves into characters that originally didn't stand out, giving them compelling storylines (I particularly loved the progression of Ken's character!). We also have virtually no girl hate - we actually have an incredibly strong friendship between our surprisingly well written leading ladies, Lindsay and Kim.Also, this show just makes you feel good. The characters, at heart, are all good people, something too rare in current television. It's a truly wholesome story that left me feeling full (though sad there isn't more) when I came to the end.Riverdale writers, Pretty Little Liars writers, take note. This is how shows about teens should be written - funny, heartwarming, and just the right amount of everything.Lastly, it's really weird as a Gravity Falls fan to watch this. When I wasn't directly looking at the screen, I would immediately find myself picturing Wendy whenever Lindsay would talk.


                
I have never been a fan of college series, notably with comedy elements, as they depict events with exaggerated polarity, yet dealing with "innocent" child and teen topics only. All "decent" minors do not smoke and drink, their interest in opposite gender is limited to hugs and kisses, etc., thus spreading the adults' view of how it should be, but moving too far away from reality.Freaks and Geeks is an interesting mix of release and period - the series was made in 1999-2000, but the period depicted was ca 20 years earlier, i.e. almost my teen years. That is why (plus after reading the praise) I decided to "deal with it" - and became pleasantly surprised from the 1st episode. Realistic/appropriate topics and characters, good sense of era, fine background music, great performances - both teens and adults... The contrasts and overstatements were present (well, it is still a comedy-drama), but not disturbing, the so-called cuteness was included in all groups, and main attention was not focused on cheerleaders and sportsmen, as in Saved by the Bell, for example.Pity that the current world has become more and more regulated, with lots of political correctness, avoiding/hiding sensitive issues, demonizing sexuality and related stuff, etc. If a late teen delivers any porn for younger teens would bring about severe consequences to both parties if revealed... Although it has never been that people enter the adult world after becoming 18.


                
I started watching the series last week, then i watched like 2 or 3 episode on a daily basis, so basically i was addicted to this show. Jason segel, James Franco, Seth Rogen and some other great actors give an amazing performance in each episode with every emotion they got. One of the 2 big reasons for me to stick to the show was, Jason Segel, i've followed this guy since 'how i met your mother' to all his movies. He is awesome. The second reason is that when you see so many characters on a show like this, you can easily find one to relate to and basically live their emotions.This is what makes the show so great, it keeps you hooked and emotionally involved. However, the one thing that broke my heart was that this show had been canceled soon after season 1 . And a show so great easily demands more than just one season, it did break my heart but i've decided to re- watch the entire series again in a few months. Do watch it.


                
I was a generation away from these kids, having graduated in 1968, but I loved the show. So I related to the teens and the parents.Things had not changed in 30 years. Same peer pressures same problems. It almost made me want to go back in time and change my behavior as a teen. I was definitely a geek.What is really awful is that network television let this show pass after only 18 episodes. This is why I rarely watch television anymore. Many of the quality programs are never given a chance. Television is all about selling products and not so much about selling a program.If there is any poetic justice it is that enough of the actors were appreciated and have not disappeared from the scene.


                
Freaks and Geeks does many things a lot of other shows do, or at least attempts. With each episode it touch on and play out many of the same situations and problems of being a youth that many, many other shows do and in the process trying to teach a valuable lesson. What makes Freaks and Geeks stand out while using the same things in the same ways is that it does it so remarkably well.The humor and writing is simple, it doesn't try to hard, try to invent something new or play on external elements like references it feels like you have seen a lot of what happens before but never delivered this well.The reason behind this is several things. The acting is superb and when every single character is very likable in their own way it is very easy to be drawn in. There are actors in this show I didn't like before watching the show that I actually began liking.The other thing that makes this show THAT good that it fully deserves a 9/10 is how amazingly well they nailed what they set out to show, the teenage life and school. I am past my teenage years and the school life that follows but watching this show brings me instantly back. I can not count the times I felt like I have been in the shoes of one of the characters or felt like what happened was realistic from experience. They have simply captured the feel of school life fully and perfectly and when that is shown through well played, easy to love characters in a witty and in the same time touching manner, it amounts to one of the most solid TV shows I have ever seen.


                
