There are no accidents here. Next year, in a few weeks, Vertigo will be 60 years old and it will celebrate it on top of the list of The Greatest Films Ever Made overtaking Citizen Kane and many other masterpieces. Why? Maybe when a filmmaker of Hitchcock's greatness taps into his own unconscious and reveals himself. By now we know enough about Hitchcock the man to know he was obsessed in finding that woman who'll look and behave just the way he wants and once he find them, they are destroyed to then embark on a quest to replace or duplicate her. Vera Miles was suppose to be the object of James Stewart's obsession and she opted for motherhood instead. Kim Novak replaced her and her coldness and detachment worked beautifully here. Barbara Bel Geddes the real woman who loves him he doesn't even notice, his focus is in the impossible.The magic touch in Vertigo is truly Bernard Herrmann. Try to see Vertigo without the score. No, don't. This classic is a marriage of images and music. A thriller with an uncomfortable truth at its very center. A personal truth from its filmmaker. I don't know if Vertigo will still be the number 1 in the list a hundred years from now, I will never know but I suspect that it will always be among the top.


                
Starting in 1958, Alfred Hitchcock directed a remarkable sequence of films in a row, each of them a classic; Vertigo (1958), North by Northwest (1959), Psycho (1960) and The Birds (1963). Never has a director made four such genuinely great movies in such a short space of time, either before or since.The pick of this high standard bunch is undoubtedly Vertigo. From the opening titles, with their circling spiral imagery, to the dramatic final scene this is a movie that takes you to a different time and place. Specifically, to a San Francisco of the past; full of deserted parks, discrete rooming houses, oddly menacing art galleries and florists where the customers enter and exit through the back door. Through this landscape wanders Jimmy Stewart, towering in the lead roll as a former detective recently retired after a bungled arrest leaves him with chronic vertigo. Plot machinations lead him to the alluring Kim Novak (one of Hitchcock's famous "blondes"), the young wife of a friend who has started behaving rather oddly."To reveal more," as Leonard Maltin wrote, "would be unthinkable."While the performances of Novak and Stewart are memorable, the movie is really set apart by the intelligent script and the stylistic touches provided by the director. Hitchcock is in his very best form creating hypnotic scenes and a general sense of unease and dread in even the most banal of situations. He is aided in this by the wonderful score of Bernard Herrman. A particular favourite of mine is the extended (largely silent) segment where Stewart follows Novak for the first time. Nothing much happens, but the atmosphere of these scenes is enough to keep you on the edge of your seat!One of the all-time greats. They definitely don't make them like this anymore.


                
Since there are already so many real good comments on this film I want to focus on only one aspect.Vertigo is a great example for what color films really can look like! Not only do I want to praise the quality of the Technicolor dye transfer prints but also more the way Hitchcock used color to create moods. Many directors used light to create moods in black and white movies but only very few ever got so far as to use the much greater palette of colors for the same purpose. One wonders why. Some directors decide for an overall color look, which is often done in the lab, but not on the set.Vertigo is full of scenes where the colors have been saturated or changed to create a special feeling. Hitchcock even went so far as to openly dye some frames is bright unnatural colors. He played around with colors in all his color films but never as much as in this one. Think for example on James Stewart's nightmare in the middle of the film. There are frames dyed purple and green; the cemetery scenes are red, inserted to the rhythm of the music with normal frames. Kim Novak is often bathed in colored light like in the famous hotel room scene, where she appears like a ghost with all the green light around her.The shading is also important. In the scene in the bookshop we hear a dark and sad story while at the same time the light dimes down to simulate dusk. In the scene where Judy remembers the real events in the bell tower it starts with an outdoor scene, which we have already seen but it is now much darker than the first time. In the sequence where Stewart follows Novak to the cemetery everything feels unnatural since every scene glows through the use of a filter that creates a blur. The non-color of Kim Novak's dress as Madeleine is also a very important aspect in the film. She has to color her hair to become Madeleine again at the end of the picture.The way color is used in this film gives it this dreamlike quality that allows endless interpretations. A true masterpiece!


                
John "Scottie" Ferguson is a San Francisco cop who decides to quit the service after his acrophobia results in him being unable to save the life of a colleague. Whilst taking it easy he gets a call from an old school friend, Gavin Elster, asking him if he wouldn't mind doing a little bit of detective work for him. The job is simply to tail his wife because she's obsessed with an ancestress who committed suicide, and the wife, Madeline, is showing signs of herself being suicidal. Ferguson tails her diligently and as the tail progresses, Ferguson himself starts to become ever obsessed about the demur blonde Madeline. As the story twists and turns, Ferguson's obsession will have far reaching consequences for both parties... Vertigo is Alfred Hitchcock's most discussed, dissected and critically reappraised film, based on a novel by Pierre Boileau called D'Entre Les Morts, (also writer of Diabolique), Vertigo was not well liked on its release and unable to be viewed for some time due to copyright, the film was restored from a destroyed negative into a glorious 70mm print, and now in all its glory it can be seen as one of the greatest films to have ever been made. What is most striking about Vertigo, outside of Hitchcock baring his innermost that is, is that its plot on the surface is simplicity personified, but delving deeper, and repeat viewings are a necessity, its apparent that Vertigo is a chilling force of cinema, taking great delight in gnawing away at your perceptions, perhaps even your own capabilities as a human being. Very much a film of two great halves, Vertigo first seems intent on being an almost ghost story like mystery. Once the prologue has introduced us to Ferguson's fear of heights, we then enter an almost dream like sequence of events as Ferguson tails the troubled Madeline, the suggestion of reincarnation bleakly leading to death hangs heavy as Hitchcock pulls his atmospheric strings. Then the film shifts into dark territory as obsessions and nods to Dante's Inferno and feverish dreams take control, Hitchcock, as we have come to learn over the years, lays out his soul for us the audience to partake in, the uneasy traits sitting side by side with fascination of the story. All of which is leading us to a spine tingling finale that is as hauntingly memorable as it is shocking, the end to our own dizzying journey that Alfred and his team have taken us on. Technically the film is magnificent, the opening credits from Saul Bass brilliantly prep us for what is about to unfold, while Bernard Herrmann's score is as good as anything he ever did, unnerving one minute, swirlingly romantic the next, a truly incredible score. Hitchcock himself is firing from the top draw, introducing us to the brilliant zoom-forward-track-back camera technique to induce the feeling of Vertigo itself, with that merely a component of two hours of gorgeous texture lined with disturbing little peccadilloes. The two leads are arguably doing their respective career best work, James Stewart as Scottie Ferguson goes real deep to play it out with an edgy believability that decries his aw-shucks trademark of years since past. Kim Novak as Madeline is perhaps the quintessential Hitchcock blonde, perfect with the duality aspects of the role and playing off Stewart's ever creepy descent with seamlessly adroit skill. It however should be noted that Hitchcock and his loyal subjects had to work hard to get Novak right for the role, but the result proves that Novak had ability that sadly wasn't harnessed on too many other occasions. Vertigo is a film that I myself wasn't too taken with on my first viewing, it's only during revisits that the piece has come to grab me by the soul and refuse to let go, it not only holds up on revisits, it also gets better with each subsequent viewing, it is simply a film that demands to be seen as many times as possible. Not only one of the greatest American films ever made, one of the greatest films ever made...period, so invest your soul in it, just the way that Hitchcock himself so clearly did. 10/10


                
Over the years, this film has been regarded as one of Hitchcock's masterpieces. Its been called the most personal, emotional, and complex of Hitchcock's films. I agree with all of these things except for one, this film IS Hitchcock's masterpiece work. All of the others pale in comparison to this. There are phenomenal performances here by Jimmy Stewart who plays the biggest anti-hero of his career and Kim Novak whose stunning beauty and exceptional personalities shine through this dark film. Barbara Bel Geddes provides great support as well. Everything about this film, the cinematography, the story, the depth, etc. leaves you mystified and transfixed on this dizzying, surreal artwork of a film. It truly is flawless. If you are a Hitchcock fan and haven't seen this you need to get up right now and buy, not rent, this as soon as possible!


                
I have seen ALOT of movies in my life, but none have moved me the way Vertigo has...It's simply brilliant...the more times one views it, the more one picks up from it...a true masterpiece from the master himself...When I think Vertigo, I think the colors red and green...when I think Vertigo I think obsession with love, and the film itself...This movie is so deep that you could write a thesis on it and keep adding to it from time to time...Hitchcock really gave his all in this picture...it's about the ultimate love...wanting to achieve the ultimate love, and, as happens in life, never having love turn out to be the way we want it to be...all star performances by Stewart, Novak and Bel Geddes make this visually stunning masterpiece a true film classic...Newly restored, the DVD version simply blows you out of the water....I have seen the movie about 20 times now, and everytime I love it more...Vertigo is the ultimate cult film for me, as I keep going back to it more and more...considering it's dark storyline, it must be a glut for punishment, but Hitch only keeps me wanting more....10 stars...only because I can't give it 100 stars!


                
John "Scottie" Ferguson (Jimmy Stewart, never better) is a retired detective with a severe fear of heights after a botched chase to capture a criminal. Due to his newly acquired acrophobia, he retires and wanders around the beautiful streets of San Francisco. Out of the blue, an old college friend Gavin Elster asks him to follow his wife Madeleine, as he believes that Madeleine may be possessed by the spirit of her great-grandmother, drifting in and out of reality and into trance-like states of mind. So Scottie agrees to follow the mysterious blonde (Kim Novak) as Hitchock guides us throughout San Francisco and into his strange and dark mind. Little by little, Scottie begins to become infatuated with Madeleine, and after he saves her from suicide (she jumped into San Francisco Bay) and decides to help her, he falls madly in love with her. In finding pieces of the puzzle to Madeleine's mystery, their journey takes them to the San Juan Bautista where Madeleine meets her end by tumbling off the bell tower, presumably by suicide. Scottie tried to save his love but his fear of heights stopped him. For the next year Scottie falls into a deep depression, feeling guilty for his impotency to save his love. His depression is halted when he sees Judy Barton (Novak again). Judy isn't like Madeleine--she's plain, in touch with reality and even vulgar when compared. But her face looks so much like Madeleine. Scottie begins to court Judy first for herself but eventually he tries to mold her into the beauty he lost prematurely, unaware that Judy has a big secret up her sleeve.When it was first released, Vertigo didn't get good reviews and it didn't make money at the box office. People didn't understand the bizarre dream sequences that were so ahead of their time, they didn't feel sympathy for the characters (at the end, even Scottie is unlikable), and the BIG TWIST is given away in the middle of the movie instead of at the end, a la Psycho. Even I had my complaints about that last one, yet after a second viewing I realized that this movie wasn't even about what really happened to what really happened to Madeleine; it's about men's psychological--and sexual--desire for the perfect woman, even if she's out of touch with reality. This movie is considered Hitchcock's most personal film, as he could be domineering with his actresses, trying to mold them into his own dream. After the "failure" of Vertigo, Hitchcock never worked with Jimmy Stewart again, unfairly blaming him for not being able to draw a crowd on account of his age. Luckily for everyone, Vertigo has gotten better with age and is no longer forgotten. In the late 80s Vertigo started popping up on Top 10 Films of All Time lists, and today it's considered Hitchock's best film, and most definitely one of the best ever made.The biggest reason for Vertigo's late success is because it is Hitchcock's most analyzed film and because it works on a psychological level; The film points out that men would rather have an unavailable, beautiful woman who is out of touch with reality than a woman who understands her surroundings and is utterly available. This is pointed out twice, once with Midge, an ex-fiancée and good friend of Scottie and later with Judy, who tries to make Scottie love her for who she is and not because she reminds Scottie of Madeleine. The first hour is drawn out very slowly, and while it's not as fast-paced as other Hitchcock's films, he uses it wisely. He starts by first gaining--later testing--our sympathy for Scottie; when he's hanging for his dear life in the opening scene, we pray for him (even though we know that there would be no movie if Jimmy Stewart dies in the first 3 minutes). When he's chasing Madeleine up the bell tower, we hope that he can get there in time and kiss his lover. And when the romance turns dark in the second outing to the bell tower, you feel just as caught in the middle as Scottie does in that moment. Hitchcock blurred the lines between victim and villain, and he earns our creative respect for him.The key element to why Vertigo works so well in the end is because of the actors. It's practically impossible to think of anyone other than James Stewart, who embodied the everyman, and for that reason is so convincing in testing our sympathies. It's all in the minimalistic ways he does it, with the slightest crinkle in the forehead or the movement in the eyes doing evoking more emotion than most actors do screaming and crying. This is his best performance next to Mr. Smith Goes to Washington. And Kim Novak is ravishing and haunting both as Madeleine and Judy, utterly convincing in both roles. With my respects to Grace Kelly, Novak just may be the most mysterious and convincing Hitchcock blonde to grace the screen. Their chemistry together, despite their age difference is explosive and natural.Buy--don't rent--this DVD and you'll find yourself falling for every detail of this brilliant film.


                
Scottie Ferguson is a retired detective with a paralyzing fear of heights<U+0085> He had quit detective work after he sees a colleague falling to his death, and nearly he looses his own life at the same time while chasing a crook across some San Francisco rooftops<U+0085> An old college friend gives him the job of following his blonde wife Madeleine who had some kind of mental problem or might even be possessed from beyond the grave by a figure from the past whose portrait she stares at in a museum<U+0085> Scottie follows Madeleine around San Francisco and when she tries to drown herself in San Francisco Bay, he rescues her and falls promptly in love with her<U+0085> But Scottie' s vertigo made him powerless to save her when she climbed to the top of the bell tower at the mission at San Juan Batista, and jumped from the tower to her fatal end<U+0085> Scottie must spend the second part of the movie regaining from the trauma<U+0085> His loyal ex-fiancée Midge helps him overcome his psychological torment<U+0085> One year later, completely recovered from his nervous breakdown, he meets a red-haired woman who seems the living image of Madeleine...Stewart gives a terrific performance of a man recognizing his own limits, suffering by his acrophobia... When he is given the chance to pursue this enigmatic woman, his boring life takes on new meaning... He is drawn into her romantic obsession with the past<U+0085> Madeline makes him feel important in her life<U+0085> This is something totally new to his world: a lovely straight-forward woman who takes him into a haunting dream... When he fails to keep her alive, his real world was suddenly shattered<U+0085> Stewart delivers an accurate portrait of an annoyed human being searching for the unattainable<U+0085> He is a pragmatic man dealing with events in the light of his intuition<U+0085> Kim Novak is so delicate as Madeleine<U+0085> Her performance is skilled and highly refined<U+0085> She is a pretty woman, very sensitive, not sensual, yet conscious of her charm and magic<U+0085> This fascinating suspense masterpiece reveals something new with each viewing<U+0085> Note: Hitchcock appears after eleven minutes of the beginning of the film, walking past a Shipbuilding Co.
Retired detective, who is scared of heights, is hired to follow another mans wife and there follows intrigue, mystery and suspense. A super melodrama! The acting,directing, sets, costumes, script, music, etc are all excellent. And near the start of the film there is one brilliant 10 minute period when there is no dialogue but the action is controlled only by the music. A sensational analysis of the movie is by Roger Ebert: see external reviews. This picture is worthy of maximum marks.


                
In Boileau-Narcejac's French novel "D'Entre les Morts"= from among the Dead"),the revelation only comes in the last pages,but Hitchcock lets the cat out of the bag long before the end. Boileau-Narcejac's novel is a pure detective story,but the Master wanted more:the movie already outdistances the book in a first part visually wonderful,with memorable scenes,wrapped in mystery ,such as the one with the sequoia,symbol of immortality or the one down by the sea,to rival with the best romantic movies of all time.In the second part,Hitchcock explains in the Truffaut's book,we know but Scottie( James Stewart) does not .And he tries to recreate a dead woman,to transform Judy into Madeleine.This folie à deux ends where the first tragedy occurred ,which gives the movie a strength that the book had not.Read it and you'll realize how its end ,speaking in terms of cinema,had to be modified for the screen.That's Hitchcock's genius.When Boileau/Narcejac learned that Hitchcock wanted to transfer "Celle Qui N'Etait PLus " (=les Diaboliques" )to the screen,they immediately wrote "D'Entre les Morts " on the same pattern for Hitchcock to direct.


                
Alfred Hitchcock's Vertigo is probably his most discussed film, and I believe that since it is so controversial- and yet living up to such hype by having a level of mystery, daring and true human interest that is open to interpretation- it gets better with every passing year. It deserves more credit than it gets (like most of Hitchcock's films) and though it is well credited with it's intrigue, I think that Psycho (not that it is a bad film) gets more credit than this film should get. There are at least a few reasons for this, arguably of course. One, the acting is spectacular including James Stewart in one of his very best turns as the weary, emotionally perplexed and obsessed cop with a slight fear of heights and a 'thing' for a certain 'dead' woman. Hitchcock's leading lady here Kim Novak, is equally interesting and ambiguous as the leading lady (or ladies). Two, the atmosphere Hicthcock invokes in this film is just right for the psychological tailspin that Stewart gets into, with the usage of lighting, real San Fransisco locations, and particularly the color green all to perfect, eerie effect. And three, there's Bernard Herrmann's score, on par with the Psycho score though maybe even better as a straight piece of classical music in the guise of tense, haunting movie music. It's also the kind of picture that is a MUST if you've already seen it, or even if not, and it comes around town on the big screen as all the images and dark scenes come into great view. Not one of the more outright 'fun' Hitchcock films, with the few chuckles plain comic relief, and maybe his best serious work. A++


                
This movie is just breathtaking with all its visuals and its aura is
just amazing. The cinematography and of course the directing and
impeccable acting is just many of the ingredients to Hitchcock's
masterpiece. It is undoubtedly his best work, and is a cinematic
masterpiece to this day, it is one of the best pictures caught on film,
so pure and enigmatic to film history, it flows like good wine. Anyone
who doesn't agree doesn't understand film at all, or is just one-sided
or biased against this film. THe only way this film should ever be
remade is if Hitchcock rises from the grave to direct it himself,
otherwise it should never be touched or ruined, and left alone as the
masterpiece it is. This is a masterpiece through all cinema's history,
so hopefully Hollywood will get the point, and not touch it. Some
movies need to be remade, but this is not one of them.


                
yes, quick, as others reviewers have gone into greater depth, and i can't add anything new.Oh baby, what a film! 1958!!! This has plot twists, even effects that put movies of today to shame. One of the most complex films ever made, with something new arising with each viewing, I think this, along with The Seven Samurai, is the best movie of all time. The first time I watched it, I had no idea how it would end, and what would become of Scotty and Madeleine. My only qualm is the fact that Midge completely disappears from the movie in the second half. Why?! It's not important though. Superbly shot, and immaculately directed, as always. 10 out of 10


                
One of Hitchcock's three best movies (North by Northwest and Rear Window are my other two favorites) which I can watch over and over again.The external reviews for Vertigo will give you more insight into this movie than I can but for me, when I first saw this movie in the late '50s (I was very young), it planted the seeds that drove me to move to the bay area from the east. My obsessions were cultivated later.The setting, San Francisco at its prime, with its hills and sharp light contrasts because of the surrounding waters add to the ever changing but hypnotic backdrop of this color film. Even Bernard Herrmann's music score emphasis the mood swings of its characters to pull the viewer into its vortex.Vertigo is a dizzying production of dark and light, ups and downs. It is the story of one man's obsessions for controlling his surroundings and desires to a point where his life is spinning out of control. Or is it? It has been written that Hitchcock in real life was controlling and manipulative ("All actors should be treated like cattle") and why all the blonde, austere, frigid women? So, plot, acting, direction, photography and music are all mingled to give the viewer a wonderful, mesmerizing, voyeuristic look into obsessive behavior. More relative today, almost 50 years later!


                
This movie is just breathtaking with all its visuals and its aura is just amazing. The cinematography and of course the directing and impeccable acting is just many of the ingredients to Hitchcock's masterpiece. It is undoubtedly his best work, and is a cinematic masterpiece to this day, it is one of the best pictures caught on film, so pure and enigmatic to film history, it flows like good wine. Anyone who doesn't agree doesn't understand film at all, or is just one-sided or biased against this film. THe only way this film should ever be remade is if Hitchcock rises from the grave to direct it himself, otherwise it should never be touched or ruined, and left alone as the masterpiece it is. This is a masterpiece through all cinema's history, so hopefully Hollywood will get the point, and not touch it. Some movies need to be remade, but this is not one of them.


                
An example of how much information can be withheld from the audience as the movie progresses and the irony (in literary terms) of letting them know MORE than the protagonist as the story reaches a certain turning point.I saw a clever tool being used when Kim Novak writes the letter of apology and there is a voice over, speaking NOT to the audience but to the person she is writing too in the process letting the audience know too, some information of the plot we didn't have a clue about early on.The dolly/zoom effect is used extnsively in this film and has been used by many imitators and inspired. Namely Spielberg in JAWS, when Roy Scheider gets up from his reclined position.What we get in the end, since we already know everything is NOT surprise but rather, anticipation and a lot of suspense. And finally we get the payoff of those earlier scenes in the film that lasted about an hour or so of the movie - when Scottie finally explodes in the end releasing the hurt of his betrayal.And there is one final twist in the movie, that despite Scottie's character arc of having possibly conquered his acrophobia - displays the irony and recurring area of the plot. It's like poetry, where it rhymes and some stanzas are repeated. And that's cohesion in the world of storytelling to me. You'll see what I mean when you see the film.As usual, Hitchcock has shot the film beautifully with excellent styling and Bernard Hermann's music accentuates the hypnotic thrill and dread; something that contributes even more to the suspense of the movie.A great movie. Highly recommended, if you are a film student. Especially if you are a screenwriter.VERTIGO. Grade A+
I'm not sure I'd say this is Hitchcock's finest film (personally there are so many masterpieces he made - Psycho, Rear Window, Shadow of a Doubt, Strangers on a Train, The 39 Steps, The Lady Vanishes, The Man Who Knew Too Much, etc. that it's hard to choose) but it is definitely ONE of his finest films.A twisting thriller that opens with a bang and follows the physical and psychological journey of an ex-cop (James Stewart) who has a fear of heights and an obsession with a mysterious woman (Kim Novak) that leads to a chilling finale.As a filmmaker I find this extremely inspiring and along with the work of Scorsese, Kubrick, Cameron, et al, this is one of the films that EVERY filmmaker points to at one time or another. Hitchcock practically reinvented cinema techniques with this. Some of them (such as the lens effects) are outdated and could be altered more drastically nowadays but that is irrelevant - it still holds up despite its dated quality and that's what matters. The film is rooted in story and the style comes afterwards.A brilliant motion picture that captures the essence of cinema and why I love to go to the movies.5/5


                
The score, the post-transformation kiss, the ending. I've seen Vertigo six times now and it still thrills me.James Stewart is just plain brilliant as Scotty. He starts off as a light-hearted, good natured guy and becomes very manipulative, very single-minded, very scary, very un-Stewart-like. And yet, even as he's leading the woman he thought he was in love with up the stairs in an emotionally manic frenzy, Scotty's still a completely sympathetic character. He's manhandling Judy, screaming at her, and at that moment you can really *feel* that his heart has been ripped from chest. You don't want Judy to come to harm, but you can't begrudge Scotty his rage either. Whatever happens, you know there can be no happy ending. And as Scotty stands in the bell tower looking down at his lover's corpse for the second time, you and he are utterly crushed. Now *that's* cinema.
I have been a die-hard fan of "Vertigo" for over 10 years, having seen it over again and again, but up until now I could not put into words about how I felt about the film until now. And so here I go, pulling you the reader of this review into a story of obsessive love and serious phobias.As the film opens, we see Detective "Scottie" Ferguson (James Stewart), in pursuit of a criminal with a fellow officer. As he tries to jump across a roof, he slips and falls, hanging on for dear life. The fellow officer, in an attempt to help him, falls to his death. It seems that he has acrophobia, which causes his vertigo and forces him to retire from the force, feeling guilt about the officer's death. Sometime later, while visiting with his former girlfriend Midge (Barbara Bel Geddes), Scottie tells her about Galvin Elster (Tom Helmore), a former college friend that needs his help. It seems that Elster's wife Madeleine (Kim Novak)is acting a bit strange: she goes into trances and disappears for hours without being able to account to her whereabouts. Scottie at first doesn't want anything to do with this. One look at Madeleine however changes his mind. From the moment he lays his eyes on her, he's hooked.While tailing her, he finds that she is obsessed with an ancestor of hers: an ancestor that went mad and killed herself. Scottie manages to save her from such an attempt (She tries to drown herself in the San Francisco Bay). He starts to fall for her HARD.During an attempt to help her at the San Juan Batista Mission, Madeleine runs from Scottie and up the tower. Scottie, unable to continue up the tower because of his acrophobia, can only watch in horror as Madeleine falls to her death. The death of the woman that he had fallen in love with is more than he can bear and it drives him to a nervous breakdown.Sometime later, Scottie, still haunted by Madeleine (And visiting some of her haunts)sees Judy Barton (Novak again), who looks remarkably like Madeleine. Scottie soon becomes obsessed with turning Judy into Madeleine (Even having her sit by the fire the way Madeleine did). Scottie is so desperate to reclaim the love he had for Madeleine that he is oblivious to the deceptions that have been surrounding him: He is truly falling in love with an illusion.All the parts of the film work wonderfully, from Saul Bass' opening titles to Bernard Herrmann's incredibly haunting music. But it is Stewart and Novak that bring the film it's life. When Scottie looks at Judy emerge out of the bathroom as his lost Madeleine, the green light makes her look as if she is truly a ghost, returning from the dead to once again love Scottie.If you have never seen this film, then you are missing one of Alfred Hitchcock's classic films. This is truly a classic film and a must have in your collection. You will absolutely fall in love with the film.
My father took me to see Vertigo and I instantly LOVED this classic. It influenced me to settle in San Francisco, as it is indisputably the ultimate San Francisco movie, with Bullitt a very respectable second. I have personally visited almost every real location depicted in the movie, and I love to give my out of town visitors the Vertigo tour of the places that still exist. Vertigo is a great tour of some of the many beautiful spots in and around SF.I love Alfred Hitchcock films and though Rear Window is my favorite, I think Vertigo is his best and perhaps most personal. From the opening titles and wonderful Bernard Hermann music soundtrack to the haunting conclusion, Vertigo is a visually lush and grandly entertaining example of masterful storytelling. I cannot articulate enough how great this film is and do it justice in 1000 words. The viewer is drawn in voyeuristically with the Jimmy Stewart character as he feels the tension of escalating obsession and the just-out-of-reach frustration with an unobtainable illusion. The use of music is one of the best ever in film as it reflects the inward emotion perfectly. You can hear what Jimmy Stewart is feeling. First there is curiosity, then rising tension, rising hope, and then release and resolution. Vertigo has one of my favorite film shots in it too (possibly the first time it was ever used), the zoom-in-while-backward- tracking shot, later seen in films like Jaws. Oh! And Vertigo has one of the greatest on-screen kisses of all time too, so very passionate (and I think shot on a turntable). The way Alfred Hitchcock was able to imply such sexuality in Vertigo without showing even nudity, I think, made the situations even more sexually charged, as what one imagines is far better. This is a film that earns a rare but well deserved 10/10 in my book.


                
While pursuing a criminal on the roofs of the buildings in San Francisco, Detective John "Scottie" Ferguson (James Stewart) has a severe trauma when his partner falls off the roof trying to save him. He suffers from acrofobia and is retired from the police force, since his fear of heights provokes vertigo on him. He is contacted by the former mate from college Gavin Elster (Tom Helmore), who runs the shipyard of his wife Madeleine Elster (Kim Novak), and Gavin asks him to follow his wife. Gavin explains that she has an odd behavior and seems to be possessed by the spirit of Carlotta Valdes, having blanks of memory every now and then and presenting suicidal tendencies. The skeptical Scottie follows the beautiful blonde on the next morning: she buys some flowers and is drawn to places from the past related to Carlotta Valdes, visiting her grave in an ancient cemetery; staring her portrait for a long time in a museum; and finally moving to the Hotel McKittrick where Carlotta lived. In the end of the day, Scottie reports his findings to Gavin. When Madeleine jumps in the water of San Francisco Bay, Scottie rescues her and brings her home. He has a crush on her and they fall in love for each other. When they go together to a mission outside San Francisco, Madeleine runs to the bell tower of the church and the disabled Scottie is unable to reach her; she jumps off the tower, committing suicide. There is a trial and the traumatized Scottie is interned with a breakdown. When he is discharged from the hospital, he meets the brunet seller Judy Barton by chance and her resemblance with Madeleine is amazing. Scottie approaches to Judy and expect to have a second chance in love until he sees a souvenir of a killing. "Vertigo" is a masterpiece of obsession of Alfred Hitchcock. The timeless complex story is perfect and full of suspense and psychological and sexual tensions. Kim Novak is extremely sexy and has an extraordinary performance in her double role and James Stewart is awesome as usual performing a charismatic character that becomes obsessed when he sees Judy. Barbara Bel Geddes performs an important support character that helps to develop James Stewart's character. The open conclusion is also excellent and the music score is also spectacular and gives a suspenseful touch of class to this film. This time, the cameo of Alfred Hitchcock is walking in front of the entrance of the shipyard carrying what seems to be a musical instrument. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "Um Corpo que Cai" ("A Body that Falls")


                
Vertigo/1958/****Main Stars: James Stewart Kim NovakAlfred Hitchcock's "Vertigo" and "North by Northwest" are tied in first place. Followed close by "Rear Window" in second place and others in third, fourth and so on<U+0085> The first time I had seen this film was not that long ago and I only saw the second half of the film. The second time I saw it, I was in to it so much, I probably only blinked a half a dozen times. Everyone knows that you blink every six seconds but when I saw this film, I hadn't realized one blink at all! This is a movie I would add to my must-see/recommended list along with "The Untouchables" and other classic films. The main star in "Vertigo" is John Ferguson (James Stewart) who is afraid of heights ("I have acrophobia which gives me vertigo and I get dizzy", he says). This is one film where you are<U+0085> let me stress the word<U+0085> required to listen to the dialog. At first I hadn't listened to the dialog and so I was extremely confused. So what you have to do is listen very carefully to get the point (main point) of the movie. In this movie, Ferguson is madly in love with a woman named Madeleine Elster (Kim Novak). If you listen to the dialog in this film, you'll know why John had to go searching for her and to follow her every move. If you didn't listen to the dialog, too bad for you. This film is definitely Hitchcockian because it has drama, some scenes of humor, romance, mystery, suspense, everything you want from a Hitchcock film. One thing I was expecting was the cinematography. Hitchcock always has a great cinematographer to do his films. I think the same cinematographer probably does every one of his films. Alfred is also physically in his films. Not only does he direct, but he also has a cameo in each of his films. Every film of his I try to point out where he is and I always find him because of his distinctive look and his plump body. Of course he's no longer with us anymore because he was born in 1899 and not to many people live to be 106 years old (he would be that age if he was still around). His last film was in 1975 and it was called "Family Plot". Now there is a lot to the story of "Vertigo" but it's still interesting and easy to catch on to if you are a good listener. Now Madeleine (who's real name is Judy Barton) seems possessed in John Ferguson's eyes but he still loves her. She seems to not know where she is or why she's there when it comes to her great grandmother. Every day she goes to look at her great grandmother's grave and her portrait that hangs in a museum. John Ferguson is required by her "so-called" husband (you'll know what I mean when you see it) to follow her and see what she's up to. With John's former occupation of being a detective (now he quit the job and starts to wander), he was called back again by Judy's "so-called" husband to watch her. In my eyes, it's like a case that needs to be solved. Madeleine (real name Judy) tries to trick John Ferguson several times by falling in to the San Francisco Bay and others. This wonderful Hitchcock film (to me it is) has the biggest twist (in my opinion) of all his movies and the best one yet! What I mean by "yet" is I haven't seen every single one of his films yet but believe me; I will. Movie directed by Alfred Hitchcock.
This legendary 1958 masterwork from Alfred Hitchcock plays like grand Baroque opera full of exaggerated character motivations and preposterous plot turns, yet it is one of the most consistently involving of his impressive canon of films perhaps because he takes an unsavory subject, sexual obsession, and shapes around it a remarkably perceptive character-driven mystery thriller. Co-written with intricacy by Alec Coppel and Samuel A. Taylor, the tightly drawn story focuses on John "Scottie" Ferguson, a plainclothes detective who quits the police force after his partner dies during a rooftop chase where Ferguson is debilitated by a severe case of acrophobia. An old college acquaintance, now a shipping tycoon, convinces the now-retired Ferguson to follow his disturbed, potentially suicidal wife Madeleine, and thus begins Ferguson's first obsession.The film twists and turns until her apparent death from a fall from the San Juan Batista mission church steeple. This is where Hitchcock does something quite audacious. Suffering from this unexpected tragedy, the hero of the movie becomes a darker character we are suddenly not sure about. By fate back in San Francisco, Ferguson meets a shopgirl named Judy who bears enough of a physical resemblance to Madeleine for him to stalk her and force her to change her appearance to look like his lost love. At first, it feels rather necrophilic if not downright deranged for Ferguson to act on his obsession of a dead woman, but regardless, a final twist makes the love between Ferguson and Judy impossible to endure. Hitchcock lends a deepening sense of emotionalism to the maddening but addictive spirals of the plot which ultimately makes the film's title even more resonant than the medical condition Ferguson has.Casting is crucial to making the storyline relevant to a viewer much less credible. In a nice change-of-pace, James Stewart makes Ferguson's obsession palpable, and his everyman demeanor takes on a convincing sinister edge, even though his natural affability sneaks through effectively as a counterbalance. In what remains a most underrated performance, Kim Novak manages to play her dual roles with a surprising lack of affectation, from the cool mystique of Madeleine to the desperate eagerness of Judy. Hitchcock uses Novak's natural detachment as an actress to the movie's advantage, as I doubt the more versatile Grace Kelly could have played at least the Judy part as well. Barbara Bel Geddes has precious few scenes in the relatively thankless role of Midge, Ferguson's sometime girlfriend. The San Francisco locations are used to great advantage - the Palace of Fine Arts, the Palace of the Legion of Honor, Fort Point, the now-defunct Ernie's restaurant, the Podesta Baldocchi flower shop, the cemetery at Mission Dolores - all shot in lustrous detail by Robert Burks. Bernard Herrmann contributes one of his great scores to complement the pacing and atmosphere of the mystery and suspense.The DVD has the splendid 1996 restoration which captures all the visual and aural splendor of the film. It also includes an alternative commentary track that features Novak, restorers Robert Harris and James Katz, Hitchcock's daughter Patricia and most interestingly, associate producer Herbert Coleman who is full of anecdotes. Harris and Katz figure prominently in an interesting 1997 half-hour documentary on the original production and restoration process. There have been many knock-offs - including Brian DePalma's derivative 1976 "Obsession", Kenneth Branagh's blackly humorous 1991 "Dead Again" and most recently, Jun Ichikawa's coldly antiseptic 2005 "Tony Takitani" - but this is most definitely the one to experience.
Many believe that this was greatest work of a master renowned for the outstanding direction of suspense thrillers.  Alfred Hitchcock creates a vortex of emotion and deception in this classic film about obsession.There are so many complex themes to this story that it requires several viewings to appreciate.  It metamorphoses numerous times, shifting from a detective story, to a love story, to a murder mystery, and finally to neurotic obsession.  It is a deep character study of flawed characters. Some are not what they appear to be and others change before our eyes.Hitchcock's direction is superb, not only from the standpoint of assembling the story, but from a technical perspective as well.  The photography, lighting and perspectives are brilliantly done and locations wonderfully selected, especially the shots at the foot of the Golden Gate Bridge. Hitchcock also brings forth outstanding performances from Kim Novak and James Stewart.  Stewart generally played admirable and heroic characters in his career so the deeply flawed John Ferguson was a clear departure for him. This is probably his best and most gut wrenching performance and I don't think it would have been possible without Hitchcock's direction because Hitchcock was the master of bringing such characters to life.  Novak and Barbara Bel Geddes (most famous as Miss Ellie on TV's `Dallas') also give excellent performances.Bernard Herrmann's musical score is superlative.  It is beautiful, compelling and chilling and brought additional power to almost every scene. Hitchcock had such great respect for Herrmann that he stated during production that whether the scenes of the film worked or not depended completely on the music Herrmann would write.  He trusted that Herrmann would create just the right mood, and he was correct.The DVD version presents us with a completely restored version of the film with rich color and powerful sound.  The new DVD is the only way to watch this film if one hopes to experience it the way it was originally presented in 1958.This film is ranked number 61 on AFI's top 100 movies of the century.  I rated it a 10/10.  It was virtually ignored at the Academy Awards garnering only two nominations for set decoration and sound.  However, it endures in the opinion of many as one of the best suspense thrillers ever made.


                
This movie is - simply put a masterpiece. Not too many movies can envelop the watcher in a dizzying array of emotions the way Vertigo can. Loss and obsession, peppered with stretches of unrestrained bliss come to mind. But aside from the carefully woven plot line, its the little nuances of this film that really grab hold of you.There is much debate between this film and Rear window as to which film is visually superior. What makes rear window stunning is the camera work and the set of course. But rear window is confined to a single set, and makes the possibilities limited. Which leads to my point. Vertigo's cinematography is beautiful enough to entice even the most icy of viewers. This film invokes more emotion than any other film I've seen before - and this cannot be attributed entirely to the plot line, but the visual style with which it was filmed. From the sweeping camera over San Francisco, to Kim Novak's face against the red plush background of Ernie's interior, to the overhead shot of the stairs and hallway in the hotel, to the ethereal shot of the Golden Gate bridge, the placements and angles of the camera are flawless. Obviously Hitchcocks visions came alive in this one.


                
