I side with those who have criticized this film as being exceptionally poor by Hitchcock standards. While Psycho, North By Northwest, Suspicion, Dial M For Murder, et al, employed the virtues of logic and rationality coupled with Hitch's normal dose of high suspense, this film fails in nearly every way to convey the seeds of reality. Thus I couldn't appreciate whatever suspense it tried to conjure. The whole storyline seemed flooded with improbabilities, illogical sequences, flawed reasoning, and implausible character acts & emotions. It's hard to imagine that Hitchcock was responsible for this film, or that James Stewart, Kim Novak, and Barbara Bel Geddes agreed to act in it. Just for starters, why in the world would a spouse cook up a scheme this ultra-elaborate & complicated to do away with his wife? Wouldn't arsenic or an auto accident be simpler to arrange? And why would he decide to frame one of his closest friends, anyway? How could the dead wife be toted up that long spiral stairs at the bell tower by a man in his sixties? And would he really allow for the risk of being detected while making that long climb up? How could Madeline (Judy)adore a man she was also setting up as a patsy? Why would she stay around after the murder and risk being identified as an accomplice, as indeed she finally was? Why would she allow easygoing Scottie to coerce her into wearing all those new clothes and unraveling her disguise after seeing that he was suspicious? For that matter, why would she permit herself to be prodded into climbing the belltower stairs once she realized he was on to her? Her resistance seemed token. Maybe there are explanations for these and 100 other things I didn't understand, but together they ruined the film for me.
Sure, not every film on IMDb's Top 250 is going to stagger me. But at least I can see why those films are respected. Vertigo offers nothing beyond its historical importance. If this film were released today, nobody would care. Instead of being a classic that transcends time, its one of the most dated movies I've seen.The acting and character are as stock as any movie from the era. Nothing separates our lead beyond his paranoia. Worse yet is the romantic relationship between James Stewart and Kim Novak. Cinema snobs love to bash Hollywood blockbusters for their contrived romances, but pretend films like Vertigo are somehow better. They know each other for a day, yet we're supposed to believe Stewart has a romantic obsession after her death? Give me a break. Their passion is as brilliant as a wet paper bag.Vertigo is supposed to be a great psychological thriller. I found myself bored. I can't care about the characters when their relationship is so contrived. And nothing impressed me in terms of audio, cinematography, or plot twists. When Kim Novak is killed in the last minute of the film, me and my friend were laughing - because we didn't care about the character, and had no time to witness anyone's sorrow. It had no point in the narrative. And as the ending to the film, it gave me nothing to take away from it.And I'm not someone who only likes films made after a certain date. But legitimately good films remain relevant decades after their release. The Great Dictator, 12 Angry Men, and The Godfather all hold up. I don't see any of that quality in Vertigo. Some may cite how it was shot, or how it influenced films for years to come, but as a 21st century viewer, Vertigo fails to illicit any emotion. My mind is sufficiently intact.
This opinion might get me kicked out of any film criticism class, but I absolutely loathed 'Vertigo'. It is manipulative, dreary, and completely unlikeable. The first hour or so is spent with Jimmy Stewart on some wild goose chase following a friend's wife to see if she's possessed by a demon(?!?). For some inexplicable reason, he falls in love with her. Once we reach what we're first to believe is the climax, we learn he's been duped somewhat. As have we. The last 45 minutes certainly move more fluidly, but Jimmy Stewart's character becomes so obsessive and controlling, he ought to have been served a restraining order. If I seem a little vague in my analysis, there are two reasons for it: 1. Revealing any plot points might be considered a spoiler, which I'd never do even for a movie I hate, and 2. the movie itself was vague. There is never a logical explanation given for anything that occurs.I have now seen 27 Hitchcock films, and without a doubt, this would rank as #27(just behind two other overrated films, Psycho and Lifeboat), although, in all fairness, I don't count Torn Curtain or Marnie since I fell asleep in the middle of both. So, if you want to belive hype over quality, then by all means, rent Vertigo today, and watch one of our greatest actors wallow in a storm of hopelessness. My advice is to see Rear Window, Hitchcock and Stewart's *real* masterpiece.
This movie never left a big impact on me, but I have several things to pick about it. I like it's use of camera angles and the fact that it's original. However, the movie is hard to understand and it drags on for too long. Not only was this one incredibly boring, it has been mistaken on the Top 250 list. I understand that it is't the only Hitchcock movie on the list, but those movies are incredible compared to this one. I'm a huge fan of Mr. Hitchcocks work, but this one marks Hitchcocks hall of great movies (which there are many) as being the worst. The music is bland, the plot is weird as anything and the romantic scenes left me in disgust that one of the best directors of all time could come up with an idea so creative and turn it into something so BORING.If your a lover of Hitchcocks movies, stay away from this one. 2/10


                
Slow! Most of my Hitchcock experiences have been through his work on television. To which his twisted plots and portrayal of love lost can become somewhat repetitive. This film repeats the process. For me its only saving graces are the street scenes of 1950's San Francisco, the cars and the wide shots of the city. Overall there was one and a half hours of build up and then something happens. The last 30 minutes are quicker, showing irrational behaviour tempered with calculated obsession. Such far fetched obsession by Ferguson and submission by Judy would nowadays cause the womens lib movement to rear into a tidal wave. I can only wonder at this currently having a score or 8.5. I am not a devotee of Hitchcock and this film is one of the reasons why.
Include me out of that large collection of people who think this film is any good at all. It's not the very worst I've ever seen, which is why I've given it an extra star. However, if you want to know what it's really like, go to the "hated it" section of reviewers, and you'll get a fair run-down.I've actually seen it three or four times, each time wondering if I could discover what everyone (well, not everyone, but a lot of people) thinks is so marvellous. Each time I watch it (I've got stamina) I find less and less to admire about it. Yes, poor Kim Novak is a very poor actress, even if she looks sorta pretty in a fake kinda way. The plot is utterly ridiculous. I know all film plots are naturally goofy, but somehow they should try to make you suspend your disbelief. Psycho succeeds excellently. This one fails totally. Nothing makes any sense: it's all perfectly idiotic. It's also very, very slow. The only person in this film I felt any liking or sympathy for was Barbara Bel Geddes; and she was the only one whose acting was genuinely credible.I've checked the spoiler box, even though I've given nothing away. I don't really want to spoil things for anyone.However, much, much later I feel I just have to ask one question which has bewildered me from the beginning. How did Stewart get down from hanging off the gutter? He's wearing a corset, the next time we see him, which suggests that he must have fallen, and broken his back. ? The distance to the ground is nevertheless so enormous that it would be impossible for anyone to survive the impact on the road below. The other policeman obviously died instantly. So is the whole of the rest of this idiotic story purely imaginary?
Vertigo is a decent film, but it is not the greatest film of all time. Far from it. Without Hitchcock's name attached to it, the film would be ranked far lower than it is. If you read all of the glowing, pretentious reviews of this film before you watch it, then you're likely setting yourself up for disappointment. Orson Welles thought Vertigo was a very bad film. I disagree. It's an okay film that's worth watching, but it's not worth the accolades that it has received from modern critics. The Good: Jimmy Stewart. Bernard Herrmann's score. Some of the scenery.The Bad: It drags along, then drags some more. Midge - Why was she even in this film? A plot that is predictable, yet convoluted.


                
