Paper Moon has to be one of the finest pieces of American cinema to grace the 70's. Bogdanovich's direction bares a strong resemblance to The Last Picture Show, but overall this film is much more satisfying and enjoyable. The Black and White photography gives the film a nostalgic beauty that perfectly complements the Depression-era it attempts to recreate. Also notable is the charming Jazz-based score, with a wonderful opening title track, reinforcing the film's charm. As good as the story, direction and music are however, the true stars of the film are the O'Neal twosome. Both bring forth their best performances of their careers, and share a chemistry on screen that only a father and daughter could. Ryan O'Neal brings forth a subtle charm as the wise-talking, but inept hustler Moses Pray. Tatum however, even upstages her father with what has to be the best youth performance in history. She is funny and moving when need be, and always charming, eliciting laughs many times based solely on her malleable facial expressions. Her show-stopping five minute shot, no matter how long it took to film, proves just how fully Tatum was able to embody little Addie Pray. The movie is always entertaining, with never a dull spot, with a strong supporting performance by Madeline Kahn to help keep things rolling during the middle. This is a true classic that should be seen by people of all ages, I can't recommend it enough!


                
If Hayes, Kansas, and thereabouts...were the perfect locations for Peter Bogdonavich's classic "Paper Moon," then the film itself is the perfect realization of those real places forever etched in celluloid.Few times will you ever see a film so visually wedded to its locale and cinematic style. In a typical film, you might picture the presentation of the movie working in a number of ways, but in "Paper Moon," it will forever seem like it could only have been done this way...on location, in black and white, and photographed like moving Andrew Wyeth shots of Americana.Tatum O' Neal is terrific and justifiably won an Oscar for her part, but Ryan is wonderful as well....funny in that exasperated manner that Bud Abbott is, and the quality goes right down to the smallest bit player in the cast. A perfect film would have great acting, great visuals and utilization of music, a superb story and lines that have you repeating them for years. Welcome to "Paper Moon." I can't recommend this blend of comedy and drama enough. A modern classic.


                
Film directors of the 1970's had an obsession with older films of the 30's and 40's. The director of this movie is Peter Bogdonavich and he really put together a masterpiece of nostalgic film making. Paper Moon is a classic comedy drama, that resembles the films of John Ford or Sam Wood. Ryan O' Neal in his best performance, stars as Moses pray a con man who sells bibles to recent widows meets up with Addie Loggins played by Academy Award Winner Tatum O'Neal who is wonderful. The cinematography is beautifully crafted. The landscapes and roads of St. Louis and other cities are so expertly filmed. The black and white photography, would make todays audiences think this film was released in 1933 not 30 years after in 1973. Now 32 years later this film holds up and stands the test of time. I don't want to give too much away, I am sure many of the readers here have seen it. The supporting cast is great John Hillerman in 2 roles a bootlegger and his brother, who is a sheriff. Then you have Randy Quaid and Burton Gilliam in smaller roles. P.j. Johnson is hysterical as the maid to Miss Trixie Delight played with such zest by th greatest comic actress of the 20th century the late and great Madeline Kahn. She stole the film. She was nominated for an Oscar for supporting actress and lost out to you know who. I think she should have gotten it, because her role really was supporting and also for a small role around 20 minutes with few close-ups she gave such a tarnished performance. She makes you laugh so hard and yet is so heartbreakingly touching in her big scene on the hill with Addie. If this film was actually made in the 30's Moses could have been played by maybe James Stewart, James Cagney, Henry Fonda or John Garfied. Addie could have been played by Shirley Temple and Trixie maybe have been played by Sylvia Sidney, Betty Field or Ann Sheridan. But I don't think they could have played them any better than Ryan O'Neal, Tatum O'Neal and most especially Madeline Kahn.


                
As cute and sharp as it's 9-year-old star Tatum O'Neal, Paper Moon is a bona-fide gem that says that, one way or another, we're all con artists. The acting is wonderful (Ryan O'Neal was never better), the cinematography is exceptional and it's to the eternal credit of director Bogdanovich and his writer Alvin Sargeant that the caper never sinks into mushiness. By avoiding the earnestness that pervades so many Depression Era tales and perfectly balancing character with situation, it rolls along so merrily that you don't realise how touching it is until the very end.Having (criminally) never seen Paper Moon before, I suspect that it must have had more than a passing influence on a great many other movies, including my all-time favourite Midnight Run. Watching it is an experience to be savoured and treasured, and one that I'm looking forward to repeating time and again.


                
I saw Paper Moon many years ago as a young girl and had just recently watched this again for the first time since. I found this film to be absolutely engaging and a pleasure to watch. Tatum O'Neal was absolutely wonderful as was Madeline Kahn. Her performance was priceless as "Trixie Delight". The scene with her "Trixie" as she's trying to cojole Tatum O'Neal's "Addie" to come back to the car and sit in the back, had me laughing so hard that I could hardly breathe! It was one of the most memorable scenes ever. Not just for the humor but how Madeline Kahn's Trixie was able to draw a certain compassion for her character and somewhat seedy lifestyle. I loved the whole film! A "must-see"!


                
Environment is Frankenstein for situations gone bad, and, actions which become instigated for the wrong reason... Everyone in the movie is basically alright, just a little twisted, despite what side of the law they are masquerading under!!...The film, "Paper Moon", based on the book "Adie Pray", so succinctly accommodates the definition of a comedy by correlating to all of the diverse characteristics of human error!!Isn't it funny!! isn't it cute!! isn't it slightly sordid, and pretty illegal!! Most of all!! Isn't "Paper Moon" a film which initiates a compendium of some of the most creative types of humor you have ever seen in virtually any movie made whatsoever!!! To quote another movie ("A Funny Thing Happened To Me On The Way To The Forum") "Nothing with kings, nothing with crowns, bring on the LOVERS!! liars and clowns"..."Old situations, new complications, something for everyone it's Comedy" (Ryan O'Neal) "Comedy" (Tatum O'Neal) "Comedy" (Madeline Kahn) "Comedy" (John Hilerman) "Comedy" (Randy Quaid) TONIGHT!!!".. How devoutly we the movie audience will root for the underdog...Fathers and daughters are suppose to go to chocolate cake socials in the public school gymnasium together, they are not suppose to be swindling bootleggers, merchants, and well to do widows!!!!! ..The precarious camaraderie between Ryan and Tatum O'Neal resonates itself to whereby con games are a dangerous form of nefarious fun!! Their overall philosophy being: "Please understand that we are only human!" "Let us hasten to add" "Please understand that we are only human, and the country is in the middle of the Depression!!!" This movie is hilarious! If you are not laughing outwardly throughout the entire film, your eyes are smiling every minute of this incredibly funny film.. guaranteed!! The plot is very well developed in this movie, and, the acting, cinematography, and director, are all first rate with this comedy classic!! In my opinion, Ryan O'Neal has never been better, of course, I'm not a woman!! The role of the charming finagler by default, suits Ryan O'Neal perfectly!!! Tatum O'Neal has never been better!! Her role is such that even as young as Adie is, she realizes that situational survival necessitates pecuniary chicanery!!! The whole thirties genre with this movie is sensational!! "Paper Moon" is one of my favorite movies of all time, I even love the song!!...The title was conjured up as a result of Tatum giving Ryan a picture of herself sitting on a paper moon at a carnival...It is sort of a love by way of a kindred spirit..There is love through marriage! There is love through family and friendship bonds!! There is love through sexual encounters! This love, however, is predicated on the parlayed premise of "Hey! Don't we make a great team of cons, no one swindles people with more finesse than the two of us...Don't you think?".. In 1973, when this movie was released, it manufactured a tailor made invitation for the moviegoer to be empathetic with the thought patterns of a con man!! "Sting" came out that year too, and "Sting" won for best picture in 1973. The mercurial charm of a swindler, and, his wickedly clever wiles of debauchery, became a train of thought which garnered a fascinating charisma with the movie audience that year!! The director of the film, "Paper Moon" Peter Bogdanovich, sets his own standards for the definition of a great movie...He articulates an aspect of human nature whereby the characters in the movie are innately aware of their seedier side!!! They are cajoled by lucrative adversity, and thus, very susceptible to the yearnings of the proverbial larceny in the soul!! Bogdanovich evokes a bittersweet empathy for the performing actors in his movie, as well as the emotions of people in general, this is what makes him an excellent director!! "Paper Moon" is Bogdanovich's prize movie, mostly on account of it's artistic gratification!!! I am impressed!!! Like I said before, I loved this movie!!


                
It's difficult to watch this film with any impartiality, as it was one of the formative films of my childhood years. Seeing it now, over 40 years after it came out, I'm convinced it's one of the finest American films ever made. Many other viewers here have pointed out the main reasons for its greatness--so I'd like to shine a light on, perhaps, some of the less-credited components of the film's success. I'm calling them "Paper Moon's Unsung Heroes":Unsung hero #1: There's been little mention here of the actor who truly anchors this film--and gives the finest performance of his career-- Ryan O'Neal. He delivers a fully-realized, multi-faceted performance, more than worthy of an Oscar nomination (if not a "win"), in my opinion-- and he received neither. Try watching Paper Moon with your eye on O'Neal pere, rather than his adorable, scene- stealing daughter. Firstly, of course, he was one of the handsomest actors of his era, which makes such an undertaking a painless effort. But watch the subtlety of his expressions, and his nuanced comic turns. For example, in the hotel scene, where he's having his breakfast, when Imogene comes down to tell him that 'Miss Trixie' is having her "ladies' time," his reaction, turning from concerned to mortified, as he rapidly sits back down, while dropping his voice by an octave...now THAT'S comedy! His comic delivery in his first big scene with Addie (the "diner scene") is also brilliant. In fact, I can't think of a single scene where he is not completely "true-to- character". In the hands of another actor, this deceptively difficult role could have been played as 'malevolent'. O'Neal's performance shows 'Moze' to be a lovable rascal who does what he has to do in order to survive during the Great Depression. Imagine, say, Jack Nicholson in the role...It would certainly have been a different film altogether. (Sidebar comment: I realize one shouldn't judge a film actor's performance with how they are 'off-screen'--but if what Tatum says about him in her books and interviews is true, O'Neal is not quite-as-lovable a rogue, off-screen. She claims that when the Oscar nominations were announced, she did sort of a "Nahh- nah-nah-nah-nahh," to him, as bratty 10-year-olds are known to do-- and he fully punched her in the face! Gulp. All four of his children are either addicts, alcoholics or in major therapy. But I digress). The #2 "unsung hero(-ine) of this movie is the late, brilliant Polly Platt, Peter Bogdanovich's first wife (and soon-to-be-ex-wife, as he had already taken up with Cybill Shepard when this film was made). Ms. Platt designed the costumes and realized the whole "look" of the film, which Bogdanovich fully-credits her for. I can't think of any other American film of the last 50 years that so completely captures the 1930's in such a flawlessly realistic way. The attention to detail is staggering--look at any single "extra" in this film, and they are all absolutely spot-on correct to the look of that era (the hotel clerk in the 'bootlegger hotel,' with her perfect '30s "Marcelle wave" comes to mind. Unsung hero #3: Gary Chason, who PERFECTLY cast this film, including several first-time actors (Tatum O'Neal, of course...as well as Burton Gilliam, ("Floyd the Hotel Clerk"), P.J. Johnson (Imogene), among many others). I'm hard-pressed to think of another film--ever- -in which every single role is so perfectly-filled...and often by first-time actors! Unsung hero #4: László Kovács, the brilliant cinematographer. Every single shot is so perfectly thought-out and realized. In the hands of a lesser-visionary, "Paper Moon" would certainly have been a lesser film than it is (and imagine if it had been shot in COLOR!). FINALLY--he's certainly not "unsung"--but clearly, he's "under- sung": PETER BOGDANOVICH! This film is a work of sheer genius, and all roads lead back to him. I consider Paper Moon the crowning achievement of his career (with apologies to "Last Picture Show"). It's almost as if his career has followed the same "arc" as that of his great hero, mentor and friend, Orson Welles. Both of them had their greatest successes, straight out of the gate...and then were rather hung-out-to-dry by Hollywood, as if considered "passé". I keep waiting for the world to WAKE UP and realize Paper Moon is one of the absolute FINEST films in history--and should be lauded accordingly! Why is Peter Bogdanovich NOT still being given the opportunity to direct major Hollywood studio films?? The man is one of the true cinematic geniuses of our era. And yes, he is certainly a 'peer' of his hero, Mr. Welles. Could we please give him the reverence he deserves? ("Special Mention" to Tatum O'Neal, too! It seems to be "common wisdom" today, that she was simply some kind of "human puppet" for Bogdanovich to manipulate every word and movement of. I beg to differ, strongly. Some of her expressions and line deliveries are so singularly charming and individualistic--proving that she is clearly an innately-skilled and intuitive actress. This performance was no fluke. This girl/lady deserves more credit than she's given, and I say she absolutely deserved that Oscar...though it should have been for "Best Actress,"--with, of course, Madeline Kahn as "Best Supporting Actress"!).


                
Peter Bogdanovich's labor of love comes after his slavish (yet still enjoyable) homage to screwball comedies, "What's Up, Doc?". "Paper Moon", though, has a more honest feel. The collaborative contributions from everyone involved with Bogdanovich, from the sublime performances by Tatum O'Neal (very, very brave), Ryan O'Neal (his gift for comedy is genuine), Madeline Kahn (vulnerable and funny) and P.J. Johnson (stealing virtually every scene she's in), to the sharp cinematography by Laszlo Kovacs (everything is in deep focus), as well as Polly Platt's outstanding production design and the entertaining script by Alvin Sargent (based on Joe David Brown's novel "Addie Pray", unread) are a continual delight to movie lovers and film students alike. Bogdanovich brings a scholar's passion and precision to his Depression-era story about a con man who's consistently conned by his would-be eight year old (yet world-weary) daughter as they travel the Midwest and you can see the dedication in every shot, some takes of which are quite extended. The O'Neal father and daughter pairing is especially inspired: they bring out the best in each other and their hilarious, spontaneous rapport takes the film to another level; Bogdanovich uses their natural freshness as the film's centerpiece, and it's this freshness that allows him to veer off into sudden moments of seriousness that grounds the picture to the pathos of the era it portrays--it becomes real, accurate and graven even as it strives to entertain. A vital, focused masterpiece--on so many levels, it's what watching a movie is all about.


                
I've been sitting thinking of how to write a review on this movie.Which angle can I come from? Should I mention the black and white filming..the chemistry between Ryan and his daughter Tatum..the use of depression hit America...the story behind the characters...direction...genre...sub-plots..blah blah blah...I've come to the conclusion that the best review I can give you is to get this on any which media you can and just sit and watch. Glorious and delightful from credit to credit. Amazing to think this movie is 40 years old.I recently reviewed " Birdman" and gave it a 9 because I wasn't sure whether it would translate to the small screen but this little gem just passes the finishing line because you could watch this on loop as I did. 3 times in one day and each time I smiled with a warm glow. Tatum O'Neal shows that you don't need any methods of acting as long as you got what it takes. All the extras in this movie must think its Christmas and their birthdays come rolled into one having a part in this.Won't drone on any more as I have just recently joined IMDb and trying to catch up with all my faves and as a regular movie goer for 40 years (alone ..yeah..I go alone..)I got a lot of typing to do.


                
I became interested in this film after seeing Peter Bogdonovich's "What's Up, Doc?" with Barbra Streisand and Ryan O'Neal. "Paper Moon" is a delightful film about a con man (Ryan O'Neal) who is forced to take in a girl (Tatum O'Neal, who won an Oscar for this film) who may or may not be his daughter. The film is essentially a road trip movie, with a slim plot to carry around events that happen while the two main characters travel across Great Depression America. Both of the characters are utterly charming with the heartfelt Addie forced to ride along with sleazy Moses.I prefer "What's Up, Doc?" as I love Buck Henry's writing on that film.


                
Peter Bogdanovich - who turns 68 today - created a troika of nostalgia pieces in the early '70s with "The Last Picture Show", "What's Up, Doc?" and "Paper Moon". The last one puts an interesting spin on things. I remember when I saw it, I had just seen "The Sting" and noticed that the two both dealt with conning. But boy do they have something in store for you here.The movie opens with Bible salesman Moses Pray (Ryan O'Neal) adopting Addie Loggins (Tatum O'Neal) in a Midwestern town during the Great Depression. It doesn't take her long to figure out that the guy's a con artist. However, she turns out to be cleverer than he.I remember hearing about how the novel (which I've never read) was simply called "Addie Pray", and didn't feature the scene in which Moses and Addie sit on the title object at the fair. It's debatable as to whether or not it changed the quality to add that object and change the title. But either way, you can't deny that this movie remains a timeless masterpiece. Personally, I think that Peter Bogdanovich deserves a lot more credit as a director than most people give him; he has made some really good movies, even if some came out a little lower than we expect. This one is just great.Also starring Madeleine Kahn and Randy Quaid.


                
Whether or not you like "Paper Moon" will depend on a lot of things. For me, the timing of when I saw it was crucial. I first saw it when I was about the same age as Tatum O'Neal, and I was absolutely thrilled by the adventures she was having in this film. I've since watched it many times, and the magic in the movie remains undiminished.The film is set in the American midwest during the Depression years. Philandering Moses (Ryan O'Neal) winds up saddled with young orphan Addie (Tatum O'Neal) when he attends her mother's funeral. When she learns that he is a con man, she proves herself to be a shrewd and capable accomplice, and the two of them form a partnership. When Moses' tendency to chase after questionable women becomes a challenge to the status quo, Addie must take action to ensure that her life with Moses remains unthreatened.In terms of a believable performance by a kid, I can't think of many others that have come close to Tatum O'Neal in this movie. The photography is astonishing as well. The bleak dusty landscapes in the movie are breathtaking in black & white, and the period sets are memorable, too. All of the actors in the film hit the perfect note, right down to the bit parts and extras, although the main players are marvelous. Madeline Kahn is great, as usual, and so is P.J. Johnson as her overworked personal maid."Paper Moon" gives you the impression that this really is what America might have been like in this time period. It would be worth seeing just for the sheer craft of the film alone, but the story and the acting make it ten times better than just that. Truly deserves the highest rating a film can get.
I went to see this with my grandma and grandpa when this was originally released. They were a little nervous I could tell about some of the racier moments, I don't think they realized... I was pretty young. But we all thought the movie was fantastic,so they got over it. In fact, we talked and laughed about it all the way home. This made my mom jealous, so I got to see it again with her. Of course, she loved it, too. It's magic. Something very special was captured on this film. The story, the acting, Ryan and Tatum, the direction and cinematography came together beautifully. I will never tire of watching it.


                
This film had a staggeringly profound affect on me. I found myself traveling on a journey with these two in a way that contemporary films haven't been able to engage me in. The simple premise and well formed characters make this a film I will continue to hold with me for the rest of my life.


                
This movie is difficult to be described in words, at least the right choice of words. There is some eccentricity in the storyline, its very catchy and entertaining but at the same time absolutely unassuming and unpredictable. Normally you would always be amazed to see how many times you wanted certain things to happen during the movie but it is so practical that you realise that you are assuming too much of romanticism in the world which seldom exists and thats why the plot is near perfect! Still the movie continues to entertain you, its neither a happy romanticised dream nor a tragedy but its the slug fit between these two ends of the drama.
The acting and on screen chemistry of real life father daughter duo is phenomenal and certainly Tatum O'neal amazes as a child actor. The movie explores certain dimensions of those delicate and subtle human emotions of love which you long to express but cannot due to situations.
Its definitely impressive movie with a perfect acting, plot, settings and direction which made me revise its rating to a perfect 10 from 9 as I couldn't stop thinking about it for long time!


                
Before watching 'Paper Moon', the only thing I knew about it was that Tatum O'Neal had won an Oscar for it (the youngest actress to ever win one) and that she had starred in it with her real father Ryan O'Neal. Seeing the poster, I had an impression that it was another one of those father-daughter kidflick movie, the type that's often broadcast on TV during the holidays.But, I was in for quite a surprise. What I ended up seeing was a dark comedic gen that tells the story of two grifters: a father (Moze) and his 9-year old daughter (Addie), who meet for the first time at Addie's mother's funeral. Moze plans to leave Addie at an Aunt's in Missouri. However, Addie is not one to give up easily and she demands that Moze pay her back her $200 (which he spent). After several refusals, Addie threatens to go to the police which finally gets Moze to give in. Now all he has to do is get hold of $200, which he does by conning widows. He's soon to find out that Addie has a flair for deception too AND she's cleverer than him. But this is just the beginning of an adventure that a father and his daughter will embark on.Peter Bogdanovich's uses of black and white instead of colour is very effective. While the movie is set in the 30s, it reminds the viewer of what's called the 'golden age of Hollywood cinema'. At the same time the performances are subtle and nuanced. Tatum O'Neal truly does deliver one of the best performances by a child that I have ever seen. Ryan O'Neal too is terrific and so is the excellent supporting cast that includes Madeleine Kahn, P.J. Johnson and John Hillerman.Bogdanovich has given a lot of attention to detail as it shows in Lazlo Kovacs outstanding cinematography. The locations, sets and costumes look authentic. The director tells the story in a way that the viewer can easily relate to. The story could have easily risked being highly melodramatic and sentimental and Bogdanovich knew how to avoid that. Pretty much every single character in 'Paper Moon' is human, not a villain or a hero.'Paper Moon' is one of the finest movies that depicts, in an unusual but relatable way, the relationship between a father and daughter. Detailed, funny, disturbing, subtle and poignant with great visuals, acting, music, cinematography and a beautiful story, 'Paper Moon' is a whole package of a grand classic in the form of a little gem.


                
Take old fashioned, Black & White film. It's not as expensive to develop. Bring Camera Crews out into small, old towns in the Midwest; where one can take interesting shots of the existing infrastructure, the old filling stations, drive in restaurants and old downtown districts. This is not at all as costly as building sets and renting studio spaces.Now, let's see, how about instead of an original score, or even purchasing stock background music, we'll take old 78 RPM records and incorporate their vocals and instrumentals into the films soundtrack. We would, of course, choose recordings that were made around 1936, the height of the Great Depression and, incidentally, the year of occurrence of the story! Put these elements all together and what have we got? A little cheapie picture that would be good for showings at Drive-Ins and for double features, right? Hell no! The Film Maker,Director, Mr. Peter Bogdanovich took this occasion to put together a work of true beauty. It is a most memorable picture and will surely be revered in the future as among the best films of the 1970's.The story involves a grifter, Moses Pray by name (Ryan O'Neal), who makes his living by traveling the country and selling Bibles to the next of kin of the recently deceased.(That's all we'll say about that. See the film!)When he stops to pay last respects to a deceased lady, who he had known well (in the Biblical sense), he accepts the job of driving the now orphaned 11 year old girl to a relative's house in Missouri. One Lady at the Funeral Service remarks that the child, Addie Loggins(Tatum O'Neal), had the "same jaw" as Mose, asking him if he was the daddy. Mose of denies it, but we in the audience knew better.From the location in Kansas, the pair sets off for Missouri, and have one misadventure after another. Between the Bible "selling" and the interaction with locals, the story moves at a quick, though not hurried, pace.(At film's end, it is difficult to believe that 102 minutes have passed.)Mr. Bogdanovich had a great group of colorful characters to work with and did a superb job in casting the right actors to fill the roles and bring them to life. Madeline Kahn as Miss Trixie Delight, "Exotic" Dancer and real "Pro" steals much of the show with a flamboyant, over the top characterization. John Hillerman in his pre-MAGNUM P.I. days, does well in a duel role as Bootlegger and his Crooked Cop brother.The rest of the cast is populated with very talented supporting people, who did a commendable job in rounding out the troupe.Peter Bogdanovich took this largely "unknown" cast, with this B & W cheapie film, in these small, out of the way hamlets and made a very compelling comedy-drama.Oh and what about those "old records" used for the music? Well all Peter B. did with those was to add them to some genuine clips from "Old Time Radio" to create a true sensation and about as realistic a slice of the Depression Era Americna as we could ever hope for.*NOTE: * We don't mean to assert that Mr. Bogdanovich actually just took the score for the soundtrack's opening theme and other songs in the incidental music from Granny's old 78 RPM Albums up in the attic. All recordings and artists are clearly identified in the credits; so we know that the Director handed out some $teep Royaltie$ to the various Record Companies involved. Whatever it was, Pete, it was sure worth it!


                
'Paper Moon' based on the novel 'Addie Pray' is another cinematic masterpiece from peter Bogdanovich, Real life father and daughter duo Ryan and Tatum O'Neal, are superb, as the pair who travel the depression stricken America of 1930's selling bibles,and conning everyday folk with their get rich quick schemes, The rest of the supporting cast includes Magnum Pi star John Hillerman, who gets to play two roles, one as a shady small town sheriff, and as the sheriff's brother! Madeline Kahn, plays hooker Trixie delight, who provides the film with her usual comic sch-tick, as always Bogdanovich's film's are lensed in 1.85:1 aspect ratio, the result is superb as helped by Vilmos Zsigmond's Black and white photography, 'Paper moon' remains as one of the finest film's of American cinema,


                
PAPER MOON Peter Bogdanovich's 1972 classic is every bit as amusing and impressive today as it was when I first viewed it about 8 years ago. A film that embraces it's simplicity and creates a wonderfully entertaining piece of cinema in the style of the greatest classic Hollywood comedies.PAPER MOON tells the story of Addie (played by Tatum O'Neal... in what I find to be the best child performance ever captured on screen), a young girl who's mother just died leaving Addie with no family except relatives miles and miles away. Arriving at the funeral is Moze Pray (Ryan O'Neal), a stranger there to mourn the death of Addie's mother. However, both Addie and Moze get more than they bargained for when the stranger is forced to drive the young girl all the way to her Aunt's home.Along the ride, Addie's tough and mature exterior become more apparent and hard for Moze to ignore. Moze is a scam artist who has done very well for himself... but when Addie's natural instincts leads her towards the con artist ways as well, Moze can't deny the financial opportunity in pairing up with young Addie.They travel across Depression-era America pulling scams... and what starts off as a very business-oriented relationships slowly starts to turn into something a little more. It's essentially a buddy-road movie, with the added depth of a complicated father-daughter dynamic.Now today it might seem gimmicky to cast a major Hollywood star opposite his inexperienced daughter in a major Hollywood film... however, Peter Bogdanovich manages to drain nothing but positive qualities out of this potential "gimmick". The chemistry between Ryan and Tatum is like nothing I've seen on film depicting this type of relationship. They are two actors completely committed to their characters, but the relationship they had outside of the film fortifies every strength. The divisive levels of love, admiration, loathing, dependence, independence, and desperation felt by both Addie and Moze are always apparent... and neither O'Neal falters a step.Also along for the ride is Madeline Kahn in a hysterical supporting role as Trixie Delight. A prostitute who thinks of herself as anything but... and who Moze becomes very fond of. Kahn's comedic timing and skill as one of the screen's greatest comedic actresses ever is never more apparent then when she is arguing with Addie following their picnic.Ryan O'Neal is at the top of his game as Moses Pray. On many levels, you can sense how resistant Moze is to give in to Addie's charms, and any affection he shows her also contains an element of disdain... however, he can't help but be won over by Addie's ballsy charm.And neither can the audience... young Tatum O'Neal steals this picture with what appears to be virtually no effort. She glides through the film oozing unbelievable charm. Whether Tatum O'Neal has lived up to the promise she showed here or not is irrelevant in terms of this performance. Aside from her charm and sheer likability, she also offers a performance with a great deal of nuance. Despite her likability, Tatum manages to keep the audience aware that Addie is a sad/lonely girl at heart who just longs for some paternal affection... and she'll take it in whatever form she can at first. Addie is a young girl who would never accept anything less than exactly what she wants... and Tatum O'Neal is wonderful. Without a doubt she deserves the title of "Youngest Competitive Oscar Winner In Acting". This is a timeless performance that is more then just a child with star quality... this is Tatum's finest hour as an actress.PAPER MOON is the kind of film that relies so heavily on the chemistry between it's two leads that it's hard to review the film without gushing primarily about the performances... but I must say that the film is generally flawless on every level. The dialogue is perfectly tart and sarcastic... yet also very true to the time period and the characters. The insults and zingers feel real, but they also somehow manage to come from a sensitive/heartfelt place. And Bogdonavich's direction is spot-on... from the choice to shoot in Black & White to the casting to the pacing... this is a true classic.PAPER MOON absolutely must be watched by all film fans who are looking to witness some of the greatest screen chemistry captured on film... but it is also a must see for the simplistic perfection that it is as a whole.... A ...


                
Exceptionally winning and entertaining film, a lovely piece of yesterday groomed by extraordinary cinematographer Laszlo Kovacs and director Peter Bogdanovich. Adapted by Alvin Sargent from the novel "Addie Pray", story of a con-artist in the Depression who gets saddled with a streetwise orphan doesn't mess with moral issues, instead plows ahead with high laughter and gritty sentiment. Smashing performances by everyone in the cast: Ryan O'Neal in particular does some of his finest work; 9-year-old Tatum O'Neal, with her lisp and icy stare, is clever and endearing, winning the Supporting Oscar; Madeline Kahn is a hoot as Trixie Delight; P.J. Johnson wonderful as Kahn's maid. Simply terrific--and one of the finest films ever made.


                
I grew up and have moved back to Luray, KS, one of the towns mentioned in the movie. I had relatives in Wilson, KS, and watched the filming there. My aunt's store is still in Wilson and can be seen through the windows when Addie pulls the con on the clerk and gets the $20 back. That building is now an antique mall. Many of these buildings still look the same on the outside and are empty or used for something else. Also Gorham is still much the same although the depot is gone. Most of the depots have longed been torn down or removed due to the railroad not wanting any liability or taxes on them. We think that the long road the movie ends on is south of Codell and is still the same, of course. Just watched the move again. My husband's uncle's '36 Ford is in one of the scenes. Last saw it when it just came out. It was even better than I remember!!


                
If you haven't, seen it watch it. Everything in this movie is masterfully done including a cameo from the Urban Legend that is Randy Quaid


                
In 1971 & 1973 respectively Peter Bogdanovich directed two of the best movies of the 1970's. The first in 1971 was "The Last Picture Show" & the second in 1973 was "Paper Moon". Set in the depression-hit USA of the 1930's Paper Moon was shot in black & white film for cinematic effect & on location in Kansas & Missouri. Ryan O'Neal plays Moses Pray a con-man who sells bibles to recently-deceased widows after reading the obituary columns in newspapers. His modus operandi is to inform the widows that just before they died their husbands had ordered the de luxe version of his merchandise with his wife's name embossed on the cover. Naturally, they are only too happy to pay an over-the-top price for a momento of their late husbands. O'Neal's precocious real-life daughter Tatum deservedly won an Oscar for her performance as a young girl Addie Loggins. After the death of her mother who Moses knew & attended her funeral, he is put upon to take her to live with her aunt in St. Joseph, Missouri. After Moses drops the girl off at her aunt's house she immediately decides she will hate living there & quickly leaves. She runs out hoping to get with back Moses Pray & is lucky to find him still around just down the road after his car has broken down. He reluctantly takes her back & after initially disliking Addie eventually warms to the smart & stubborn young girl. Along the way Moses meets Trixie Delight played by Madeleine Khan who really was a delightful comedienne. Mel Brooks once said of her, "Either as a stand-up comic or actress you cannot beat Madeleine Khan". If you watch this film you will know why he said it. A confrontation between Trixie & Addie begins soon after they first meet. Moses naturally wants his new girlfriend to sit next to him on the front seat of his car when they hit the road, "relegating" Addie to the back seat. Addie won't comply & effectively goes on a "sit-down strike" refusing to move.Trixie tells Addie in her southern drawl, "Just this once let Miss Trixie sit up front with her big tits", to which Addie reluctantly agrees. After they stop at a motel Addie realises Trixie is fast using up the finances & using her wits conspires to terminate the relationship between Moses & Trixie. There is hardly a dull moment in "Paper Moon" & one more person is certainly worthy of mention, the cinematographer Laszlo Kovacs whose work is outstanding. Some of his long-distance shots taken in Kansas & Missouri are breath-taking. Highly recommended.


                
Paper Moon is based on the novel "Addie Pray" by Joe David Brown who was a writer, son of a preacher man and learned confidence games while growing up. The screenplay was written by Alvin Sargent who is still alive and I found this quote from Alvin, "When I die, I'm going to have written on my tombstone, 'Finally, a plot'." Originally the film version was to star Paul Newman and his daughter Nell Potts (you might recognize her from the food company label they started together), but that changed when the original director John Huston bowed out and was replaced by the hot new director Peter Bogdanovich. Peter has always been one of my heroes. Bogdanovich said his father used to take him to see retrospectives of silent films and he got hooked on visual story telling. Peter said he watched over 7,000 movies while growing up. As a teenage he went from buff to writer, to archive programmer, to script doctor and assistant director. He was a high school drop out that parlayed his love of film into a life long vocation. He wrote about forgotten classic films, interviewed and befriended many great directors and stars then decided to make his own moving pictures. Born and raised in New York City Peter was told if he wanted to make movies he had to go where they were made, Hollywood. So in 1968 he bought an old car for $150 and drove cross country with his young wife Polly Platt and their one eyed dog named Puppy. The car overheated a lot so they looked for hills to coast down when they could. Polly pointed out that Kansas and Missouri were flat and void of trees, small towns and farms had changed very little. It looked a lot like it did during the Great Depression, and if they ever needed a depression movie location they should remember that. Once in Los Angeles producer Roger Corman asked Peter to direct his first film TARGETS that is if he could use Boris Karloff for the two days left on his contract, some stock footage and a recent news story about a crazed gun man shooting at strangers. TARGETS made enough money Peter made his next film with writer and D.C. bookstore owner Larry McMurtry – his second film was called THE LAST PICTURE SHOW and it was shot in black & white as a tribute to his then buddy legendary director John Ford. That highly regarded film became such a success that his third film was to be a tribute to another famous director and personal friend Howard Hawks. This remake of BRINGING UP BABY was called WHAT'S UP DOC? and it starred Barbara Streisand, Ryan O'Neil and a newcomer discovered by Bogdanovich the bouncy Madeline Kahn. What's Up Doc? came out while Last Picture Show was still playing in theaters so he had two films in Varieties list of top ten money makers that year. What's Up Doc? broke the 33 year old house record at Radio City Music Hall. Bogdanovich said, "Cary Grant said to me, You go down there and stand in the back, and you listen and you watch while 6,500 people laugh at something you did. It will do your heart good." That was such a hit his fourth film was to be an epic western starring (get this) John Wayne, James Stewart and Henry Fonda that is until John Ford talked Wayne out of doing it after Ford become upset with the way Bogdanovich had treated his wife Polly Platt by starting an affair with his earlier discovery Cybil Shepard (his leading lady from Last Picture Show). Polly Platt had read the book ADDIE PRAY and told Peter he should make it as he could identify with the lead character because he had two daughters. In fact it was Platt who suggested casting Tatum O'Neal as the lead, Addie! To which Bogdanovich replied "good" then we could cast her father Ryan who he had just directed in WHAT'S UP DOC? and they could get Madeline Kahn again. In fact he re-wrote the script to get her character Trixie Delight back into the movie. But Peter didn't like the title of the novel "Addie Pray", and wasn't sure whether his new title "Paper Moon" was good enough; so he asked his mentor Orson Welles what he thought about it. Welles replied, "That title is so good, you shouldn't even make the picture, just release the title!" Orson, a close friend of director Peter Bogdanovich, did some uncredited consulting on the cinematography. It was Welles who suggested shooting black and white photography through a red filter, adding higher contrast to the images especially of the sky. Among his friends that he consulted when making Paper Moon were director John Ford to copy the look of his film GRAPES OF WRATH. (In Paper Moon you'll see families with broke down trucks on lone country roads.) He talked with his friend director Howard Hawks to get the feel of clever comedy dialogue as in Hawk's film HIS GIRL Friday. Back to the black & white cinematography. Bogdanovich loves CITIZEN KANE and claims one of the reasons it is so fascinating is the deep focus photography. So look for that in many scenes how every thing up close and far away – is in sharp, deep-focus at the same time. And the many long, long takes, where the camera, dialogue and the actors flow uninterrupted just like in real life. Locations, all real locations. Not one shot in a studio and it shows! Music, no new music was written for the film. All the music comes from radios or records and it's all authentic to the 1935 era. Finally it's fun and I hope you enjoy it!


                
I'm basing my review on not only seeing this wonderful film in its first run in 1973, but more importantly having the opportunity to again screen "Paper Moon" as part of the Visting Filmmaker - Florida Film Festival. The movie was shown on 35mm in a small art-house and Peter B. greeted the crowd and answered a few questions as well. What amazed myself was how humble he was, certainly not your common Producer and or Director trait these days. He told us about the Locations in Kansas and the miserable whether, hot-cold and rain. When Tatum's first scene came up, she did not correctly speak the dialog from the Script. Then he was told; "She can't read! He decided then and there with all her scenes, she could just improvise whatever dialog she felt best saying! That is what makes this film, the dialog match the characters in time period in Amercian History that is hard today to even imagine. The boldness of Peter B. to just go with the flow per say and let Ryan and Tatum work off each other comes off as some of the best acting ever on screen. This film never leaves my mind when I see other Movies of that time period such as The Last Picture Show and Ironweed. My real favorite is "Hard Times". But Paper Moon gets to the point of everything it touches, a wonderful example of true American Cinema when Stories mattered! The cast speaks for themselves, the cinematography... a lesson in shooting B&W in modern day times and general Production Design of this film is the Best you can get. I cannot find a single flaw..., although Peter B. told us about many which makes this Cinematic experience for myself... even a better one. Paper Moon reaches out and touches all that see it without taking the credit for doing so! John Vizzusi, Filmmaker - Central State Productions
