True, TATUM O'NEIL won an Oscar for her role as Addie Pray in PAPER MOON and fully deserved it. Her dad, RYAN O'NEIL must have been proud of her but his only reward was a Golden Globe nomination.The con artist and little girl theme had been used before in Damon Runyon's famous comedy "Little Miss Marker" with Shirley Temple and Adolphe Menjou. But here the twist is that the girl is just as much a con artist as the man--and that's the key that makes the film so much more palatable for 1970s audiences without getting too sentimental about it.There's a real Depression-era feeling to the whole story, with some richly detailed panoramas of rural America and its citizens at that time in history. Peter Bogdanovich has done a commendable job in making sure that his authentic backgrounds illuminate an enchanting tale about two drifters who share an unusual partnership when it becomes clear to the man that the girl would be a valuable aid in his con work.There's a bright supporting role by MADELINE KAHN as Trixie Delight, a stripper who tosses off some good one-liners, but it's the chemistry between Tatum and Ryan that turns this into the most satisfying "buddy" movie of the '70s.Summing up: A treat not to be missed.


                
A charmer.Ryan O'Neal stars with his real-life daughter Tatum in this story about a father and daughter con team scraping together an existence in Depression-era America. Along the way, the dad picks up a brassy floozy, played by the expert comedienne Madeline Kahn, which doesn't go down well with the precocious kid.The entire success of "Paper Moon" relied upon the performance of the child actor, and Peter Bogdanovich did well to cast Tatum, as she plays the role without any of the self-conscious cutesiness that makes other child actors unbearable. Ryan was never more relaxed or likable in a role, maybe because he was working with his daughter. And Kahn of course is a delight, though one wishes she had a bigger role.As with "The Last Picture Show," Bogdanovich shoots in nostalgic black and white, but this project is much more light-hearted than the other.Grade: A-


                
I can't remember when I first saw this film. It was probably in the cinema and I thought it was a nostalgia flick, a fad then. 'Chinatown', 'Play It Again Sam' and 'Summer of 42' came out around the same time. And Bogdanovich had done 'The Last Picture Show' in B&W. Look, the US was coming out of the revolutionary Sixties - romanticism was in order.I saw this film again recently on DVD. It's a gem. Taken from its 1970s context, it's obvious that Bogdanovich had talent like Polanski. There are so many scenes in the film that work because Bogdanovich made them work. This film suggests simple humanity. What went wrong for Bogdanovich? Why didn't this guy get the chance to settle down and do more? Kubrick got the chance - and then produced machinistic, technical schlock. 'Paper Moon' has more warmth -despite its austerity- than all of Kubrick's films combined.Last points? Gotta daughter? Watch it with her. I predict that in 2123, people will watch this film, laugh, and simply believe that it comes from a previous century - as we today confuse the novels of Emile Zola and Victor Hugo.


                
The first frame of the picture starts with a song entitled "It's Only A Paper Moon" and when the opening titles came on screen, the film felt reminiscent of a Woody Allen film, but in respect Bogdanovich had gone to extreme lengths of trying to pay homage to the great film maestro Orson Welles. I would have to concur that the cinematography and the credit for the use of deep focus should be credited to James Wong Howe who started an experimental process as far back as 1925, since he was experimenting with camera lenses and lighting to make sequences stand out in the pictures. The film then went on to tell the story of a bible salesman, and just as he was making his sales with a satisfactory customer, he notices an adolescent girl that wants to learn the trick of the trade in selling bibles as part of a con job. One thing that I will note that makes this film a grand masterpiece is the use of black and white cinematography, popular songs in the background as the film's score, the performances by Ryan O'Neal and his daughter Tatum are superb, as well as Madeline Kahn in an Oscar-nominated performance. Another positive aspect about this film is the direction that Bogdanovich outlays from story, character development, and conveying the feel and look of the era of the Great Depression. I saw this film nearly 4 to 5 years ago on DVD, there are some cons to this film, that can make it a bit problematic, first is the length, I understand that the film is long and that when there is not much action, your mind cannot take the stress of too much dialogue sequences, which is what I felt whilst watching this movie. I also felt that some of the sequences like when Ryan O'Neal is out with the Tatum O'Neal in the middle of the town in Texas is a bit antiquated when she ends up getting lost and Ryan had to search all over the area to find her. But, I do have some positive things to say about the camera angles and shots used in the film, for the sequence when Ryan O'Neal is talking to the mechanic at a train station if you look carefully at the far left of the screen, of the open window right behind the man in the train station, you can see two girls playing out back in clear view. It is distracting and takes the focus away from the story, but it is pretty awesome to see something like that in a film such as this. I like the film, and it's a story that has been used in modern films and TV shows to provide inspiration like "Suite Life of Zack and Cody" when they re-used the same story but to con the people in the hotel. That's what I feel about this movie, a grand masterpiece from Peter Bogdanovich.


                
This is a first in a project I am attempting that is to review every film I see.1973 was a very good year for cinema. Two of cinemas greats made two of the best films every made. Martin Scorsese and Terence Malick each made their forays into cinema with ' Mean Streets ' and 'Badlands ' respectively. Also made in that year was Peter Bogdanovich's film ' Paper Moon '.In 2010 most people might know him as the guy who appeared in an episode of the sitcom ' How I Met Your Mother ' but back in the 70's he was a director of " New Hollywood ". He belonged to a group of directors that made different kinds of movies . Like the French and German new wave.Paper moon is a simple movie with simple dialogs. It is not full of metaphors or existential dialog or the philosophical musings that are part of Bergman's films. It is at it's simplest a road movie. It has all the delights of a road movie. Interesting characters and good relationships. It is very hard to make Paper Moon. It is very hard to make a movie with a heart. Movies like Amelie and Paper Moon can go horribly wrong and end up like some extremely melodramatic and over the top Hollywood tearjerker.However Paper Moon succeeds. Why does it succeed ? The great chemistry in the film by the father - daughter pair. The beautiful photography but mostly because the director cares for his characters.We could all be hating Moses. Moses is a guy who sells Bibles to widows for a living. But somehow we overlook this fact . We take delight in him along with his daughter swindling all and sundry and traversing the road of America. But good times do not last. There has to be some conflict and a final resolution. One of the reviewers commented on how this movie never ages and that is quite true. I could see myself watching this movie twenty years from now. The freshness of this movie will never leave it. It is ironic that the director commented that this movie had aged before it had released. Maybe that is true. It retains the 1930 ' s look . It retains the depression era feel but it juxtaposes it with such beauty and warmth that in the end you have a big goofy and contented smile.


                
One of those all time classics, I've never seen until now. It's a really enjoyable film, the pairing of Moses and Addie is wonderful. Addie had the potential to be very annoying but she didn't even come close. Tatum O'Neil is remarkable as Addie, deservedly winning an Oscar for her role. The argument in the cafe at the start of their relationship is brilliant. She tends to steal every scene she is in, but Ryan O'Neil is wonderful in the role of the conman, smooth and charming throughout.The film itself looks stunning, in glorious black and white the stark landscapes of America's Midwest look magnificent even on a small screen and there's plenty of them as the pair travel across the land. There is a wonderful sugar coated feeling to much of the film, despite the depression era setting and the very fact that the girl has lost her mother and the man is a conman. It never gets depressing or bogged down in sentiment. I did struggle once Madeline Kahn's character entered the film. Usually I adore her, she was a fine comedic actor, but in this I felt she imposed on the storyline instead of adding to it. I felt it detracted from the relationship between Moses and Addie and I was glad Addie got rid of her.This is a fine film and deserves the acclaim it has and is a joy to watch.More of my reviews at my site iheartfilms.weebly.com


                
In this depression-era drama about a couple of con artists, both O'Neals give good performances, although Tatum's is hardly Oscar-worthy. Bogdanovich does a nice job of evoking 1930s Midwest, helped greatly by Kovacs' authentic-looking black and white cinematography. The film ultimately proves less than satisfying because of a weak, episodic script that is a bit too contrived and tends to wander somewhat aimlessly. The episodes, particularly those dealing with Kahn as a prostitute and Hillerman as a bootlegger, are not compelling enough to pass for more than mild entertainment. However, the filmmakers are to be commended for restraining the sentimentality.


                
Paper Moon (1973) 
Director: Peter Bogdanovich 
Watched: May 2018 
Rating: 7/10On-screen chemistry, 
Real-life father and daughter, 
Captures hard times well, 
Simplistic, jazz-filled, witty, 
"You still owe me $200!" Tanka, literally "short poem", is a form of poetry consisting of five lines, unrhymed, with the 5-7-5-7-7 syllable format. 
#Tanka #PoemReview #ConArtistry #ModernBlackandWhite #Precocious


                
By the time the movie's over, you're kind of hoping that Moses Pray and his young ward Addie are really a father and daughter team. The story keeps the relationship intentionally ambiguous and leaves it to the viewer's imagination, but if you're like me, you probably wind up rooting for it to be true. Addie (Tatum O'Neal) turns out to be a consummate hustler who one-ups 'Moze' more than once, from her off the cuff Bible pricing to breaking up his road romance with Miss Trixie Delight (Madeline Kahn). But the elder O'Neal is no slouch in the con game himself, as his whiskey scam and wrasslin' match maneuver clearly show. This is another of those Seventies flicks that I saw when it first came out, and not again until some forty plus years later, and it still holds up well as an entertaining picture. In my case, it helps that it was done in glorious black and white, just like director Peter Bogdanovich's masterpiece (in my opinion), "The Last Picture Show". If you consider the story in it's entirety, it's a nicely developed caper and heist movie which compares favorably with another 1973 film, "The Sting". Picture if you will Redford and Newman in a double team up with the two O'Neals and you've got the makings for a con with a sure fire blow-off. I'd even pay double to see that one.
In 1930s America, money was scarce; people had to find some way to make a few bucks just to survive. "Paper Moon" offers a clever premise derived from that difficult era. A youthful looking con artist named Moses Pray (Ryan O'Neal) teams up with a doleful, nine-year-old girl, Addie (Tatum O'Neal). Together, man and girl trek through Depression-era Kansas and Missouri in an old car, selling bibles.But though the story premise is clever, the plot and dialogue seem contrived. And the Addie character is not remotely believable. She is way too precocious for someone so young. Her hotel plan regarding Trixie (Madeline Kahn) is so intricate that even some bright adults would be hard-pressed to think of it. And her quick, off-the-cuff verbal responses don't jibe with her age or her background. Further, her annoyingly dour and manipulative attitude renders her unappealing.Despite this, the film's ambiance is wonderful. Scratchy, emaciated sounding music of the 1930s, withered costumes and prod design, on-location filming in Kansas, and B&W deep focus cinematography from Laszlo Kovacs combine to exude a sense of realism both in place and time. The tone is one of underlying sadness.Visual and music realism is the strength of this film. The script in general and the dialogue and Addie character in particular are the weaknesses. "Paper Moon" is a good film to watch for its nostalgic appeal. The era and the hardships it wrought give us a sense of perspective, especially compared to the excesses of our modern world.


                
Peter Bogdanovich directs "Paper Moon", a film which, like his 1971 flick "The Last Picture Show", works best as both an evocation of the past and a love-letter to John Ford. The film's cinematography, by Laszlo Kovac, dazzles.The plot: Ryan O'Neal plays a con artist struggling to make a living in rural Kansas (and Missouri) during the Great Depression. He meets a tough, adaptable little girl, played by Tatum O'Neal, who may or may not be his illegitimate daughter. The bickering duo go on the road together, conning anyone they can out of easy money.The film's a nice little adventure, bouncy, funny, swift and pleasing, but one can't escape how lightweight it all is. Bogdanovich's film is less about an era than it is a cosy resurrection of an era's cinematic tropes and artifacts, the director lingering on period details with the loving gaze of an antique salesman.Still, the film never pretends to be anything other than a comedy, Bogdanovich does acknowledge the presence and subjugation of blacks (something which most of the early Great Depression films – think Chaplin's Tramp movies – didn't do) and he captures the adaptability, intuitiveness and resourcefulness people of the era needed in order to stay afloat. The film's unresolved relationship between Ryan and Tatum is also interesting: she's his offspring in real life, but are they related in the film? Is his fondness for her paternal or selfishly pragmatic? Is their relationship designed to say something about the era (hard times makes everyone blood?)? The film was part of a wave of gambling and con-man movies, all of which were released in the early 1970s ("Paper Moon", "California Split", "Thieves Like Us", "Bad Company", "Hard Times", "The Sting" etc). These films pushed Hollywood's previous huckster wave ("Butch Cassidy", "The Hustler", "Get To Know Your Rabbit", "The Cincinnati Kid") into more cynical, detached territory. To stay alive, they said, one has to be above morality, have no moral scruples, and be willing to cheat. The heroes of these films are not beaten, and do not go out in the previous decades' blazes of glory, but instead continue onwards in their scheming, which is often shown to be hollow and soul destroying. It's a more inward form of self destruction best seen in Altman's films of this era, which charter the decade's shift from anger and outrage to apathy and selfishness; everyone else does it, so I'll suck it up and play the game as well. This wave ended with the dethroning of Richard Nixon in 1974. With the release of "Jaws" in 75, the zeitgeist changed completely. Everyone was now a shark and nobody knew it.8.5/10 – Worth one viewing.
The story takes place during the Depression. Con man Moses Pray (Ryan O'Neal) is unwillingly paired with young 9 year old Addie Loggins (real life daughter Tatum) who has lost both her parents. He tries to get rid of her thinking she's just a dumb kid...but Addie isn't and they form a partnership.This was a HUGE hit in 1973 and Tatum O'Neal won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress--the youngest person ever to win an Academy Award. I liked it--sort of. It's well-directed (although director Peter Bogdonovich seems WAY too fond of long shots) and is shot in beautiful black and white. It is well-acted (Tatum in particular) and Madeline Kahn is wonderful as Trixie Delight--but I didn't find this very interesting.It was episodic and WAY too quiet and laid-back. The comedy wasn't that funny (Tatum smoking and swearing was considered hysterical in the 1970s--not now) and the drama was just OK. I was mildly entertained. It's not bad--just not great. I also give the movie credit for not turning soapy or sentimental at the end. Worth seeing but no great shakes. I give it a 7.


                
Paper Moon is set in during The Great Depression, but Peter Bogdanovich does not mean for it to be a hard- hitting, no-holds-barred examination of those times and its people. The focus is on a man and his apparent daughter, who never seem to run out of money and have an abundance of time and energy to pursue their greater desires. To be fair, Bogdanovich has etched some of the background characters as figures to be sympathetic of; the black girl Imogene who was promised a hefty four dollars a week to tag along and be the personal assistant (slave) of the showgirl/part time prostitute Trixie Delight, for example. She muses she has not seen a cent of this money, but figures that driving around the countryside in a brand new luxury car and having a full belly most of the time is not such a bad time compared to her family's situation back home. This is about as deep as the hardships go; the film's presentations of the "hard times" are mostly in air quotes. It has a pretty, closed- off view of The Great Depression, a little caricature with more laughs and giggles than real insight. The main pair run a clever scam involving expensive, personalised bibles that specifically targets those already in emotional turmoil - but we are meant to brush past this fact. Bogdanovich instead goes for the simple moral lessons, from the perspective of little Addie Loggins. She sees a horde of starving, haggard children her age, and shouts out that the bible has already been paid for. She (and we) see the closeups of a wealthy women's jewellery and she hurriedly ups the price. Later we are meant to grin along with her in the car because of the tenacity of this little game - the intent is to be comedic and heartwarming. We're also supposed to laugh along as the Trixie's faux-elegance ("I have to go winkie tinkie!") is exposed and kicked out from their lives But it doesn't quite stick because the only moral difference that exists here is that they are the main protagonists and she is not. Bogdanovich only offers simply, clean-cut moral cop-outs to make us root for Addie and her mischief - which is why their scams and antics ultimately don't affect anyone in any drastic, depraved way (a well- off shop and a wealth bootlegger, in reality the cops, are two targets). Tatum O'Neal is the real star. Her character is written as endearingly feisty, but ends up a little annoying by the end. Her portrayal even nails this quality; the way she nags and nags until she gets what she wants, and the small grins afterwards. Addie's best moment is not in her brazen dialogue at all, but in her actions and how they reveal just how tender aged and sweet she is. Sneaking out in the middle of the night to peer at the one last remaining photo of her mother, and silently posing in her manner.
1st watched 7/15/2011 -- 7 out of 10 (Dir-Peter Bogdanovich): Sweet and whimsical story about a young girl and her acquaintance with a midwest swindler who con their way across a couple of states back in the depression days of the 1930's. This movie stars the real-life father and daughter team of Ryan and Tatum O'Neal(in her first role) and was directed by the excellent director, Peter Bogdanovich. The story starts at a gravesite where Addie's(Tatum's character) mother is being buried. Ryan's character arrives to console the family and offers to take the daughter(whose only surviving family member is in Missouri) to her sister's place. Of course, he ends up using her to collect some money and nobody really knows if he really knew the mother or not. He introduces Addie to his bible-salesman routine where he visits recently deceased locals surviving members and bribes them into purchasing an engraved Bible. Addie starts becoming part of the scam and agrees to team-up with him. The couple exchange plenty of banter and the movie brings a lot of laughs early in the picture. After they spend some time with a lady friend named Trixie Delight, played by Madeline Kahn, the movie turns around and becomes a little more serious. Addie cons to get rid of Trixie and then they get involved with bootlegging with a little more serious consequences -- if they get caught. The movie is entertaining, for the most part, and before it's over you start caring for these characters and want them to stay together. This unique father/daughter film is very much worth the viewing despite the turn to the serious-side near the end and their film coupling has never been repeated since.


                
Depression era film with Ryan and Tatum O'Neil as two terrific con artists.How could Tatum have won for best supporting actress? She is nearly every scene in the film and steals the show for sure. Amazing that she was able to beat out Madeleine Kahn's Trixie Delight in that category.You really get a feeling for the depression from what the film depicts.When Addie (Tatum) stares with that icy expression, you know you're vulnerable to just about everything.What makes the film so good is the bonding between Ryan and Tatum. Since they're father and daughter in real life, this helped the situation. It was that very bond that brings them together at film's end.


                
This is a superb movie to watch on a lazy afternoon.  Paper Moon is the story of Addie Loggins, a young girl whose mother has just been killed in an accident and who is being taken to her aunts by a womanising con-man who may or may-not be her father.  The two form a relationship and form a duo as they try to scam their way across America.We've seen the formula before but never as well done as this.  Tatum O'Neil playing Addie is unbelievable, switching from the cutest little girl, to a chain smoking devil in seconds.  At the start of the movie, you don't want to know, but by the end she has totally worked her way into your heart. The chemistry between her and her real-life father Ryan O'Neil is unbelievable and the scenes with the two of them bickering are an absolute treat.There are a couple of problems with the movie, a lot of people feel that the black & white picture is an asset, whereas I personally see it as a detrement.  I feel it detracts somewhat from the movie as a whole by dating it more than it needs to be.  Also the film is a little slow at the start.Overall this is a good film, perfect for a Saturday Afternoon.  Everyone should see this movie once. - 7/10


                
"Paper Moon" is a cute, watchable movie with a very dangerous message, that a child may be better off leading a criminal life than staying with boring relatives. Bogdanovich shot it in black and white to better reflect its setting, 1935 Kansas during the depression. The title comes from one scene where Addie has her photo made at a carnival, sitting on a "paper" (cardboard) moon. Metaphorically it represents the falsehood of the grifting life she and Mose have come to lead. Some SPOILERS follow, read further at your own risk. Recently orphaned Addie, her mother was into prostitution, didn't know who her dad was, Mose (Ryan Oneal) at the funeral to pay respects, Addie suspects he is her dad, but throughout the movie he never admits to it. He is headed towards St Louis and she needs to get to her aunt in St Joseph, so he is talked into giving her a ride. He makes his living as a grifter, reading obit columns, embossing the widow's name on a fancy bible, then showing up a week or two later and telling the widow her dead husband had ordered it for her, he then collects a healthy profit. Mose isn't very smart, soon Addie is sizing up the widows, and to one with several small children says "This one is already paid for", and to another, wealthy one, "This version costs $25", instead of the usual $8. In the end, Mose is undone by a bootlegger who also happens to be the sherrif's brother. He sells the bootlegger his own stolen whiskey.  They escape to Missouri temporarily but are caught by the men, beaten, and robbed. In the end we see Addie at her aunt's, bored by the prospective safe life there, runs and catches up with Mose and they disappear down the road together.
Not a very good message!! But a landmark film only because Tatum Oneal won an Oscar for best supporting actor, at least at that time the youngest ever. Maybe still, I don't know.
