Paper Moon is one hell of a movie. I saw this film as a 10 year old in 1973 and loved it then as I do now at 39. Set in Depression era Kansas, it is story of the relationship between Addie, a smart talking 7 year old, and Moses, a bible selling con man who might be her father. The on screen chemistry between Ryan and Tatum O'Neal is fantastic. Madeline Kahn is great as a side show floosey they pick up along the way and she almost steals the show! Filmed in Kansas and Missouri, director Peter Bogdonavich used local people in cameo roles which adds to the authentic feel of the film. Also to the director's credit, this film may be one the best to portray 1930's America. All in all, Paper Moon is full of great characters and a fine story line. On a personal note, I saw this film with my 90 year old grandmother and she laughed throughout the film and said it was one the best films she ever saw. That's not a bad recomendation coming from someone born in 1883!


                
Paper Moon (1973)Utterly charmed and charming. The story of a father and daughter--the actor and actress O'Neal--echoes the story in the story of a man and a little girl on the road. Yes, they scam and cheat, but they do it with relative innocence. And they are perfectly adorable. The magic between the two is partly good writing, and partly the ease that the two actors already have (or pretend to have) together.And it's filmed with nostalgic black and white clarity, perfect in a way for the Depression era it portrays, but much more alive and clean than the deep brooding intensity of a real Depression story such as the 1940 Grapes of Wrath. But Peter Bogdanovich is no John Ford, and this is a different kind of tale, with the 1930s as backdrop to a more modern kind of relationship. It has enough subtlety and laughs to make it a classic and a joy. Nothing obviously deep, but yet it sinks in farther than you think.


                
Peter Bogdanovich and the cast struck gold with "Paper Moon" back in 1973. The story is by now familiar, with con man Moses Pray (Ryan O'Neal) and his real life daughter Tatum as Addie, traveling through the Midwest during the Great Depression. Always lightly entertaining, the film charmingly uses humor, drama, and poignant moments to provide a rewarding experience. John Hillerman, Madeline Kahn, and other cast members add to the film's charm, and the B&W photography is superb.In 1973 Peter Bogdanovich was considered quite a wunderkind as a movie director. He had directed "The Last Picture Show" and "What's Up, Doc?" in the two previous years, and here he could do no wrong. However, after the bland "Daisy Miller" and the horrid "At Long Last Love" his reputation began a rapid decline from which it never recovered. He didn't stay on top very long, but I'm glad he stayed long enough to make "Paper Moon". Don't miss it.
Utterly delightful. Father and daughter Ryan and Tatum O'Neal, under Peter Bogdanovich's superlative direction, produce one of the most affectingly warm and cunningly sly movies of the 1970s. Set in depression era America and beautifully photographed in pristine monochrome by Laszlo Kovacs, it's a period piece that refuses to get old, such is the deft imagery and sharpness of the screenplay.Story essentially comes down to conman Moses Pray (R. O'Neal) hooking up with orphan Addie Loggins (T. O'Neal), who may or may not be his actual daughter. Addie proves to be a precocious live wire, not easily fooled and she smokes, cusses and is more than capable of pulling a con herself. After initial indignation, Moses comes to court Addie's strengths and they form a dynamic partnership as they travel through Kansas, pulling cons left right and centre and piling the money up. But can it last forever?The chemistry between father and daughter is obviously set in stone, with young Tatum an absolute revelation. The screenplay gives them both ample opportunities to enchant and amuse the viewer as they get up to all sorts of tricks and scrapes. Yet there's always that feeling hanging in the dusty air that something has to give, that we are treading firmly in bittersweet territory, the crafty couple having earned our complete investment in their well being keeping us concerned even as we laugh out loud.Delightful. 9/10


                
Peter Bogdanovich's 'Paper Moon' is everything a road movie is supposed to be - a life-changing personal journey, a quest, a bit old-fashioned and above all, a hoot. The story is simple. Young Addie (Tatum O'Neal) finds herself orphaned with the death of her single - and apparently rather free-spirited - mother. The arrival of a man named Moze (her real-life father, Ryan O'Neal) at the funeral, provides the other mourners a chance to pack Addie off to her aunt in Missouri. Moze is reluctant to take her along, but sees a chance to blackmail some money out of the whole situation. However, his dreams of pocketing a windfall of $200 and sending Addie off on a train come to nothing - the wily young girl demands the greatly diminished sum that was meant for her care. As a result, he finds himself saddled with this grimly adult child (who is fairly certain that Moze is her father) as his assistant in a crime spree through the Midwest – a scam involving sale of overpriced Bibles to recent widows. In essence, Moze scans obituaries for gullible widows he can convince to pay the balance on Bibles their husbands "ordered" for them - deluxe editions with the names embossed in gold - before "passing on". Unsurprisingly, Addie is an adroit, if unruly, student, who upstages both his skill and daring.Yes, 'Paper Moon' is about two con artists, but not really about their con, and that's a relief. The scam is only part of the story, which takes a number of turns before reaching its end - including Moze picking up a tart from a sideshow - a carnival dancer named Trixie Delight (a cheerfully trampy Madeline Kahn), who is accompanied by a long suffering black maid, Imogene (wonderfully played by P. J. Johnson) who later turns out to be Addie's partner-in-crime. Bogdanovich takes the con games only as the experience which his two lead characters share and which draws them together in a way that's funny sometimes, but also very poignant and finally deeply touching.The film is shot in gorgeous black-and-white, giving it a documentary feel that meshes perfectly with the sweet cynicism of the characters. But what really underscores the film is amazing chemistry between the O'Neals. The fact they are father and daughter in real life helps flavor their working dynamic in an intriguing way. Tatum O'Neal is an absolute revelation - she spends much of the film with a sourpuss expression pasted to her adorable little pixie face, but breezes through the film with astonishing confidence. Ryan O'Neal's roguish charm is perfect for the character and the result, paired with his daughter, is a strong co-lead dynamic, in a tale about their delicate relationship that teeters on father-and-daughter quality without adopting the name.A true treasure, Peter Bogdanovich's Paper Moon belongs to a magical world that has elements of whimsy and noir!


                
Greetings from Lithuania."Paper Moon" (1973) is a simple story, yet so convincingly done that i couldn't take my eyes from screen not for a second during its 1 h and 40 min run. Both leads were excellent and of course legendary role of Tatum O'Neal was superb. Directing, writing and excellent black and white cinematography shined here as well - i couldn't imagine at the beginning of how involving this movie is going to be.Overall, "Paper Moon" (1973) is a road movie as well great character study drama. It has some humor, but its not a comedy. Its not sentimental as well although it could have been. This is a very good movie by all means.


                
Kansas, 1930s. 9-year old Addie Loggins's mother has just died, leaving her alone (she never knew her father). Moses Pray is a con man and initially uses Addie's misfortune to make some money off a third party. With that done, he tries to pack her off on a train to her aunt in Missouri, but Addie won't have any of that. They set off for her aunt's place by car, with neither having much time for the other, initially... Wonderful movie, directed by Peter Bogdanovich and based on the novel "Addie Pray" by Joe David Brown. Solid, evolving broad plot and great detail too. The cons the two pull are fantastic in their concept and execution. Quite funny, with many amusing adventures and conspiracies. Very engaging - the main characters and their interaction absolutely pull you in. Very emotional ending.Great work by Ryan O'Neal as Moses. Tatum O'Neal, his daughter, is superb as Addie and well-deserved her Best Supporting Actress Oscar. Her playing of the street-smart, wise-beyond-her-years Addie is spot-on and a sight to behold. Tatum is still the youngest ever winner of a competitive Oscar, winning at only 10 years old. Good work too from Madeline Kahn, who got a Best Supporting Actress nomination for her efforts.


                
Paper Moon tells the story of a young girl named Addie Loggins(Tatum O'Neal) whose recently lost her mother in depression era America. During her mothers funeral she meets a small time con-man named Moses Pray(played by her real-life father Ryan O'Neal) who may or may not be her father. After initially refusing to take her to her aunts to live, he is pressured by the neighbours at the funeral to take her himself.The first thing i have to talk about is the incredible set design and cinematography, WOW!! This film really does look like it's been taken straight from the 1920's. Whilst that seems like a false compliment, it really isn't. I can't remember the last time I've been so immersed, and have fully believed in a (fictional)film world. The film not only has richly detailed window dressing, it also has a-lot of depth especially with the two central characters of the film.Obviously the chemistry between Addie and Moses was going to be great since they're father and daughter in real-life. This aspect really plays well in the film, the relationship between the two characters is a joy to watch. The film also has a-lot of genuinely laugh out load moments between the two as they bicker between themselves, especially when Addie gets in on Moses's bible selling con business, in-which he targets widows with a 'personalised' bible from their recently departed spouses, as a way to make a couple of bucks. She goes from giving free copy's to poor families, only then to hike the price three-fold to rich widows, alongside Moses's exasperated facial reactions, which are hilarious.The film's screenplay is well written, there wasn't any section in the film I wasn't completely invested in. I was constantly engaged in the wonderfully fleshed out characters especially Addie(for which Tatum O'Neal won an Oscar at the grand old age of 9). Both characters are given moments of strength and weakness. The film also manages to stay away from being overly sentimental, even the ending is somewhat poignant.Paper Moon is the first film iv'e seen from director Peter Bogdanovich, and it has already left a lasting impression on me. The way Bogdanovich is able to bridge the gap between classic Hollywood and the 70's American new wave Is absolutely incredible, and at times seems almost effortless. At the end of the day Paper Moon is essentially another road movie, but thanks to it's incredible cinematography, multi-layered characters and brilliant acting, it elevates itself above the majority of films in the genre.


                
Director Peter Bogdanovich breaks off his semi-retirement with a new film SHE'S FUNNY THAT WAY screening at this year's Venice, 13 years after his previous one THE CAT'S MEOW (2001), and PAPER MOON is my second entry into his filmography, after the masterful mother-son dramedy MASK (1985, 8/10), which is Cher's career best performance ever. Shot in Black & White with a nostalgic sheen, the story sets in the depression era, Moses Pray (Ryan O'Neal) is a small-time crook, attends one of his lover's funeral and ends up bringing her 9-year-old daughter Addie (Tatum O'Neal) on the road, it is another odd-pair road trip and Addie strongly believes Moses is her biological father because they have the same chin. Initially reluctantly taking her with him for fear of hindering his con-artist exploits, Moses surprisingly finds out Addie is a great helper in the game, she is a precocious and cunning doll, with acute perception of the folks and surroundings, moreover, she can meticulously scheme a plot to get what she wants, she would become a much competent con artist than her father figure. Growing up in the absence of a father figure, Addie is well versed with the savvy of the adult world, her adept cigarette-smoking is dreadful to watch at first glance, but Tatum O'Neal is impeccably phenomenal to nail the scene, ever since the moment when she ingeniously blackmails Moses into taking her with him with the indelible line-delivery "You owe me $200!", until the very end, her last line "You still owe me $200!", she has accomplished a remarkable feat as one of the best children performance ever, she is compellingly projecting a wild spectrum of sympathetic qualities resided in a child, our empathy for her is overpowering, much more than for Moses, although Ryan O'Neal is riveting too as a man wandering along with disarming charisma but can never find his roots. This real-life father-daughter pair constitutes a sheer transfixing rapport, particularly whenever Addie surprises him (and viewers too) with her sophisticated volition, she is his guardian angel on certain level, that's why the coda is so emotive and delightful at the same time, in the film's own plaintive core, they find each other to stick together on the road. If there is any justice in the world, Tatum should have nabbed a BEST LEADING ACTRESS trophy instead Oscar's BEST SUPPORTING ACTRESS, which she won, and leaves that to Ms. Kahn. the bone-structure referring, brassy artiste Trixie Delight, a sultry interloper into the pair's life, against her comical default, Madeline's telling monologue reveals much deeper into her character's personality, she is laughable, but also piteous, yet she and Addie cannot co-exist with Moses, so she will be written off in the most farcical manner at the expense of Addie's carefully plotted trickery and the aid of Trixie's black teenage assistant Imogene (Johnson). PAPER MOON doesn't fall into the victim of time as most oldies pictures, apart from the prominent cast, its top-notch script from Alvin Sargent, based on Joe David Brown's novel "ADDIE PRAY", neatly sidesteps from awkward self-pity (especially when dealing with orphans), emotional over-charge (the father-and-daughter affinity) and lame caricature (when Trixie is the easy target to aim). Peter Bogdanovich's consistent emphasis on the interaction between the odd pair and its eye-pleasing monochromatic cinematography from László Kovács, dotted with a retro soundtrack instead of an obtrusive score, this is THE (almost) perfect film!
Paper Moon remains today as being best remembered for showcasing the youngest Oscar-winning performance in history, that of Tatum O'Neal as the precocious, cigarette-smoking nine year old con artist named Addie who by chance or fortune teams up with a fellow con man, Moses Pray, who is assigned to take her to her aunt's. Yet, being a road picture, many interesting and touching moments occur along the way, as well as a very poignant and nostalgic look-back to America in the 1930s.Director Peter Bogdanovich, a pupil of the great Orson Welles and rising filmmaker at the time, took many chances in getting this film made; shooting it in black and white, casting an unknown little girl with a bad haircut as the main character and using numerous old-school techniques are just a few. Yet, it is obvious that because of a very humorous and entertaining script, Bogdanovich had a solid foundation with which to work with. Perhaps these veteran styles work because we care so much about these characters or even because Bogdanovich handles them so well.What cannot be denied is the remarkable chemistry between the two O'Neals, a fine sight to see given all the tumultuous trouble they have had over the years. This film is a clear reminder of better-remembered days in Hollywood; when actors worked for good scripts rather than money, black and white photography was not a turn-off and children were written as smart as the adults but in a more tender and innocent way. Bogdanovich certainly dreamed of those days when making this and perhaps the greatest success of this film is that he created a story that now fits that exact billing.


                
"Paper Moon" could have been a screwball comedy that was made by one of the great depression era directors. Peter Bogdonovich, in a tribute to the old masters, has created the feel, and look of a 1930's film. With a flawless cast headed by Ryan O'Neal and his wonderfully spunky daughter Tatum, he has reminded us of how good comedy can be.Both of the O'Neals play well off of each other. I believe that Ryan O'Neal was by far a much better comedic actor than dramatic actor. Tatum is absolutely delightful as the little girl who may or may not be his real daughter.Bogdonovich, like John Ford, had a stable of excellent supporting actors that he would use over and over again, and they all appear here in fine form. Madeline Kahn from "What's Up, Doc?" is his buxom love interest, for a time. John Hillerman is wonderful in the twin roles of bootlegger and town sheriff. And Randy Quaid, who appeared in "The Last Picture Show", shows up for a small but genuinely funny role as a local farm boy.When the film was first released, it was not a big hit, but it has endured. Having seen it again just last week, it is still as funny and as fresh as it was 30 years ago.A really excellent film. I highly recommend it.
I recently watched for the first time Peter Bogdanovich's early gem (how could I miss it?) with the family team, Ryan and Tatum O'Neil, and fell in love with this charming and touching road movie/comedy that takes place during the Great Depression. Tatum gave, perhaps, one of the best performances by a child I've seen for which she received the Academy award as Best Supporting Actress. Her Addie is almost never cute (even though she could be when she wanted to) but she is very smart, very observant, and much better "con artist" than "professional" Moses Pray. It was sad to see how talented Tatum was and how her career went nowhere after this triumph. Madeline Kahn, as Trixie Delight, the seductive lounge singer and P.J. Johnson as Imogene, 15 years old Trixie's maid are delightful.


                
Director Peter Bogdanovich was on a real roll in the early 70s what with "The Last Picture Show," "What's Up, Doc?" and then 1973's "Paper Moon," a thoroughly clever, engagingly sharp period comedy adapted from the novel "Addie Pray" by Joe David Brown.  Focusing on a slick, small-scale con artist who finds more than he bargains for after being saddled with a feisty little orphan, "Paper Moon" may be slightly reminiscent to Shirley Temple's "Little Miss Marker" by nature, but it's certainly not similar in attitude or style. Ryan O'Neal has never been more ingratiating than as the aptly-named Moses Pray, a sly, charming rogue who resorts to chicanery and  flimflammery for survival, targeting little old ladies whose husbands have just passed away. "Moze" sets up his victims via the obituary notices.  His con game consists of engraving bibles with the name of some dearly departed's widow, then showing up at the doorstep of the grievous wife and presenting her with the "deluxe" version of a bible that her late spouse supposedly "ordered" just prior to his death, asking, of course, for an outlandish price.  Inevitably, the old ladies cave in and pay out, touched by their husbands' significant "gesture."Things are running fairly smoothly for Moze until scruffy little Addie Loggins shows up unannounced.  Addie, whose mother was just killed in a car accident, claims she has pretty good evidence that Moze, who had an affair with the mother, is her long-lost daddy and now expects to be reimbursed for certain expenses.  The angry, flustered Moze denies the paternity accusation but reluctantly agrees to pay her off after his next few scams and drive her across the state line to her nearest unknown relatives...but, that's it! And now the good stuff starts...It's uphill most of the way for this mirthful, beautifully realized entertainment as Moze and little Addie, who becomes an expert partner-in-crime, scam their way through the Kansas heartland.  Ryan O'Neal's keen comedy instincts are on all four burners here, but never at the expense of his character or the film's intentions.  As he earlier demonstrated in "What's Up, Doc?", he knows exactly where to draw the line, showing expert skill at <U+0091>slow burn' comedy, especially in his scenes with the flinty, steadfast little Addie.The surprise, of course, is neophyte Tatum O'Neal, Ryan's real-life daughter, whose first film this was.  As the obstinate, worldly, cigarette-smoking waif who could out-curse a sailor, the Oscar-winning Tatum steals practically every scene she's in.  A cross between Little Orphan Annie and Wallace Beery, she lights up the screen so naturally and unaffectedly.  The casting of both father and daughter is not only inspired but absolutely sublime, possibly the funniest grownup/kid interplay since W.C. Fields and Baby LeRoy. And if that wasn't enough, you have the delectable Madeline Kahn as the frisky, flirtatious Trixie Delight, a carnival cooch dancer who moves in on Addie's territory <U+0096> that is, Moze <U+0096> half way through the film.  The late, plummy-voiced Kahn, an expert comedy farceur, will keep you rolling in the aisles as she barnstorms her way right into Moze's front seat while disrupting the team's money-making roll, leaving an increasingly peeved Addie no choice but to nip the hotsy-totsy little affair in the bud.  Young P.J. Johnson turns in a wonderfully sullen, deadpan perf as Imogene, part of Miss Trixie's "entourage."  Chief maid and luggage carrier for the unappreciative Miss Trixie, Imogene's disdain for her boss is no secret, comparing her at one point to white specks on chicken droppings.  One of the film's highlights is watching Addie and Imogene, in cahoots, cook up and carry out a scheme to split up the adults.The movie loses a bit of steam toward the end with a somewhat less-involving subplot dealing with bootleggers and a corrupt sheriff (John Hillerman), but it's certainly not enough to hurt the genuine appeal of the film.  Careful attention has been paid to the look and feel of this film, which is greatly enhanced by the stunning midwest landscape (shot impressively, like "The Last Picture Show", in black-and-white), and  period-perfect incidentals, which give the film a wonderfully authentic 30s feel.Unfortunately, Bogdanovich's career took an unexpected and momentous nosedive after this film.  So, perhaps in retrospect, "Paper Moon" becomes a wonderful valentine to better days and a loving tribute to a once budding genius.Sheer delight.


                
"Paper Moon" is beautiful movie to look at. It often feels like you're watching a movie that was actually filmed in the 1930s. I watch a lot of 3 Stooges movies and "Paper Moon" often looks like it was filmed around the same time. Not 40 years later. I know Tatum O'Neal won the Academy Award for this movie. She's very good. Her father, Ryan O'Neal, is even better. He gives the performance of a lifetime. In lesser hands Moses Pray would have been a real creep. "Paper Moon" is great stuff. (True confessions: I rewound the interrogation scene twice.)


                
Tatum O'Neal's acting debut is undoubtedly impressive, but it's the chemistry between her and her real-life father Ryan O'Neal that just blew me away. Honestly, I couldn't help thinking about Charlie Chaplin and Jack Coogan from The Kid!The ending is a tad bit predictable, though. Nevertheless, the execution is pretty exquisite that kept me from being very sure about how the movie will end. Also, the ending is as heartwarming and sweet as the whole movie. So, it's not really a big problem.What amazed me is how smartly scripted this movie is. The way the problems are solved in the plot is genius. The main characters keep get in troubles a lot through their journey, and they get out of them in a convincing and intelligent way. But it's also silly and ridiculous at the same time to match the nostalgic approach that Peter Bogdanovich took from the get-go. That's really a lesson that many directors and screenwriters should learn nowadays; which is that when they decide to capture the essence of a bygone cinematic era, they have to make their film relevant to a modern audience by making it seem smarter and more sensible, hence more convincing.Every sub-plot is consistent, amusing, and really adds to the characters and the main storyline. The sub-plot of Trixie also has no shortage of brilliance and fun, but I think it didn't need to be that long. It felt like that it was a pitfall that the screenwriter fell into, but didn't want to get out of it in an unconvincing and flimsy way so he had to take his time planning a reasonable and plausible way. That said, I enjoyed every second of this very sub-plot as much as the entire movie.Paper Moon is simply a thoroughly engaging, very moving and touching, quite charming, surprisingly clever and sincere ode to Depression-era road movies.(9/10)


                
This still works great 40 years later. Shot in gorgeous black and white, it's a film full of smiles and laughs, a lot of heart, but very little sticky sweetness. A low level grifter (Ryan O'Neal) gets stuck with taking a tough as nails orphaned 9 year old (O'Neal's real life daughter Tatum, in an astonishing performance for a kid that age – she actually deserved the Oscar she won) home to relatives. Along the way they get into all sorts of misadventures, and meet numerous characters, including a wonderfully funny Madeline Kahn as an exotic dancer named "Trixie Delight", and John Hillerman doing his usual excellent low key work as a bootlegger and his sheriff brother. Bogdanovich gets to the essence of what was best about 30s comedies, without being a slave to it. He moves the camera, plays scenes in very long single takes, and isn't afraid to mix the best of more modern film making along with the best of the old. One of those comedies you can watch over and over again.


                
I really enjoyed watching this film. The Father/Daughter relationship between Ryan & Tatum is of course real off the screen but in this film it is as if we are watching them in a private moment.The "coney island" incident is hilarious. That kids face, we all made that face when we were kids and being shouted at by our parents.You do wonder if this is the best way of life for a child, after all they con people out of money during the Depression era of the 30's. That said it is not huge amounts of money and those who receive a knock at the door do end up with a gift.All the film is great and the development of their relationship is what makes the film.
At the outset, Tatum O'Neal must be eulogized for her brilliant performance. She grabbed the coveted award ahead 3 established actresses and a teenager, thereby becoming the youngest person to win a competitive Oscar, a record that still holds hitherto.It's a thoroughly entertaining movie with a soothing background score. Addie's puerile behavior adds to the sweetness of the movie.Addie is bereaved by her estranged mother's death and thus becomes an orphan. Moses is not quite sure if he is the father of the child but is forced to drop the child at her aunt's house. Addie is as obdurate as any child of her age, a habitual smoker and is good observer of any situation. She helps Moses earn money from selling bibles by pretending to be his lovely daughter, who convinces people the exorbitant price of the bible was due to its quality and names inscribed on it. They share an usual bond until Moses finds a lousy woman. She concocts a plan to oust her and succeeds.Moses and Addie are on the run when a liquor deal goes awry. They are captured but flee the police station when Addie executes an unimaginable escape plan. Moses is finally captured in the neighboring state and all the money he raised is taken by the depraved cops. Moses decides to finally drop her at her aunt's house but a reluctant Addie returns back to Moses demanding her "200 dollars".
Peter Bogdanovich' "Paper Moon", delivers a beautiful story with an authentic artistry and a delightful capacity to surprise you. I insist on the surprise element, because nothing is to be taken for granted: when you expect a road-movie made of episodic cons, the plot immerses you in the father-and-daughter duo played by Ryan O'Neal and his daughter Tatum, and when you expect the film to evolve on more melodramatic fields, it never betrays its inner comedic spirit."Paper Moon" has the perfect dosage of comedy and drama, never too sappy or too syrupy, it doesn't fall in the trap of gratuitous slapstick either although it had all the ingredients. This is because Bogdanovich, aware of the enormous potential of a real father-and-daughter duo, lets the emotional core of "Paper Moon" rely on the relationship rather than the girl who's the central character of the original novel (titled 'Addie Pray'). The film's main delight comes from the evolution of the relationship between Moze and Addie, from animosity to partnership, and from partnership to complicity. The comical aspect is conveyed by their reciprocal denial, Moze only takes Addie with him because he promised to send her to a relative in St. Jo but he doesn't admit she's his daughter, although she does have his wits, his gifts, his jaw and even seem to outsmart him in his own business. Addie, on the other hand, is toughened by the loss of her mother and doesn't want to leave Moze until he gives her the 200$ he took from the man who accidentally killed his mother, a money he spent on his own car repairs. They both con people and live together without enjoying it, using an old cliché, it's all business and never personal.The Depression Era offers a rather suitable atmosphere for the movie because it was precisely a period of disillusions where people could easily be conned, something that echoes the spirit of the movie "The Sting", released the same year. Moze and Addie were making business through 'victimless' crimes, (the biggest victims were never 'by essence' innocent people). The first con consisted on selling to widows a Bible supposedly ordered by their late husbands they died, it seems heartless when you look at it, but Addie does add a sense of professionalism, raising the prices according to the prey's face and sometimes even giving them a break. The team works formidably and manage to appeal to us because they have ethics, and succeed in very fascinating tricks, especially the way they confuse cashier clerks, the first act efficiently builds the partnership while enlightening us on the fascinating methods of how to confuse a cashier clerk, some cons are so clever that it's hard to get the first time, and then we know we'd fall into them. And as the first act ends with a car going in a dust of sand, we know they're partners.The second act consolidates the relationship by elevating it into a love triangle with a dancer named Trixie Delight, played by a scene-stealer Madeline Kahn. Addie must seat in the back of the car with Imogene (P.J. Johnson) Trixie's black maid. The second part has a sort of vaudeville feel that combines the wit of "The Sting" with a subtle poignancy. Addie uses her talent to have 'her man' back, this man who didn't want to be photographed with her on the paper moon during the infamous carnival where he met Trixie. The way she succeeds and manage to help Imogene at the same time so she can leave Trixie is not overplayed, and the conclusion is almost sad because we somewhat got used to Trixie and her irresistible pronunciation of 'bone structure' and Imogene who knows she'll never see them again. The second act ends with the car leaving under a pouring rain, and Moze and Addie together 'on the road', partners again, with something else probably tickling their hearts.The third act takes a dramatic but indispensable turn allowing the duo to overlook their hostility and start working together. It involves an elaborated and clever scheme against a bootlegger and the attempt to escape from his angry brother who –unfortunately- happens to be the cop (both played by the same actor). This part gets the movie back to its starting point because Moze is broken (not just physically) which coincides with their arrival in St. Jo. Addies goes to her aunt's house and Moze to business. And there, something magical happens when Moze's truck stops right in the hill, he takes a break and opens an envelope left by Addie to find her photograph on the paper moon, he realizes he's missing in the photo and she's missing him, then while he's about to make a decision, Addie, who ran out the door meets her father again and the conclusion works like the perfect punchline of a long joke: he still owed her 200$, then they drive off together for a heart-warming finale where they're finally father and daughter.The wit of the script, the clever construction of the story and Bogdanovich's meticulous direction give the film an irresistible charm, transcended by the photography that recreates the feeling of the Depression Era, and the Costume design that played quite an underrated role in the story, indirectly highlighting the character's gradual sophistication, or making Trixie so comically sexy with her jiggling breasts. The film is so well made that it's surprising it didn't garner more Oscar nominations, anyway ... if there's one department in which the movie really shines, it's undoubtedly on the acting, a 'make it or break it' parameter when it comes to comedies. Tatum delivers an extraordinary performance rightfully earning her the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress. Her performance is great precisely because it always feel natural, the movie features so many long takes where you can see that she wasn't helped by a clever editing or something from grown-ups, she literally carried the film.
Paper Moon is an evergreen charmer and despite the occasional rude word, can be watched by the whole family with delight. The plot is fairly lightweight and involves some dubious antics by conman Ryan O'Neill but the performances by him and especially his daughter are so engaging that we root for them even when they are stealing and cheating.This film evokes a lost world in more ways than one: it could never really be remade today. The idea of a man travelling around with a young girl who may or may not be his daughter, which seemed so innocent and natural in the 70s, would now be treated with the utmost caution even if, as here, the actors were actual father and daughter. That shows the deep decline in culture I guess.


                
TCM showed "Paper Moon" a few nights ago. I taped it and just finished watching it. Loved it. Who couldn't?Here is a scene I thought I remembered being in the movie, but which I found (to my great disappointment) was not:Tatum O'Neal (I think) works in a carnival, selling tickets. There is a scene where a rube buys a ticket and Tatum cheats him in making change. Her ticket booth is up high; the rube cannot clearly see the bills being counted out. The scene goes by very quickly. I wanted to see it again, because a clerk recently tried to cheat me in a similar fashion and I wanted to compare her technique with Tatum's. Can someone help me? What movie have I confused with "Paper Moon"?


                
After directing two modern film classics (and huge box office hits) with the gritty drama THE LAST PICTURE SHOW (1971) and the side-splitting screwball comedy WHAT'S UP, DOC? (1972), the pressure was on for whiz-kid director Peter Bogdanovich to continue his hot streak with critics and audiences. Fortunately, Bogdanovich was up the challenge, and crafted this effortlessly enjoyable Depression-era comedy-drama that meshes together many of the best aspects of his two previous films. Based on Joe David Brown's 1971 novel "Addie Pray," the deceptively simple PAPER MOON takes a story of well-worn themes and makes it all feel fresh and new once again thanks to the professionalism of all involved and Bogdanovich's off-kilter approach. In many way, the film successfully combines the rapid-fire dialogue and breezy tone of WHAT'S UP, DOC with the downtrodden weariness of THE LAST PICTURE SHOW .This may sound like an unworkable and disorienting mixture, but PAPER MOON is a rare film that actually benefits from being composed of such opposing extremes. PAPER MOON does not share the same agenda as THE LAST PICTURE SHOW , however, which exposed the hypocrisies that were hidden in the era of pretend idealism that ran rampant in the fifties. PAPER MOON also differs from WHAT'S UP, DOC in the sense that WHAT'S UP, DOC took screwball comedies (a popular sub-genre of the late-thirties and early forties) and updated the format for audiences of the early-seventies - it was not a parody or a spoof, but simply the re-invention of a comedic art form. PAPER MOON does not expose the dark underpinnings of the thirties the way that THE LAST PICTURE SHOW did for the fifties, and it also does not re-invent the thirties road/buddy movies for the seventies that way that WHAT'S UP, DOC for thirties' screwball comedies; PAPER MOON simply and honestly is a movie of the thirties (right down to being filmed in grainy black-and-white, which gives viewers the feel of the depression like color photography never could) that just happens to have been created by filmmakers of the seventies.In the pivotal role of Addie, Bogdanovich chose WHAT'S UP, DOC star Ryan O'Neal's gravely-voiced nine-year-old daughter, Tatum, and the gamble proved to be as masterstroke. Displaying virtually none of the self-conscious blankness that plagues most child actors, Tatum emotes with a remarkable confidence and charisma and creates a very believable performance that won the young performer the Best Supporting Actress Academy Award for 1973 (Tatum is still the youngest person to win an Oscar in a competitive category). The rest of the principal cast is composed of actors who also appeared in WHAT'S UP, DOC, including star Ryan O'Neal, whose Cary Grant-esquire handsomeness serves him well in the period setting. Madeline Kahn (who was also Oscar nominated) delivers one of her trademark performances that flawlessly mesh humor with sadness, and John Hillerman (impressive in a dual role) and P. J. Johnson (delightfully cynical as Kahn's long-suffering assistant) nearly steal the film in plum supporting roles. With superb art and set decoration, gorgeous black-and-white cinematography, a top drawer cast, and a sharply witty screenplay that keeps sentiment nicely restrained, PAPER MOON is a film that never misses it's intended mark.


                
"Paper Moon" is one of three important films from director Bogdanovich ("Last Picture Show" and "What's Up, Doc" are the other two). These films, in particular "Paper Moon", were the reason I fell in love with movies. In 1973, the Hollywood idea of film-making was three years into changing - a case of art imitating life. These changes brought about expressive films filled with sex and violence as Hollywood explored the under-belly of real life. In the middle of this new "shocking" cinema comes a filmmaker such as Bogdanovich who masterfully delivers simplicity by capturing the essence and romance of life long gone."Paper Moon" is an absorbing, depression-era tale of a father/daughter con team, traveling throughout Kansas and Missouri, collecting "money due" on "pre-ordered" Bibles. Along the way, they meet up with trouble and quite a collection of fascinating characters. The black and white photography compliments the era; the actors compliment the rich dialog; this is story-telling without the need for weepy sentimentality or heavy dramatics. Overall, a deeply focused, extremely entertaining comedy/drama that has never diminished from age or repeated viewings.Stars Ryan and Tatum O'Neal are perfect - it is obvious why Tatum won the Oscar for this performance and it is obvious that father Ryan really can act! The late, always great Madeline Kahn is absolutely a gem in a small, yet important role.I just caught a screening of "Paper Moon" on Turner Classic Movies (Thank God for TCM) and this has now inspired me to make the DVD commitment to a film that will forever be one of the true great American classics!


                
Just watched this again after some 25 years or more and it is just as fresh as it was way back when. Tatum O'Neal was remarkable, only Jodie Foster might have bettered her - though it was the perfect marriage of part and actress. Wonderfully written and directed one wonders why Bogdanovich never maintained his excellent output. Ryan O'Neal was never better than in this and was as deserving of an Oscar himself - another performer whose promise was never fully realised, he had a talent for comedy but could also handle drama just as well. Madeline Kahn was never less than wonderful in any of the roles I have seen her in and is sadly missed. I still have never worked out the five dollar, change for ten that the pair perpetrate! Ryan and Tatum work so well together you would never have guessed how fraught their father/daughter relationship would be later on. The whole film is a joy and a true classic.


                
Director Peter Bogdanovich helped start the nostalgia craze of the 1970's with his masterpiece "The Last Picture Show," which evoked memories of coming of age in small-town Texas in the 1950's. "Paper Moon" continued in the same vein this time conjuring up visions of American in the 1930's during the worst depression in history. In both films authentic tell-tale songs from the eras intensified the time travel. Hollywood and independent producers aping Bogdnovich began turning out nostalgia fodder at an alarming rate. Most were mere imitations but there were a few that took Bogdanovich's ideas and technique and presented them in creative amalgams, I.E. "Summer of '42," "Animal House," and one of the best of them all "American Graffiti." "Paper Moon" stands on its own merits not only because of the brilliant direction and cinematography (filmed on location around Hays, Kansas, and St. Joseph, Missouri) and the well-chosen musical selections of the period, but also because of a well-written script based on a novel by Joe David Brown with a wonderful cast which virtually introduced one of my favorite contemporary actors who has not yet received his due Randy Quaid. Quaid's only screen exposure before this film was an uncredited bit part in the highly underrated Bogdovich film "Targets," featuring Boris Karloff in his final major performance which remains one of his best. Peter Bogdanovich did well by changing the title from the book "Addie Pray" to the more meaningful metaphorical "Paper Moon," based on the popular tune (also used in the film) of the period.The casting of father daughter team Ryan and Tatum O'Neal was inspired. The rest of the cast would be difficult to fault. Standing tall as always is the comic genius of the late Madeline Kahn. How can a viewer keep from laughing at her antics and lines? And why has P.J. Johnson only made two movies? She was off to a good start playing Imogene.The story appears to be a simple one. A scam artist posing as a Bible salesman to fleece recent widows out of a few bucks picks up a nine year old orphan while attending the funeral of the girl's mother to deliver to her aunt in St. Joseph, Missouri. The confidence man Moses Pray may or may not be the little girl's daddy. On the road the two bond with each other without wanting to admit it. The movie is basically an odyssey across mid-America filled with unsuspected leaps and bounds.In some ways the tale is patterned after Mark Twain's novels of Huck Finn and Tom Sawyer. The little girl Addie Loggins is somewhat of a female counterpart to Huck and Tom updated to the 20th century. There may not be as much satire as in Twain's works but there is some. For example the lawmen depicted in the film are just as crooked and double dealing as Moses. Yet they hide behind a badge and respectability whereas Moses and Addie know exactly what they are. Moses tells Addie, "I got scruples too, you know. You know what that is? Scruples? Addie replies emphatically, "No, I don't know what it is, but if you got 'em, it's a sure bet they belong to somebody else!


                
