Alfred Hitchcock was and is still the undisputed Master of Suspense, and there is a lot of that here in his foray into Gothic horror, as the mystery surrounding the unseen yet omnipresent Rebecca will engage the viewer from its dreamy start to its bleak conclusion. This is exactly what atmospheric is supposed to be about, and in black and white, it shines. This is also what Gothic horror is in essence, and many have imitated yet come up short, most notably M. Night Shyamalan who, in trying to go for a shock twist and purported "atmosphere" only creates a bad aftertaste and a hangover the size of Mount Everest. This is, essentially, Hitchcock's first true masterpiece.Not one performance rings false, not to the novel or to their respective interpretations. Lawrence Olivier, quite possibly one of the greatest actors that ever lived, portrays a broken man who still lives haunted by the past as he himself were still living in that unending hell. Judith Anderson embodies one of the most coldly sadistic figures in cinema history, her smooth and elegant truculence only exceeded by Anthony Hopkins' rendition of Dr. Hannibal Lecter. One can't seem to understand the way she wallows in her dead mistresses' clearly perverse nature, but that exactly she does, right down to her own end. George Sanders does what he does best: sneer, smirk, and spit line after line of practiced venom, and would be honored 10 years later in ALL ABOUT EVE. Gladys Cooper, still striking in her 50s, plays into her casual cattiness which means no harm, although her rendition of Beatrice Lacy is a little subdued from the novel's version.And then there is Joan Fontaine. Not one of the best actresses on film, yet here, playing a role that evolves beautifully from a frightened, weak girl who is put into a situation she does not understand and who turns right at the point of losing it into a much more mature, strong woman capable of holding her own, she carries the weight of the entire drama and comes forth with flying colors. While I would have preferred Anne Baxter who would have been the exact right age for this role, Fontaine exudes so much restraint and nervousness about her character (partially to blame Olivier's treatment of her and Hitchcock's telling her the entire cast hated her), it's almost a relief when she finally decides to confront Olivier about what it the secret of Manderley. Not many roles require such a change and not many actresses would sink her teeth into a part that requires being put-upon until she can't stand no more, and this is one beautiful performance.A movie that should have won more Oscars that year, REBECCA has since grown in stature and proved that a film need not trophies to be Timeless and Great.
his movie is a 10 from the very beginning. The casting is brilliant, the story is hauntingly beautiful, the performances are the best of what Hollywood once was, and the sets are of quality design and architecture. The direction is awesome, but it's Hitchcock, and I expect nothing less from his productions.Rebecca is a glamorous, beautiful socialite who has won the hearts of all who knew her. Well, almost all. But a year after her untimely death, her grieving husband near his wit's end, has grown seemingly suicidal and aloof.He engages his grief while on a trip to Monte Carlo, and meets the beautiful personal secretary and maid of a long-time friend, Mrs. Edythe Van Hopper. She is young, naive, and completely unprepared for the life which is awaiting her; all qualities which George Fortescu Maximillian 'Maxim' de Winter finds endearing.I won't detail the events in this movie, as the story itself is quite haunting, with surprises around every turn.This is a definite "must have" in any suspense / horror / Hitchcock / classics movie collection, and a mandatory must see for all fans of all movies.It rates a 10/10 for its absolute perfection, from...the Fiend :.


                
In a line-up of great motion pictures, "Rebecca" stands as one of the giants. It is arguably Hitchcock's greatest film effort, replete with jolting, slap-in-the-face plot twists and gothic sets. Dark and moody, the film boasts Sir Laurence Olivier and Joan Fontaine in slam-dunk, dead on performances, George Sanders as the deliciously despicable Jack Favell, and Judith Anderson nearly stealing the show as the eerie, obsessed housekeeper, Mrs. Danvers. A perfect "10".


                
In his long career, Alfred Hitchcock directed many great films. Rebecca ranks as one of the greatest. It was the only Hitchcock movie to win a Best Picture Oscar and it was his first Hollywood film after leaving England. This was also the first film in which he adapted someone else's work, the famous novel by de Maurier.This film features all the twists and strange characters you would expect from Hitchcock along with the trademark unexpected ending. Sir Laurence Olivier is great, as usual, as Maximillian de Winter. The stunning Joan Fontaine is wonderful as "the Second Mrs. de Winter". Rebecca is an entertaining thriller by one of the masters of film.


                
A stylishly directed and photographed film that examines a number of themes, such a deception, death and depression, and explores well the emotions of its characters. It is rare to find a film like this, as it tackles various genres, ranging from being a romance to a mystery to a drama to even a comedy at times, and all without seeming pretentious. The cast is truly magnificent. Judith Anderson is a stunner is a quiet but sinister role, and George Sanders is even more impressive in lively but also sinister performance. Laurence Olivier and Joan Fontaine are perfect for their roles too. The film won Academy Awards for Best Picture and Best Cinematography quite deservingly <U+0096> this is one of the best films Hollywood has ever produced.


                
Rebecca is directed by Alfred Hitchcock and adapted to screen play from the Daphne du Maurier novel of the same name. It stars Laurence Olvier, Joan Fontaine and Judith Anderson. Cinematography is by George Barnes and music scored by Franz Waxman.After meeting and marrying 'Maxim' de Winter (Olivier), the Second Mrs. de Winter (Fontaine), finds life at his English estate, Manderley, far from comfortable because the servants and the house serve to remind her of the first Mrs. de Winter, whose death remains a source of mystery. What did happen to the first lady of the house? Can this newly married couple survive the oppressive cloud that looms large over the mansion?A Gothic emotional near masterpiece, Alfred Hitchcock's first American film may seem a bit too serviceable at times, something he was also aware of himself, but the production values are high and the story is played out supremely well. Within the story we can find Hitchcock's now famous trait of mistrusting Women, but in the main it stays the tragic tale of one young woman living in the ominous shadow of the previous Mrs. De Winter. Mood is often set as foreboding, with the director understanding the psychological pangs of the source material once the action switches to the de Winter home of Manderley. It arguably is a touch too long, and the restraint of Hitchcock, down to producer David O. Selznick overseeing things, stops it being a bit more unnerving than it should be.For Manderley the mansion here is one of the finest put on the screen, this is because Hitchcock and brilliant cinematographer George Barnes manage to make it bold & beautiful one minute, and then the next scene it comes off as a monolithic nightmare. It's wonderful case of the surroundings playing the extra character for maximum effect. Laurence Olivier is impressive, even if we would learn later on that this is the sort of performance he could do in his sleep. The supporting cast do great work as well, especially as regards the cold and terrifying turn from Judith Anderson as Mrs. Danvers. However, to me this will always be Joan Fontaine's show, she nails it perfectly, the new Mrs. De Winter wants to do right but can't seem to so for doing wrong, she infuriates at times, yet the next minute you just want to hold her, for she's so vulnerable, but beautifully so, it's a brilliant performance in a brilliant film. The ending is a switheroo from the novel, and it almost derails the success the film has achieved up to that point. And looking at it now it's hard not to curse the Production Code for enforcing a big change to what was revealed in du Maurier's wonderful novel. But the film has survived the "appeasing" ending to stand the test of time for all the ages. It won the Academy Award for Best Picture, and Barnes also won for Best Black & White Cinematography, it was nominated for a further nine awards, including Best Director, Best Actor, Best Actress and Best Supporting Actress. No nomination for Waxman, sadly, but his score is worthy of a mention for the evocative strains that sit nicely with the tone of the story. Rebecca, a hauntingly beautiful picture that's acted and produced with consummate skill. 9.5/10


                
SPOILERS ABOUND!!!!`Last night I dreamt I was at Manderly again.' As with Daphne DuMaurier's novel, so begins Alfred Hitchcock's classic film adaptation, and the only one of his films to be awarded an Academy Award for Best Picture. It should also be noted that the film also won an Oscar for Best Cinematography, Black and White. Hitchcock, Fontaine, Olivier, and Anderson were also nominated in their respective categories.Rebecca was Alfred Hitchcock's first American movie, and much has been written about the interference by David O. Selznick with its production. That is not the purpose of this review, though. Frankly, I don't know all that much about what went on behind the scenes, but I do know that the resulting film is a masterpiece.Rebecca can be divided into three parts: Monte Carlo, Manderly, and the inquest after the discovery of Rebecca' sunken boat.At Monte Carlo, we are introduced to Joan Fontaine's character, a complete nonentity (in fact, we never learn her real name) who is serving as a paid companion to Mrs. Van Hopper, an obnoxious, wealthy matron delightfully played by Florence Bates. While there, she meets George Fortescu Maximillian de Winter (Maxim for short,played by Laurence Olivier), fabulously wealthy and as charming as Mrs. Van Hopper is boorish. Maxim has been traveling trying to recover from his first wife Rebecca's untimely death in a drowning accident. At the end of her stay at Monte Carlo, the young woman is surprised to have Maxim ask her to marry him, although not with as much romance as she would probably have liked, and much to the consternation of her erstwhile employer Mrs. Van Hopper.The movie then takes us to Manderly, the palatial family estate of the de Winter family. Here Fontaine's character truly finds herself out of her depth as the new mistress of Manderly. Not only has she never had to deal with such a large house and a retinue of servants, but she gets a decidedly chilly reception from Mrs. Danvers (Judith Anderson), and everywhere she goes and everyone with whom she speaks reminds her of the beauty and accomplishments of Rebecca. She feels overwhelmed by the specter of Maxim's first wife and of his abiding love for her. Not only that, but Fontaine's character is treated like a child, both in Monte Carlo and at Manderly, whether it is in the dismissive way of Mrs. Van Hopper, the fatherly manner of Maxim, or in the gently patronizing way of Frith, Manderly's head butler. One gets the feeling that the new Mrs. de Winter is a child lost in this great house, afraid of making any false steps.Judith Anderson is amazing as Mrs. Danvers. Although she never raises her voice, and always speaks with seeming respect to her new mistress, Anderson nonetheless allows Mrs. Danver's malevolence to come through. She is the archetype for all the cold-hearted housekeepers who have come since, and none can match her. She never lets Mrs. de Winter forget Rebecca and how she was loved by everyone, especially Maxim. Haunted by the specter of Rebecca, the new Mrs. de Winter seems to feel like an intruder, trespassing on Rebecca's home and sleeping in her bed.Mrs. Danvers finally reveals the depth of her hatred by suggesting a costume for Mrs. de Winter to wear at a party that was originally worn by Rebecca. After Maxim's expected negative reaction, Mrs. Danvers urges her, in arguably the most memorable scene in the movie, to commit suicide by throwing herself from the window. Mrs. de Winter is saved, though, by the wreck of a boat near Manderly and the noise of the rescue that is undertaken.During the course of the rescue, another boat is found: the one in which Rebecca died. Having discovered Rebecca's corpse inside, it is announced that an inquest must take place to investigate her death. When his wife tries to comfort Maxim, he reveals to her the truth behind his relationship with Rebecca: that he hated her, and was trapped by her into a sham of a marriage. He also tells her of how Rebecca died; that he had killed her in a rage and sunk the boat with her body inside. After this revelation, a change comes over the new Mrs. de Winter: she grows up, and is visibly more self-assured. She and Maxim, to a certain extent, reverse roles, in that he loses hope and she must comfort him and reassure him that all will be well, when in fact all seems hopeless. She is now truly the mistress of Manderly.During the inquest, it is discovered that Rebecca's boat was scuttled, and had not capsized as was previously thought. Circumstantial evidence begins to pile up against Maxim, until a visit to Rebecca's personal physician reveals her ultimate betrayal and clears Maxim's name.Rebecca is, essentially, a drama of mystery and romance, and in lesser hands it could easily fall into the trap of melodrama. But Hitchcock's deft direction, the superb cinematography, and the outstanding performances by the entire cast make it one of the greatest romances ever made, and one of my favorite films.
Rebecca (1940)Ah, to see another great movie from those few years when Hollywood peaked, when that combination of art, freshness, and sheer collaborative talent combined over and over. I'm talking from Gone with the Wind to Casablanca, 1939 to 1942. Throw in any number of truly staggering movies in the stretch--Citizen Kane for starters--and we have to almost expect Alfred Hitchcock to fit right in. With Rebecca he does. It's another perfect movie.Daphne Du Maurier's book of the same title is a great read, something short of a literary classic but something better than a mere best-seller. I read it recently, and was completely transported into a land of subtle drama. That sounds like an oxymoron, but when you see this movie you'll notice how people act with restraint, with glances, with quiet actions, and yet achieve a grandiose, dramatic effect that tears your heart out. It's an archetypal story about a girl who seems to have a dream come true marrying a charming and very wealthy man.But of course, there are skeletons in this man's closet, and Lawrence Olivier plays the inner struggle of Maxim close to the chest. More openly troubled by events, and so sympathetic your heart jumps out of your chest, is the girl, his wife, played by Joan Fontaine. Now here is a performance that is just incredible. She even changes her presence as her innocence slowly bleeds away from start to finish. If the two of them never quite have sparks fly, they're not supposed to. But Hitchcock has done more than chosen a great, cinematic novel and two amazing actors (as well as a flawless supporting cast). With the most romantic, lush sets, delirious lights, and rich, layered photography, all fluidly combined to create scenes so beautiful you can almost taste it, the director has shown, again, that he understands the intuitive power of the cinema. It isn't the outward brilliance of any one scene or shot, or any one conversation that the camera follows invisibly, or any flinging of the curtains to reveal only more fog or sheer obscurity. It's the pacing and sequence of these moments that sucks you into the world and won't let you go.Well, it's no surprise, maybe, that Rebecca won best picture and best cinematography at the Oscars. And it was up against The Letter, The Grapes of Wrath, and The Philadelphia Story, all of which are more proof that the movies of this period are a zenith of a certain kind of Hollywood. The studio system. (Yes, there are hundreds of other great movies from other years, but I'm not really trying to make my case here.) Hitchcock never won an Oscar for best director (neither did Welles), but he could have here without fault. As much as this is just a movie to get lost in and enjoy, it's also a movie you could watch over and over and study.


                
I can not help feeling that the hostility between the producer and director on the one hand and the main actors on the other hand resulted in such a unique and excellent film. REBECCA is a mystery drama with elements of Gothic style that captivates completely. The director deliberately provoked gloomy atmosphere on the set. Despite that the actors are perfectly done their job.The beginning of the film is reminiscent of a typical romance or "Cinderella" story in which a little bit of stink. After the wedding story becomes very anxious mystery with a strong dramaturgy and excellent acting. Set design is incredibly fit with the atmosphere. Emotion and cold alternating. Despite repeated plots this movie I would not describe as a thriller. Rebecca is a film about violence against relations and ties with the past. Voltage, typical in Hitchcock's creative work, there is more than just entering the Manderley, not wane even after the last scene.Joan Fontaine as the second Mrs. de Winter is a common companion and plain, simple girl who becomes the mistress of a huge estate and wife of a man of high lineage. It becomes Mrs. De Winter, but how to do it, when the first Mrs. de Winter still there? Fontaine probably had no idea how her mood affect the perfection of character. In Hollywood she entered through the front door.Laurence Olivier as Maxim de Winter, owner of Manderley is habitually cold and sharp. In the second part of the film his emotions rise to the surface. Olivier is certainly one of the few actors who make a small play in conflict with his own emotions.Perhaps the animosity was as good a reason of attraction between Olivier and Fontaine on the screen.Judith Anderson as Mrs. Danvers, housekeeper of Manderley is the perfect villain for this opportunity. The terrifying stillness, cold look, lack of emotion, facial expression that suggests hatred etc. Hitch is through this character touched two controversial topics psychological violence by women and lesbianism.The film is little you can complain about, one that nicely rounded whole, diverse genres, accompanied by fine music theme by Franz Waxman. With Laurence Olivier in the title role, a triple Oscar winner and founder of the British National Theatre, Hitchcock as a director and an intriguing storyline. Rebecca is absolutely brilliant film with shades of threatening the past, violent and tragic present and an uncertain future.


                
I was so scared when I watched this film as a kid. Mrs. Danvers is scarier than any vampire, she appears and disappears almost like a ghost, so ominous it's clear something must be terribly wrong with this household. One almost expects her to announce, "This is Hell and I am the Devil." For the young woman that moves into this house (Joan Fontaine), she sure is. A new wife of the owner, Max de Winter, she feels small and insignificant, constantly unfavorably compared to Rebecca, the deceased first wife, by Mrs. Danvers, the housekeeper. We see her roaming about the gigantic house, lost and confused. She doesn't even have a name and Rebecca does, still the lady of the manor, as ever. We never see a picture of Rebecca though, and our mind, just like the young Mrs. de Winter's, can't stop trying to imagine the greatest beauty to ever grace the earth. She was prettier than Joan Fontaine! Her husband Max, played by Laurence Olivier, doesn't help her much with his constant put-downs. Olivier was perhaps a better film actor than he had thought of himself. The film shifts from romcom, to psychological, to very real horror. Cynics would say, the natural stages of any marriage. But in the masterful hands of Alfred Hitchcock, it's art. The Selznick production - impeccable, as always. Judith Anderson as Mrs. Danvers will forever give me nightmares. Oh, the glory days when women were villains!


                
'Rebecca' is Alfred Hitchcock's most beautiful film. Closely based on the novel by Daphne du Maurier, the film follows the romance and subsequent marriage between an unworldly young woman and Mr. Maxim de Winter, a wealthy widower and owner of the lavish estate Manderley. From its famous opening line, "Last night I dreamt I went to Manderley again<U+0085>" the film transports us into a dream-like world where fears of unworthiness and incompetence predominate, and the specter of Maxim's first wife, Rebecca, reproaches the young Mrs. De Winter at every turn.The casting in 'Rebecca' is impeccable. Joan Fontaine plays the wallflower wife (nameless in both the film and the novel) of Maxim de Winter. Fontaine brings to the role the perfect blend of hand wringing, stutters and stumbling around, while managing to look absolutely lovely doing it. Her performance is beautifully understated and full of sincerity and quiet charm. Lawrence Oliver was the obvious choice to play the moody and unpredictable Maxim given his earlier (and equally excellent) portrayal of Heathcliff in William Wyler's 1939 adaptation of 'Wurthering Heights'. However, it is Judith Anderson's haunting presence in the role of Manderley's housekeeper, Mrs. Danvers, that really steals the show. Anderson captures the nuances of this conflicted, complex woman who is often a stronger and more compelling character than Mrs. De Winter, the dreamy heroine. The scene in which Mrs. Danvers gives Mrs. De Winter a tour of Rebecca's former bedroom is among the most powerful in the film.'Rebecca' is beautifully scripted throughout, drawing heavily on du Maurier's original text. One key difference between novel and film, however, is that Maxim's culpability in Rebecca's death is largely mitigated in the film version, while in the novel he explicitly confesses to intentional murder. One can debate the merits of this choice - it certainly brings the film to a more conventional resolution, where Maxim is permitted to assume a semi-heroic role and the demands of moral conduct are satisfied. But this comes at the expense of du Maurier's original intention, which would have allowed a moral ambiguity to cloud the interpretation of the characters of Maxim and, especially, Rebecca.Ultimately, 'Rebecca' is among the most lovely and elegant pictures ever made. It does full justice to Daphne du Maurier's complex novel about relationships and the judgments and circumstances that divide them. Highly recommended to all fans of classic cinema and literature.
A young woman is in Monte Carlo, working as a ladies' companion, when she meets the recently-widowered, and very wealthy, Maxim De Winter. They fall in love and get married soon thereafter. The De Winters take up residence in Maxim's family estate, Manderley. Mrs De Winter finds it hard to fit in. The presence of Maxim's deceased wife, Rebecca, seems to permeate through the house and Mrs De Winter can't shake the feeling that she is constantly being compared to her and that she is an interloper. Mrs. Danvers, Rebecca's personal maid, also takes care to make things as uncomfortable as possible for the new Mrs De Winter. Mrs De Winter has the constant fear that memories of Rebecca will drive her and Maxim apart. Over time, she grows to know more and more about Rebecca...Brilliant psychological drama, based on a Daphne Du Maurier novel and directed by Alfred Hitchcock. Carries all of the Hitchcock trademarks - the slow-burning intensity, the mystery, the psychological games, the twists and the powerful conclusion.While the plot does develop slowly, especially in the early-to- middle section, this movie is by no means boring. More than engaging, it is a totally immersive experience. You see everything through Mrs De Winter's eyes, feeling her apprehension and fears and love for her husband.At a point, the plot takes off and then we have intrigue upon intrigue, with some great revelations and twists along the way. Powerful, profound ending.Excellent performances from Sir Laurence Olivier (though that's a given) and Joan Fontaine in the lead roles. Both received Oscar nominations, as did Judith Anderson for playing Mrs. Danvers. Hitchcock received his first (of five) Best Director Oscar nominations for this movie.The movie itself won the 1941 Best Picture Oscar, beating out, amongst others, another masterpiece - The Grapes of Wrath.


                
What else can you say about Alfred Hitchcock's "Rebecca"? It's still a startling production. Most obviously, it's one of the most perfect "Gothic" dramas produced; making a very steady transformation from Daphne du Maurier novel to film, it gives the genre refreshing celluloid life. Mr. Hitchcock directs star Joan Fontaine (as Mrs. De Winter) to the top of her profession; her guilty, frightened performance is a model for the reluctant Gothic heroine. Mysterious Laurence Olivier (as Maxim De Winter) and the supporting cast are perfect; with sinister Judith Anderson (as Mrs. Danvers) raising her character to striking icon status. Ms. Anderson's excessive fondness for "Rebecca", and the understated perverseness of sexuality between Mr. Olivier and both Mrs. De Winters, gives the film a edginess not permitted at the time. And, it was all enhanced by Hitchcock's expressive direction of George Barnes' camera. Haunting. ********** Rebecca (3/27/40) Alfred Hitchcock ~ Joan Fontaine, Laurence Olivier, Judith Anderson, George Sanders


                
David O. Selznick might have had more of an influence over this production than some might think- as with many of his films- and he is the one who ended up receiving the Oscar, not director Alfred Hitchcok, for the 1940 mystery-drama-romance Rebecca. But it is to the credit of both that, for the most part, it looks as if both tried to stay out of each other's way and just put up as good as film as they could. And it is a credit to Hitchcock that with a certain change from what one might see in his perhaps more entertaining films of the 50's and 60's also shows his knack at making great romantic Hollywood movie-making. He is given a plethora of the best of English acting talents (Olivier of course is hyped and hyped again just like Brando, but his work is undeniably good here, and yet it's Joan Fontaine who quietly makes her mark quite powerfully even when she is reserved in scenes), lush sets and production decor, a solid 'studio' score by Frank Waxman, and some memorable sequences and set-pieces. There is also some solid storytelling as well with his usual knack at unraveling a mystery piece by piece, with love, loss and deception at the core.Part of the film's success, however, is as attributable to the factor of it being one of the best "chick-flicks" in history that the film works today. And this time I mean it pretty much as a compliment, perhaps more to Selznick than anyone (Gone with the Wind, of course). The appeal that might usually go mostly for women is not lost at all on the male audience due to the sheer power and hints at what the two main actresses go for. Fontaine is the "2nd" Mrs. De Winter, who elopes with the Mr. played by Olivier and goes to live in Manderlay and meets some of the family and other folks. One of these is the one who has maybe the most interesting (naturally, as the antagonist) character, Mrs. Danvers played by Judith Anderson. Her's is a cold, exacting kind of character who has the straightforward, stern attitude of the ma'am of the house, but also with some dark secrets. It's not to say Hitchcock doesn't hav his eye out for other supporting parts and characters (I liked particularly the old guy who's at the shack where the majority of the secrets are house). But he also is able to get the character the audience will dislike the most as the more fascinating of the bunch, and Anderson is up to task.I wouldn't rush to see this as the first Hithcock film to see if you haven't seen one yet, but as an example of what he could direct aside from his outrageous and masterpiece works in the following years this is a fit example. It's also got, basically, an excellent story, and is pumped up with the best of Hollywood decorum and spectacle, with a big fire of an ending that practically on its own makes it worthwhile enough to see.


                
I was quite interested in the film while I was watching it, but when it ended, I didn't feel impacted. Very soon afterwards, however, my mind began to feel very heavy. The first words of the film came floating back to me: "Last night I dreamt I went to Manderly again." I ruminated over the events of the film, and I began to tear up a bit. It creates one of the most unsettling atmospheres ever to exist in a film. I still feel enshrouded in the mist and smoke that curled around Manderly. I can tell that this is going to be one of those films that, when I recall it to memory, I will fall back into its mood. I can't say this for too many films.One of the reasons that I connected with it so tightly was the main character, the narrator, the new Mrs. de Winter. Joan Fontaine was perfect in this film. Out of the ones with whom I am familiar, I don't think that there is another Hitchcock heroine who was as well developed. Kim Novak's character Judy from Vertigo was close, and so was Janet Leigh's character Marion Crane from Psycho. Those two heroines provoked great pity in my soul. But the heroine of Rebecca beats them all.I was completely involved with her. She begins as little more than a slave to a domineering woman, Edythe van Hopper (their relationship was a little confusing to me; a hired friend? This made me suspicious. I think that there was a lot of suggestive lesbianism in this film, perhaps between van Hopper and the heroine, but definitely between Rebecca and Ms. Danvers. Watch as she delicately shows the second Mrs. de Winters Rebecca's underwear. Also notice that Rebecca used Ms. Danvers' name at the doctor's office, having gone there to find out whether or not she was pregnant). The heroine only escapes from one owner to go to her next owner, Maxim de Winters. He treats her even more cruelly than Edythe van Hopper did, calling her a "little fool" and an "idiot." When he called her those names and reprimanded her, I trembled. As the movie went on, I think my mind actually became fused with the heroine's. I started to cry when she did after Ms. Danvers tortured her psychologically. When Ms. Danvers tried to convince her to jump out of the window, I felt as if I was about to fall to my death.I became rather disappointed when the focus moves from the heroine to Maxim. His predicament became more interesting near the end, but my sympathies, my whole attention were squarely focused on Fontaine's character. Thus arose my initial impression of the film. This small disruption can be forgiven, because the film as a whole just remains in my mind as a sad, beautiful masterpiece.Rebecca is one of Hitchcock's best films. Definitely a 10/10.


                
Rebecca is one film I could watch over and over. It is definitely one of Hitchcock's masterpieces. I recently saw the DVD version for the first time, which had the screen tests and some of Selznick's memos. My favorite was the memo that said, "Please don't say anything to Larry and Vivien" referring to the fact that Vivien Leigh wanted the Fontaine role so that she could be with Olivier. Though her second screen test was better than her first, in my mind, I've always pictured Leigh as the actual Rebecca, were she ever shown.The casting is perfect, with Joan Fontaine as the insecure Mrs. de Winter, coldly manipulated and laughed at by Mrs. Danvers, as expertly portrayed by Judith Anderson. Jack Favell is Rebecca's sly cousin, beautifully played by George Sanders. Olivier is gorgeous as Max, mysterious and distant. He utters two of the all-time most devastating lines heard in a relationship: "Happiness is something I know very little about. If you say we're happy, let's leave it at that." I have one quibble with "Rebecca," which is very minor. There were just a few too many shots of Rebecca's initials. But I loved seeing that R in the last shot.


                
This movie is very close to the actual book, written by Daphne du Maurier. I read the book after I first saw the movie. The similarities are amazing. When I first saw this movie I fell in love with it. I never really liked black and white movies but this one caught my attention right off the bat. The love story is amazing. Alfred Hitchcock is an amazing man. I don't want to spoil the movie. It is a must see!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Laurence Olivier, Joan Fontaine and Judith Anderson are well paired. The ending of the movie is definitely a surprise! It was a pleasure to visually experience the early way movies where put together and the difference between the 1930 to the present.


                
What other word can describe such a piece of art? The Selznick/Hitchcock team may have been very strained relation-wise, but it proved to turn out one heck of a motion picture. The photography is awesome. The shadows cast all over Manderley are beautiful. The performances are dead-on. Joan Fontaine deserved the Oscar, but Judith Anderson is the best here. She never misses a note as the sinister Mrs. Danvers.The basic summary is this: Maxim de Winter (Laurence Olivier) takes his second wife (Fontaine) back to his large estate Manderley, where his bride is terrorized by memories of Maxim's first wife, Rebecca.There is no other movie that can compare. A perfect 10.


                
Out of all of the movies of Hollywood's Golden Age, "Rebecca" is certainly one of the best. It's an excellent mystery movie! Everything about this movie shines, beginning with the story itself. I really liked the story, in which the title character is a dead woman whose "presence" still lingers in many ways. The plot takes quite an unexpected turn near the end of the movie, when a shocking revelation is made. This revelation has a significant effect on the main characters. Speaking of characters, the performances of all the actors are outstanding. I loved Joan Fontaine's performance in this movie. It is one of the greatest female performances. What I liked about her performance most is that she plays a very shy woman. That's not something you see very often in movies. Fontaine plays her character with a lot of realism. She gets married to a wealthy widower, without having any knowledge of the lifestyle that awaits her. You can't help but be moved by her character's innocence and her desire to do the "right" thing, despite her timidness. You can understand the reasons for her character's confusion in being "the second wife", and her feelings of isolation when she is inevitably compared to the late Rebecca. Another really good performance is that of Judith Anderson as the sinister housekeeper, Mrs. Danvers. I especially liked the bedroom window scene where Anderson is telling the depressed Fontaine what she ought to do with her life. I love the expression on Fontaine's face in that scene. Also, Laurence Olivier gives a great performance as the husband, who has ambivalent feelings toward Fontaine. Furthermore, the sets were amazing. As a mystery movie and as a movie in general, "Rebecca" is excellent in every way. **** out of ****.


                
I admit to being confused by the first twenty minutes or so of this film. This might be the last Alfred Hitchcock movie I ever saw as I've seen almost all his other well known films. It really is great to see this evolve into a movie truly worthy of his namesake! Almost all his films are horror or mystery or at least thriller. This is a film that definitely got better as it went along. It just got better and better atmosphere as it went on. You would think the main female character in this movie would be named Rebecca, right? Nope, that's actually her husband's deceased wife who never even appears.It's amazing to see how much is done in this movie. The husband shows off their home movies even though they just got married. It will make more sense as more is revealed about the story. I feel bad for not finding the Hitchcock cameo in this! It turns out you can barely see his face at all and I had to watch a supercut to make sure it was him. Yeah, I'm such a nerd and I have heard of people who watch his movies just to see his cameos. It's over two hours in, a record! The strange thing is that it begins with opening narration. It ends without any, so it's hard to tell if she's actually telling the story. It was certainly unpredictable, as expected from any of his movies. This may be one of his earliest films that's really consider one of the best of all time as it would be over ten years that "Psycho", "The Birds", "Vertigo", "North By Northwest", AND "Rear Window" would come out. It's always nice to see when an artist first becomes an expert! This is a must see for anyone. I personally don't find this as good as most of the movies that I just mentioned, but that's still a compliment for someone as good as him! Perfect ****.


                
One of Hitchcock's finest films, and in my top five of all time. What can I say about this movie? I'll start with Joan Fontaine- perfection. In her long career she never equaled her performance as the Second Mrs. De Winter. Incidentally, she was given an Oscar the following year for her role in Suspicion, a vastly inferior film. Obviously a make-up vote by the Academy. When I first saw Rebecca years ago I fell in love with Joan, and I remain so to this day. She proved everyone wrong, including Olivier himself (who incidentally wanted his fiancee Vivien Leigh to play the part) who said she couldn't handle the role. Could you imagine Leigh as the Second Mrs. De Winter? No, no one could have been better than Joan Fontaine.I would like to address some comments made by other reviewers: First, the issue of lesbianism. After reading the novel by Daphne Du Maurier, I understood much better Mrs. Danvers obsessive devotion to Rebecca. Turns out she had been Rebecca's "maid", or "governess" since childhood. Strangely, we are not made aware of this in the film. Whether it was omitted deliberately to suggest that Danvers was a lesbian is anyone's guess. It's certainly suggestive, but it's hard to believe Rebecca would have returned any feelings to the loathsome Danvers, either for her looks or her personality. Danvers' obsession seems much more likely to stem from the fact that she had known and cared for Rebecca since childhood, and lived vicariously through her and her high social position.Second, the issue of chemistry between Fontaine and Olivier. It's obvious Olivier is dissatisfied with his co-star, and it creates an interesting effect. I see Rebecca as a story about a man perhaps incapable of expressing love. From their on screen interactions, it's clear to me that De Winter cares deeply for his new bride, but just doesn't know how to show it. Or perhaps his spirit remains poisoned from Rebecca's cruelty. Fontaine's character, meanwhile, is the personification of love and devotion, and will do anything for her Maxim. This is also the feel I get from the novel about both characters. What we see on screen is two people in love, caught in a spider's web woven by the ghost of Rebecca. And there's nothing wrong with that. They don't smolder like Bogart and Bacall, but perhaps they will learn to after the shadow of Rebecca has been vanquished.*spoiler alert* Another important difference from the novel is Rebecca's death. In the novel Maxim shoots her through the heart; on screen, he strikes her but she later stumbles and hits her head on a piece of ships tackle. This could have been changed because of the Motion Picture Code back then, which didn't allow for "villains" to go unpunished. If Maxim had killed her, he would have had to pay for it. Or, another interesting possibility is that Maxim lied about it. Maybe he really did kill her and made up the accident? Seems more Hitch's style. Intriguing, though unlikely. But, I digress.The storyline in Rebecca flows smoothly with a steady, highly suspenseful pace. Little by little, we see through Fontaine's eyes and hear through her through ears as more and more of Rebecca's secrets are revealed. We watch her painful ordeal as she struggles to force her meek personality on the imposing domain of Manderly. And in the end, she succeeds.The use of light and shadow in this film is unsurpassed in any black and white film I have seen. The presence of Manderly is constantly thrown on Fontaine's character through the ornate windows, casting their shadows on her. When Beatrice tells her in the study that "Mrs. Danvers simply adored Rebecca", we see a close-up of her profile in full lighting as she turns her head in shock and despair, and everything in the background fades to darkness. Hitchcock is showing us how heavily the specter of Rebecca weighs on her mind; she shuts everything and everyone else out.I could go on well past 1000 words about Rebecca. I even loosely based one of the characters in a novel of mine on the Second Mrs. De Winter, and in describing her I quoted Olivier, saying she had that "funny, young lost look I loved." Rebecca should never be lost or forgotten. This film remains an ageless, timeless masterpiece by one of the greatest filmakers of all time.
Based on the novel by Daphne du Maurier, the classic psychological thriller Rebecca was Alfred Hitchcock's first American project. The film's screenplay was an adaptation by Joan Harrison and Robert E. Sherwood from Philip MacDonald's and Michael Hogan's adaptation of Daphne du Maurier's novel of the same title.It features Laurence Olivier as the aristocratic widower Maxim de Winter, Joan Fontaine as his second wife, and Judith Anderson as the housekeeper, Mrs. Danvers.It is a Gothic tale about the lingering memory of the title character, Maxim de Winter's dead first wife, which continues to haunt Maxim, his new bride, and Mrs. Danvers.A young woman works as a companion to the well-to-do Mrs. Van Hopper.She meets the wealthy widower Maxim de Winter in Monte Carlo, where they fall in love and get married. Maxim takes his new bride to Manderlay, a large country estate in Cornwall. However, the mansion's many servants refuse to accept her as the new lady of the house. They seem to be loyal to Maxim's first wife, Rebecca, who died under mysterious circumstances. Particularly cruel to her is the prim housekeeper Mrs. Danvers, who is obsessed with Rebecca. She continually attests to her beauty and virtues and even preserves her former bedroom as a shrine. The new Mrs. de Winter is nearly driven to madness as she begins to doubt her relationship with her husband and the presence of Rebecca starts to haunt her. Eventually, an investigation leads to the revelation about Rebecca's true nature.Hitchcock's first American film is a masterpiece of haunting atmosphere, Gothic thrills, and gripping suspense.It's an elegant production, beautifully photographed and designed like a dream house shrouded in mourning, but it also favors the pictorial over the cinematic and surface over subtext.Added to that,this classic female Gothic romance, beautifully adapted from Daphne du Maurier's novel is hauntingly accompanied by Franz Waxman's score.And it offers no overt violence or thrills, it is a model of sustained mystery and eerie suspense.Overall,it is an ageless, timeless adult movie about a woman who marries a widower but fears she lives in the shadow of her predecessor.
Winner, Best Picture, 1941.A typical Hitchock-ian thriller combined with a few brilliant performances by the cast. The movie begins like a typical Romance flick of the late 30s but as the movie goes on, the plot gets interesting. I was certain that the movie would be a vapid experience, but i was forced to budge.One mistress makes way to another, one mystery gives rise to another. The review is incomplete without praising Hitchcock's direction, the editing and the brilliant camera work that add to the suspense and tense moments that the movie is totally comprised of.And like every Hitchcock movie, it has a denouement that really makes your perception of the film till that moment go astray leaving you shell-shocked as to how he could turn the story like the steering wheel of a car.Hats off!
With "Rebecca" about to hit the Broadway stage (as a musical!), I thought it was time to write my review of perhaps my favorite Hitchcock film. I recall the first time I saw this on TV almost 30 years ago on the late show, I had set my VCR to tape it, but woke up to start watching a bit of it, and stayed up all night to watch it all. That's how good a film it is. Daphne Du Maurier's tale of a shy companion who shocks her employer by winning the most desired wealthy widow in England is gripping, suspenseful, and filled with innuendo. Joan Fontaine never gave a more lovely performance as the awkward bride who leaves her hysterically selfish employer (Florence Bates) to marry the brooding Maxim De Winter (Laurence Olivier) and finds animosity from the darkly dressed Mrs. Danver (Judith Anderson) who resents her intrusion because of her devotion to Maxim's late wife, Rebecca. The mystery of how Rebecca died and what kind of woman she really was is explored, and with the intrusion of scoundrel George Sanders and some well-meaning advice from Maxim's toothy sister (Gladys Cooper), the new Mrs. De Winter (her first name is never revealed) finds out more than she bargained for.If you thought Olivier's Heathcliff in "Wuthering Heights" was dark and somewhat depressing, wait until you meet his more civilized Maxim. Joan Fontaine's bride is as far from Merle Oberon's "wild and sweet" Cathy as you can find, but as far as Gothic tales of brooding men and their lost souls go, the two movies make a perfect double feature. Samuel Goldwyn and David Selznick were Hollywood's most famous independent producers, so sometimes their careers are compared. They share many of the same players, and in the case of these two films, the same photographer (Gregg Toland). Fontaine and Olivier work well on screen together, even though they apparently did not share a close working relationship. It is, however, the supporting players who are the shining stars. Anderson's Mrs. Danvers is a role we've already seen on screen (usually played by Gale Sondergaard), but being Anderson's second film (and first in 7 years), there was a lot of curiosity surrounding her considering her reputation as one of Broadway's hottest dramatic actresses. Mrs. Danvers isn't a one dimensional evil housekeeper; You understand her affection for the late Rebecca from the very beginning, and in every movement Anderson makes, you cannot take your eyes off of her. I can't praise her highly enough. Sanders' suave villain (who playfully calls Mrs. Danvers "Danny") is extremely likable and almost equal in stealing away the attention of the leads. Gladys Cooper and Nigel Bruce add on a delightful "pip pip" quality to their eccentric characters, while in her brief time on screen, Florence Bates is hysterically funny, putting out a cigarette in her cold cream, and coolly telling Fontaine how she can never truly be a "great lady".Every moment here is a classic movie memory, from the opening narration to Fontaine's first vision of De Winter, and then, the rainy ride down to where Fontaine sees Mandalay for the first time. The light first quarter darkens the moment we see Anderson pop into view as Mrs. Danvers. A cold pause, then "How Do You Do" reveals the tension, and from there, everything is set. Anderson explodes in two scenes-the first where she finds the hiding Fontaine in Rebecca's old room, and later, when Fontaine confronts Anderson after discovering her treachery. The film sags just a bit with the discovery of a body that might be Rebecca's, but that is minor. C. Aubrey Smith is memorable in his small role as Maxim's attorney. The final shot will live on in your memory, just as Mandalay lived on in the second Mrs. De Winter's.While "Rebecca" won Best Film at that year's Academy Awards, many film historians prefer the message drama "The Grapes of Wrath" as the better film. I find the two rank very close, and also quibble over between the choice of Jane Darwell for Supporting Actress over Anderson's Mrs. Danvers. A big mistake was not nominating Sanders. A BBC version years later is also very good, a bit more faithful to the novel, and benefits from Diana Rigg as a more approachable Mrs. Danvers and a very diva-ish performance by Faye Dunaway in the Florence Bates role.
This is one of the finest movie I've ever seen, the cast was excellent and the acting especially Joan fontaine was top-notch: she missed the Oscar though. I've seen around 14 movies of Hitch and this comes close second to Vertigo. The atmosphere, the sceneries were all brilliant, the mystery in the atmosphere was handled well. Great!


                
