In kissing off her nasty, disapproving guardian (Mrs. von Hoffstetter) and improbably marrying wealthy Maxim de Winter, nameless, socially-retarded servant Joan Fontaine leaps from the frying pan into the fire. Van Hoffstetter is instantly replaced by the awful, iron-willed, disdaining housekeeper at her new estate, Mrs. Danvers; some sort of nightmare embodiment of all that's wrong and masochistic about British servitude. Not able to get over her own mousiness, Fontaine develops a fear of Danvers, and a bizarre inverted power-dynamic develops. The plot (eventually) thickens...The big revelations are hopelessly convoluted and plot-negating. Here's the final hour's worth of conflicts which all reverse themselves into pointlessness. --- Maxim can't bear to be reminded of Rebecca apparently because she was such a paragon of womanhood. Oh, but wait, he actually hated her; what a stroke of luck for our heroine! --- Someone else is buried in Rebecca's grave, meaning (gasp!), Rebecca's still alive? Nope, she's dead anyway. --- Rebecca was a conniving bitch and was provoking Maxim to kill her? Oh, but luckily, she accidentally fell and died anyway. --- Rebecca was probably pregnant making it look like Maxim killed her? Oh, but no, luckily she was full of cancer and would have died that month anyway. OH come on already! Such poor writing. One of these limp developments would have been too much. Generally, we don't go to a movie to watch dumb luck neutralize a catalog of threats in someone's life.Rebecca is unusually slow and uneventful. I've rented this three times previously, out of a sense of obligation, and fallen asleep each time, after no more than 45 minutes; and never finished it. The idle rich are shown having lots of time to be idle and fret about obscure things; pretty dull, unless you're into time-jumping, class-fantasy. I watched it recalling that the British pretty much consider their upper-class to be lunatics. I fell asleep again this time, but trudged on just to be through with it, once and for all. At the first twist, the damned thing should have ended, but there's still about an hour of reversals left! It's decidedly un-Hitchcockian except for Hitch's odd use of miniatures and rear-screen, which is becoming distracting here. A puppet of Mrs. Danvers closing a tiny window is unconvincing even at the scale of TV. This is a dull, clumsy, overlong melodrama with tedious, long-delayed segments devoted to exposition. There's also a costume ball; a bankrupt cliché if there ever was one. Rebecca is a bad movie.
This review won't be accepted gracefully on this website but at least I am honest in telling you this was a big disappointment to me, considering all the great reviews I read (not here) prior to seeing it. Some of that praise is simply because it's an Alfred Hitchcock movie with "Hitch" being a big favorite among national critics.Even though I own a good amount of classic films, this was way too slow, way too corny and old-fashioned. I should re-purchase this film and use it the next time time I have trouble getting to sleep at night.Joan Fontaine has a nice, pretty wholesome face but that's about it. Her character in this was just plain stupid and got worse as the film wore on, especially at the end. Judith Anderson, whom I read was so "creepy" in this, was not anywhere near as evil as built up to be. As usual, the real-life wacko, George Sanders, is the most interesting actor in the film.Having said all that, I do want to highly praise the sets and camera effort of this movie. The best part of this melodrama was the cinematography with some wonderful scenes inside "Mandaly" (the mansion). The cameras did a great job with the use of shadows, some of the best I've ever seen. Without the visual treats, I doubt I could have stayed with this 130-minute film.


                
Given the huge acclaim and having enjoyed many of Hitchcock's other works, I really was looking forward to 'Rebecca'. The film starts with widower Maxim pursuing Fontaine's character which leads to marriage. The early sequences are full of clichés and bad acting especially by Olivier. From the marriage point, then on Hitchcock successfully sets an atmospheric tone once the viewer is introduced to Manderlay. The cinematography and lighting is brilliant. Though Rebecca is dead, even the viewer feels her looming presence that suffocates the second Mrs. De Winter. Consequently, her marriage to Maxim is on the rocks.However, after the sequence where Rebecca's body is discovered in a sunken boat, the movie goes rapidly downhill. There writing gets very shoddy as it changes into a contrived murder mystery with too many inconsistencies. Even the cute Joan Fontaine's Mrs. De Winter loses bearing (just like the plot). At this point I got so tired that I was desperately hoping for the closing credits to roll. Fontaine was excellent as the naive pushover bride up until this aforementioned turn of events when the character loses focus. Laurence Olivier overacts. But, it is Judith Anderson who steals the show as the intimidating Mrs. Danvers.I don't understand why 'Rebecca' is recognized as one of his most accomplished work. To me it is far from Hitchcock's best. It's his worst of what I've seen.


                
This movie was an okay movie, but kind of dragged on a bit and became very disappointing to realize that no "ghost of Rebecca" is anywhere in the film. Rebecca is only mentioned by individuals who remembered her. Her ghost doesn't appear or possess anyone and yet this is consider a ghost story...which it clearly isn't.I enjoyed the movie for the most part, but also was again a little disappointed. I only rented this movie because I read online that it was a great ghost story, and I happen to love watching movies about ghost and the supernatural. Again, this movie isn't a movie about a ghost at all. I'm not saying it's a bad movie, it is fairly decent, but is very slow paced.
