I stick by my other Hitchcock comments, comments that have produced lots of negative responses.Hitchcock was a terrific craftsman who after many, many tries made two really superb movies. Movies that can be life-altering and changed the face of cinema. This is not one of them.Those two cast a light of genius on his other work that is undeserved. This film is often cited as a great example of how coherently he was able to weave all his skills. I agree, but only two are remarkable: Fontaine's performance in the first half where she shrinks in her new situation. And the use of the house. But the story is so dull and plodding it cripples the pleasure of a craftsmanlike film.The house is similar to many in other films. But already with this movie, Hitchcock has a camera that is curious. Hard to recognize how unusual that is today because such a stance is so common now, but the idea of having a camera come from non-human perspectives but with human behavior was unique to him.And he uses the building well. We get a hint of this in the opening sequence. There is a collection of absolutely dreadful shots of fog, and an equally dreadful narration by Fontaine, but then we are taken through the gates up the drive. In an ordinary film of the era, the gates would open or the camera would go through the space between the two halves.But this camera goes through a "solid" part of upper right gate. That effect was costly and we get the message early that this is about space. The pounding on the fog metaphor is blunter report of the same message.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.


                
A young, sweet and naive girl from humble origins (Joan Fontaine) catches the eye of a wealthy aristocratic widower Maxim de Winter (Laurence Olivier). One whirlwind romance later they're married and moving back into his ancestral home called Manderley. But almost immediately she has to start dealing with begrudging staff and the proverbial ghost of the previous Mrs. de Winter.The film managed to surprise me pleasantly. Because let me tell you, the first third of this film is boring. It's so absolutely boring. A young woman moves into an old manor, terrible things start to happen, et cetera, et cetera. But, seeing that this was directed by Alfred Hitchcock, it really shouldn't have surprised me that it didn't remain that boring. The movie changed directions abruptly, and then again. When it got to the final few minutes, I'd call it outright brilliant.Hitchcock also manages to inflict the film with a lot of flair. It was his debut in the United States and was met with almost universal approval, including Hitchcock's first and only Academy Award for Best Picture. And I'd say it's earned. It's an old movie, but filled with a lot of neat tricks and touches. Things you'd nod your head approvingly at even in modern films. The mood is built with almost surgical precision, the soundtrack supports this beautifully and the characters keep revealing new sides of themselves.Is it the best film Hitchcock ever made? No, it's not, but it's still a great watch for all fans of mystery and suspense. And quite a different love story as well, if you're looking for that as well.


                
Nearly 20 years before "Vertigo", Alfred Hitchcock made another film featuring romantic atmosphere, social misfits, a possible ghost, and male-female frustration. Except in "Rebecca's" case, it was from the woman's point of view."Rebecca" features identity confusion as well, in this case pitting a woman without a face against another without a name. Joan Fontaine is the nameless one here, paid to keep a miserable battleaxe company until she is whisked away in Monte Carlo by rich, debonair Maxim de Winter (Laurence Olivier). It's a perfect fantasy except that the place he lives, Manderley, is a perfect nightmare."We're happy, aren't we?" the bride asks at one point. "Terribly happy!" The problem's the dead former Mrs. de Winter whose first name is the movie's title. Based on a best-selling novel by Daphne Du Maurier, Rebecca's malign spell is captured in the ornate but shadowy set decoration, a creepy Franz Waxman score, and the raven-like Mrs. Danvers (Judith Anderson), a maid who pops out of corners of the frame offering unwanted advice on how "the late Mrs. de Winter" would have wanted things.Beaky, unblinking Mrs. Danvers is one reason guys might find this film frustrating. If she's so nasty, just send her packing, right? But Mrs. D works for me because of the heroine's trembly manner. Fontaine wears her character's insecurity very well. She wants to be on Mrs. Danvers' good side, which only mines "Danny's" contempt. Still devoted to Rebecca, a spellbinding force for whom "love was a game", Mrs. Danvers's perverse loyalty prompts a jealous cruelty. In "The Shining", we learn that people leave traces of themselves in strange buildings after they're gone, like "if someone burns toast". In "Rebecca", Mrs. Danvers IS the burned toast.Olivier is a bit of a stiff here, though it suits the part. It's a woman's-eye story all the way, with a real tough-love male to draw out his lover's unquenchable spirit. He wins her over to him with such lines as "I should have asked you to have had lunch with me even if you hadn't upset the vase so clumsily" and "I'm asking you to marry me, you little fool". He probably sent her out for Chinese food on their honeymoon, too.The movie moves very slowly, stringing out every hurt emotion. Because Rebecca was lost at sea, Fontaine has to blurt out at one point irrespective of nothing: "I never have any fear of drowning, have you?" cuing a musical sting. Around Maxim, there are lots of stings. "I'm boorish through living alone", he says, but of course that only makes the heroine's devotion more grand. Like Mrs. Danvers, she loves fully, but not at all well.Still, "Rebecca" is a solid romantic film with recognizable bits of Hitchcockian suspense worked in the corners. It's his first and most successful collaboration with David O. Selznick (a nudge who this one time was right to nudge), his first American film, and his only Oscar winner.I can think of several other Hitchcock films deserving of Oscar over "Rebecca". But it's better than no Oscars for Hollywood's greatest director. Looking past that, "Rebecca" is a solid, character-driven story worth watching and appreciating for its own substantial merits.


                
A young woman falls in love with the troubled Maxim DeWinter when they meet in Monte Carlo. They marry and he takes her to Manderley, his mansion in Cornwall. Once there however, she is overcome at every turn by the ghostly shadow of Rebecca, De Winter's first wife, who drowned under mysterious circumstances a year before.Hitchcock's first American film is a gorgeous adaptation of Daphne Du Maurier's classic novel, sumptuously produced by David O. Selznick. I'm not generally a fan of classical romantic fiction, but Rebecca is most definitely an exception; not only does it have several great plot-twists but the central character is brilliantly conceived and entirely sympathetic, and the brooding Gothic atmosphere of both Manderley and Rebecca confine the drama within a tremendously chilling ghost story. The cast are all first-rate but both Fontaine and Anderson give career-defining performances. Fontaine is tremendous - beautiful and passionate in an earthy, selfless way that fits her nameless character perfectly, whilst Anderson, as the villainous Mrs Danvers, is so good that she single-handedly launched a standard movie stock-character (the over-zealous housekeeper) in hundreds of subsequent films. This was the movie which allowed Hitchcock to paint on a really huge canvas, and he creates a powerful sense of dread - you can almost feel Rebecca's presence in the film. There's a stunning shot of Mrs Danvers opening some drapes, where he suddenly freezes the frame and dissolves to the next scene, epitomising the essence of the story - a place frozen in time, where nobody can move forward or shake themselves free of the past, and everything is stagnating. For my money this is the best Gothic romance ever filmed; a brilliantly directed movie of a tremendous book.
REBECCA, an enthralling adaptation of the Daphne Du Maurier novel, is probably the closest that Hitchcock got in his career to making a traditional 'haunted house' film. Certainly his adaptation of the classic book is laden with Gothic dread, as a newly-wed bride moves into the ancestral home of her husband and discovers that the spirit of his dead wife is very much alive and out to bring her down.REBECCA is a highly effective non-supernatural horror/mystery flick, with expert direction (of course) and a mature approach to the storyline. It may be a little slow for modern tastes, but this gives the director the chance to let the audience experience the nuances and delightful atmosphere of the storyline.Joan Fontaine is fantastic as the new Mrs. de Winter in one of those 'being driven out of her mind' type roles. Laurence Olivier is more than effective in his ambiguous part. The supporting parts are particularly well judged, with a well-placed cameo for Leo G. Carroll, another humorous bumbling part for Nigel Bruce, and George Sanders appearing as a delightful cad. The latter part of the film, where the mystery begins to be cleared up, is particularly well-handled, leading to a gripping climax. As for Judith Anderson as the housekeeper Mrs. Danvers...well, she'll go down in the pantheon of Hitchcock villains as one of his creepiest and most ruthless!


                
Joan Fontaine (Mrs de Winter) is a companion to the very snobby and highly amusing Florence Bates (Mrs Van Hopper). While holidaying in Monte Carlo, they bump into Laurence Olivier (Maxim) who is mega wealthy and owns the stately home of Mandalay in Cornwall. A romance between Joan and Larry develops behind the back of fussy Florence, and by the end of their stay in Monte Carlo, Joan and Larry are engaged. They marry and return to Mandalay but the overbearing presence of Olivier's first wife "Rebecca" still lurks at every corner. But, things are not as they seem<U+0085>.The film left me thinking about how I would feel about Olivier's character if I watched the film for a second time. I would definitely view him in a different light now that I know the story. You have to get to that point to understand what I mean as things take a very different turn about three quarters of the way through and his motivations become very different to what has been previously assumed. It's a clever twist. Up to that three-quarter way mark, I found that Olivier, Fontaine and housekeeper Judith Anderson (Mrs Danvers) were all too predictable and that the film was a little long. However, things pick up with the discovery of Rebecca's boat.The cast are uniformly good with George Sanders (Favell) standing out as a cad. He is elegantly sublime and slimy as he looks out for number one. At the other extreme was Fontaine – I'm not keen on feeble female roles and so she grated on me on several occasions. Chicks in films need to be funny or be ready to fight back. None of this drippy stuff.A couple of things that I didn't notice during the film – Hitchcock's usual appearance (it is there, though), and the fact that Joan Fontaine's character doesn't have a first name! The film is a little long but it's worth it in the end.


                
RebeccaHitchcock's thriller drama is more drama and less thriller this time. And this fabrication of Du Maurier's infamous novel is the apt projection of her explicit writing. And even though it fumbles a lot in its earlier stage due to its eerie editing and intangible tone that does wear off quickly. This conflict doesn't last for long, Hitchcock's eyes grows wiser and vision sharper, after our protagonist enters the spooky palace. Brimmed with speculations on each steps, the multiple characters are staged skillfully on the screen. On terms of adaptation, there are few bits lopped off to keeps the audience enchanted and at the brisk of their seat, which may shuck the uncertain element out of the park.Nevertheless, with a gritty and cheesy elements installed to glorify the sequences, the film stays a thrilling art that survives for the rumors rather than its characters mingling in a complicated strings tied for the dramatic effect. Fontaine, the protagonist and also the audience of the storyline, as she too is figuring out the trajectory and the environment of the room by testing the temperature every now and then is brilliant. Olivier with a dark past and a fret plastered in his face even hidden behind his smile, is convincing.
But he fails to challenge Fontaine, as her curiosity and a sudden crumble due to the guilt overpowers any other actors on screen within a snap. One of the most sensitive moments of the tale where Fontaine dresses up for Olivier and it doesn't go as anticipated, the build up of that sequence feels short handed that might itch eerily to the readers of the book. Hitchcock jumping on a different genre train in Rebecca was a wise choice, his calculative and constructive steps to the final punch cannot be and is not less than a knockout.


                
I guess it is the sorts which either takes you on a ride and you go along with it, or it just doesn't works for you. Took many an efforts to finish this one off.. such was the loss of momentum and failure of creation of Hitchcockian allure for me.Loads of laboured scenes, too much of make believe stuff, and general lack of effort with script/dialogues. Just didn't come along as other movies by the same director. Citizen Kane was an abs master piece, this one kept fizzling out every other scene or so.


                
So far the Alfred Hitchcock's films never let me down. Certainly this as well. Quite different from his other films, Rebecca contains no violent blood scare scene at all. But what makes Alfred Hitchcock talent is we can feel the tension atmosphere all through the film (the housekeeper's eyes to the girl, the weird west room, the sign tune of Hitchcock....). Joan Fontaine does a great help to the film as the The Second Mrs. de Winter. We have to mention without Judith Anderson (Mrs. Danvers),we can hardly imagine how it will to be. The film is really perfect until The Second Mrs. de Winter know all about Rebecca in the cottage. The after portion doesn't fully close to the beat of the film(Maybe director must make it a 2-hour-film to satisfy the company)After all,as a film won Best Cinematography & Picture in 1941 Oscar. It enjoy me much tonight*******/**********


                
Winner of the 1940 Best Picture Academy Award, "Rebecca" was the only film to ever gain the prize for the master of the macabre, Alfred Hitchcock. Yet for this pic we are not treated to the macabre, rather to the story of a lonely widower, who, seeking to make a new beginning, meets and marries an impressionable young girl in the south of France. All appears to be going well until the two return to his stately home near Cornwall, where the memories of his late wife start to haunt not only him but his new bride as well, as she tries in vain to fill her shoes.Daphne Du Maurier's dramatic novel is skilfully presented by Hitchcock as he weaves a web of intrigue and deception for his fascinated audience. One always knows that things will all work out, but the hows and the why-fors are kept just out of reach, leaving the viewer to become deeply involved in both the plot and the wonderful characters.Laurence Olivier and Joan Fontaine are both very enjoyable as Mr. and Mrs. De Winter, the newly weds who have encountered troubled times at "Manderley". The support cast impress also, with Judith Anderson a particular stand out as Mrs. Danvers. Franz Waxman provides some very appropriate music, while George Barnes' cinematography also received an Oscar. Even the effects and Art Direction are admirable in this David O. Selznick production.Alfred Hitchcock never wastes a moment in a movie which is never as melodramatic as some of his other works from that period (eg. "Jamaica Inn", "The Paradine Case" and "Spellbound"). Certainly a very enjoyable and memorable mystery that will entertain a great many who derive pleasure form such timeless classics.Saturday, June 25, 1994 - Video
Daphne Du Maurier's novel becomes handsome Alfred Hitchcock thriller involving pleasant but naive young woman (Joan Fontaine) wedding a wealthy, mysterious man and moving into his imposing castle filled with memories of his deceased first wife. Despite a stiff opening reel, it's a well-mounted psychological melodrama in the "Jane Eyre" vein. Judith Anderson's Mrs. Danvers has been interpreted (and misinterpreted) to death, and she's indeed a little grandiose, but it is still a stunning characterization; she's a steely-eyed villainess who ranks right up there with the most enjoyable cinema-baddies. The movie gushes and flutters over Laurence Olivier almost as much as Fontaine does! He's quite good, but this turns out to be Joan's picture. Increasingly insecure, nervous, chatty, eager, Fontaine runs the gamut of emotions and is never less than compelling. Oscar-winner for Best Picture, though Hitchcock himself was snubbed. *** from ****


                
I give this film a 7.5 on a 10 point scale. All of Hitch's films, though mostly good, have screenplays that are just unbelievable & improbable to some degree and "Rebecca" is certainly no exception. Fontaine's character is S-O-O Weak, Naïve, Passive, & Fragile that it lacks credibility. NO Woman, even in pre-Feminist times, could possibly be as much of a Clueless Doormat as the new Mrs de Winter. That as the new mistress of Mandalay she would have kept that witch Mrs Danvers as the housekeeper is at least very unlikely, especially when Danvers tricked the new Mrs de Winter to wear that dress for the ball. The Mrs Danvers character was rather unreal too. She was much more a caricature than a believable character. Otherwise, a very suspenseful, & well thought out storyline, with great dramatic tension, although the "dramatic" was much too "melodramatic" in my opinion. How a great director like Hitch got stuck with so many sub-par screenplays is beyond my comprehension.
I was expecting big things from "Rebecca," Alfred Hitchcock's Best Picture Academy Award winner from 1940, and I was disappointed. Give me "Foreign Correspondent," Hitchcock's other 1940 release and fellow Best Picture nominee, any day."Rebecca" starts out promisingly enough, as a Gothic ghost story about a naive young woman (Joan Fontaine) recently married to a wealthy aristocrat (Laurence Olivier) who finds herself competing with his dead wife, a woman whom Fontaine mentally builds into an image of female perfection until the memory of her almost becomes a physical presence in the house. But the mystery departs the film around the three-quarters mark, and the enigmatic spell of the movie goes with it. Fontaine and Olivier are two limp noodles at the film's center, and it falls to Judith Anderson, playing the mysterious and creepy housekeeper who fostered an irrational love of her former mistress, to keep things alive.The production design and black and white cinematography look stylish, but the film doesn't give Hitchcock the opportunity to impose any of his playful directorial signatures on it. As a result, it's a bit of a bore.Grade: B


                
The first 100 minutes is a little big too long, and is not intense enough. Nonetheless, the last 30 minutes are absolutely stunning, with twists and turns that you would never imagine. The titular figure "Rebecca" never appears, but we all know much about her by the end of the movie. After watching this movie, you should know why it is hard to win the Oscars by playing a role in Hitchcock's film: it is plot-driven, not performance-driven.


                
The ghost of the late Rebecca de Winter is a constant presence in the haunted halls of Manderley, although we are never graced with her physical presence or even a still picture of her supposed great beauty. Nevertheless she is talked up as the absolute paragon of womanhood and femininity; mature, sophisticated, the most beautiful creature you could ever lay your eyes on. Joan Fontaine plays the opposite quite well - the naive, tittering little girl who could never compare to the first Mrs de Winter (at least in the eyes of Mrs Danvers), and yet Maxim seems to fall for him anyway. In a funny way, the twist does make sense; most of the resentment is from Mrs Danvers herself, eyeing needles her way as she dons what Rebecca made stunning and keeps her former bedroom in pristine condition, like an obsessive shrine. Hitchcock begins with an eerie statement; the ghost dominating a dream where she returns to the fated Manderley and drifts right through the gates (a clever trick with the camera) as though nothing will stop her from seeing that no woman ever replaces herself. Later the happily married couple mimic the same entrance through the gates and up the driveway, in pouring rain (never a good omen), although the soundtrack is stirringly romantic and attempting to convince us that all is well. Beneath the ground level class and sheen Hitchcock utilises the great Gothic archways and ominous shadows well. Through the soundtrack, a pair of double doors seem to almost speak directly to Fontaine, enticing her to unveil their secret. She is blonde, of course, and wears white, whilst the housekeeper is robed in pure black and has a face that is constructed from ivory, still, unmoving and emotionless. She is like Nosferatu the vampire himself. Unfortunately what the twist does, effectively, is render this all rather fruitless. Initially the entire atmosphere of the troubled Manderley estate is fraught with second guessing on both Fontaine and the audience's part. The visuals, soundtrack and performance all fight to wrest control of the mood; they contradict each other, they try to drown each other out. It's all wonderfully tense because we are alongside Fontaine trying to make sense of the whole affair of Rebecca. But the twist makes it all unironic. Everything becomes played straight - Maxim is just a troubled gentlemen, and the romance becomes sappy and sentimental; see how they make eyes at each other during what should be a pivotal trial scene, and later as Hitchcock holds on their kiss and embrace. Still, it does make for some great moments, chiefly one where Maxim recounts the fateful night with Rebecca. The camera becomes one with his conscience here; it imagines Rebecca on the bed, it rises to meet her eye-level as she gets up, and you can almost visualise her strutting and sneering around the room with a cigarette as the camera swings around. But isn't the former much more frightening? From that moment on, the film loses all of its psychological mystery and appeal, and it is only a matter of time before the happy reconciliation of husband and second wife. Hitchcock would later perfect this with a little film called Vertigo.
A sweet shy woman (Joan Fontaine) is staying at a Monte Carlo hotel assisting her employer pompous Edythe Van Hopper. She falls for the wealthy Maxim de Winter (Laurence Olivier) and they are quickly married. His first wife supposedly drowned. They live in his country estate Manderley with strict housekeeper Mrs. Danvers (Judith Anderson) and other servants. She discovers that Rebecca still dominates Manderley.It's Alfred Hitchcock's first American effort and working under Selznick. It is beautifully shot. Joan Fontaine does well as the damsel in distress. The style is moody Gothic. It is a bit slow at times. I would like it to be more intense and less overwrought. It's an old fashion style that isn't my favorite but it is very well made.


                
I can see now why Alfred Hitchcock is such a well-respected and well known director. The movie, Rebecca, is about a young woman living in Monte Carlo with her mean employer. She met a very wealthy man by the name of Maxim de Winter. The two fall in love and move back to Maxim de Winter's large estate but it doesn't take long for his new wife to notice that the death of his first wife, Rebecca, still has an effect on everyone in the house. They all still miss her and it is obvious that they wanted the new wife to kind of take the place of Rebecca in a way that she just couldn't do. Rebecca had a huge effect on the housekeeper, Mrs. Danvers. She even set the house on fire at the end of the movie and ended up dying in the house. The movie had a very surprising ending which I liked. Hitchcock is a great director and you can see that through the movies lighting, camera-work, sounds, and editing.


                
I believe "Rebecca" is the only Alfred Hitchcock movie to win any kind of Academy Award. Joan Fontaine is excellent in this movie. She looks adorable and she plays the soft-spoken, stuttering, shy, self-effacing heroine well.Laurence Olivier gives his usual excellent performance. The end of the movie has the (now) usual Hitchcockian plot twists, and the viewer feels compelled to root for the protagonist to get away—not with murder, but certainly covering up an accidental death—that would have appeared to be murder.Another spoiler. Rebecca's suicide—by trying to get someone else to kill her—perhaps the resultant scandal being a form of revenge against de Winter—seems implausible. I cannot understand why it is universally accepted in the movie that Rebecca's diagnosis of terminal cancer is a motive for suicide. Most cancer victims I know fight like hell, though a suffering few may have suicidal thoughts when they start to think they are only painfully delaying the inevitable.Overall, "Rebecca" is a brilliant movie by a brilliant filmmaker.
"Rebecca" is a mystery movie in which we watch a shy woman who was working as a companion girl of another woman. In a trip she and one rich man fall in love and they decide to marry. When they are returning to the main house of the man she understands that he is still troubled by the death of his first wife, Rebecca, who was killed in a boating accident the year before. And in that the mystery starts.I really liked this movie because of the plot which was really nice written but also for the direction of it which made by the master Alfred Hitchcock and his contribution in the success of this movie was really obvious. We can understand in many scenes the tips and the guidance that Alfred Hitchcock gave to the actors on how to play, to show etc. About the interpretation I have to say that I loved the interpretation of Joan Fontaine who played as Mrs. de Winter and also the interpretation of Laurence Olivier who played as 'Maxim' de Winter. Another interpretation that has to be mentioned is Judith Anderson's who played as Mrs. Danvers and I believe that she was great on her part. Another important fact that I have to mention is that this movie did not tire me even a little and kept me in tense in the whole duration of it, something that I believe is extremely important for a mystery movie.Lastly I believe that "Rebecca" is a nice mystery movie which combines really well this mystery with the romance between the couple and the result that comes out from it is the best. I also think that this movie is one of the best of Alfred Hitchcock and I strongly recommend it to everyone because it's a must see movie.


                
Alfred Hitchcock directed this Gothic romance that stars Sir Laurence Olivier as Maxim De Winter, a recently widowed(and quite wealthy) man vacationing in Monte Carlo who meets the paid companion(played by Joan Fontaine) of a older woman. They unexpectedly fall in love and get married. They then return to his home in Cornwall, a country estate called Manderly ruled over by the imposing housekeeper Mrs. Danvers(played by Judith Anderson) who holds sacred the memory of the first Mrs. De Winter Rebecca, who died mysteriously in a boating accident. As events unfold, the new Mrs. De Winter will discover things about Maxim's past that will come to haunt her... Impressively directed and acted film is still melodramatic stuff given a high gloss, but remains entertaining and atmospheric, though hardly deserved to beat "The Grapes Of Wrath" for best picture of 1940!


                
What's this? No corpse under the bed? No big, lavish set pieces? No screams in the dead of night? Is this REALLY a Hitch movie? I am confused... *Checks the back of the case*...Well, apparently it IS. Now there's a surprise... Considering it has so few of his trademark flourishes. However, as a major caveat, this really doesn't make much difference at all to the final product. It's a fine film in it's own right, and the fact that it's probably The Master's most frills-free work actually aids it in creating a level of human interest that might not otherwise be present.In a build-up not unlike novels such as Wuthering Heights and Jane Eyre, we are introduced to our heroine, a sweet young girl who tries to be nice to everyone. She meets a brooding, handsome older gentleman, and proceeds to fall in love with him. After marriage, they relocate to his estate, which is absolutely vast. Inside, she will unlocks secrets of the past... As well as tangle with a maid who resents her being there in the first place...We really feel for this young lady (No, I'm not forgetting her name... The film doesn't give her one) as she desperately tries to fit into this new, aristocratic world around her, but failing dismally (mostly due to the machinations of another. Hitch captures her feelings of isolation well, while her husband remains a distant figure, before giving us the BIG twist which sets up the major conflict towards the end.For all the masterpieces he made, I don't believe Rebecca is the first choice most people would go for as Hitch's only Best Picture win (Not even Best Director, he never even accomplished that honour) but it is clearly a highly atmospheric suspense / drama which shows he could do more than just have us on the edge of our seats. 7/10


                
Not that this movie is horrible but it just also doesn't exactly lives up to its reputation. This is not the only Hitchcock movie with this problem and even though I absolute love most of Hitchcock's movies and he was an absolutely brilliant and a one of a kind director, he doesn't get a critical free pass from me. Needless to say this movie disappointed me even though it had plenty of redeeming qualities, which in the long run still makes this a perfectly good movie.Problem to me is the movie its story and then especially the pace its being told in. Mostly the middle part of the movie is just a complete bore. Nothing interesting or mysterious enough is happening in it. From an Hitchcock movie you would at least expect some suspense but there is actually very little of that present here. You can say that this movie is not really being enough 'Hitchcock' like. Perhaps this was because this was Hitchcock's very first Hollywood movie and he was kept more on a short leach by the studio's and the movie its producers?A redeeming quality is the movie its last halve hour or so, when your whole view of the movie its main character suddenly changes when you learn about the truth. You really don't like sympathize for the man at first but once you know what really happened this suddenly all changes for you and he becomes actually a tragic character you start to care for.The movie is also being innovative by using some real dynamic and experimental camera-work at times, as you basically always can expect from an Hitchock movie. It also makes good use of miniature and while watching this movie I couldn't help wondering if this movie didn't somewhat inspired "Citizen Kane". Some of the effects and camera handling seems to be the same and of course the Manderlay estate can also be seen as Xanadu, you don't need a lot of imagination for that.The movie tries to create a good dark and mysterious atmosphere but when there is not an awful lot happening in the movie, atmosphere is not really enough to make a movie with. It suits the movie that its being shot in black & white and all but the atmosphere is just not as good, moody and horror Gothic like as everyone tries to make you believe it is. The story just simply doesn't allow this.The movie has a typical solid '40's cast, with popular actors such as Laurence Olivier, Joan Fontaine and popular supporting actors such as George Sanders, Nigel Bruce and Gladys Cooper involved. It was especially nice to see Laurence Olivier in an Hitchcock movie, two Hollywood legends working together. The acting is overall good in this movie though it tends to become a bit overly melodramatic at times.Give credit where credit is due. This is a good movie but no way a classic, or among Hitchcock's best work. Oh well, seems that just not a lot of people agree with me on this, also considering that this movie won an Oscar for best picture in 1941. It won as well for its cinematography by George Barnes and was nominated in 9 more categories.7/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
I hadn't seen this movie in maybe 15 years. The opening voiceover spoken by Joan Fontaine is splendid and classic. The movie is beautifully, skillfully directed. I am not a fan of Hitchcock works such as "Vertigo" -- no matter how often I see it, it still seems tacky -- or "Psycho" after the shower scene. So this is far better.My favorites are "Shadow of a Doubt," "Notorious," and "Strangers on a Train." And "North By Northwest."But it is a bodice-ripper. It's awfully corny in many ways. Olivier's seeming uninterest in Fontaine makes sense in the early parts but once The Secret has been revealed and they speak to each other in Hushed Tones, he seems no more interested.


                
Hitchcock's cinema has always been propped up by a good novel, play or script. His cinematic flourishes embellished these materials with a remarkable intuition of how viewers would react to his treatment of the written material.The real genius of the film "Rebecca" will remain with the author du Maurier. Hitchcock's treatment of the story was to change the end of the story to make the leading man appeal to the audiences. Daphne du Maurier's murderer is transformed by Hitchcock into a tragic hero. That's what American audiences wanted in the Forties and want even to this day. Hence the film gets the Best Picture Oscar and other Oscars. But even with the changed ending, the story is great. In the book, the lead characters go on to live their lives after Manderlay burned down in another far way place.This film has all the ingredients that go down well with most audiences<U+0097>two superb performances (Joan Fontaine as the second Mrs. de Winter and Dame Judith Anderson as the housekeeper with lesbian attachments) and the realistic special effects that recreated Manderlay within the studio. If people were wide-eyed at the performance of Olivier in this film, I suggest they see a British film called "A Term of Trial" directed by Peter Glenville, which has a story with quaint similarities to Olivier's role in "Rebecca" to see the thespian at his best.What is Hitchcock's contribution beyond the fine performances of the ladies? He was able to capture the sinister quality of Manderlay (just as the house of the murderer in "Psycho") in the opening sequence through spoken words and visuals and the burning of Manderlay at the end by light on the faces of people viewing the spectacle. He was probably aware that the basic material of du Maurier was the flip side of "Blackmail," one of his early films with a gender reversal. He was probably thinking of reworking elements of "Rebecca" in "Suspicion" a film he made 3 years later."Rebecca" might have won awards but in terms of cinema it pales in comparison with four Hitchcock films "Notorious," "Saboteur," "Sabotage," and "Blackmail." Interestingly, this is a rare Hitchcock film that presents women who gain in strength <U+0097>other rare examples being "Marnie" and "Spellbound."


                
For me, this romantic drama didn't get very interesting until the last 40min. of a 2hr.,10min. film. However, I can say the same thing about "Casablanca", for example. This section begins with the startling revelation by Maxim de Winter(Laurence Olivier), that he detested, rather than cherished, his deceased wife: Rebecca. His young replacement wife('no name')(Joan Fontaine) had been in aw of Rebecca, as everyone praised her whit, energy, and skill as the mistress of an English manor. It's very odd that Maxim was so late telling his new wife that he hated his former wife, for several reasons. He said she was incapable of real love. She continued with her promiscuous lifestyle after they were married, although she managed to mostly hide this. She taunted him with details of her affairs and the suggestion that she was pregnant by another man. 'No name' was elated that Maxim, apparently in contrast to everyone else she had met at Manderley, despised his former wife, giving her an opening to outshine Rebecca, at least in Maxim's mind.(Incidentally, it's Manderley, not Mandalay, as a few reviewers wrote. Mandalay is a city in Myanmar(Burma)). Even a year after her death, there were still many physical reminders of Rebecca in the manor, often labeled with 'R'. Her room remained as it was when she died. Probably, this was more the policy of the head servant: Mrs. Danvers((Judith Anderson) than of Maxim. She had an extraordinary fondness for Rebecca, and often reminded 'no name' of her inferiority. At one point, Mrs. Danvers asks 'no name' why she doesn't leave, since Maxim doesn't love her. She opens the window, and suggests 'no name' may want to jump out. It's curious why 'no name' didn't fire her at this point?! It demonstrates how much Mrs. Danvers hated either 'no name' or Maxim or both. Also, during the burning of Manderley, Mrs. Danvers told 'no name' that she started the fire because she couldn't stand to see them as a happy couple in Manderley. Again, it's unclear whether her anger is directed at just one of them or both. Clearly, Rebecca hated Maxim, as he hated her, and tried to goad him into killing her, when she wanted to die because of her advanced uterine cancer. That way, presumably, she could ruin Maxim while accomplishing her goal of dying quickly. Did Rebecca and Mrs. Danvers have a common reason for hating Maxim? If so what was it? Could it be that they both hated men? Could they have had a lesbian relationship? The Production Code wouldn't allow clear evidence for a positive answer. Note that in burning the Manderley, Mrs. Danvers destroys all the remaining physical reminders of Rebecca, as well as herself. This was a suicidal act as well as an act against the de Winters. I see practical problems with the whole business of Maxim staging an accidental drowning of Rebecca to cover up her dying from a fall on her head during their tussle. First, why did he go to this trouble? He could have reported the truth that her death was accidental. He didn't think anyone would believe him, but I don't see why not. Rebecca's body was said to be found inside the cabin of the scuttled boat. But this was a year after she disappeared and nearly as long since he had supposedly identified her body some distance from the Manderley. Her body should have completely decomposed by then. Small Flesh-eating animals could get through the holes opened in the boat bottom to sink it. Thus, identification would probably have to be through dental records. The question of how those boat bottom valves got open is also a sticky point. She could have opened them, but why go to the trouble of drowning herself that way. Also, a letter from her on that fateful day gave no hint that she felt suicidal. However, her recent report from her doctor of an advanced cancer gave a possible motive for suicide.Why is Joan Fontaine's character nameless other than the 2nd Mrs. de Winter? She probably has more screen time than anyone else. I can only guess, because compared to Rebecca, she was looked upon as a nobody.See it in B&W at YouTube.
