This is a Daphne Du Maurier's story (from a best-seller novel) concerning a prominent widower (Laurence Olivier) called Maxim De Winter who finds a gorgeous and timid young girl (Joan Fontaine) who is serving to an old Mistress (Florence Bates) . They are married and head to Manderley , the familiar mansion (in the exterior actually is a scale model). But Maxim is haunted by the ghost first wife , an enigmatic Rebecca , who died in mysterious circumstances . There works as a servant the creepy and obsessive housekeeper , Mrs Danvers (Judith Anderson,a famous stage actress in her most important role) and sh meets a cynic gentleman (George Sanders).This film has suspense , romance , unlimited tension , full of lingering images and with the typical touches Hitchcock . Besides , a literately and thoughtful dialog signed by Joan Harrison (Hitchcock's usual screenwriter) though lacking humor . After ¨39 steps¨and ¨Jamaica Inn¨ , Hitch was encouraged to go to America and promptly shot his first work in Hollywood hired by the great producer David O'Selznick . Fine performance by Laurence Olivier , he married Vivien Leigh and he wished to her as protagonist but Hitch hired Joan Fontaine who took seven rehearsal sessions until the engaging . Joan Fontaine as a shy bride young is superb and enjoyable . Judith Anderson as a spooky and cold house keeper is top-notch, her role as obsessed person by the glamorous Rebecca is unforgotten and immortal . Atmospheric and perceptible music by Franz Waxman and sensational visual style by the cameraman George Barnes . The picture won Academy Awards for Best film and cinematography . The movie was brilliantly directed by the Master of Suspense . It's remade in inferior versions for Television, the 1980 adaptation with Jeremy Brett as Maxim and 1996 rendition with Charles Dance and Emilie Fox . The motion picture is indispensable watching for Hithcock lovers achieving the maximum impact on his audience.


                
I'm not saying that this is one of my favorite Hitchcock films (it isn't), but it IS one of my favorite books. Because of the production code being in full swing in 1940, several main plot points are either much too subtle or were left out of the film altogether, and I want people who have seen "Rebecca" to understand some of the most important things in the story.-First of all, why the heck was Mrs. Danvers such a creep? Because she was in love with Rebecca, who was using her like she used everyone else! Daphne du Maurier (the author) was also a lesbian, and this dynamic in her writing was intentional. If you watch the movie again with this in mind, with Danvers as a jilted lover who was upset by 1) Rebecca's cheating on her (and Max); 2) R's supposed pregnancy; 3) Rebecca's drowning; 4) Max's remarrying; 5) Rebecca's body being found (again); and 6) the new Mrs. de Winter's getting rid of Rebecca's things, it makes a LOT more sense. Trust me. Danvers was not *just* creepy / evil.-Why did the relationship between Olivier and Fontaine seem off? Because it was. He was distant; she was naïve; it was supposed to be a weird match. They actually only really fall in love when she helps him cover up the murder (in the book, he DOES kill Rebecca, not just cover up her death - the revelation / plot twist is not just that he murdered her, but that she was a really manipulative and horrible piece of work under all of her "charms", and that he hated her.The book is amazing. I won't tell you everything that Hitchcock had to leave out, but the film does seem unfinished because of it (and Fontaine overacts like crazy).
"Last night, I dream I went to Manderley again." This is the narration, murmured by Joan Fontaine's soft voice and inviting us for a posthumous tour over the English countryside, to the local manor that turned into a ghostly no man's house, surrounded by dark and brooding trees enveloping the place with an aura of sacred danger like some monster's claws over a precious catch. What is with that Manderley that inspired that dream anyway? The answer is of course in the title, it's all about "Rebecca". In fact, there's not a single element that belongs to the film or to the original novel written by Daphne du Maurier and that can be defined with the economy of that name-calling. Manderley was the place Rebecca lived. Maxim de Winter (Laurence Olivier) is Rebecca's widower. Mrs. Danvers (Judith Anderson) is her former governess. And Joan Fontaine suffers from the most ungrateful status as she's not even given a first name, she's only known as the "second Mrs. De Winter" she's not even Rebecca's rival because it's a lost fight, mentioning her in the same breath than Rebecca is like pronouncing the name of God in vain.So, the whole movie is overshadowed by Rebecca's aura, it's like the black-and-white photography, drawn through powerful contrasts, was just some decoy containing the shadowy presence of Rebecca, likely to commit an intrusion at any time, by means of a memory, an evocation, a revelation or a confession. There's a moment where Fontaine asks Maxim's best friend (Reginald Denny) about Rebecca, all he can say is that she was the most beautiful creature he ever saw. It takes some superhuman talent to convince us that Fontaine's not as beautiful as Rebecca, however she looked. As the shy, hapless and desperate-to-please Mrs. De Winters, Fontaine is vital to the credibility of the story because through her behavior, she's the plain that gives prominence to the mountain.And 'plain' is the word, it is the mark of a very subtle talent to take distance from the usual strong-minded, glamorous and independent heroines played by the likes of Bette Davis and Katherine Hepburn and create such a fragile, delicate and mild-mannered woman, begging for friendship rather than love, in awe of her husband and in total fear from Mrs. Danvers, the ominous governess who never misses an opportunity to remind what kind of a woman Rebecca was. It's a real psychological torture-game operating on Mrs. De Winter's head and frail shoulders and she hardly finds comfort in Maxim who seems to be constantly preoccupied and absent. Olivier seems rather uncomfortable in the role, but while the story unfolds, we slowly understand the reason of his emotional nonchalance and the no-less odd attraction to his new wife. Of course, even the answers belong to Rebecca.Daphne du Maurier was a woman who enjoyed isolation, not just for work but also as a way to contemplate her freedom and question her identity. This distance from the world predisposed her for fascination, for the ability, as a 'first person' to be haunted by someone, and it often happened to be a woman, or her memory, sometimes even a vague idea was enough. Through her fertile imagination and ambiguous sexuality, she managed to translate this power into a splendid Gothic-tale whose risqué subjects forced Hitchcock to make a few changes. But he faithfully, albeit at times not too subtly, respected the original material and his camera-work conveyed the ghostly presence of Rebecca. Even Danvers who seemed to have had a privileged relationship (of platonic nature in the film) seems to glide over the place, as if she was possessed by the soul of her deceased mistress.Hitchcock was a craftsman and his camera loved the faces of Anderson and Fontaine, the cinematography also accentuates the feeling of an impending danger, and the acting was enriched by the presence of a youngish George Sanders and Leo G. Carroll who would also reveal one thing or two about good old Rebecca. It was Hitchcock's first Hollywood movie and needless to say the trial was conclusive. The film won the Oscar for Best Picture, over classics like "The Grapes of Wrath" and "The Great Dictator", without winning any of the major awards in the directing, acting and writing department, but I guess that's what can be said about "Rebecca", it is a great picture with the looks, the mystery, the acting and everything one could ask for.I only wish it didn't overplay the melodramatic violins and a succession of twists and revelation at the end satisfy the mind, but don't fool us either as Olivier didn't play the kind of roles that deserved a happy ending by Hitch' standards. The film redeems itself with some last-minute thrills but Hitchcock would make subtler films. Still, "Rebecca" holds up well today because there's that uniqueness in the heroine and this extraordinary presence, the fascination over the fact that the most fascinating character is actually absent. The American Film Institute recognized Mrs. Danvers as the thirty-first villain of all time, but I wonder if Rebecca on her own way was the real antagonist and would have deserved that title a little more. Indeed, we never see her, but we can feel her actions, just like the Man in "Bambi" who also nominated in the same list, an invisible but an undeniably evil presence.Now, does Rebecca win or lose as an antagonist? Well, from the opening line, the one about that dream, one can guess that you can never totally get rid of Rebecca, and maybe for that reason, despite the film's flaws and that it's never mentioned at along with "Vertigo", "Psycho", "North by Northwest" or "Rear Window" as Hitch' best, we can never totally ignore "Rebecca".


                
It is strange that after arriving in Hollywood from Britain, Alfred Hitchcock should have chosen to base his first film upon a novel by Daphne du Maurier, the same author, who had provided him with the material for the last film of his British period. "Jamaica Inn" was one of his few failures, a minor-league costume drama that is today of little interest except to Hitchcock completists. With "Rebecca", however, he achieved one of his greatest successes, even though the story is hardly typical of his work.A number of Hitchcock's films, such as "The 39 Steps" or "North by North-West" end up with the hero and heroine falling in love, but are nevertheless essentially suspense films with an element of romance. "Rebecca", however, is essentially a romance with elements of suspense. Indeed, it starts out as a romantic comedy. A young woman (we never learn her name) staying on the French Riviera with her employer Mrs Van Hopper, meets and falls in love with Maxim de Winter, a handsome older widower. There is a brief comic sequence as the two lovers try to outwit the overbearing, bullying Mrs Van Hopper and escape back to England.With the shift in location to England, the mood of the film becomes darker and more serious. We learn that Maxim is the wealthy owner of Manderley, a stately home near the Cornish coast, and that he was widowed about a year earlier when his first wife Rebecca drowned in a boating accident. The new Mrs de Winter finds it difficult to adapt to her new role as the mistress of such a large house, especially as she feels that everyone, including the servants and Maxim's friends, is comparing her unfavourably with the beautiful and accomplished Rebecca. Maxim reveals to her that his first marriage was an unhappy one as Rebecca was compulsively promiscuous and betrayed him with a number of lovers. This revelation does not, however, put her mind at rest, because evidence soon comes to light that suggests that Maxim may have killed Rebecca out of jealousy.The "suspense" elements of the film only occur near the end, when Maxim has to struggle to clear himself from suspicion of murder. There are no typical Hitchcock set-pieces like the crop-duster in "North by North-West" or the shower scene in "Psycho". This is, however, one of the most atmospheric of Hitchcock's films. Although it was shot in California, the morning mists, the pine trees by the rocky coast and the Gothic mansion are all suggestive of England. (I suspect that if Hollywood were to make the film today they would try to Americanise it, but in the forties their attitude to British literature was generally more respectful).In a way this is a ghost story, although not in the literal sense of a tale of supernatural happenings. Manderley may not be literally haunted, but it is permeated by Rebecca's spirit. The old house is solid and luxurious, but it also has an oppressive air, especially for Mrs de Winter. (Max Ophuls was to conjure up a similar atmosphere in "Caught", made a few years later). Rebecca does not actually appear in the film; she does not appear in the book either, but that is a first-person narrative told from the viewpoint of her successor. In the film, where the first-person perspective is largely abandoned, it would have been much easier to show her in flashback, but Hitchcock chose to resist this temptation. In my view he was right to do so. Rebecca is far more frightening as an unseen but malevolent and brooding presence than she would be if seen in the flesh.Mrs de Winter is an outsider at Manderley, partly because she is from a less privileged social background than Maxim, partly because she is the only character who never knew Rebecca personally. Maxim was probably attracted to her precisely because she was so unlike Rebecca. As she is supposed to be somewhat plain and dowdy, Joan Fontaine, one of the most attractive actresses of the period, was perhaps not physically right for the role. (Joanna David, in the 1979 TV production, seemed closer to du Maurier's conception of the character). Nevertheless, Fontaine's interpretation of the role is a very good one, making her shy and bewildered but possessed of an inner strength which enables her love for Maxim to survive.Laurence Olivier is also good as Maxim, bringing out the two sides of his character. On the one hand he is the calm, self-possessed English gentleman, on the other a man haunted by his past. The other performance which stands out is that of Judith Anderson as the sinister housekeeper Mrs Danvers. Always dressed in black, with a severe hairstyle, moving silently through the house, Mrs Danvers initially greets the new Mrs de Winter with an icy formality, but gradually becomes her chief tormentor. Although this could not be explicitly stated in the forties, there is a strong hint that Mrs Danvers is a lesbian and that she might have been in love with Rebecca. Certainly, the scene in which she stands lasciviously pawing her late employer's underwear is highly suggestive.It certainly seemed eccentric of the Academy to give this film the "Best Picture" award while withholding "Best Director" from Hitchcock. 1940 was, however, a very strong year in the history of the cinema and, excellent film though "Rebecca" is, I am not sure that it is necessarily a greater one than John Ford's "The Grapes of Wrath", Chaplin's "The Great Dictator" or "The Philadelphia Story", all of which were nominated. I suspect that the decision to give "Best Picture" to "Rebecca" and "Best Director" to Ford may have been a deliberate attempt to spread the honours more evenly. Nevertheless, "Rebecca" remains one of the great Hitchcock classics. 8/10


                
I've always found it curious that of all the films Alfred Hitchcock directed Rebecca was the one that wound up with the Best Picture Oscar and that Hitchcock didn't receive Best Director for it. Usually those two go together. John Ford won his second Oscar for Best Director for The Grapes of Wrath that year instead. Also Laurence Olivier, Joan Fontaine and Judith Anderson were nominated and all came up short.Off the top of my head I would say Vertigo, North By Northwest, Shadow of a Doubt, and Spellbound are all qualitatively better than Rebecca. Yet Rebecca does have a nice Gothic horror feel to it though there is nothing supernatural going on here.Laurence Olivier plays Maxim DeWinter, heir to the estate of Manderley who is in Monte Carlo looking to get away from the place because of the death of his first wife Rebecca. She was by all accounts a regal beauty who was the toast of society and he's in mourning for her loss. But he meets Joan Fontaine a nice, but plain sort of girl who is the paid companion of American dowager Florence Bates. Maybe because she's the opposite of Rebecca he's attracted to her. Fontaine grabs him on the spot when marriage is proposed.Fontaine has a lot of insecurities much like her character in a following Hitchcock film, Suspicion. They're not eased any by Judith Anderson the housekeeper of the big Manderley estate.Mrs. Danvers was Judith's career role. Before writing this review I remarked to someone else that I wonder what Mr. Danvers must have been like. It occurred to me later that there was no Mr. Danvers, he exists only as an excuse or a pretense so there would be no whispers about her unmarried status. She pretends to be a widow. There's more than just latent lesbianism in Judith Anderson's portrayal. She was totally in love with the late Rebecca DeWinter and I'm sure it got good and physical. She can't stand seeing anyone else in taking her place. Since it comes out that Rebecca was fooling around with her cousin George Sanders, why not a lesbian affair as well. If Rebecca were written today, Mrs. Danvers would be more openly lesbian.Rebecca was the first of Alfred Hitchcock's American films as well, though it was done here it was done by the English colony in Hollywood. Hitchcock never had budgets that Selznick gave him over in the UK. The sets depicting the grandeur of Manderley are an eye full. Than again so were the sets of Tara in Selznick's Best Picture of the previous year, Gone With the Wind.Rebecca is a good mixture of mystery, Gothic horror, and romance served up quite nicely by Alfred Hitchcock.


                
It's silly for those who complain that Hitchcock did not put his usual stamp on this film--and then they cite VERTIGO, MARNIE, SHADOW OF A DOUBT, etc., etc.--when all the time Hitchcock himself has said that this was not a typical Hitchcock film per se. He knew he had a Daphne duMaurier story to tell and he was not able to turn the whole thing into his kind of film because David O. Selznick insisted that they be as faithful as possible to the original material.And it works. REBECCA is a marvelous film, notable for the casting of the up until then rather unknown JOAN FONTAINE in the lead (which gave Selznick and Hitchcock many headaches as they tried to exact the kind of performance they wanted from her), at a time when Fontaine was regarded in Hollywood as a second-rate "wooden" actress who had only done a bunch of supporting roles in "A" films and leads in "B" films. She certainly proved herself up to the task.I think her performance is well nigh perfect, suggesting the timid, insecure young woman who is intimidated first, by her worldly husband, Maxim deWinter, and then by his domineering and sinister housekeeper, Mrs. Danvers (JUDITH ANDERSON). But if there is one major fault, it is that I never really felt the chemistry between Max deWinter (LAURENCE OLIVIER) and Fontaine. It's as if he has all he can do to merely smile at her--he seems to be tolerating her rather than really loving her.Maybe that's because, as good an actor as he was, he was unable to show any real affection for a woman he personally wished were not playing his wife. (It's well documented that there was no mutual admiration going on between Olivier and Fontaine), although she did respect the fact that he could do everything exactly the same in take after take. Not only did he treat her with only lukewarm consideration, but she had to contend with Hitchcock who claims he had to devise all sorts of things to keep her performance on track.Whatever, the end result is what counts and REBECCA is impeccably produced, written and scored (by Franx Waxman) with utmost respect for the DuMaurier story. Supporting roles are all capably played by a British cast including GEORGE SANDERS, NIGEL BRUCE, GLADYS COOPER, REGINALD DENNY, C. AUBREY SMITH and MELVILLE COOPER.The scene where Joan Fontaine finally stands up to Mrs. Danvers, reminding her that she is now the mistress of Manderlay, and the confession scene where she listens and reacts as Olivier explains what happened on the yacht are memorable examples of first-rate screen acting. It is for these scenes where she finally gathers some strength to help her troubled husband that Fontaine really deserves the most admiration. Her earlier scenes as the mousy heroine are just a bit overdone, in my opinion.And so, with the exception of a lack of real chemistry between the stars, I think REBECCA is another example of David O. Selznick's quest for perfectionism in translating a novel to the screen as faithfully as the production code allowed.


                
Date: 18 July, 2012 -First Time Watch- I love old Hollywood movies, mostly because they had good story lines and fantastic acting. Alfred Hitchcock does an amazing job with this in almost every movie he did. 'Rebecca' is an example of a another amazing old Hollywood film. The story opens with Joan Fontaine finds Laurence Olivier (he was so young and I felt oddly attracted to him) on the ledge of a cliff, ready to jump in. She stops him and they met up again later that day. They spend lots of time with each other and soon marry, despite the fact that Ms. Fontaine is unprepared for her new role as Olivier's wife. Trouble only continues when Ms. Fontaine arrives at the large estate and finds that everyone, especially the head maid Miss. Danvers, compares her to the greatly loved Rebecca, Olivier's first wife who died tragically a year before when she took her boat out by herself and drowned. But, as always Mr. Hitchcock throws in several twists and turns with a surprising conclusion. Definitely a very well done film with plenty of action and suspense to keep you interested.8/10


                
You never see Rebecca throughout the movie, yet she captivates you as the audience for the most part. Her beauty, wits and most importantly how she had managed to admire so many people all at once while maintaining her solemnity with everyone except her husband. Without going into too much depth, this movie will captivate you, confuse you and still manage to not deprive you of the very curiosity you will crave for. But a vintage masterpiece you shouldn't pass by. There are some scenes however which I felt could have been dealt with in greater detail, but considering this is an old classic, one must realize there are some things better not to expect. Enjoy it as is. 8/10


                
It says something to the credit of Rebecca when out of all of Hitchcock's masterpieces, this was the only one to win an Oscar for Best Picture. Rebecca has all the hallmarks of Hitchcock's love of directional and linear storytelling, with his mastery of the ominous and unnerving. A film classic with a nice blend of romance, intrigue, mystery and suspicion that could only be delivered as masterfully well-done as it was during the Hitchcock 40s era.


                
Scratch one thing off the bucket list - I finally got around to watching Alfred Hitchcock's "Rebecca." (A cinephilic uncle introduced me to a handful of the director's better known classics when I was an adolescent - "Rebecca" was one that we never got around to.) Based on my own enjoyment of it, I'd rate this film an 8 out of 10.Please bear in mind that this is one of the slower Hitchcock films. Until its plot accelerates toward its end, it spends much of its running length as a methodically paced, brooding Gothic romance and mystery. It's also a psychological thriller, and you can tell that Hitchcock is working to translate onto the screen its character-focused source novel. (I haven't read Daphne du Maurier's eponymous 1938 book.)"Rebecca's" final act brings the viewer into familiar Hitchcock territory with some interesting surprises. What I liked best about seeing the director's style, however, was his trademark sharp characters and dialogue - with both heroes and villains sparring in a dry-witted and rapid-fire fashion. It's something you don't often see today. I don't think all old movies are like this - some of the "classics" I've been recommended are absolutely vapid. But Hitchcock treated his viewer as intelligent adults, and I think it's part of the reason why people love him.


                
Methodical direction by Hitchcock; startling plot twists (at least for those of us who haven't read the novel); subtle chills; superb performances by Joan Fontaine (lovely), Judith Anderson (hostile even when she's being polite), George Sanders (suave and ruthless); it just gets a bit too talky in some places toward the end.      (***)


                
A beautiful film very well directed, with very good acting, an excellent setting and decor, a very good screenplay, based on a very efficient story from the novel of the same name, 'Rebecca' is the real deal. This film is as much about story as atmosphere, and everything works in the way of the atmosphere transpiring evidently from this piece as one will surely keep at least some visual images and the overall feel from this film some time after viewing it. It's just about what one would expect of a Hitchock-directed picture rooted in a deep Gothic, dark romanticism. A few special mentions to Joan Fontaine who was arguably in her prime, absolutely gorgeous and attentive to play her role judiciously, as well as Olivier sometimes criticized who played his role of the constantly tormented, preoccupied but forgetting himself in the present moment male lead just right, and the actress portraying Mrs. Danvers who was simply exact with her performance.Excellent story. Excellent film. 8/8.5ish.


                
"I've loved you, my darling. I shall always love you, but I've known all along that Rebecca would win in the end."Rebecca begins very simply, with only the slightest hints of the twists and turns to come. After a whirlwind romance in the South of France, a young woman (Joan Fontaine in a nameless role) is swept off to Manderly, the lavish ancestral home of her new husband, Maxim (Laurence Olivier). It doesn't take her long after arriving there to find out that the shadow of Rebecca, Maxim's deceased first wife, continues to hang over Manderly. The stress of constantly being compared to the memory of the seemingly perfect Rebecca begins to outright suffocate the young wife, and her husband's frequent outbursts of temper and preoccupation combined with the unfavorable opinions of some of the household staff becomes more and more overwhelming. All is not as it seems in Manderly, however, and hidden secrets are eventually brought to light, with life-changing consequences. I thought Rebecca was a great movie. It initially seemed to be a light romance, before seamlessly bringing in elements of mystery and even courtroom drama. It's actually a relatively dark story, full of sordid dealings and shady characters.  Quite a surprise or two is sprung on the audience before Rebecca is done, and while this doesn't seem much like a Hitchcock movie in the beginning, by the end, there is little doubt that his fingerprints are all over this. I highly recommend it.


                
Hitchcock's first US production is distinct from anything he did before or after, most significantly in that it was an adaptation of classic novel. With the exception of The 39 Steps, before and after Rebecca Hitchcock would normally work with original material or loose adaptations of lesser-known novels. After leaving the relative freedom of the British studios, it was also his first time to work with perfectionist producer David O. Selznick, who often exerted as much control over the way a picture turned as the director.The fact of Rebecca being such a highly regarded and well-known novel was clearly something of a straitjacket for such an independent and formulaic director as Hitchcock. There could be no major changes to the plot, little room for Hitchcock to squeeze in his trademark suspense and black humour. Hitch instead sticks to his other forte, using the arrangement of shots to convey mental states, true feelings and relationships between characters <U+0096> and at that he is at his best here. In an early scene where Maxim de Winter sits down for coffee with Miss Van Hopper and Joan Fontaine's character, he focuses on Laurence Olivier and Joan Fontaine's reactions, even though the clucking Miss Van Hopper is doing most of the talking. In a later scene at Manderlay we see Joan Fontaine sitting alone at a huge dining table, with the camera slowly pulling out to show her sense of isolation.Hitchcock also goes a long way in creating atmosphere with large wide open spaces, curtains blowing in the breeze and the way he moves actors in and out of the frame. Mrs Danvers' first entrance, walking arrogantly straight into the middle of the shot is particularly memorable. A brilliant example of how Hitch uses a few simple techniques to achieve a change in mood is when Maxim and Joan Fontaine are viewing a reel of home movies from their honeymoon. Halfway through they are interrupted by the butler with the news that an ornament belonging to Rebecca has gone missing, and Joan Fontaine owns up to breaking it, leading to an argument. Before the interruption the camera focuses on the projection screen, and we see footage of the newlyweds happy together. Afterwards however the camera ignores the screen and focuses on Olivier and Fontaine, their faces half-lit, emphasising the tense, awkward atmosphere.Another problem with faithfulness to the source novel means that the dialogue is often overly literary. Joan Fontaine's opening narration sounds particularly lofty. Luckily the two lead acting performances are good enough to carry it. Laurence Olivier is great as usual. I didn't like Joan Fontaine as the second Mrs de Winter on first viewing, but then I realised what was actually annoying me was the way the camera draws in on her and the music swells up for all her emotional moments, which is more the fault of Hitchcock and producer David O. Selznick. Overlooking this, her Best Actress Oscar was well deserved.Rebecca is an engrossing film, and one that stands up well to repeated viewings. It has to be said this is mostly down to Daphne du Maurier's gripping, twisting story. But credit has to go to Hitch for using the freedoms of cinematic technique to convey it. Aside from the minor flaws already mentioned, I can't really think of a better way it could have been done. Whatever the case, it has to rank among Hitchcock's finest films.


                
In 1939, David O. Selznick produced "Gone With the Wind" --- recognized as the greatest movie ever made until... until latter day Liberal Democrats decided it was politically incorrect as it depicted slavery during the Civil War era south --- when it was relegated by the libs to the scrap heap of history and slave-free "Casablanca" took GWTW'S place. Anyway Selznick was honored in 1939 by a ton of Oscars including Best Picture of the Year. Not satisfied with thus honoring Mr. Selznick, Hollywood bestowed another Best Picture Oscar on him in 1940 for "Rebecca." The difference being that GWTW is/was truly a great film, while "Rebecca" was boring enough to put a hyper-active into a coma of ZZZ's. "Rebecca" was an Alfred Hitchcock directed film, and I'd say there are at least 20 Hitchcock pictures of superior quality, not one of which took the Best Picture Oscar. This was perhaps the year, and the film, when Oscars became one big joke, having so many awful films having taken Best Picture. Boo! Hiss!


                
Poor girl. No matter how hard she tries, the second Mrs. de Winter (Joan Fontaine) just can't quite measure up to the memory of Rebecca, the first Mrs. de Winter, a ghost that hovers over Manderley, British estate of the wealthy Max de Winter (Laurence Olivier). Manderley is an enormous castle-like house, first seen in black silhouette in the opening sequence. It lies in ruins. Yet, there are memories contained therein, and the film's plot structure consists of one long flashback, as told by Joan Fontaine's character. "Rebecca" is a Gothic love story, and Manderley is where most of the story is set.This is a "dark house" melodrama. And it's a good one. Manderley's interiors are imposing and intimidating, like the house manager, the severe Mrs. Danvers (Judith Anderson), whose job it is to please Mrs. de Winter. Yet fearsome Mrs Danvers lords over the place, causing considerable inferiority and grief for Fontaine's character.The underlying theme I suppose is the introduction of disorder into an otherwise orderly, predictable aristocratic circle. There's an ever-so-slight hint of subversion in the story, injected by the main character, lovely but naive, clumsy, lacking in social skills, someone who doesn't fit in among the usual Manderley crowd.The plot's middle Act, set at Manderley, is by far the best. The first Act takes place at Monte Carlo. And in the third Act, the plot turns perfunctory and shifts away from Manderley. We thus lose the "dark house" atmosphere. The film's dialogue strays into exposition in the second half.B&W cinematography is competent. We get multiple light sources in interiors, and lots of shadows. Rooms are big, and the staging creates a credible sense of wealth and aristocratic power.The film's overall acting is very, very good. I don't see how Joan Fontaine, or anyone else, could have done better in her role. Olivier and Anderson also give wonderful performances.Both entertaining and thematic, "Rebecca" is a high quality film that focuses on a young woman put in an awkward situation. The story is haunting and eerie. Despite its age, it still speaks to a modern audience, as most of us feel uncomfortable if we're placed among people, or in situations, that seem intimidating or threatening.


                
'Rebecca' is the first film that Hitchcock made in US and the only one that was crowned with a Best Picture Oscar, although it should be noted that the Oscar was not received by Hitchcock but by producer David O. Selznick, who had produced one year earlier 'Gone with the Wind'. It is somehow overrated in my opinion, as despite being a good movie it is not one of its best, and it's the less Hitchcock of all his films.The film starts as a romance, with young and innocent Joan Fontaine meeting widower Laurence Oliver on the Cote d'Azur to become in 20 screen minutes his second wife. It's 20 minutes of good romance, which let us feel that if he wanted Hitchcock could become a good romance movies director. Second part is the most Hitchcock one with the young wife becoming mistress of the castle which is still haunted and dominated by the shadow of the late Mrs. de Winter (we actually never learn her name - she has no name, Rebecca, the first wife has no face in the film, no portrait left). The psychological relation between the second Mrs. de Winter and the intendant of the house, faithful to the memory of her first mistress is the key conflict of the film, and here we get some of the fine balances of innocence and terror that we well know from other films of the master. The third part falls into quite routine police inquiry, and although the ending may hold some surprises it is this part that is really dusty and did not make it through the six decades since the film was made.There are some good or even bright parts in this film, the acting of Joan Fontaine and especially of Judith Anderson as one of the classical villains of all times is very good (less is Olivier's - this is not one of his great roles), and some camera work is really asuperb. Overall the film is unequal, and too many and too long boring parts make it one interesting but not one of the brightest pieces of work of Hitchcock.


                
Rebecca, I must say, is a masterpiece. This is what movies today SHOULD be like. It's suspenseful, intriguing, interesting - it really takes you on a journey full of sympathy (mainly for the second Mrs. de Winter - so vulnerable, weak, but she undergoes a major transformation), hate, jealousy, mystery, murder, suspicion and many more. I liked Joan Fontaine's acting better than Larry Olivier, I felt she put a lot of soul into her character (her acting may have been enhanced by Hitchcocks comment that everyone on the set hated her) and you sort of felt awkward when she and Maxim were having a fight, you felt sorry for her. Mrs Danvers is just plain spooky, especially giving that hypnotic speech to The Second Mrs de Winter.It's an amazing movie, held my attention, very impressed. A true masterpiece!


                
While I have always thought this movie was a bit overrated, it is still an exceptional film and those on IMDb who gave it scores of 1 or 2 are way out of line. Overrated it might be, but it STILL is a very good and interesting film.First, I'll complain about a few things--then discuss all the good about the film. The original story by Daphne du Maurier was a lot more risqué than the film--with a bisexual story line that is only barely hinted at in the movie. You really can't blame the film makers for this, as the Hollywood Production Code wouldn't allow this plot line to be pursued. So, instead, Rebecca was promiscuous but only with men. In addition, I am really amazed that Joan Fontaine received the Best Actress Oscar for this film. Her character often stared into space and appeared more slow-witted or annoying than just a "fish out of water". My daughter watched the film with me and said "why is that lady acting so twitchy?". In other words, she behaved in a rather strange and inexplicable manner during some of the film--particularly when she was at Mandalay. Also, I really couldn't understand why the DeWinters kept their crazy old housekeeper--after all, she tried to drive the mistress of the house to suicide. Isn't this grounds for termination of her services?!! Now, despite these complaints that definitely mar the film, there was so much to like about the movie. The script was daring and creative despite the limitations. Most times I see a movie, I say to myself that it reminds me of some other films I've seen, but in this case REBECCA is truly unique and creative. The film also had many, many twists and turns and provided one of the best endings I have seen in some time. In addition, I also liked the camera-work and music, as they created a wonderful ambiance. Despite being a black and white film, it was a beautiful picture.So my advice is to definitely see the film but just be prepared to ignore the plot holes. A hole-ridden film, to me, is still worth seeing in some cases, but somehow doesn't seem worthy of being in IMDb's top 250.
Hitchcock movies are known around the world for a reason, they're really good, acting wise, director wise, and cinematography wise. The whole story was acted out wonderfully by Olivier and Fontaine, Oliver played the mysterious handsome man well, and Fontaine was believable as a naive girl who fell for the looks. There were so many instances of great cinematography unique to Hitchcock films, playing with light and shadow to really tell the story along with the dialogue to make everything come together. Alfred Hitchcock as the director definitely left his mark on this movie, since I saw it was adapted from a book, and not created by him, he made it his own with great directive vision.


                
It's strange that Rebecca is the only Alfred Hitchcock film to win Best Picture, and yet it's not his best film. However, this movie still does a great job of creating consistent tension and making the viewer feel uneasy during seemingly mundane situations. Additionally, this film offers up an unpredictable story as well as some wonderful performances from Laurence Olivier and Joan Fontaine. Hitchcock truly is the master of suspense.


                
I'm not gonna beat around the bushes... This movie is really great movie to watch. Expect the chills and shivers you'll feel while watching this. 
Really great movie to watch..
Crdts. to all the cast and crew, great job.


                
The first 3/4 of this film are a slow creepy descent into madness largely thanks to Mrs. Danvers figuratively being a waking nightmare. The nameless heroine, the wonderful Fontaine, is memorizing as the oppressive nature of Manderley and Rebecca's memory is slowly tearing her apart on the existential level. Maxim, the wonderful Olivier, is unpredictable. You are never quite sure if he charming or sinister. Hitchcock directs with flair and whips up a delightful slice of Gothic horror. Or maybe it is romance, But then you find out Rebecca liked sex.Well, not quite liked that but a ton heat goes out of the film after the reveal about Rebecca's death happens. Admittedly, the reveal scene is extremely gripping and it is masterful the way Hitchcock makes you perceive without seeing Rebecca. And it works thematically as well as the film is discussing the notion of identity. Nonetheless, there isn't much there (in terms of drama) after that point. Unfortunately, the film still has 30 minutes or so to go. The film lags until the fire and the problem is mostly the screenplay. That was some fortunate cancer if you think about it. This is a good Hitchcock film. There are better ones.
The ending is more than a little ex machina. Very unpleasant types: Hecate van Hopper, Maximum de Winter, Deathly Danvers, Flakey Favell Foulenough, combine to bully a sweet, pretty, innocent, young girl with no name. But she slowly grows strong, takes Maxim in hand, and in the end sees off the others. This all takes place at Manderley, not Mandalay. Joan Fontaine is gorgeous.Florence Bates, as van Hopper, has a vicious Hitchcockian way with a cigarette, a stubbing technique later adopted by Jessie Royce Landis in To Catch a Thief. Was this another way Hitchcock decided later to repeat himself ? Just a thought. I don't think he showed up personally in Rebecca.An unusual Hitchcock perhaps, because it is heavy on atmosphere, somewhat reminiscent of Edgar Allan P, and although there is a modicum of suspense, it is slightly flat in that department. It's almost as if Alfred was feeling his way with his first film under American skies. Rebecca's death throes, her smile of satisfaction as she expires, reminds me of Claggart, although the film of Billy Budd was not produced until 22 years later. A gripping watch, but Olivier is extremely unappealing in his role. Other reviewers have explained that Selznick interfered with the direction of this film.
Filmed a few years proceeding his years of movie-making in Britain ("The Man Who Knew Too Much," "The 39 Steps," "The Lady Vanishes"), Hitchcock made this amazing romance/mystery that is as mystifying as it is unconventional.Not as good as "Psycho" or "The 39 Steps," but still an amazing film in its own right.5/5 stars.John Ulmer


                
