This was Alfred Hitchcock's first American-made film. Quite frankly, I'm amazed at how well Hitchcock "got" what American audiences wanted in their suspense films, hitting them out of the park from the moment he began working in the US. Apart from being a tad bit long, this is a well made film. I love the inside of Mandalay and Sir Laurence Olivier played a wonderful mysterious and sullen Maximillian De Winter opposite his new wife, a beautiful and naive young Joan Fontaine who is never even given a name here, probably deliberately and in keeping with how mousy and "second hand" she feels about herself in relation to the first and late Mrs. De Winter, who is actually Rebecca from the title.Of course there is also George Sanders, playing the type of character he is best known for--sarcastic, snobby, self-assured, pompous, witty and verbose. He hits the nail on the head as Rebecca's "cousin" - so he calls himself. Of course the most eerie and unsettling character was Mrs. Danvers, Rebecca's housekeeper or "maid in waiting." Danvers takes great pains in sabotaging the second Mrs. De Winter's marital relationship with Max de Winter,--even going as far as calmly urging her to to plunge to her death into the water from Rebecca's bedroom window at Mandalay. There are a couple of twists in this movie, but I won't give them away. It's best if you watch them unfold yourself in true Hitchcockian style.I will say that Rebecca, the first wife of Max de Winter, is NEVER seen, but we learn about her by what is said about her by the various characters, even going as far as seeing the untouched shrine of a bedroom maintained by Mrs. Danvers. But soon you learn that Rebecca was never the perfect wife Danvers and others make her out to be. The ending is a surprise in more way than one, and yet Mrs. Danvers gets the last word in her own way. A great movie by Alfred Hitchcock and David O. Selznick.


                
This fine classic combines a great director, a great story, and a great cast.  Any one of those would have made for a good movie, but all three make it an excellent one.  Hitchcock's style and eye for detail combine very well with a story (from a novel that is extremely good in its own right) filled with psychological fear and settings that are interesting and suggestive.Most of the time the story itself moves fairly slowly, allowing the focus to be on the characters, but there are also a couple of very good plot twists, which can be very surprising if you've not seen the movie or read the novel. So if you happen not to know the story, it's a good idea to see the film before reading a lot of comments about it.  Laurence Olivier, Joan Fontaine, Judith Anderson, and George Sanders are all perfectly cast and do a wonderful job bringing their characters to life, and making you feel a part of the story."Rebecca" should be satisfying not only to any Hitchcock fan, but to anyone who likes classic movies.  Whether you like romance, suspense, or drama, they're all here, and put together by a director and cast that are masters of their art.


                
Despite the fact that Alfred Hitchcock is widely renown as one of the great directors of his time, it is a bit strange how so many of his films (especially the later ones) have such lame plots. Hitch can make practically anything watchable, but Cold War stinkers like Topaz or Torn Curtain, for example, just weren't going to be classics with even the greatest at the helm. In the case of "Rebecca", however, the overall plot is equal to Hitch's masterful style, producing an epic film worthy of its Oscar statue.For a basic plot summary, "Rebecca" begins with the the meeting and courtship of Maxim de Winter (Laurence Olivier) and the lady who will become his wife (Joan Fontaine). When the couple arrive at Maxim's elegant mansion, however, the new bride discovers just how deep the love of Maxim's first wife runs through the home, especially in maid Mrs. Danvers (Judith Anderson).The main plot element of this film reminds me very much of "Vertigo" in the sense that a supernatural presence is hinted at. Viewers never quite know what is going on (further hinted at by Hitch's adept film & music touch) until quite literally the final minutes of the movie. I won't give away any details here, but suffice it to say that the mysteries throw enough curve-balls to keep you on the edge of your seat in wonder.The acting is also top-notch. Olivier & Fontaine shine in their leading roles, but Anderson's Danvers pretty much steals the show in this one as one of the great creepy movie characters of all time. Comparable to Nurse Ratched in "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest".Overall, "Rebecca" has got to be up near the top of all "Best of Hitchcock" lists, as it excels in pretty much every element of film-making. Whereas other Hitchcock films rely on Hitch's tricky camera work or silly humor to a large extent, "Rebecca" is just a fantastic story translated well onto the big screen. You can't really go wrong watching this effort.


                
This classical Hitchcock's Gothic mystery irresistibly reminds of "Gone With the Wind" (same producer), and also of Jane air (screenplay is based on novel of the same name by Daphne Maurie and it's written on the model of Charlotte Bronte). This is the first Hitchcock American/Hollywood movie so it has typical British flavor, like all previous Hitchcock mysteries. It is nominated for 11 Oscars and has won 2, for the best movie and the best black and white cinematography. I wouldn't say it's one of the best movies of all time, but it surely is masterpiece.9/10


                
In "Rebecca" a young woman's experiences of romance, fear and dark secrets correspond with her transition from innocence to maturity and prompt her saddened husband to reflect that "it's gone forever, that funny, young, lost look I loved won't ever come back. I killed that when I told you about Rebecca. It's gone. In a few hours, you've grown so much older". The despondency, regret and sense of loss that are embodied in these words are incredibly profound and typify the general atmosphere of gloom and melancholy that's such a strong and important feature of this extraordinary film.During a short stay in Monte Carlo, a naïve young lady who works as a paid companion for a rich overbearing society woman meets and falls in love with an older aristocratic Englishman called Maxim de Winter (Laurence Olivier). Their relationship develops rapidly and soon the young lady becomes "the second Mrs de Winter" (Joan Fontaine) and returns with her new husband to his enormous estate in Cornwall and his huge mansion called "Manderley".Maxim is a moody widower whose first wife, Rebecca, died in a boating accident. He's often brusque with his wife and she assumes that his sudden outbursts of anger are linked to his inability to come to terms with the loss of Rebecca. When she becomes the new mistress of Manderley, the second Mrs de Winter is soon overwhelmed by her new role and starts to feel rather isolated because of the aloofness of her staff and her husband's rather distant manner. She's also surprised and intimidated by the degree to which the spectre of Rebecca seems to be ever-present as everyone in the mansion (including Maxim) seems obsessed with Rebecca.Mrs Danvers (Judith Anderson) is the cold, severe looking housekeeper who "adored" Rebecca and now keeps her room exactly as it was when her previous mistress was alive. Her hostility to the second Mrs de Winter is obvious from their first meeting and she does everything within her power to undermine her new mistress including trying to get her to commit suicide. The feelings of fear, inadequacy and powerlessness that the second Mrs de Winter experiences at this point are intense but soon everything changes when a sunken boat is discovered nearby with a body inside it. A whole series of revelations then follow and make it clear that so many things at Manderley were not as they had originally appeared to be.Laurence Olivier's performance as a tormented man who's haunted by his past is very good but definitely outshone by Joan Fontaine and Judith Anderson. Fontaine's expressions and body language convey her character's timidity, uncertainty and sincerity with enormous power and Judith Anderson is convincingly evil as one of movie history's most memorable villains.An interesting feature of "Rebecca" is the techniques that are used to make the second Mrs de Winter appear insignificant and inferior. Not only does she get cruelly dominated by her employer in Monte Carlo and consistently patronised by Maxim but she's also denied even the basic dignity of having a name. When she's first introduced to the staff at Manderley, she's made to feel uncomfortable and embarrassed because she's rain-soaked and dishevelled and visually, the distorted dimensions of the interiors of Manderley make her look physically smaller, lost and out of her depth in her impressive new surroundings.Although Alfred Hitchcock famously dismissed "Rebecca" as not being a "Hitchcock film", it's an exceptionally good film that's very well directed with numerous touches that are characteristic of the great director's work.
Rebecca is a beautifully made film that, every time I watch it, sticks with me for some time after. Hitchcock masterfully uses the medium of film to mirror the story he is telling. The way the images flow across the screen is haunting, beautiful and adds so much to the emotional resonance of each moment. I think what I love most about Rebecca is how many scenes revel in the quiet and in sparse dialogue. Words are being said, but you can hear the characters holding back torrents of emotions and thoughts. This is especially true in scenes between Mrs. Danvers and the new Mrs. De Winter. I can't say enough about the actress who portrays Mrs. Danvers. I found myself so drawn to her character while at the same time completely creeped out by her. This is how you do horror!Definitely my favorite Hitchcock film.


                
(Flash Review)Counter to the majority of suspense films out there today, Hitchcock derives great suspense from two things that are not literally characters on the set, which creates an eerie atmosphere and discomfort as the story plays out. One core suspense point I'll leave as a surprise and the other I'll say is the metaphorical character of the film, the massive mansion, accentuates the underlying tension. The story kicks off with a young woman, who is an assistant to a wealthy older lady staying in Monte Carlo, who catches the eye of a wealthy gentleman. She is enticed by his charm as well as his wealth. As their romance takes off, she is brought to his mansion complete with a full staff and is slow to warm herself to the icy head housekeeper who has a mysterious fondness for the wealthy man's former lady. Will she regret her new station in life in the lonely mansion? Will she gain the confidence needed to navigate the housekeeper's unusual emotions and trumpet herself as the new lady of the house? Nicely paced, well edited, communicative shot framing, smart and engrossing dialog and crisp black and whites make this a stellar and memorable Hitchcock suspense film.
In Monte Carlo, the shy and naive lady's companion (Joan Fontaine) of the snobbish Mrs. Edythe Van Hopper (Florence Bates) meets the wealthy widower aristocrat Maxim de Winter (Laurence Olivier) in the hotel while her employer is ill. They spend many days together and they fall in love for each other. When the youth is ready to travel to New York with Mrs. Van Hopper, Maxim proposes her and they get married to each other. The now Mrs. de Winter discovers that Maxim is disturbed with the loss of his first wife Rebecca, who died when her boat sank with her alone nearby his manor Manderlay. They travel to Manderlay, where Mrs. De Winter has a cold reception from the housekeeper, Mrs. Danvers (Judith Anderson), who worshiped Rebecca. Along the days, the humble Mrs. de Winter is frightened by the omnipresence of perfect Rebecca through the arrogant Mrs. Danvers. However, when the boat of Rebecca is found with her body trapped in the cabin, Mr. and Mrs. de Winter are haunted by the past."Rebecca" is probably is one of the most famous movies of Alfred Hitchcock in his earlier career, with a suspenseful romance with many surprises and twists. The performance of the fragile Joan Fontaine is amazing with her innocent expression and clumsy attitudes in an aristocratic world that does not belong to her, a simple working class young woman. Inclusive her character does not even have a name. Laurence Olivier makes a couple without chemistry with Joan Fontaine, in the role of a millionaire with a shadow from the past. The introduction, with Joan Fontaine telling her dream, misguides the viewers and I expected a different fate for the lead couple. George Sanders is the perfect scumbag and Judith Anderson performs a creepy character that might be homosexual grieving a non-corresponded love with Rebecca. The cinematography in black-and-white is very beautiful but the DVD released by the Brazilian distributor Continental is not remastered. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil): "Rebecca, a Mulher Inesquecível" ("Rebecca, the Unforgettable Woman")


                
This black and white classic is generally a wonderful adaptation of Daphne du Maurier's novel, and despite a number of liberties taken, I compliment Hitchcock on this brilliant thriller. The story revolves around a shy young woman who, having no family herself, is forced to serve as a paid companion to an obnoxious socialite named Mrs. Van Hopper, vacationing in Monte Carlo. While there, she meets a handsome but abrupt English widower named Maxim de Winter, who is staying at the same hotel and escorts her about. The innocent young woman is swept away by this mature and mysterious man, though she dares not reveal her emotions, given her lowly social position. Though there is strangely little romance involved, Maxim unexpectedly proposes marriage. The two wed and honeymoon abroad, then Maxim brings his bride home to his grand English country estate, Manderley. At Manderley the insecure, nameless second Mrs. de Winter is emotionally haunted by Maxim's first wife, the beautiful and accomplished Rebecca. Though Rebecca drowned many months earlier in a boating accident, her memory seems all too fresh in the minds of Maxim's sister Beatrice, his servants, and indeed Maxim himself. The haunting R's are everywhere...on the table linens, the lacy handkerchief, the address book, the dressing gown case. We never see so much as a photograph of the mysterious Rebecca, but her lingering presence is felt through both her possessions and the recollections of others. The domineering and foreboding housekeeper, Mrs. Danvers, was personally devoted to Rebecca and exhibits unconcealed disdain for the new intruding and inadequate mistress of Manderley. When Danny shows Maxim's new bride the bizarre West Wing shrine she keeps to her former mistress, it seems as though Rebecca herself might walk in at any moment and use the nightgown and hairbrushes meticulously laid out for her.For me, the quality of any adaptation of this novel depends upon the persona of the second Mrs. de Winter. Joan Fontaine is sympathetic and endearing in the role, suitably shy and bewildered, but this actress is far too pretty! Maxim's new bride should be unglamorous, even plain and dowdy. Primarily for this reason, I prefer the 1979 serial version which has a perfectly cast Mrs. de Winter. However, Laurence Olivier is superb as the mature, sophisticated, often brooding, and occasionally rather nasty Maxim de Winter. The most masterful performance is definitely given by Judith Anderson as the dark, sinister, and menacing housekeeper, Mrs. Danvers, whose chilling stare dominates much of the tale.Maxim's business agent and friend, Frank Crawley, is faithfully portrayed as a quiet, kind, and competent individual who is unfailingly loyal to Maxim. Beatrice is suitably forthright, Giles foolish and chubby, the servants appropriately formal, and Jack Favell utterly despicable. Mrs. Van Hopper is wonderfully captured as the rude, chattering, condescending, and altogether obnoxious socialite of the novel, fawning over the aristocracy. Her character is necessary in order to cement sympathy for her paid companion and her social situation. I found the Monte Carlo scenes well presented, though could hardly picture du Maurier's gauche heroine so comfortably at ease dancing with Maxim.The sets especially are brilliantly done, depicting Maxim's grand English country manor. I felt that I was literally standing in Manderley's grand hall with its incredible staircase. Library, morning room, dining room, upstairs galleries, Rebecca's bedroom, and boathouse are all perfectly captured. The Cornish coastal scenes with the haunting fog enshrouded sea are portrayed in typical eerie Hitchcock fashion. Even Jasper the spaniel is perfect!*** WARNING: MAJOR SPOILERS *** According to the Hays Code, no movie could depict a murderer in a sympathetic light so the screenwriters were forced to cast Rebecca's death as an accident. Fortunately, I was aware of this in advance so managed the altered portrayal of events quite well. However, it certainly changed the flavour of this sinister tale. As appealing as the dewy eyed Joan Fontaine is, Hitchcock falls short in capturing Mrs. de Winter. He changes completely her role in the Manderley costume ball preparations by indicating that SHE herself is taking charge. In the book, Mrs. de Winter feels utterly inadequate and useless in these preparations as the domineering Mrs. Danvers organizes menus, flowers, music, and invitations. The worst outrage is his failure to depict the complete transformation of this awkward, insecure young woman, initially so ill at ease as mistress of Manderley and timid with the servants. Once she is assured of Maxim's love and no longer haunted by Rebecca, the novel's Mrs. de Winter immediately becomes a confident lady of the manor, scolding a maid and even taking on Mrs. Danvers. Yes, there IS one movie scene where she DOES defy the housekeeper, declaring, 'I am Mrs. de Winter now'. However, it's ALL WRONG, defeating its purpose by occurring BEFORE Maxim reveals the truth. Hitchcock is certainly a master of the thriller but totally missed the point here. The ball scenes are shortened due to time constraints, some of the later settings altered, and liberties taken with the conclusion. The novel's Mrs. de Winter is driving home from London with Maxim, rather than remaining behind at Manderley during the fire. The lovey dovey embrace with the implied 'happily ever after' ending is unfaithful to the book. Neither at the beginning nor elsewhere is the viewer ever informed that the de Winters are currently living abroad in obscure hotels on the Continent in self imposed exile. However, for those less concerned with accuracy to the novel, this movie is a haunting and engrossing romantic thriller with an extremely sympathetic heroine.
This review doesn't have the story line or any spoilers. 'Rebecca' is a recommended classic for all ardent fans of Hitchcock movies. Not only the suspense gives us chills, the film has soothing love sequences between Laurence Oliver and Joan Fontaine. Joan as Mrs. de Winter steals the show with her innocent love over her husband. Judith Anderson's portrayal as Mrs. Denvers is one which should be noted. She simply stuns the audience with her dark brooding body language and the tone she speaks. The sequence involving her and Joan in the old Mrs.de Winters room speaks the work of Hitchcock. Great direction, beautiful sets of Manderley with lovely performances adds feather to the classic mystery. Overall it is a must watch where Entertainment joins hand with Classic touch ..!!


                
"You thought you could be Mrs. de Winter, live in her house, walk in her steps, take the things that were hers! But she's too strong for you. You can't fight her - no one ever got the better of her."Without ever being physically present or having a line in the film, Rebecca's strange influence over everyone dominates the film in a way only Hitchcock could have pulled off. I still have a lot of Hitchcock films to catch up with, but so far I haven't seen one I disliked. Rebecca is a near masterpiece and Hitchcock once again proves his craft as a director by slowly building a psychological romantic thriller and then once we are hooked with the characters he pulls the rug under our feet and delivers some surprising twists we never expected. This may not be one of Hitchcock's most popular films, but it will always be regarded for being the only film of his that won him an Oscar. Rebecca isn't his best film (which in my opinion is Rear Window), but it deserves to be ranked amongst his best work thanks to a gripping screenplay, some wonderful performances, memorable characters, and above all its beautiful black and white cinematography. It is simply stunning and despite being made in 1940 it still manages to remain incredibly suspenseful and unique. Despite knowing that Hitchcock is going to come up with an interesting twist he completely catches me off guard every time and leaves me even more engaged with his work. My only complaint (a minor one) with his films is that despite being subtle throughout the story at the end he spells everything out for the audience trying to explain the twists (Psycho is the best example of this, but in Rebecca it's done again and it makes the film drag a bit near the end, but it's only a minor complaint considering we are talking about the Master of Suspense). Rebecca is based on Daphne Du Maurier's celebrated novel (who also wrote The Birds which Hitchcock later went on to direct) and adapted by Robert E. Sherwood. The story centers on a shy unnamed woman (Joan Fontaine) who works as a paid companion to the wealthy Edythe Van Hooper (Florence Bates). While they are in Monte Carlo she meets a wealthy estate owner named Maxim de Winter (Laurence Olivier). Edythe mentions that Maxim's wife, Rebecca, passed away an year ago in a boating incident and he hasn't recovered from it. During their short stay in Monte Carlo however, Maxim falls in love with her and the two marry within weeks of having met. Maxim takes the new Mrs. de Winter to his beautiful country home known as Manderley and introduces her to the staff. Despite being in awe of the majestic home, she feels intimidated by the housekeeper, Mrs. Danvers (Judith Anderson), who remains obsessed with Rebecca. As the days pass, Mrs. de Winter begins to feel overwhelmed by everyone's affection towards Rebecca and somehow she feels that Maxim is still very much in love with her. Rebecca's shadow seems to interfere with everything she does and she begins to feel her relationship is doomed.Rebecca is not simply a psychological thriller centering on relationships, it is a film focusing on identity. Despite never being seen, Rebecca's presence dominates this film and she seems to have a strange effect over everyone. In contrast, the second Mrs. de Winter only gets her name once she marries Maxim and she never really has an identity of her own. She is continually threatened by Rebecca's presence no matter what she does and despite wanting to overcome it she can't because everyone seems to have adored her. Hitchcock builds the tension and suspense very subtly with memorable characters. Despite being extremely beautiful Joan Fontaine pulls off an incredibly natural and believable performance as this shy and insecure pet-girl. Laurence Oliver also plays his role as the loving but distant character very well. However the two most memorable performances for me came from the supporting cast. Judith Anderson and George Sanders play the villains to perfection. Sanders delivers some comedic relief, while Anderson's mysterious and cold face uneases us from the moment she appears on screen. The Gothic mood underlying the film mixes perfectly with the haunting ghost story as Rebecca's presence can be felt everywhere once we step into Manderley. Hitchcock has done it again.


                
Charles Ramirez Berg, when discussing various landmarks of Hitchcock's films, pointed out that therein "evil manifests itself not only in acts of violence but also in the form of psychological, institutionalized and systematic cruelty." And it seems that REBECCA, his Hollywood directorial debut, a production that the New York Times reviewer Frank S. Nugent calls "facile and penetrating" proves that assumption specifically convincing. Though, this is a film which barely resembles the director's hallmarks nor reveals the cream of the Master of Suspense (actually lacking the MacGuffin).The screen adaptation of Daphne Du Marier's story "stands or falls on the ability of the book's 'I' to escape caricature" (Frank S. Nugent) but, simultaneously, "allows Hitchcock to mix styles and genres" (Berardinelli). His 'visual schemes' and 'thematic concerns' are present here, but the movie belongs to "somewhat uncharacteristic works" (R. Berg). It is, actually, REBECCA's Gothic atmosphere and sophisticated characters where its major strengths lie.(Gothic atmosphere) James Berardinelli observes in his review of the movie that "it is perhaps the height of irony that the only film directed by the Master of Suspense to win a Best Picture Oscar is a Gothic melodrama." Just the height of paradox where Hitchock proves to be a versatile director. There is no need to outline the story because each viewer will be led to its mechanisms, its thrill soon after the opening credits are over. Indeed, one could observe that its backbone is partly the novel, partly the resemblance to Bronte's JANE EYRE and partly today's soap opera but the whole decoration that it is covered with brings even skeptical viewers to certain awe. From the start, we see that moonlight can play tricks upon all of us (images heavily influenced by Hitchock's early encounter with German Expressionism at Ufa Studios). That highlights the magnificent job of the cinematographer George Barnes with the haunting use of light and shadow, the atmospheric score by Franz Waxman, the screenplay by Robert Sherwood, Philip Mac Donald, Michael Hogan, Joan Harrison and special effects by Jack Cosgrove. Considering the camera, F.S. Nugent rightly states that "cameras murmur 'Beware' when a black spaniel raises his head and lowers it between his paws again." Among many emblematic scenes of the movie, consider the discovery of Manderlay mansion or the couple's dance in the first phase of the film which is a typical old Hollywood romance. In all these aspects, REBECCA, as one of the most praised productions of the early 1940s, can be considered Hitchock's process of pursuing his style still under the spell of Expressionism but revealing something from the depth of his fertile fantasy.(Characters) Along with the very best performers of the time, F.S. Nugent observes something interesting in that respect. Mr Hitchcock, he says, "the famous soloist, suddenly recognized that, in this engagement, he is working with an all-star troupe." Yes, director's great rapport with the versatile cast results in outstanding performances and displays of great talents. Here, our attention is on Joan Fontaine. And to what extent the artistic side corresponds to the inner worlds of her character is mentioned by Berardinelli who states that "the director uses camera angles, editing, and music to emphasize the lead character's claustrophobia as it escalates to near hysteria." But before I outline certain points about Fontaine's performance, let me highlight another great achievement. It is not merely the great Olivier as the male co-star to Fontaine (one of Hitch's favorite blondes), it is not Sanders in the supporting role of Jack Favell, the scheming member of the extended family. The greatest role belongs to JUDITH ANDERSON as Mrs. Danvers, "considered by many literary critics to be among the best 20th century villainesses" (Berardinelli). A haunting character with homo-erotic overtones delivers unique psychological power, displays a Gothic idea of evil disguised by cold manners and indifferent gestures where still waters indeed run deep. In one scene, she introduces Fontaine to the room in the west wing that once belonged to late Rebecca and, magically almost, blends the real world with the imaginary world, spirits and living people, memories with here and now. Adding the narcissistic aspect of inner lusts and her hand placed on Rebecca's clothes delivers bizarre psychedelic experience. She appears to be a shadow incarnate, an incendiary 'persona' of the whole story bringing everything to haunting conclusion.(Fontaine, Olivier) The chemistry between Fontaine and Olivier appears to be striking. The actress who played in some other Hitchock's films being a co-star to Cary Grant in SUSPICION handles the role with sophisticated charm, certain psychological distance, some youthful enthusiasm. Yes, so far together with Larry. Alone, however, her role is hard, very hard as "a second Mrs. De Winter" a character placed totally in the shadow of her deceased predecessor, caged within the burden of haunting past ruled by 'the most beautiful creature people ever saw', she has no one to rely on once she enters the mansion and much must be expressed in her facial gestures. Slowly, she explores fears, even psychological angst no less than Bergman in Rossellini's masterpiece. From the inside out, she gives a silent performance to a significant extent. Berardinelli states that she "emphasizes her inferiority to Rebecca." Relying on that notion, we could ask ourselves: what about the superior character to her? All we know is that she was beautiful but incapable of love, some model of 'cold Aphrodite' developed even more intensely in a German film ALRAUNE. 'What was Rebecca really like?' remains a rhetorical question and something that is left to us just to imagine...Maxim De Winter is, to the contrary, a tormented character, a man of good will placed in the wrong place at a wrong time. Quite underrated at certain moments, this is, undeniably, one of Olivier's towering performances.REBECCA is a gem, a highly recommended film which may enhance the Hitchock's reputation as a versatile director and a surprising work where atmosphere and characters still supply us with unique entertainment.


                
Both a Golden Age Gothic romance and a true Hitchcock thriller, "Rebecca" somehow merges its director's style with its producer's sensibility. Much has been made about the butting of heads between Alfred Hitchcock and famed Hollywood producer David O. Selznick, but "Rebecca" ends up feeling like a Hitchcock picture with the sweeping feel of a Hollywood film.Despite being Hitchcock's first experience working with Hollywood and Selznick's reputation for controlling his projects and making literal book adaptations (this being of Daphne Du Maurier's novel), the best parts of the film have Hitchcock's thumbprint on them. He infuses the story with total suspense and discomfort, refusing to let it bore for long in spite of its length.The story follows a Gothic romance storytelling model akin to the Bronte sisters, which explains why star Joan Fontaine won the lead in "Jane Eyre" opposite Orson Welles just a few years later. Hitchcock channels nearly everything through Fontaine's performance as the aptly unnamed main character, a personal assistant who on a whim during her stay in Monte Carlo meets and marries a wealthy widower (Laurence Olivier). Fontaine exudes a lovable naivete, one that starts out earning sympathy but twists into an attribute that antagonizes the audience as the film goes on as the presence of the late great first Mrs. De Winter, Rebecca grows more powerful.The role of Rebecca easily ranks as the most powerful character in cinema to never appear on screen. Hitchcock sees to it that her presence not only fills the mansion that already overwhelms the new Mrs. De Winter, but also consumes the film itself. She's felt both on camera and in the audiences mind, enough so that when Hitchcock pretends that she's really there by "following her" with the camera in a key scene late in the film where Maxim recalls the night she died, you honestly believe it and picture her as some terrifying figure. But there's no depreciating the characters on screen. Fontaine as she writhes about in mentally anguish does manifest everything a bit too physically, but the reaction she creates in the audience is a palpable paranoia and fear. Olivier portrays a man quick to anger but clearly for deep-seated reasons that come from a dark place. Then there's Mrs. Danvers, the woman who runs the house. The moment Judith Anderson walks on screen she enters your mind. A good comparison would be Margaret Hamilton as the Wicked Witch in "The Wizard of Oz." It helps that Mrs. Danvers also serves as an antagonist, but in an entirely different way. We connect with our unnamed heroine's fear of Mrs. Danvers, but not simply because she plays the creepy housekeeper, but as we come to know her and understand her connection to the late Rebecca, she becomes this psychologically complex individual. Although Hitchcock's directorial voice runs through Fontaine, Anderson adds punctuation to his efforts, especially as she steals the final moments of the film.Although the Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences would have you believe "Rebecca" to be Hitchcock's finest effort, it merely showcases his ability as an artist to overcome what was a producer-driven Hollywood at the time. Despite David O. Selznick's name appearing before the title card, Selznick will always be better remembered for "Gone with the Wind.' "Rebecca" — that was Hitchcock's work.~Steven CVisit my site at http://moviemusereviews.com


                
This Hitchcock film was the first he made in Hollywood and he thought it was a compromise because he did not have complete control. Don't let that fool you. This is a classic film by perhaps the best director in history and it offers a view of Gothic horror and/or mystery you won't soon forget."Rebecca" is nearly 70 years old and yet it still projects a surreal world that draws the viewer into its web. Laurence Olivier is convincing as the brooding Maxim de Winter--a man unable to forget his first wife, Rebecca, who died a mysterious death. That presents a big problem for Joan Fontaine as the second Mrs. de Winter. She is a young and fragile newlywed who finds herself in a dark and confusing situation. She cannot fathom Maxim's many mood changes and his cold demeanor and she feels everyone is comparing her to the first Mrs. de Winter.This begs the question why did she marry him in the first place? Was she blinded by his scholarly manners or his offer of a comfortable life? Whatever he presented in courtship changed as soon as he returned to Manderley. He never seemed to grasp the fact that she felt out of place and was confused as to her role as lady of the manor.Some argue that Fontaine was too weak in the role, but I could not find a false note in any of her scenes. She started out as a mousy girl in love who was dependent on a strange, distant husband for everything. But, she fought her way to the truth about the first Mrs. de Winter and became a strong woman at the end of the film.Character actors, a Hitchcock staple, are a big plus in "Rebecca" as Dame Judith Anderson, Nigel Bruce, Gladys Cooper and George Sanders bolster the film. Anderson is amazing as Mrs. Danvers, the manor's housekeeper, whose presence seems to cast a cold and foreboding pall over everything. Her formal manner also has de Winter's new bride completely mesmerized and the give and take between the two actresses becomes a battle of sorts. Maxim seems unaware of the tension between the two and he seemingly has no fear of Mrs. Danvers even though she is so much a part of his tragic past.Although unspoken throughout, Hitchcock resurrects the memory of Rebecca as a tool to haunt all aspects of this film. From beginning to end, there is the strange feeling that she is still alive somehow and has returned to Manderley to claim her rightful place.In 1940, Hitchcock could well have used color for this film, but black and white proved to be an excellent choice. The dark shadows and fog just make the mansion that much more eerie and that includes the billowy curtains, which take on a life of their own when the wind blows.This film was Hitchcock's first "modern" picture, seemingly eons away from his small British movies of the 1930s. It is a Hollywood studio film (in the best sense) and David Selznick's production skills are evident as the "look" of the movie is very good even by today's standards. Even if the director felt this was not his best effort, many critics think this is Hitchcock's first classic film in a long line of them.


                
By the end of the 1930s, working for Michael Balcon at the Gaumont-British Picture Corporation , director Alfred Hitchcock was heading towards the peak of his artistic potential. Films such as 'The Man Who Knew Too Much (1934),' 'The 39 Steps (1935)' and 'The Lady Vanishes (1938)' became both critical and commercial successes, and so it was only a matter of time before he was tempted over to Hollywood to pursue even greater fame and fortune. Though his working relationship with independent producer David O. Selznick proved constantly frustrating <U+0096> Selznick often demanded a large amount of creative control over his films <U+0096> their very first collaboration proved one of Hitchcock's most successful, with 'Rebecca (1940)' becoming his only film to win Best Picture at the Academy Awards. Based on Daphne du Maurier's 1938 novel of the same name, 'Rebecca' is a tense, atmospheric Gothic melodrama about the lingering influence of the story's unseen title character, long after her own death.Relative newcomer Joan Fontaine plays a young, modest woman who falls in love with a wealthy widower, Maxim de Winter (Laurence Olivier), who still apparently mourns the death of his wife, Rebecca. Following a humble wedding in Monte Carlo, the two lovers return to Maxim's sprawling Manderley estate in Cornwall, England, where the servants <U+0096> especially the chillingly creepy Mrs. Danvers (Judith Anderson) <U+0096> find it difficult to accept this young bride as the new Mrs. de Winter. Whenever Fontaine's character finds herself within the walls of her new home, the atmosphere in each of the rooms is discomforting, even suffocating, as she struggles vainly to assimilate into a world for which she is unsuited. Her character symbolically remains without a given name, reinforcing the story's stance that she is without an individual identity; as long as she remains with Maxim, she will continue to be evaluated against Rebecca, and will be forever in the lingering shadow of Maxim's long-dead, "perfect" previous wife.The Master of Suspense certainly knew how to make an entrance into Hollywood, and 'Rebecca' is definitely one of his top ten films {out of the twenty-seven that I've seen thus far}. Though, at 130 minutes, it is one of the longest motion pictures that Hitchcock ever produced, the film never drags nor feels overly cumbersome, with the extended running time merely prolonging the suffering that the audience must endure through Fontaine's innocent, continually-threatened character. This isn't the sort of thriller that lulls you into a false sense of security and then shocks you, since that was simply not Hitchcock's style. Like another Gothic thriller of which I am fond, George Cukor's 'Gaslight (1944),' the main character is forever at ill-ease with her surroundings, and we, as the audience, are never afforded the luxury of feeling safe and secure. Rebecca de Winter is one of the most meticulously-detailed unseen characters in the history of cinema, and, without the story ever straying into supernatural territory, it seems as though her lingering presence is somehow orchestrating the disturbing events of the film.


                
I loved this movie. An early Hitchcock film, it resembles the certain suspense accompanying his direction. The eeriness of the old ms Dewinter, Rebecca, room allowed for the plot to build, a certain tenseness overtime those double doors popped up. the lighting was dark, a lot of the time it kept a majority of the shot in deep shadow. the deep shadow allowed for the idea of the unknown to build, similar to the threat of the old Rebecca. she was never explained, just mentioned and there are only reminders of her around the home. the eeriness builds with the coldness of the maid, the entire movie just build slowly upon itself. it is an excellent movie to preface the films Hitchcock was about to make, a wonderful predecessor.


                
Worthy of its place in cinema history, Rebecca remains a lesson to all would-be filmmakers. The opening scenes, light, airy and frothy, played out in romantic comedy style as de Winter meets his second wife in the south of France, soon give way to a more forbidding atmosphere. From the amusing delights of Mrs Van Hopper and sunshine to the menace of Mrs Danvers and the swirling mists of Manderley is a short, but life-changing step for the second Mrs de Winter.Hitchcock's use of light and shadow add to the feeling of foreboding. The fall of shadows across Joan Fontaine as she explores the house adds to the impression of her imprisonment in the rambling old house. And slowly, as ever, the master builds the tension as we realise that there is more to de Winter's first marriage and his wife's death than meets the eye. As one minor quibble, perhaps the scene in which Fontaine appears for the ball in a copy of a gown Rebecca had worn was slightly over-played, given that we could all see what was coming. The acting between Olivier and Fontaine was out of the top drawer, no doubt aided and abetted by Hitchcock's `encouragement' of the personal dislike the two had for each other. Judith Anderson's icy menace makes her perfect in the role of Mrs Danvers and is a strong counterpoint for the fiery ending. Lighting, editing and all the other elements come together to make this a fine piece of early noir.


                
Rebecca was the second consecutive Best Picture produced by David O. Selznick. Selznick did the right thing in bringing Hitchcock to direct the film and in doing so, turned it into a classic. Hitchcock is a genius and throughly deserved an Oscar. Laurence Olivier plays the rich English owner of Manderly, Maxim De Winter. Olivier gives a fine and tortured performance of a man who is haunted by his dead wife, Rebecca. His performance was great but the only flaw is that his character is annoyingly unresponsive to his wife. Judith Anderson gives a chilling performance as Mrs. Danvers, the crazed housekeeper with a lunatic obsession to her dead mistress, Rebecca. Her lines are classic and it is she who gives the tense atmosphere to the movie-Hitchcock's dark and cold Manderly just enhanced Miss Anderson's performance. It is Joan Fontaine who really gave the stellar performance as the second Mrs. De Winter. She is a shy girl who suddenly marries the haunted Maxim of a great estate. Hitchcock originially wanted Fontaine's sister, Olivia De Havilland to play the part. Olivier wanted his wife, Vivien Leigh. Although both ladies are great actresses, I'm glad that Fontaine was cast because she made Rebecca what it is today. This was the movie that sprung Fontaine to stardom and her shyness of the camera was carefully inputed into the character of the lonely Mrs. De Winter. Her first words: "Last night I dreamt we went to Manderly again" sets context not only to the story but to the character of Mrs. De Winter. She is shy, unused to a formal life, desperate for Maxim's love and most of all, intimidated by the presence of the late Rebecca in Manderly. Mrs. De Winter was supposed to be a plain and mousy person and so, Fontaine had the misfortune of being a beautiful woman playing an unattractive one. However, Fontaine presents other ways of being unattractive--such as that Mrs. De Winter has absolutely no social skills. All in all, Fontaine gave a performance that deserved a Best Actress Oscar. Although she lost out to Ginger Rogers, the Academy gave a compensation Oscar the following year for her less impressive "Suspicion".


                
'Rebecca' might be the best film Hitch made in the '40s, and it still holds up great today. As matter of fact, it is one of the greatest psychological thrillers of all times (and not only my personal opinion, I dare to think). It starts of as sweet romance, the first 30 minutes really look and sound like lighthearted romantic comedy where charming man with troubled past falls into innocent young woman. But soon, the darker note are pressing in, and the viewer is tangled into the twisted mystery world of Manderlay. It is one of those movies where repetitive viewing, when you already know all the twists and turns (which some might be quite shocking, but never preposterous) never fails to engage the viewer. Also the cast and performances. Hitchcock's movies always starred some of the greatest actors of the time and most of them gave their best performances in Hitchcock's movies. 'Rebecca' is not an exception. Laurence Olivier is perfect as charming wealthy man with troubled mind, and Joan Fontaine just shines as innocent, but never dumb or dull, simple girl who is not used with the high class British lifestyle. George Sanders always manages to come off as charming, even in his villainous roles.Masterpiece in every aspect.


                
I went into this thinking it was a Gothic Horror. Not horror at all, although that Mrs. Danvers could certainly pass for Bela Lugosi's sister. And it didn't feel all that Gothic to me either. But it certainly is a wonderful drama/mystery that pulled me in and held me right through to the end. I found myself staring at Joan Fontaine's face in almost every scene. Such simple, understated beauty! Olivier was great too, even if I found his character to be kinda of a jerk. A great film that has stood the test of time.


                
This was Hitchcock first American masterpiece which marked the beginning of a new era for Hitchcock. It was the first among the string of hits he directed during 40's and 50's. And moreover this is is so different from his other movies which generally revolve around some guy trying to clear his name and someone discussing a perfect murder. I cannot understand why academy didn't award Hitchcock an Oscar for this(though the movie got one) This is the story of a young simple woman played by Joan Fontaine who falls in love and marries a widower Maxim De Winter who is the lord of Manderly . She finds herself in a awkward position of the employer in their mansion with a fleet of servants to her disposal . But she finds that everyone is still in awe with with maxim's ex-wife Rebecca and no matter what she does she cannot fill her shoes. Maxim played by Laurence Olivier is a loving husband who loses his mind easily and bursts into violent anger sometimes. He is quite convincing as a man trying to forget his dead wife and trying to move on. But the most memorable role is that of Mrs. Danvers the housekeeper.She represents Rebecca in the movie and cannot accept new Mrs. DE winter as Rebbecca's replacement. She creates a mesmerizing atmosphere with her icy looks and fearlessness.The strength of movie lies in the impeccable performances by everyone especially the scenes the new Mrs. DE winter share with Mrs. Denver's. And to compliment this is the chilly music score by Franz Waxman.Finally, one has to mention the cinematography, which is magnificent Ultimately this is a must watch for everyone.


                
There is no doubt that Alfred Hitchcock was successful during his tenure as a British film maker who thrived on low-budget suspense pictures and was churning them out nearly every year. However, it was inevitable that he would find his way to Hollywood, and along with famous producer David O. Selznick, he adapted Daphne du Maurier's classic book into a thrilling and tense story about obsession, death and the effects and memories we all take with us long after someone moves onto the next world.What makes this such an interesting picture is the fact that Hitchcock was able to adapt some new and ground-breaking ideas into the filming process which obviously improves the quality of the experience as well as usher in a whole new way to create movies. He storyboarded every scene, used deep-focus photography and edited the picture "in camera," in other words only shooting what he wanted to see on the screen. This gave him a complete vision of what he wanted as well as kept the nosy Selznick's hands away from his product. What it leaves us today is spellbound, suspended and amazed at what he was able to do with a camera; in some ways 40 years ahead of its time. Though he would not receive as much credit as Orson Welles one year later with Citizen Kane, he nevertheless left behind a stirring story filled with complex and emotional people who bring us along on this strange and mysterious journey.The movie never would have been as great without an all-star cast, which Hitchcock had with Laurence Olivier and Joan Fontaine as the two lovers separated by the dead Rebecca's presence as well as supporting characters Judith Anderson as the obsessed housekeeper Mrs. Danvers and the slick and sneaky George Sanders. The narrative feels to bend a little in the final third as we are brought along to figure this dilemma out in a routine police investigation. Nevertheless, filled with dazzling images of Manderley, a completely convincing performance by the beautiful Fontaine and Hitchcock's ability to have Rebecca cast a shadow over the characters despite being dead, this is a classic not to be missed and one that needs multiple views before the mystery is cleared up. Even then, perhaps all will not be revealed.


                
Joan Fontaine as Mrs.De Winters & Judith Anderson as Mrs.Danvers in the film Rebecca (1940 film) by the great Alfred Hitchcock, are two of the most cinematic characters I have ever seen! I strongly feel that Joan Fontaine is the most lovely lady to have visited this planet Earth! Her acting on screen, is an invaluable gift which is one of the greatest & finest things to have existed ever ! From the very first frame, she has more than lived the character. English literature has no capacity & capability to describe her beauty and explain the depth of her performance! I love you Joan, wherever you are. I hope you receive my opinion and understand what & how I feel about you! Hats off !


                
I don't normally get into love stories, but this love story is so very different than most. All those Hitchcockian twists are great, Mrs. Danvers is deliciously wicked, and the on-screen interaction between Olivier and Fontaine (considering they hated each other when the cameras were turned off) was quite convincing. I have rarely enjoyed movies from this era because I thought the acting was wooden. Maybe it's just that I'm a big Hitchcock fan, but I don't think that's totally it. The lighting is wonderful, providing such crisp detail, the cinematography excellent, the set design marvelous (with the exception of a couple of cheesy fake backgrounds), and the miniature Manderley is exquisite. I would have to say that this movie is one of the best that Hitchcock ever directed, and definitely one of my favorite movies ever. I'll watch it again and again, and I'll recommend it to anyone.Enjoy.


                
This was Hitchcock's only movie to win Best Picture. That still shocks me as he had so many good films. While I'm not sure I would rate this his best picture, there is so much to love here if you are a fan of Classic Film.There is an unforgettable opening sequence with fog and trees and crashing waves. The cinematography here is some of the finest I have ever seen. It also won a much deserved Oscar for Cinematography. There is a stunning dream sequence that is also very well done. All the filming creates the perfect mood for a Gothic tale of romance and tragedy. One thing Hitch was the best at was creating mood and tension and this movie highlights his skill perfectly. He accomplishes this through fantastic cinematography and direction that capitalizes on the use of shadows and tense angles, as well as a great mood-setting musical score. The lighting effects are also used with great skill.Fontaine is perfect as the nervous, insecure new bride. Her acting doesn't have a single insincere note in the whole of it. I understand Hitchcock helped achieve this superb performance out of a relatively young and inexperienced performer by telling her Olivier despised her because his wife, Vivien Leigh, lost the role to her. Hitch also told her the rest of the cast hated her as well. Can you imagine how insecure this would make a young, inexperienced actress? Olivier is at the prime of his physical beauty here, and does a superb job of handling the various depths of his character as they are revealed. Mrs. Danvers is enough to send shivers down your spine - what a creepy woman.Parts of the movie do seem to drag a little slow. And it seems to run long as well. But stick with it, and your interest will come back around. There are unexpected twists near the end.


                
