Although his work on other things such as Monty Python and A Fish Called Wanda are incredible, nothing beats the genius of his writing and performing skills in this rather amazing sitcom! What amazes me is that the vulgar character of Basil Fawlty was NOT a thought up character, but he did actually exist in real life. And what was even more surprising was that the BBC thought that the pilot script was so bad that it would never become a remembered thing on TV...well...look at where the show stands now, eh? It's classed as one of the best sitcoms in television history.Basil is played at an outstanding rate by John Cleese as is the supporting cast of Prunella Scales as the "nest of vipers" wife Subil, Connie Booth as the faithful and reliable waitress Polly and, of course, Andrew Sachs as the hopelessly dim and hard of understanding Spanish waiter, Manuel.Clearly the show has many classic moments, but for me, there are four things that stand out. One, the scene where Basil beats up his car with a large branch, two, his impression of a German Soldier, three, his struggle to get the corpse out of the hotel and finally, the deaf old woman who complains about the room. Although each episode itself contains side achingly funny situations that still seem original today in spite the fact that it was made back in the mid/late 70s.Like most people, the sad feeling is that only 12 episodes were ever made. Not even a Christmas special was made. Might have been interesting to see what Christmas life in Fawlty Towers would have been like. Maybe Basil's Christmas is anything but relaxing with his henpecking wife at him all the time, Manuel burns the turkey, Polly runs off with one of the guests perhaps...many ideas for a final 13th episode. LOL! The writing is excellent, the performances are excellent, the setting is excellent, the episodes are excellent...clearly an excellent piece of British TV situation comedy.


                
FAWLTY TOWERS is one of my favourite comedy series of all time. The show stars former Monty Python cast members Connie Booth and John Cleese, Hilarious show and guaranteed to make anyone laugh - love it!In Basil Fawlty, John Cleese finds the perfect embodiment of his skills as a comedian.The bulk of the humor in "Fawlty Towers" derives from Basil's interaction with the other characters, his sarcasms and his insultingly pompous manner. His attitude toward almost everyone around him, including the guests in his hotel, you see, is almost unfailing deprecating unless it's somebody he thinks is important, in which case he's groveling to make an impression. Small things lead to bigger things lead to catastrophe. I would highly recommend this show to anyone. Acting is superb.


                
Brilliant show from the minds of John Cleese and Connie Booth.You probably already know the premise of this one, and if you don't where have you been living, but I'll patronise you nevertheless: Cleese plays Basil Fawlty, a blundering, blustering buffoon, preoccupied with social status and utterly concerned about what other people think of both himself and his beloved hotel. Prunella Scales plays his tormented, overbearing wife, constantly pitting herself against the lies and deceits of her foolish husband to keep the good ship Fawlty Towers afloat. Connie Booth, as Polly the maid, is frequently caught in the middle of the pair, her loyalty to both a source of difficulty and divisiveness, and finally, Manuel, the Spanish migrant waiter and porter, whose inability to speak fluent English causes much anxiety to the proprietor.A wonderful British farce, with great one liners, hideously embarrassing moments as Basil squirms and fawns over unsuspecting guests, and some really excellent supporting characters all add to the magic.Highly recommended.
Fawlty Towers is a sitcom that virtually needs no introduction. There surely cannot be too many people who don't know what it's about. On paper the idea of the show is surprisingly unremarkable. It just sounds like many other sitcoms. Of course the reality is that Fawlty Towers is seriously far from being ordinary. Like all great TV comedy, the strength of the show is a combination of its writing and its performances. In the case of the screenplay, the show works like clockwork. Each episode works like a finely tuned clock, with no wastage and every single event in the narrative is there for a greater overall purpose. It's precision writing of the first order. And as for the performances? We have comic acting of the highest level from John Cleese, Andrew Sachs and Ballard Berkley in particular, with extremely able support from the other regulars and guests. Basil Fawlty in particular is a fantastic comic creation from Cleese. He is a well-rounded believable character who is both unpleasant and completely sympathetic. He not only has great lines but Cleese's height is used to great effect here. It's impossible to imagine the character any other way than a venom-spitting stick insect.It's been mentioned so many times but yes there were only twelve episodes. It was very much a case of quality over quantity, and all the better for it. I personally wouldn't go so far as to say all twelve were perfect however, as I have always felt that 'The Waldorf Salad' and 'The Anniversary' were two episodes that made the mistake of stretching the farce too far to the point where they just became silly at points. Nevertheless, even these lesser episodes still had their moments of comic greatness. But of course there are shows that displayed pure genius from start to finish - 'The Psychiatrist' in particular is pretty much comic perfection. Comedy does tend to date far worse than any other genre. What one generation finds funny changes and varies very rapidly. And while Fawlty Towers does suffer from a bit of wear and tear here and there due to age, it remains for the most part a terrific example of the sitcom as an art form.


                
I'm from Barcelona - Really ! -although my name is not Manuel, sorry... ( BTW it's very unlikely than anyone from Barcelona would call himself Manuel -it should be "Manel" or "Manolo" ) What can I say about Fawlty Towers that hasn't been said already ? Basil, Sybill, Manuel, Polly, all of them are great characters and all the Shows are top quality from beginning to end . Sometimes when I'm a bit low, I remember a line or a scene from FT and my mood improves always. Maybe, being "from Barcelona" I could put a fresh view from outside. Fawlty Towers was introduced in Spain, some 20 years ago, but only in Catalonia and dubbed in Catalan , not in "Castellano" (Spanish ) Manuel the waiter was of course relocated and transformed in a Mexican from Jalisco -( It wouldn't make sense that a Catalonian from Barcelona didn't understand his own language, but a Mexican would be in trouble talking in Catalan. Also Andrew Sachs looked and sounded rather Mexican than Spanish.) It was a very good adaptation and dubbing. Nevertheless some verbal jokes were lost in translation, what I realized later when I saw the series on the original English audio. Some years later it was presented in Spanish -for all the country this time- and now Manuel was "Paolo" an Italian. Unfortunately the Spanish dubbing was rather poor and mechanical. It didn't make justice to the good acting of Cleese, Booth, Scalles and Sachs. As far as i can say, here in Catalonia the show was a great success and has been broad-casted several times. Personally I rated it amongst the best comedies I've ever seen on TV.( Allo, Allo.. Some mothers ... and almost everything written by Erich Chappell are others of my favorites- all of them British, you know.. )


                
Like 'The Young Ones', 'Fawlty Towers' was a wonderfully funny and well-written sitcom broadcast by BBC2 which, although very popular, did not hang around on our screens for very long. The idea for the show came from John Cleese's experience of staying at The Gleneagles Hotel in Torquay, ran by the late Donald Sinclair, a man who was so rude as to defy description.When Cleese penned the 'No Ill Feeling' episode of 'Doctor At Large', which featured Timothy Bateson as an ill-mannered hotelier, he based Bateson's character on Sinclair. With the episode a ratings hit, it was clear to Cleese that there was potential to build a sitcom around the episode's characters and setting. And 'lo 'Fawlty Towers' was born.It was all about hotel owner Basil Fawlty, a conceited, gangly, upper class twit who makes no effort whatsoever to hide his contempt for the guests. Prunella Scales plays his wife Sybil who despite her diminutive stature can strike fear into her lanky husband by just snapping his name at him. His staff include inept Spanish waiter Manuel ( Andrew Sachs ) whose command of English is almost non-existent and Art Student Polly Sherman ( played by Cleese's then wife, the gorgeous Connie Booth, with whom he wrote the show with ) who serves as a waitress and housekeeper. The late Brian Hall was introduced in series two as Terry the chef. The permanent residents of the hotel are the senile Major Gowen ( the late Ballard Berkeley ) and dotty old ladies - Miss. Gatsby ( Renee Roberts ) and Miss. Tibbs ( Gilly Flower ). Guests who came and went over the show's run were selectively deaf battle axe Mrs. Richards ( Joan Sanderson ), obnoxious spoon salesman Mr. Hutchinson ( Bernard Cribbins ) and shyster Lord Melbury ( Michael Gwynn ). David Kelly appeared in one episode as cowboy builder O'Reilly.With good scripts, wonderfully crafted characters and a superb cast, 'Fawlty Towers' deserved to be a hit, and was. It almost didn't make it though. The ratings for the first series ( which was broadcast in 1975 ) were terrible ( some critics, who remembered Cleese from 'Monty Python's Flying Circus', blasted him for 'selling out' ), though fortunately, ratings from repeats saved it from extinction. The second series did not arrive until 1979. This for me was when the show really hit the nail, however Connie Booth's reluctance to carry on working with Cleese again meant there was no chance of a third series, though a specially filmed sketch featuring Cleese once again as Basil was used to kick-start the first episode of 'Not The Nine O'Clock News'.The exterior shots used for 'Fawlty Towers' were that of the Woodburn Grange Country Club in Buckinghamshire. Sadly, it no longer exists today as it was destroyed by fire in 1991.To conclude, 'Fawlty Towers', like 'Porridge', is a true classic which remarkably has stood the test of time rather well.
To most, nothing could be more relaxing than a vacation, particularly if the locale happens to be a beach-side resort.  In most cases, I am sure this would be true.  However Fawlty Towers, a hotel in the renowned British coastal town of Torquay, is not the ideal destination for those who want to keep their wits.  It is, nevertheless a brilliant setting for those of you that find a chuckle in watching others create havoc.  Do not get the wrong impression though.  There is nothing wrong with Fawlty Towers, nor the town of Torquay itself.  It happens to be those that run the hotel that make it such a despicable place to stay.  With an obnoxious manager, his wife who has a tongue sharper than the cleanest cut butcher-knife, a waiter with little English comprehension and less common-sense, and a hostess who always tries to stay out of trouble (but never does) this hotel is little more than a den of mischief hidden behind a mirage of class and sophistication.
All these above elements combine to make one of the most successful comical television programs of all time: Fawlty Towers.  Each single episode is a full story in itself, but all share a strong bond.  In every one, the manager, Basil Fawlty (John Cleese) tries to run a business in the hopes of making a respectable profit.  Unfortunately for him though, he seems to lack anything at all that resembles people skills.  Having no patience, courtesy, nor respect he has the negative effect of disgracing everyone in his presence (even when he tries not to).  His wife, Sybil (Prunella Scales) who seems to have the brains to run the operation is unable to compensate for her husband's flaws because she either is diverted by her constant urges to gossip, or is in the wrong place at the wrong time (away when her husband is screwing up most).  The ineptness of Basil Fawlty is only held in check with the help of his two assisting employees, Manuel (Andrew Sachs), a verbally-challenged Spaniard from Barcelona , and Polly (Connie Booth), a local girl, with good intentions.  Even with their help situations often become out of hand, because they have faults that are sometimes just as obvious as those portrayed by Mr. Fawlty.Daily activities of the hotel are continually confusing and maddening for both guests and hosts.  Fawlty Towers would not be the success it is without more than flaws in character to work with.  The writers of the series must be either ingenious plot manipulators, or be extremely depraved in every sense of the word, as every situation encountered uses the most of the setting and characters to warp the plot and twist it into something that resembles reality, but with the ideals of probability thrown out the window.
Perhaps the reason the comedy was made with only twelve episodes was to keep the quality of the series at a premium.  It is due to the quality of acting, script, and original ideas that sets this British comedy apart from the many others that have been televised over the years, and why it continues to be a classical representation of British humour.


                
Apart from Fools and Horses, this is the best British sitcom ever, which is an unbelievable achievement because only twelve episodes were ever made. John Cleese is fantastic as the rude manager of the hotel Basel Fawlty ( I really could go on for hours about his great performances, Absolutely brilliant one of the best sitcom character's ever) every episode is great and funny. Andrew Sachs is also very good as well as the rest of the cast. It's just a pity they did not make more, great sitcom. Only twelve episodes, but i still rate it five out of five. Great Sitcom, if you have not seen it, you really are missing something special!!!


                
Short and Simple Review by WubsTheFadgerThe series interested me only because the IMDb score is so high. I found the series on Netflix and began to watch it with not information about it. The first season was at best okay. The second season was amazing. The story's are hilarious and the jokes are nonstop. The characters are all likeable and funny. The first season made fun of Hispanic people a little to much but some of the jokes were very funny.The acting is great. Prunella Scales, Andrew Sachs, Ballard Berkeley, and Brain Hall all perform well. Connie Booth is my second favorite character because she brings a sense of beauty and a slight hint of humor to the screen. John Cleese plays Basil Fawlty who is a quick witted, short fused, ill tempered man who is hilarious. Cleese is the master of comebacks and quick burns. John Cleese is why I rated this series so high.The pacing in some episodes is slow especially in the first season. The runtime for each episode is short which is good.Pro: Some hilarious story's and jokes, great acting, Connie Booth and her gorgeous face, John Cleese and his quick wit and amazing comebacks, a great second season, and a good runtime for each episodeCons: Some slow pacing in the first season, some bad jokes and stereotypes about Hispanics, and the first season was a little weak Overall Rating: 9.0P.S. This show was hilarious but has some outdated humor. The humor is slapstick with some very hilarious moments sprinkled throughout. I will be watching more UK comedy shows because of this one.


                
Fawlty Towers is one of the greatest TV comedies of all time. In fact it is timeless, it never gets old. John Cleese is brilliant as a quarrelsome owner who constantly fights with his guests. His superb acting is equally matched by his co-stars who hit it out of the park. This show is one for the ages with memorable episodes and eccentricity you wouldn't believe. The bar has been set very high for TV comedies and very few shows have met or even exceeded the caliber of Fawlty Towers.Highly recommended.


                
This was one of the best comedies i've ever seen.Just a simple plot.No unwanted comedy,but everything is situational.From the first episode to the last one it's a fun filled TV series.Fawlty Towers is so funny due to a number of factors.Incompetent employees making the main character's life a hell with his wife nagging on him.Basil Fawlty is the kind of person you love to hate.All of the 12 episodes will make you cry with laughter.For anyone that likes absurd comedy, this is the show for you.In my opinion it is Funtastic in every sense of word.my rating is 9 out of 10.


                
Too short, I need more of this brilliant show., but a reboot would ruin it.


                
This is one of the very best situational comedy television series ever made. John Cleese (of Monty Python's Flying Circus fame) runs an inn in this show and every episode is hilarious, from local kids changing the hotel's sign to comedic slogans, to Cleese screaming at hotel guests and his inept "Spanish idiot" kitchen and hotel staff. A must be seen show.


                
Fawlty Towers is a terrific television series with fantastically written plots and a top notch comedic cast. Of all 12 episodes, each is just as brilliant, there is never one that comes on that I am disinterested in, each takes me on a journey where I can simply sit back, relax, forget about my troubles and have a genuine laugh. There is so much cringe humour in it, which the British do so well, particularly due to Basil Fawlty, one of the most well written characters of any comedy series, who we can not help but laugh at. My only real complaint about the show is that they simply did not make enough, I know that British comedies usually do not have a long runtime, but I would love to have seen these characters grow and develop some more, their arc is very incomplete. The cast is all around terrific, John Cleese is an absolute revelation as Basil, with an amazing physicality in the part, it is impossible to imagine anyone else in this role. Prunella Scales is also magnificent as Sybil, playing a straight, but still hilarious role, Andrew Sachs often steals the show as Manuel, and Connie Booth has an excellent presence as Polly, playing the most grounded character on the show. Great fun from beginning to end. Still has me in stitches even when watching the episodes for the fiftieth time, Fawlty Towers is a must watch comedy.
Follows a hotel owner trying to keep his business in check, but often making mistakes along the way. 
Best Performance: John Cleese/ Best Episode: The Germans


                
This BBC sitcom deserves its reputation as one of the best sitcoms - and indeed TV shows in general. The acting, writing, direction etc. are excellent. There are many strong, entertaining and diverse characters. The interactions between them and the farcical situations created are genius.


                
John Cleese is marvellous and is cute in this show


                
