I agonised about what star rating to give "John Adams".I cannot comment on the historic authenticity. However, the sets, sound, makeup, CGI, storyline and dialogue are outstanding. All the actors are excellent and it's invidious to single any one out. But Giamatti and Linney stand out with incredible, intimate and emotional performances.So why the "agonising"? Quite simply, although the cinematography and lighting are technically perfect, someone somewhere - presumably the director in consultation with the producers - thought that a hand-held camera and the odd tilted horizon would add something to the story.Wrong, wrong, wrong.There are two valid excuses for a steadycam shot: if it's physically impossible to shoot it with a crane, and to give the impression of a grabbed shot in, say, a war zone.Unfortunately, too many otherwise first class directors have followed a craze that emerged a few years back, and appear to think that unsteady shots add to the experience. They don't: all they do is make you think about the mechanics of the filming and look for the exit. And tilting the camera for no good reason is just plain effete.So: eight out of ten. A shame, because without the trendy camera-work I would give John Adams ten.


                
John Adams is an event, an outstanding production in every way but one -- the camera work. There is way too much use of hand held camera shots and often arty framing of scenes that distracts from the drama that is unfolding. This type of thing pulls one out of the performances. This is the kind of thing one comes to expect from old 8mm home movies or people that do not know how to use their video camera -- not from professional cinematographers working on one of the most expensive TV series of all time. Otherwise the series is magnificent. From time to time there is framing of people who are almost absent from the frame. Some great moments are marred by having the camera behind curtains peaking out at the actors, as if the camera was hidden and trying to capture forbidden incidents without being detected. I'll never understand why the director and producers allowed this kind of thing to mar an otherwise flawless presentation!


                
This has been so much better than monstrous fictions like The Patriot. Before this series, my image of John Adams was William Daniels in 1776 and those pictures of a dumpy, white wigged aging gentleman we usually see in Adam's portrait. It was quite difficult to imagine them as one and the same. And how did he ever get to be President? Finally, here is Paul Giamatti giving depth, emotion, doubt, pride, and more and doing it as a human. And his is just one of several outstanding performances. Laura Linney is absolutely fabulous as Abigail Adams. Her every look, movement, action conveys a thousand words. (and I enjoyed that Tom Wilkenson is Ben Franklin here and Lord Cornwallis in The Patriot) And I cannot say enough about the most attention to detail I've ever seen in an historical piece - the clothes, the surroundings, the living conditions, like the small pox vaccinations. It shows a real care and concern on the part of all involved to present what they are portraying as accurate as it is.Of course, there are problems. The opening moments of Episode 1 should have drawn you in immediately. Unfortunately, I suspect it turned people off. It wasn't until late in 1 and into 2 that if one stuck it out that long, you would start to be drawn in by the characterizations. I wasn't sure I wanted to sit through all 7 episodes, but I'm now going to miss it dearly when it's over in 2 or so weeks.And there are inaccuracies. Adams came and went several times to Europe, and more of his family accompanied him at times, and I think he was part of a larger delegation. That little bit of disagreement between him and one of his sons who accused him of being a neglectful parent - that is so late 20th century. Especially considering as others have pointed out, a lot of the Continental army regulars were gone from home for years.But this series puts the most human element I've ever seen into a period when people of that time are viewed larger than life, people we've almost made out to be super-human. Someone wrote that the series was boring. Show me any one's life at the minutiae required to show that person as human, and you'll see boring. Our lives are not a series of highlights and sound bites with fade outs between - there are ups, downs, and a lot of just living, but it's real. And John Adams, thank all those involved, shows it.
HBO's special miniseries and projects have been the gold standard in quality television productions in the last decade. They have delivered many popular portrayals of American history, such as the notable mid-90s TV movie with Gary Sinise as Harry Truman, and the recent FDR bio "Warm Springs". The former work made use of David McCullough's excellent biography, and now comes "John Adams", following McCullough's book the same. The result is a quality production overall, though it is a bit slow in places.Adams was a major player in the American Revolution, and his contribution is deservedly celebrated here, though his life presents some challenges to filmmakers; in particular, he was not really a presence in the field (so no big battle scenes or such moments of martial heroics), so the main drag comes after the signing of the Declaration of Independence, when Adams is shuffled off to the Continent to impotently lobby for aid from Europe.The basic outline of the story begins in Boston in 1774, when lawyer John Adams is recruited by the British to defend the soldiers under arrest for the famous Boston Massacre, when protesters were gunned down. The question is whether their captain gave the order to fire. This first episode plays out like a legal drama; in episode two, the scene shifts to Philadelphia, and we get a new rendition of the familiar scenes of the Declaration being argued-over and drafted, and meet figures such as Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Jefferson. Episode three, the weakest of the seven in my opinion, sees Adams in Frnace, doing little of consequence and bemoaning his separation from his beloved wife Abigail. Adams his little talent for diplomacy or the foreign French court, and he often finds himself getting in the way of the more skilled Franklin. Upon his return to the United States in the final episodes, he must deal with the maddeningly inconsequential role of the Vice President, the rivalry between Jefferson and Alexander Hamilton, his troubled presidency (with the focus being on the prospect of war with France), family squabbles (most of all his drunken failure of son, Charles), and, finally, his physical decline in retirement.The title role is essayed by Pail Giamatti, who is a rather interesting choice for the main character in a 19th century drama; he is not the sort of heroic type one might expect. This is suited to the Adams of the story, who is, for all his positive qualities, frequently petty and short-sighted, given to bursts of anger. His wife Abigail is played by Laura Linney, who sometimes skirts too close to being a stereotypical Supportive Wife, but other times is accorded more in the way of emotion and personality variance (and Linney is a great actress). Other performances of note are Stephen Dillane as Jefferson and a drole Tom Wilson as Benjamin Franklin.Given that the story pans from 1774 to 1826, the actors require extensive use of age makeup, and the stuff used here is very good. Giamatti, in particular, spends the last few episodes as an extremely believable elderly Adams. Being HBO, the series makes a point of giving as 'realistic' a setting as possible, rather than the spotless look of movies like "1776". Bad teeth abound as Adams grows older. The series begins and ends with two especially memorable moments of period gruesomeness: the first, a grisly tarring-and-feathering of a British loyalist, the second a wince-inducing depiction of a 19th century mastectomy.There is a rather bizarre scene where Adams rants about historical inaccuracies in the depiction of the signing of the Declaration of Independence, which seems out of place, given that this miniseries takes liberties with history as the average production does (right down the Adams' rant itself, ironically, which he did not give). It's hard to know what to make of that moment.Regardless, this is overall a very interesting piece of work.
Extremely well done. For the most part, historically accurate with a small amount of artistic license used for continuity. The acting was superb right down the line. Giamatti has had some great performances in his career but you would be hard pressed to name one better than his role as John Adams. For all the greatness and shortcomings of the founding fathers presented in this telling, it makes you proud of the American heritage and the "idea" of the inalienable right of human freedom that the founders fought so hard to institute and protect.


                
First off, I'd like to say that I feel this series on it's own will educate and awe viewers as to the trials our founding fathers went through to patch together a group of divided states into one hell of a union.I decided to give this series an 8 because it really leaves out a lot from the book "John Adams" by David McCullough. But it did still reinvigorate my enthusiasm for appreciating the things this country was founded on that I initially received from the book.The story revolves around our second President, and quite possibly one of the most important politicians we've had in this country, despite his relatively under-rated status (he is certainly not honored nearly as much as Jefferson or Franklin or Washington despite he was on par or above the aforementioned in comparison). While HBO choose to highlight many of the important scenes from the book, I felt they left out a lot of the tension that existed between Jefferson and Adams, Adams and Franklin, Adams and France, while placing more of the story on the internal struggles existing within the Adams family (particularly Charles, who the book does not focus on quite so much).I think that given the current state of our country, this book and the series (I highly recommend the combination in that order) will make you see just how far we've lost our ways as a nation, while in many ways staying very similar, the press certainly has not changed very much in 200 years. This book gave me a lot of appreciation for what the history of the U.S. is founded on, as well as inspires me to not take for granted the freedoms which have been so tirelessly fought for over time.I think as a U.S. citizen, this book and series (despite both their lengths) will give you great satisfaction and will certainly make you think about a lot of "things" going on right now and what we as citizens should work to change.


                
This seven part mini-series about John Adams (Paul Giamatti). In part one, he is a respected Boston lawyer. He arrives to help after the Boston Massacre. He is recruited to defend Captain Thomas Preston and his men despite his connections to revolutionaries. He wins the case and is approached by both revolutionaries and the crown for his support. He is leery of the revolutionaries' tactics but is forced by the King's dictates to join the cause. In part two, he's part of the Second Continental Congress as he pushes to confront the King and declare independence. The rest leads to his presidency and finally his retirement.This mini-series is elevated by the performances of Paul Giamatti and Laura Linney. One can really feel their relationship and partnership. There are some historical inaccuracies. For entertainment purposes, it has little to no effects. However this is a presidential autobiography and that needs stricter attention to every detail. It is still able to portray a more balanced picture of revolutionary America. The production value is pretty good considering it's a TV show. It's not glossy which actually works in its favor. I'm sure it's not a very glossy time period. This is a well-produced terrifically-acted TV.


                
As I read the book, I thought the miniseries was wonderful. I waited nine months to see this when I learned that while visiting the Adams Birthplace last year in Quincy, the miniseries was in production.However, the miniseries was very condensed from the book. I figure I would see more action on the high seas, including Abigail's travel on the ship, and a lot of letter writing between Adams and Abigail.I am glad that closed-captioning was included, because I would have had a very hard time trying to hear and understand what the players in the miniseries were saying.As I don't have any series about the early history of America, this tops them all.


                
