Man, I can not get this film out of my head. It is so rare that a movie can affect me the way "The Pianst" did. The last movie that did that was "Casino". I was really tired when I was watching the movie. It was almost midnight, so I was thinking that I'll start watching and I'll finish it in the morning. Did I? No, indeed I did not stop watching. I couldn't stop it. I just wanted to see what would happen next. I cried during "Schindler's List", I sobbed in this film. Everything that happens in this film is so sad. Adrien Brody does a remarkable job of acting in this film. I would very highly recommend this film. Especially if you are a history buff. Please, I think this film should be in the top 10 best films of all time.I looked on the message boards you know and some other user comments that didn't enjoy this film much, they criticized Adrien Brody's performance and say that he was boring and only showed emotions that are easy to act. Please, you have got to be kidding me. This man portrayed the total feeling of hopelessness, being alone, being hated. I one time had an audition in high school like this to see if I could improvise, and the way I imagined this feeling is like in dodgeball where you have no one else on your team and you're the only one left standing, yet on the other team there is 20 big men that are just waiting to wack that ball at you. Adrien couldn't have done a better job, I was so frightened for him and cried for him during the whole film while he was one the run.Roman Polanski as the director, he himself escaped the terrors of being a prisoner in The Holocaust, yet he lost his mother and other family members. Yes, I'm sure this film must have been hard to re create for him, but he was probably the only director that could have done this movie as brilliantly as he did. He created this story and made it so effective, I called up my mom and told her that I loved her so much because we take so many things for granted. True, this isn't the 1930's or 40's, and we are in America. But it's still frightening to think that human beings are capable of that much hate and being so brutal to another human. World War II is one of the most frightening wars in history, if you read more about The Holocaust, you get more into it and you should. If you are not interested, then watch this film. It's a must see, otherwise how else will we learn from our mistakes? The Pianist is a beautiful and extremely dark tale about a man and the struggle to survive. The ending is so powerful and moving to know that sometimes one man can make a difference in a crowd of so many and I'm not talking about Adrien Brody's character. You'll see what I mean.10/10


                
This is a truly heart-wrenching story of one man whose family gets perished in the Holocaust and about his survival over solitude, deprivation, starvation and terror while in hiding during the Nazi occupation. In my opinion it is one of the finest depictions of the holocaust. This movie came close to Schindlers list in depicting the horrors of Holocaust. Brody puts in a marvelous and utterly touching performance. The story depicts the emotional and cultural breakdown of persecuted Jewish community as Nazi policy tightens around them. Excellent acting by Brody.


                
The Pianist is an account of the true life experience of a Polish pianist during WW2, in the context of the deportation of the Jewish community to the Ghetto of Warsaw, a setting virtually absent from all films inspired on WW2.
Polanski (himself a child survivor of the Krakow and Warsaw ghettos) could have described in more detail the legendary, desperate fighting of the Jewish resistance in the ghetto of Warsaw, or the horrific mass extermination in concentration camps. Instead, the film gains in intensity by displaying the war from the pianist's own point of view (through windows, half-opened doors, holes in the walls - with big emphasis on the use of "point of view shooting" by the cameraman). One cannot help feeling disturbed by the most enthralling scenes of the film, as the isolated pianist tries to ensure his survival in the ghetto and ruins of Warsaw, hiding and fleeing, moving from one bombed house to the next, gradually becoming a shadow of his former self, hungry and afraid (merit largely attributed to the extraordinary performance by Adrien Brody, who visibly loses half of his weight throughout the film).Does the pianist raise any sympathy from the audience? Not immediately, in my view. The pianist is more than often a drifting character, almost a witness of other people's and his own horrors. He seems to float and drift along the film like a lost feather, with people quickly appearing and disappearing from his life, some helping generously, others taking advantage of his quiet despair, always maintaining an almost blank, dispassionate demeanour. One may even wonder why we should care in the least about this character. But we do care. That is, I believe, the secret to this film's poetry.In one of the strongest scenes, towards the end, a German officer forces the pianist to play for his life, in an episode that suddenly brings a much lighter, beautifully poetic shade to the film (this German officer will be probably compared to Schindler, although his philanthropy does not quite share the same basis).This is also a wonderful tribute to Polish artists, through Chopin's music, with the concert at the very end of the film and the opening performance by the pianist at the local radio station (with the sound of bomb explosions in the background) forming an harmonious link between the beginning and end of the film (following Polanski's usual story-frame).Overall, The Pianist is one of the most detailed and shocking accounts of the treatment of the Jews by the Nazis, with the atmosphere in Warsaw well captured and believable. Quite possibly, The Pianist will remain in the history of film-making as the most touching and realistic portraits of the holocaust ever made.Polanski's film deserves a strong presence in the 2003 Oscar nominations, including a nomination for Adrien Brody's amazing performance, Polanski's sublime direction, best adapted screenplay and, obviously, best picture. This could be, at last, Polanski's long awaited, triumphal comeback to the high and mighty Hollywood.


                
This wrenching yet ultimately uplifting fact-based drama won Adrien Brody his Academy Award and finally made him a star (along with his gracious yet heartfelt Oscar speech and That Kiss :-) -- rightly so, since title character Wladyslaw Szpilman is a challenging role in so many ways!  It's not easy to command the screen when your character often has to be passive, deliberately trying not to draw attention to himself to keep from falling into Nazi hands in war-torn Poland, but Brody pulls it off.  It helps that Brody is absolutely stellar at acting with his eyes, plus his body language speaks volumes; these fill in the emotional cracks, especially in scenes where Szpilman, alone and in hiding, can't speak or even move around much for fear of giving himself away.  (Brody is the youngest actor to date to win the Best Actor Oscar, BTW, having gotten his little gold man only a month before his 30th birthday.) While there's no lack of haunting scenes, thanks to the deservedly Oscar-winning work of director Roman Polanski and screenwriter Ronald Harwood, the one that always gets me is the one where Szpilman discovers the apartment serving as his latest `safe house' has a piano. We see Szpilman sit at the piano; we see him in a head-and-shoulders shot, shoulders moving; we hear piano music and gasp as we fear his love and longing for music is about to give him away -- and then we see his hands moving in the air just above the keyboard and realize, with both relief and a pang of regret, that the music is only in Szpilman's head.  Terrific as the other 2002 Best Actor nominees were, now that I've seen THE PIANIST (as well as the fascinating making-of documentary on the DVD's flip side, showing what a physically and emotionally grueling experience Brody's job often was), I'd be really p***ed off if anybody but Adrien Brody had won! (Besides, the rest of the 2002 Best Actor nominees already won Oscars -- this time it was dark horse Brody's turn! :-)


                
The Pianist is an incredible film in many aspects. Roman Polanski's account of the survival of the pianist, Wladyslaw Szpilman, is a document about how one man can overcome the worst possible situations in a world gone completely mad around him.The only fault one can find with the adaptation of Mr. Szpilman's story by playwright Ronald Harwood, is the fact that we never get to know the real Wladyslaw Szpilman, the man, as some of the comments made to this forum also have indicated.There is a very interesting point raised by the the pianist's father who upon reading something in the paper, comments about how the Americans have forgotten them. Well, not only the Americans, but the rest of the world would not raise a finger to do anything for the people that were being imprisoned and made to live in the confined area of Warsaw. The exterminating camps will come later. What is amazing in the film, is the frankness in which director Polanski portrays the duplicity of some Jews in the ghetto. The fact that Jews were used to control other Jews is mind boggling, but it was a fact, and it's treated here matter of factly. Had this been made by an American director, this aspect would have never surfaced at all. Yet, Mr. Polanski and Mr. Harewood show us that all was not as noble and dignified as some other films have treated this ugly side of war.  Wladyslaw Szpilman, as played by Adrien Brody, is puzzling sometimes, in that we never get to know what's in his mind. He's a man intent in not dying, but he's not a fighter. He accepts the kindness extended to him. He never offers to do anything other than keep on hiding, which is a human instinct. He will never fight side by side with the real heroes of the ghetto uprising. His role is simply to witness the battle from his vantage point in one of the safe houses across the street from where the action takes place.Adrien Brody is an interesting actor to watch. As the pianist of the story he exudes intelligence. There is a scene where Szpilman, in one of the safe houses he is taken, discovers an upright piano. One can see the music in his head and he can't contain himself in moving his fingers outside the closed instrument playing the glorious music from which he can only imagine what it will sound in his mind.The supporting cast is excellent. Frank Findlay, a magnificent English actor is the father of the pianist and Maureen Lipman, another veteran of the stage, plays the mother with refined dignity.In watching this film one can only shudder at the thought of another conflict that is currently brewing in front of our eyes. We wonder if the leaders of the different factions could be made to sit through a showing of The Pianist to make them realize that war is hell.


                
'The Pianist' is definitively an inspiring epic that celebrates the tenacity and fortitude of the human spirit... It is a remarkable tale of human survival sensitively brought to life by Polanski... The film carries us to the horrible reign of terror, where condemned people wearing the emblem of humiliation and oppression, are deprived of their rights, their human values and dignity, before being shipped to 'labor camps.' In Polanski's movie all the conventional elements of the drama are at peaks of excellence: Family union: When a father has to bargain to buy a single piece of caramel and divide it in six pieces to share it with each member of his family...Starvation: When a ghetto inhabitant assaults a helpless woman for a bowl of soup... Confusion: When a distraught woman wails on a platform because she smothered the cries of her baby with her hand...Love: When a young musician turns to his younger sister and utters with sad regret, "I wish I knew you better." Survival: When one man observes the war through his hide-outs around the city...Cruelty: When an old man in a wheelchair is thrown off the balcony by the Nazis because he failed to stand upon their entrance...Fear: When a talented musician sits down at the old piano, and pretends to play his music, keeping his fingers flowing with control above the vertical ivories...Discrimination: When bored Nazi guards entertain themselves by forcing grotesquely mismatched old and sick couples to dance to a Jewish street band by the ghetto gate...Horror: When condemned Jewish workers lie face-down in the street, while one SS guard walks down the line, shooting without remorse each one in the back of the head... Isolation: When a fugitive emerges from his harrowing hiding place and walks through a field of deserted ruins exactly like the last man alive on Polish soil..Adrien Brody gives an absolutely moving performance (based on descriptive facial expressions) as the Polish composer and pianist who stays alive as a Jew, and remains true to his ideals... Brody captures the character's desperation, his anger and grief, his willpower and perseverance, his passion and love of music... Polanski gives us the chance to better know his shock and disbelief, his ordeal and tragedy, his hope for fairness and humanity...Nominated for seven Academy Awards, this captivating drama went on to win three Oscars, including Best Director, Best Actor, and Best Adapted Screenplay... Once Brody took the stage to accept his Oscar, he was so overwhelmed with happiness, that he swept the gorgeous Academy Award-winning Halle Berry off her feet with a long, steamy kiss...
The Pianist tells the story of such a man in war time Poland, played by Adrien Brody, who from start to finish sees his life literally getting worse and worse and worse- starts off with new rules from the Nazis, then the stars on the arms, followed by the Warsaw ghetto, and while there he could play in the restaurant, that too soon ended, as the trains arrived and took his family and anyone else he knew away.  During this he narrowly escapes, and from then on the film in a sense almost becomes not exactly a holocaust film, but more like a cross of that as the element and the basic structure of something a-la in Cast Away: this includes stretches of scenes showing Brody simply trying to keep out of view of the Germans, either in a small apartment provided by helpful Polish Christians/Jewish resistance, or as a scavenger in the abandoned sections of the ghetto, all while feeling the old rhythm of the piano in his head and fingertips.  This is the kind of magnificent filmmaking that shows a director not only being as true to the story given to him (that of Painist Szpilman, based on his autobiography) but to his past as well- Roman Polanksi faced similar conditions as a boy in the early 40's, and has found the best line to show, never crossed or mis-stepped, in representing the characters and the period. There aren't any hints of tightened suspense, no clues as to where the film could veer to, it just is.  The big difference to be seen between a film like this and Schindler's List is not just in the people and situations (Schindler's List was a film about two people, Schindler and Goeth, in the foreground while the Pianist is a total first person tale), yet also in the filmmaking qualities being here surely European.  And while the accents on the Polish-Jewish actors sounds a bit too British, that is quite forgivable considering the scope of the project (thank heavens he didn't put in English speaking Germans).In conclusion, Brody turns in a superb performance, and this indeed is in with Polanski's best, a deserved of 2002's Palme D'Or.  Great music too. A+


                
Ok - so some might disagree and suggest Schindler's List is the best WW2 film but for me it was the Pianist - such a raw and painful representation of Nazi brutality and desperation of the people. This film isn't for everyone, but you know that going into it. You won't feel good afterwards, but that's a reminder you're human. Definitely worth a watch.


                
last weekend, I saw Roman Polanski's The Pianist and what a movie. The grizzly reality feeling of the movie shell-shocked me in the first place but later on I recognized the pure feeling of the film: The horror what war does with innocent people truly is. the main story isn't about a war hero, but about people who don't want to die in this madness. Every aspect of the film is really done for an reason and in his place and you don't feel this as entertainment.the music is what hit me the most. the classical tunes had such an enormous impact on me and portrayed the feelings of the main role of the pianist. The fact that there are no hero's in a war movie is for me more than a welcome benefit. No war in the world should have hero's who can't die. Everybody in this movie can die, every second of it. The scary moments are real scary.
bottom line: ten times as realistic as the also brilliant Schindler's list. and twenty times better than Saving private Ryan for the lack of hero's and there is no patriotism at all.ten out of ten, best movie of 2002


                
Fortunately, I'm able to keep my personal feelings about Roman Polanski compartmentalized enough to say that this was a remarkable film. I've read many comparisons between "The Pianist" and "Schindler's List" on this board, and even though the films are quite different, the overpowering portrayals of Man's inhumanity against Man will leave the viewer forever affected. Adrien Brody's Best Actor award was stunningly achieved here, as his character arcs through an incredible series of circumstances to barely survive life in the Warsaw Ghetto during World War II. What little I knew of director Polanski outside of his marriage to Sharon Tate, the grisly Manson murders, and his rape conviction in the late 1970's, was put into an entirely different perspective when I learned about his own life in the Polish Ghetto. Much of what we see in the film must emanate from his own unique experience as a child during the War and experiencing Nazi atrocity first hand. I don't envy anyone who survived that experience enduring the painful daily memories of those times.Given the film's title, I guess I was somewhat surprised by the paucity of musical sequences, though what was offered was artistically presented. Particularly poignant was the scene when Wladyslaw Szpilman (Brody) was left to hide in an apartment where a piano was available, and he mimed his way through a selection from memory by the need to maintain silence.Many years following the end of World War II, a single film cannister simply marked "The Ghetto" was discovered, revealing valuable insight into how the Nazi propaganda machine attempted to manipulate public opinion about 'rich' Jews who lived in luxury alongside fellow Jews in squalid conditions. Even more intimate details of life in the Warsaw Ghetto are presented in "Shtikat Haarchion" (A Film Unfinished), describing conditions that are even more horrific than those depicted in "The Pianist" or "Schindler's List", if that can even be imagined. These movies exist for a higher calling as a constant reminder that the term "Never Again" be one to constantly take seriously in an ever increasingly dangerous world.
My husband and I decided to watch this on netflix one night as we had heard it was good. Neither of us had any expectations and figured if it won a couple of Oscars it must be decent. I had no idea it was an absolute masterpiece. This may be one of the best movies I have seen to date. Days after I saw this movie I cannot stop visualizing the images and feeling the emotions conveyed in the film. The cinematography is breathtaking. The beauty of pre-devastation Warsaw is sharply contrasted with the bleakness of the ghetto, and it would be understatement to say how haunting the visuals of Warsaw after the bombings were. The acting here is tremendous. Brody (who I had really not seen in anything else significant prior to this) carries the entire movie on his wan shoulders. He conveys so much with pain, anguish, hope, and loss with just his eyes. It is quite the actor who causes the viewer to feel the pain he is experiencing as a character. This was an extremely well deserved acting Oscar.This movie is extremely depressing considering the subject matter but it is told and portrayed with grace and power by Polanski. So many scenes are powerful and haunting. To me, in many ways this is a perfect movie. Yes, I know this review is filled with hyperbole, but I simply cannot remember the last time I was so moved and impressed by a film as I was with the Pianist. See it at least once.


                
I believe this movie to be one of the most excellent movies of our times. It has several aspects that make it especially great. Firstly, the music, the most important feature of this movie, in my opinion. Chopin nocturnes and polonaises are perfectly chosen and arrayed to create an unforgettable atmosphere. In one scene, they even take time to play the whole piece of music, without interfering. Secondly, the actors in the movie: none of them are/were really well known, but WOW! (for lack of a better word). Thirdly, it's one of the few movies, where you can actually watch the credits (forever) and wish the movie wouldn't end.Personally, I think it's a perfect 10/10.


                
The Pianist is not a movie made for entertainment. It's either more or less than that and only the viewer can decide. You have to ask yourself sometimes if the main reason films about the holocaust are so popular is because of shock appeal. If a movie depicts these terrifying events well, does that make it a good movie? The Pianist has many scenes showing the Nazi's brutality that feel almost voyeuristic. Some scenes show Adrien Brody's character looking out the window at these terrible things and you feel as if you're looking out a window, too.I hope shock appeal isn't the reason this film is liked so much, though. Because this is an amazing story about the will to survive. Music is the character's passion,and throughout his struggles he can only fantasize about playing piano. There is one scene near the end in which he finally gets the opportunity. What follows is a touching moment that transitions from rusty skills warming up to an intense and passionate display of artistic talent. In this moment there is no longer a war going on, no longer the agony of hunger or memories of lost loved ones, just beautiful music. His reputation as a musician and his desire to go on to play again is essentially what keeps him alive. And who says art isn't important?Adrien Brody is very good in this. Well obviously he is, he just won the Best Actor Oscar. I think he can be compared to Tom Hanks in Cast Away- even in scenes of silence there's just something about the actor's movements and expressions that keeps you engaged.There's another scene near the end that defines the entire performance, the entire movie for me: After all the trouble Brody went through trying to survive, he is almost killed by the people who would save him. He is wearing a coat that a German officer had given him earlier, and when Russian troops spotted Brody they thought he was German. They shot at him and almost killed him, but they finally found out he was Polish. An officer asks him, "Why the f-cking coat?" Brody, with his hands still in the air, a terrified look on his face, almost crying, replies: "I'm cold." That did it for me.The Pianist is certainly a shocking and even depressing film, but like most movies that aspire to provoke thoughts and emotions, the audience takes out of it what they bring in to it. Surely Szpiellman wasn't just a lucky bastard who survived in times of inhumane brutality. It was through the kindness and compassion of others who helped him, if only because they found themselves inexplicably moved by his music.My rating: 10/10
A harrowing, devastating story of the miraculous survival of a Jewish pianist during the holocaust. Like Schindler's List, The Pianist accurately documents the horrors of the holocaust to such an extent that it exists less like a work of art, and more like a public service. Films like this help us never to forget and never to repeat this awful moment in human history. Classroom viewings are mandatory. Not to mention, a world class performance by Adrian Brody. He is immersed in this role. To see him wandering through the rubble of Warsaw, looking for any last morsel of food to eat is a stroke of acting and cinema genius that you won't believe even when you see it. This is what dedication to storytelling is all about.


                
Everything about this movie is made in perfect detail; the clothes, the buildings etc. The audience gets to see how the Jewish population in Warsaw started out as normal everyday citizens and how the German government slowly brought them to their deaths.
The acting is not over the top it's completely realistic and Adrien Brody is MAGNIFICANT! If you don't shed a tear or get chills watching this true story then you have no soul!


                
I don't go as far as saying holocaust movies are vanity projects of directors showing that they too can make an epic.But where Spielberg's "Schindler's List" was somewhere way in the distance and ages ago,"The Pianist" puts you in the action with the old trick of having a main character you care about.Bit by piece we get to see the downfall of the Jewish community in well,everywhere.Originally they just get discriminated and won't get to do anything to be anywhere,but are still members of society who usually don't get killed.Then it gets ugly.The ghettos,the incredible lack of everything,the random executions,I knew they existed but never have they seemed so sincere on behalf of the makers.What to say about an old man eating what appears to be liquid corn straight of the road?Eventually we learn yet again that the holocaust in fact,really made no sense.We're talking about Western Europe here,and it isn't even a long time ago.People were somewhat educated,thought for themselves when the Gestapo wasn't watching,and still most of them just went along with this crap.I was fearing a "Night Of The Living Dead"-style ending,but this is based on an autobiography so that would have been impossible.Five years of hate packed in about two hours,and it works.


                
To think that I avoided "The Pianist" for about 10 years because I expected a new "Schindler's List"! And I don't even mean that negatively.I've watched Spielberg's film several times and know too well how painful Holocaust movies are, and while "Life is Beautiful" was a tragicomic fable and "Sophie's Choice" more of a character study relating a traumatic experience, I knew "The Pianist" would be on the same level of ambition and seriousness than Spielberg's film, if only because it was directed by Roman Polanski, a Holocaust survivor himself. I knew the movie would feature shocking arbitrary executions and poignant separations, so in a way, "The Pianist" was already having an impact on me without watching it. But this is not the only reason why I didn't feel the urge to watch it.Part of the blame is to be put on the film itself although it was inevitably going to be compared with its 'glorious' predecessor. Speaking of my own experience, I was mislead by "The Pianist" and the movie trailers. I thought it was the story of a man who played music for the Nazis and his survival, and therefore found in the present's horror and gloominess a heaven of escapism in the inner, universal and timeless beauty of music. Wladislaw would have the state of mind of one of Schindler's factory workers with music as the same weapon as Guido's humor and optimism in "Life is Beautiful". Of course, I realize now how my preconceived ideas totally underestimated Roman Polanski and I hope this review redeems my 10 years of abstinence.First, one must give to Spielberg what is Spielberg's and to Polanski what is Polanski's. "Schindler's List" is a better directed film but "The Pianist" is a better told story. And while the directing of Spielberg betrays sometimes the harshness of its subject by too much 'mise en scene', Polanski's ability to hook our hearts to the fate of Wladislaw Spillman, magnificently portrayed by Adrien Brody, and his family is beyond words. Indeed, we feel like part of this family. While the epic scope of "Schindler's List" provided a sort of moral aura to the victims, making the film a martyrdom's remembrance, "The Pianist" is simply the chronicles of a banal horror. And Polanski keeps an intimate, almost unnoticeable directing, to better convey the feeling that we're watching normal people whose lives are dramatically affected by an absurd War, and it's their very normality that emphasizes the cruelty of the Nazi treatment.The film opens in Warsaw in September 1939 so those with a minimum of historical knowledge understand the implication. Wladislaw is playing Chopin in a studio when the first German bombings are heard, his family wants to leave but later, they learn in the radio that France and Britain entered the War. Relieved, they celebrate the news with a toast, and the relatively cheerful ambiance contrasts with the usual demonstrations of grief and pain. Of course, we know the worst is to come, but Polanski takes his time to get us immersed in the war's ambiance and letting us observe the progressive decline of the Spillmans, directly mirroring the atmosphere that probably prevailed within all the Jewish families.Through the Spillman's perspectives, we get a more accurate idea of the nightmare endured by Polish Jews. When they're all parked in the Warsaw ghetto, before the inevitable evacuation, we witness gut-wrenching, intolerable, and acts of brutality, so unbelievably gratuitous and horrific, we never doubt that they're based on true stories, and that war, definitely, inspires the worst from humanity. In war, there's no room for dignity, for charity, for understanding, for God I would even say. As for violence, there is no scale, soldiers throwing off a balcony an old grandfather on a wheelchair because he couldn't stand is a horrifying sight, but maybe I expected these kind of moments so much that I was more shocked by the part where the soldiers made people dance together. Sometimes, humiliations are more impacting than random and arbitrary killings.And again, the talent of Polanski is precisely not to have overplayed on the directing department: no 'Black and White', no special effects, no 'little girl in Red', just basic colors, as to sustain the feeling of a present, more real then more horrific. "Schindler's List" might be a better film for some, but it's still a film, while "The Pianist" is a survival story, raw and real. Not a hero, not a victim either, the main protagonist will sometimes count on his courage, sometimes on his good luck, sometimes on the help of good-hearted and understanding people, from any sides. There is a light of hope in the film, through music, at a time where humanity reached its lowest point, music was here to remind people, to remind Nazis what a waste the War was, a feeling incarnated by Adrien Brody's sad-looking eyes.Again, don't expect a hero à la Oskar Schindler in Wladislaw, "The Pianist" shows the boldness of a period where cowardice was sometimes guided by survival instinct, where the desire to live could be more necessary than the desire to fight, because surviving left more voices to speak about the atrocities. "The Pianist" reveals those hidden subtleties that couldn't be truly expressed in epic movies. Some Jews didn't fight back precisely because the horrors of Auschwitz, Treblinka, Buchenwald had to be known, and ironically, this was one of the reasons that accelerated the exterminations' process. And some like Wladislaw had to hide not to make the sacrifices of the others unnecessary, those were tough times and no one is allowed to put a judgment... not us, anyway.And this is why "The Pianist" is more affecting than "Schindler's List", and if one has any doubt, let's not forget, that Spielberg was born in 1946 while Roman Polanski is still a war survivor who lost his mother in a Death Camp.


                
Helmed by a Holocaust survivor himself yet presenting an objective take on the disturbing subject matter, The Pianist is the most personal film renowned director Roman Polanski has made in his decades-spanning career for it is crafted with meticulous care n attention, told with immaculate simplicity & also happens to feature one of cinema's most extraordinary performances.Based on the memoir of the same name & set in Warsaw during the Second World War, The Pianist tells the story of Wladyslaw Szpilman; a Polish-Jewish musician who after avoiding deportation to Nazi labour camps tries to elude capture by living in the ruins of his city. The plot details his miraculous survival against all odds which wouldn't have happened without the kindness of few compassionate humans.Directed by Roman Polanski, The Pianist does bring back the horrors of the Holocaust and never shies away from depicting the barbaric treatment millions of Jews underwent during Nazi occupation. But it's not a tale about someone who caused an uprising or put his life on the line to save others but through one person, it tries to capture what most people under same circumstances were trying to do: survive, no matter what it takes.Polanski does manage to infuse his own history into the story but never lets that distract his own vision for the picture at hand, and there in lies the true beauty of this survival story. It's arguably the finest film that he's made & certainly the most artistic. Adding more strength to the feature is the brilliantly-written screenplay that keeps the focus on our protagonist at all times & resonates the brutality that millions underwent through his own life story.Coming to the technical aspects, every single element only ends up enhancing the entire experience. Production Design team does a superb job in recreating the war-torn city & set pieces are refined to smallest of details. Cinematography makes impeccable use of camera in capturing every frame plus the cold colour temperature encapsulates the whole film with a bleak mood. Editing paces its 149 minutes of runtime with precision. And classical music is beautifully incorporated into the narrative.Another thing that seals the destiny of The Pianist is the exceptional performance by Adrien Brody in the role of Wladyslaw Szpilman that simply exceeded every expectation. Perfectly capturing not just the feeling of hopelessness, loneliness, grief & living under constant fear but also the desperation, survival instinct & passion for music, what Brody delivers here is one of cinema's most memorable performances that still ranks as his best and his Academy Award win for this role was deserving in every manner.On an overall scale, The Pianist marks the career high moment for Roman Polanski & Adrien Brody, is an emotionally devastating & powerfully moving cinema that's worthy of all the accolades it has garnered so far, and is amongst the finest examples of historical drama in existence. It certainly isn't going to be an easy sit for most but you'll be a better person for having done because some films, no matter how difficult, deserve to be viewed, and Roman Polanski's magnum opus is definitely one of those cinematic treasures. Strongly recommended.


                
This is a truly heart-wrenching story of one, sensitive man whose family are torn from him (never to be seen again, perished in the Holocaust) and about his survival over solitude, deprivation, starvation and terror whilst in hiding during the Nazi occupation of Warsaw. In my opinion it is one of the finest depictions of the holocaust (of which there are many all-consuming portrayals of only a fraction of the stories which occurred). Brody puts in a marvellous and utterly touching performance as Szpilman. The story is abound with terribly moving vignettes which depict the emotional and cultural breakdown of Warsaw's persecuted Jewish community as Nazi policy tightens around them; the overall inability of the community to stand-up to the systematic destruction of their neighbours; the acceptance to wear the Star of David armband (the scene where his father is hit by Nazis and forced to walk in the gutter rather than on the pavement); the arrogant survivalist attitudes of the Jewish Sonderkomando-police force; the young Jewish boy profiteering from petty food-stocks in the ghetto holding area; and then the opportunists, like Szalas, who manipulate Jewish fugitives in hiding outside of the ghetto. The relationship between Szpilman and Hosenfeld may seem to come into the story far later than expected – about three quarters of the way through – but it is nevertheless the right moment, arriving at the most vulnerable time for both characters – and Polanski creates nothing short of a masterful 'forbidden fruit' by way of coupling the pair, united in their passion for the piano, but whereby the discovery of their friendship would spell immediate death. Superb. It is both touching and a reality check when Hosenfeld offers Szpilman his great-coat, adding afterwards that he has another, warmer one for himself in a slight, yet perhaps ashamed, departure from his humane self and a return to his Nazi persona. The dark humour which later follows up this parting-scene – (Russian soldier: "What's with the f*****g coat", Szpilman : "I'm cold") – was a welcome piece of comic relief however bleak the subtext. The film's ending is with both deep sadness for the lives lost and destruction wrought, and, with a staunch optimism for the future. In my opinion "The Pianist" is one of the greatest Holocaust films made. The horrors are not forced upon us in the face, but they are presented using the eyes of one man, hidden away from it, seeing it only as an escapee and we get an understanding of its emotional scale to a far greater extent as we are forced to think and hide with him.
This film is simply the greatest of its type ever made. Brilliant directing, acting, and screenplay combines to draw you in to a historically sickening, but at the same time captivating plot. Brody really deserves his Oscar as he brings out the best in 'The Pianist'. His acting is subtle enough to make it feel like sometimes you are not watching a film, but are living through his eyes. At the same time it is also bold and loud enough to make you feel every emotion has his character takes his awful journey. The plot line itself I will leave to you, go and watch this film and have an amazing time doing so! Highly recommended, one of the best films you Will ever see!


                
A true masterpiece of a film, and Adrien Brody is the master actor such as I've never seen before. Until now I'd only seen him in the odd mafia flick, but in this he was sublime. All the actors gave amazing portrayals, but for me Brody stands out perhaps because of the extremes he was required to go to in this role. I'm not sure if Brody is a piano player, if he's not, then he may be the best actor I've ever seen. The viewer becomes invested in the characters of this film, but Brody is our guide through it all, and his character is the most developed of them all in this film. Others were scant where they could have been more full, maybe. The production quality, the settings, dismal depressing & terrifying scenes, all seemed nearly too real, one can easily lose themselves in this movie, immersing so fully it is nearly a shock when the ending comes & one is thrust back into the modern time and body. I had no idea this movie existed until today, nearly 10 years after its release. I watched it on a lark, not expecting anything of this level certainly. Once it began, I was lost to it through the last piano note.


                
I have watched this movie at least 4 times. This is about survival at its worst.This movie is a masterpiece from my perspective.It is exactly what it is.no pretense ,you must survive at any or all costs.Murder,suicide by jumping out the window.People being starved,shot in the head,burned,gassed,run over.a nightmare that lasted for 5 years. This is the real thing. Polanski is witness to all of this.this is first hand reporting of what happened in Poland. No propaganda ,romanticing the war,holocaust,whatever you want to call it. Its Polanski at his best.To believe Chicago won the Best Picture of the year means absolutely nothing. This movie is not a song and dance silly movie. There is no award for making this movie.Its a documented story of the worst nightmare you could have.I wouldn't worry about not winning any awards.There are no awards for this kind of "movie" Would you give an award,for murder,suicide,death,misery,starvation being gassed and burned.a Holocaust of a movie experience.
It's 2019 , and to this day I still shed tears everytime I watch this movie. That is how powerful and captivating the story of Wladek Spzilman is.


                
A movie that depicts the impact of war on civilians and the strength of the human spirit in a situation that seems to get more and more hopeless over time. Masterfully directed by Roman Polanski, "The Pianist" shows how the unwillingness to act by world leaders to protect the downtrodden can lead to unimaginable catastrophe. A cautionary tale of war and conflict, and the utter destruction that they bring with them.


                
You can't do a Holocaust movie unless it's going to be great. If it's not great, then it's terrible. No in between.The Pianist is great. Challenges and triumphs. And not just your typical Holocuast film. It has something to offer. It's its own thing.Polanski doesn't just lazily try to pull at your heartstrings and hope you'll hand him an Oscar (which he couldn't accept in person). This is very much story-driven.It's not just tragic. There's more to it than that.If you haven't seen it, trust me. Watch it. And keep watching. It gets better and better.


                
