Seeing the Pianist movie really bothered me, partly because 10 years after Schindler's List, it seems like so much less of a movie.  It's not groundbreaking.  The production quality isn't better.  The leading man acts with a deer-in-headlights expression.But I was mostly bothered by the anti-hero Szpilman.  He's a selfish person, concerned only with his own survival.  Other people give him a lot of assistance, not because he deserves it, but because he's talented.  Is this good?  I don't know.  It seems good that the people of Poland risked and sacrificed much to protect a gifted musician through the Holocaust.  But I don't find Szpilman likable.  Especially after reading "1952" at the close of the movie -- I just wanted to bop him in the nose what a jerk.It also bothers me that Hollywood -- or rather, the Academy -- seems to overreward piano playing characters.  Look at the movies the pianist, the piano, shine.  You want to win an oscar...play the piano!


                
Sadly, The Pianist disappointed me in more ways than one. Adrian Brody did nothing worthwhile, other than save his own skin—and there's nothing wrong with that, I'm sure thousands of Jews did the same. The problem is, I don't care about them either. The Holocaust was a horrible, atrocious, sickening series of events which left millions dead, wounded and mentally scarred. We know this, and I don't mean to brush off anything or downplay the gravity of what occurred, but I've seen it all before.There was some senseless killing of Jews, more senseless killing of Jews, liquidation and a salvation. Nothing more, nothing less. I'm sadly reminded that if an event is horrible enough, people will continue to laud and applaud movies made about it even if they have nothing new to say.Call Brody's acting whatever lovely adjectives you want (minimalist, subdued, etc<U+0085>) but to me, it was bland and forgettable. Don't get me wrong, I think Brody is a tremendous actor, but in THIS movie, I didn't see a man who was scared, nor determined to fight for his life or to see things through, instead, I saw a man who was just going through the motions, "whatever happens, happens" in a way. He was neither brave nor memorable and certainly not relatable.I didn't care about him, his family and in the end, none of the characters. And I didn't feel even the slightest hint of emotion. The only time I was even remotely roused was when Halina (I think her name was Halina) was reunited with the family after the second liquidation of the ghetto.In the end, Pianist gives little more than a tired rehash of the same old same old. Things were bad<U+0085>I know! But if you're going to make yet another Holocaust film, at least do it right, make it interesting, make it meaningful, make it SAY something. This said nothing more than, "Look how bad things were." In the end, his ability to play the piano saved his life, in a way, or it was merely a weary Nazi officer who showed him mercy.If you want to see a real holocaust movie, one need only turn to Schindler's List. I felt, I mean *really* felt, the characters pain and emotional conflict. The book was incredible as well. It was well made and had an actual plot. Not just a broad story arc where nothing other than the "usual" happened.-Just because it's a Holocaust film, doesn't automatically make it good.
The Pianist is a by the numbers movie about the life and times of a pianist trying to live through the Nazi occupation of Warsaw. A beautiful musical score predictably results. The pianist himself is an altogether unsympathetic character - we want him to live because we don't want to be cruel, but otherwise we wouldn't have any particular attraction to this man. The movie itself is strictly, for the most part, paint by numbers. Nazis are bad, Jews are innocent yet determined survivors. Well, more to the point, Nazis are bad, though deep down inside they appreciate fine culture and some of them have good hearts. The Soviets, on the other hand, are uniformly bad and stupid, it seems.The lessons of the Holocaust must never be forgotten. However, the pivotal lessons of the Holocaust are not "Nazis are bad Jews are innocent yet determined survivors." Those sort of lessons are historical details along the lines of "The Magna Carta was signed in 1066." The real lessons of the Holocaust center around what happens when we stop looking at each other as human beings and start looking at each other as cartoons or stereotypes. This is a by the numbers movie specifically because it does what most movies do - it starts with existing cartoon/stereotype views and builds characters around them to tell a story. A better movie would have begun in that place, but then used the power and magic of film to challenge our preconceptions and our stereotypes to truly convey and reinforce a message of hope for humanity.Your life will not be any poorer if you never see this movie, but you won't feel that you wasted your time, either, if you do. Certainly doesn't belong in the IMDb Top 250.


                
Spoiler!!!!!!!!! There are plenty of movies set in eastern Europe during the second World War. And I'm sure that "The Pianist" is not among the best of them. Certainly it is important for such a movie to create an adequate atmosphere, to let the audience feel the dimension of the brutality and inhumanity of the nazi regime. Yet I think that Polansky focused too much on it and the rest of the movie suffered from it.The movie was meant to be a portrait of Szpilman. Now, what have we learned about him? He survived the war, he lost his family and his possessions, he had to suffer... I didn't feel like I learned a lot about his nature. The same is to say about Szpilman's family. Polansky failed to show the uniqueness of his characters.Instead he showed many scenes of violence and brutality, a lot more than necessary to create the adequate atmosphere. What for? To show ignorant people that nazis did horrible things? But I don't think that "The pianist" was meant to be a movie for ignorant people. To let you feel the brutality? Well, after the fifth scene of that kind I wasn't able to feel anything of that kind any longer. It was just needless and disgusting.There are two scenes I want to point out. The first is the scene where the SS-officer finds Szpilman and forces him to play the piano. This is the most impressing scene of the whole movie. You feel the desperation in the music and the performance of both actors is great. Then the scene in which the same officer leaves his overcoat for Szpilman. Why did Polansky include this scene??? I can not find an answer. The outcome of it was so obvious that there could not be any suspense at all. Of course Szpilman runs out to meet the Russians in that coat, of course they think he is an SS-officer and shoot at him, of course he survives - 5 minutes of the movie completely lost.For those who would like to see a movie treating the same topic absolutely differently I recommend "Gloomy Sunday". And sorry for all the mistakes!
I don't know what to say about this move other than it really didn't movie me. Sure Adrian Brody is excellent as the Pianist of the title who hides out in Warsaw as the city is destroyed around him, but I never really connected to the story. I never really cared. I'm not sure if its poor film making or simply the fact that for me this seemed as been there and done that. Many of the things that I dislike in the well financed movies concerning the Holocaust came into play, in particular the fact that everything looks so nice as to be unreal. I also have the sense that the film is insisting that I like and respect it simply because of the subject matter. Its not that simple you have to give me characters and a good story before I care. Unfortunately while Brody is an excellent actor however I never connected to him. I never had a reason to care other than what happened was truly remarkable, which means this movie meant nothing to me. This film is a major disappointment


                
I had the feeling I was watching a rehash of Schindler's List, or even Diary of Anne Frank. I simply did not buy the scene where he was playing "air piano" I found this film to be stilted and predictable. Adrien Brody was interesting to watch, but the story seemed a little slow and it seemed to me the writer padded the story to fill out 2 hours.I ma writing this review some 2 years after seeing this film. I think that a great film should and does stick with you for a long time. I am having a hard time remembering anything memorable from this film. other than the "air piano" scene and the scene where he was almost shot for wearing the German topcoat.
we see at the end the nazi soldier but nothing about his family. I believe that they all dies at the camp but I am not sure. He survived the war and I guess he was a hero but the film was like many different mtv videos all tied together. I wish they would have explained what happened to alot of the people that he knew. Overall flat, slow paced and nothing new added to history.


                
What was the motivation behind making this movie?Was it to teach people about the crimes that the Nazis committed in WWII? Probably not, The Pianist came out in 2002, so there were already hundreds of movies out there that depicted the Holocaust.In my opinion, if you want to do another Holocaust movie, it should be because of one of two reasons: 1.) You want to tell a really interesting story that happens to be set in this time and location. Or 2.) you want to do a character study. Maybe show both sides of the medal, and try to analyze what could make people do horrible things like this.The Pianist was neither of those two. The plot is as simple as it gets, a Jewish musician tries not to get killed and to flee from the Nazis. That's pretty much it. So what we get is basically a loosely connected series of scenes, where 1-dimensional Nazis do terrible things to 1-dimensional Jews. It's very important to understand, that there are psychological mechanisms behind what the Germans did in WWII. If you just depict them as flat monsters who just love to do horrible crimes, the viewer just thinks "Yeah well, I could never do stuff like that." Guess what, under the right circumstances, you could. There are two German movies about that subject matter, called "Das Experiment" and "Die Welle". Watch them if you haven't seen them.The characters being as flat as they are also makes it hard for me to get invested in their fate. Don't call me heartless, I'm just complaining about the way the movie was made, I'm not saying I don't care about the real people this happened to.And this brings me back to my opening question of why this movie was made, and to what made it an insult for me instead of just a bad movie. The Holocaust is a sensitive issue for many people, so it's not hard to touch something in the viewer by just showing Nazi crimes. And the people who made this movie knew that. The Pianist had "Oscar" written all over it, and because it neither tells an unusual story, nor explores the characters, that's just what the movie is: A cheap way to win everyone involved an Oscar. And they use a horrible event where real people died to do that. That's what makes it insulting for me.It's competently made, it's not "terrible" to watch or anything, but the circumstances make me hate The Pianist instead of just discarding it as another movie I didn't care for.


                
Simply put, I was NOT impressed by this movie.  For as much hype as it got, I expected a well done, bleak and depressing, nazi era film.  Well it wasn't.The characters are cut outs of the traumatized people we are supposed to feel intimate with.  The storyline moves along too fast, and we get no chance to develop an attachment to anyone.  It's as if Polanski assumes we will automatically feel a sadness and connection to anyone persecuted by the Nazi's.  Well in real life, of course.  It's as if we are hurried along just so the director can get us to the point in the movie where we watch Adrian Brody's character suffer, starving and freezing.  None of the relationships felt authentic, but they had all the trappings to make them look that way.By the end of the film I was left feeling like there could have been so much more.  I don't think I missed the point on this one.  So many people fell head over heels for this film, but personally I think it's a shallow love affair.  And yes, I probably sound angry.  That's because I was hoping this film would be all that it seemed.  You won't really be wasting your time seeing it, and you might like it, but it's not a gut-wrenching depiction of Nazi-era cruelty.


                
I watch a lot of movies. And I like just about every movie I see, but not this one!  Maybe the problem was with the editing. I don't understand how the director even got nominated.  I "do" like some of his work, but not this movie. There was only one scene that made the movie from being a total bust. That was towards the end, when the main actor plays the piano.  Based on the reviews, I bought this movie sight unseen. But after watching it, I got rid of it! I'm not saying this movie is junk.  I'm saying the director did not do his job in making this a truly great movie.


                
It is a rather strange Jewish tradition that willingly or unwillingly all Jewish film makers direct films about the holocaust experience. This may be an easy way to get close to Jewish heritage,legacy and repay the debt owned to the community but what is more important to know is that a Jewish person making a film about holocaust would guarantee immediate success.So whether it is Spielberg or Polanski, Jewish filmmakers have made films about the terrible Jewish experience during holocaust days.In the case of both these directors they have made their respective holocaust films after having found money and popularity with other films.So more than a matter of creative task,it was more of a communal obligation for them to make an holocaust film. It is only in this context that one must consider The Pianist.This film is just plain OK nothing great or spectacular as everything can be foretold beforehand such as atrocities,suffering and ultimately liberation.The choice of Adrien Brody as the pianist is a good one as he carries the film single handedly on his shoulders.There is no other good reason which can justify the goodness of this film.


                
