The Pianist is the true story of Wladyslaw Szpilman, at the time Poland's most acclaimed pianist whose life is transformed during the Nazi occupation of Warsaw beginning in 1939.  The film spans several years and maps his many personal trials in addition to providing the perspectives of his family, rebel factions and sympathizers.Brilliantly directed by Roman Polanski and starring an amazing Adrien Brody, The Pianist is bound to garner comparisons to Schindler's List, for obvious reasons.  However similar the subject matter, the approach is different. While Schindler's List was filmed in a beautiful, crisp black and white that offered many incredible images, The Pianist was filmed with almost muted color.  Schindler's List featured what has been argued as a complicated hero.  Oskar Schindler did save many Jews, but not without battling his own materialistic demons first.  The Pianist's Szpilman is a sympathetic character throughout.  His plight was desperate, and the demons he fought were over his own guilt in surviving a fight that eventually turns into a primal will to live.Polanski does not spare the viewer any grief with his film.  The horrific scenes between the Nazis and the Warsaw Jews were more terrifying and horrible than any horror/suspense movie I have seen in some time, possibly ever.  The humiliation and complete loss is wrenching.  In several scenes, Jews are lined up in the middle of the night and subjected to either torture or death.  In one case, a woman asks of a Nazi officer, "What will happen to us?" and is promptly shot point blank in the head.  The camera does not flinch or subdue any of these atrocities.A mention must be made of Brody's performance.  Having only previously seen Brody in two other films, Spike Lee's "Summer of Sam" and Terrence Malick's "The Thin Red Line" (a part that was supposed to be his launch into stardom before his part was unfortunately cut drastically) I knew his potential was great.  After his Oscar win, I viewed this movie with more criticism than I normally would have and he certainly did not disappoint.  He transcended my expectations.  His physical transformation was amazing, but more importantly, he conveyed the sorrow of this man shockingly well - in both verbal and non-verbal contexts.  It will be very interesting to see what kind of opportunities this role will afford him, and the kinds of roles he will accept.Something worth mentioning is the affect this movie had on the audience with whom I viewed this film.  Normally, when a film ends, the regular hardcore filmsters like myself will stay and watch the credits in their entirety. The rest of the audience stands up and leaves, usually to the chagrin of the remaining enthusiasts.  This was one of the few times I have seen a film at a theater where not one person stood to leave during the final credits. It wasn't until the house lights came up at the end did people begin to disperse.  Personally, I hightailed it out of the theater the second the lights came on because not only was my face a mess from crying during the film (Tammy Faye comes to mind) but I had this overwhelming need for an emotional release, so when I reached my car I sat and wept for about five minutes.  It has been years since I have watched a film that upset me to that extent. Conversely, while discussing this film with my brother, (someone who loves movies as much and has similar tastes as I do) he mentioned that while he thought the movie was excellent, he wasn't as profoundly emotionally effected as I was.  After thinking about this for a couple of days, I realized the difference: The music.  As a classical music enthusiast and erstwhile musician, the thought of not being able to enjoy, much less play the music you love is a tragic one.  Then the emotional outpouring that comes when you return to it - there aren't words to describe how intense that is.  Not having the same appreciation for this musical genre, one will be able to sympathize with the physical and emotional tribulations, but perhaps not in the musical sense.The Pianist was truly an astonishing film.  I was riveted from start to finish and so emotionally affected that I couldn't even consider writing a review until a week later.  Having said that, I am filing this away with my list of movies which include Schindlers List and Philadelphia, as films that I love but cannot rewatch for a long time after due to their intensely emotional content.--Shelly


                
Film makers have to step carefully when dealing with issues like the Nazi extermination program. There have been equally brutal programs of ethnic cleansing in places like Southeast Asia and Rwanda, in which hundreds of millions died, but nothing like this in Europe since the Middle Ages. The victims here were not only Jews but Gypsies, the mentally ill, homosexuals, socialists, communists, and political undesirables. The Nazis eliminated not six million but some uncountable number between 12 and 15 million. An event like that can't be treated lightly and milked for easy tears, or the event itself is cheapened.Fortunately, the films that have explored the subject have been uniformly well done, as Roman Polanski's "The Pianist" is well done. Polanski himself suffered in much the same way as the protagonist, Vlad Szpilman (Adrien Brody). Polanski has a habit of embellishing his tales but there's no question that in this instance he knows what he's talking about.Szpilman is a well-known young pianist on Warsaw radio but the German occupation puts the station out of business. He and his family are herded into the Warsaw ghetto where they are subject to constant abuse and occasional murder. Szpilman barely escapes being sent to Treblinka with the rest of his family. And for the last half of the film, with the help of some friends who endanger themselves by lending him aid, he scuttles rat-like from one hiding place to another, each more dismal and perilous than the last. He suffers jaundice, his hair and beard grow long, his clothes turn to tatters, his food disappears, he's half frozen, and he seems to shrink.He's reduced to living in the attic of a nearly demolished apartment building and is ecstatic to discover a gallon can of pickles overlooked on the top shelf of a kitchen cabinet. The can falls out of his hands while he tries to open it and rolls across the floor to come to rest at the boots of a German officer, Captain Hosenfeld (Thomas Kretschmann). The only Germans we've seen so far have been brutes -- ridiculing the insane, executing Jews who ask simple questions, or simply shooting people chosen at random.We expect nothing from Hosenfeld except a quick shooting. But Hosenfeld is a human being and, having discovered that Szpilman "is" -- or rather "was" -- a pianist, he asks him to play a piano left in one of the flats. Szpliman has been unable to play for years and when he seats himself we worry that he might not bring it off and, indeed, his first chords are tentative, uncertain. Then his playing becomes automated, the old habits return, and he dashes off a dramatic and exquisitely executed piece of Chopin. Hosenfeld has been leaning back, enjoying the music, then leaves Szpilman quietly to his attic. He returns a few times later, before the Germans withdraw before the Russians, and unceremoniously hands him a few packages of food and, finally, his overcoat. The matter-of-fact compassion shown by Hosenfeld, and Szpilman's desperate need for contact with another human, are very moving.When the Russian troops finally arrive, Szpilman stumbles out of his hovel to greet them, but seeing his overcoat the Russians open fire on him. Szpilman finally convinces them that he is a Pole, not a German, and one of the befuddled soldiers asks, "Then why the ****ing coat?" Szpilman is trembling with fear but manages to gulp, "I was cold." An epilogue tells us that Szpilman went on with his career and Hosenfeld wound up in a Soviet prison camp where he died in 1952, despite Szpilman's attempt to find him. Under the end credits, a smiling Szpilman plays a lively, sparkling composition by Chopin.It's a remarkable film. Polanski is no longer the Wunderkind but a mature film maker. Nothing is excessive. We need only as much as we need to know to understand Szpilman's travails -- one tragedy following another. There are no sentimental speeches at the final parting of Szpilman and his family. Szpilman himself never breaks down. He simply does what needs to be done to survive. And Adrien Brody captures what Szpilman must have been like. (From some angles he resembles the young Arthur Rubenstein.) Kretschmann gets Hosenfeld down pat as well. In their scenes together we sense their respective positions -- one man with nothing left to lose, the other with nothing left to gain. The story, and the historical facts it's based on, raise many questions about human nature, of course. I'm not at all sure that if we could find the answers to those questions we would like what we found.One of the better films of the year.
This is an emotionally tale and very decent drama about a pianist named Szpilman from luxurious life until terrible ending in the Warsaw ghetto. Polanski correctly directs a spellbinding portrait about the holocaust with his personal knowledge and proper experience on his childhood . Adrien Brody is excellent in a complicate and suffering role. Besides splendid actors, Frank Finlay,Jessica Meyer, Emilia Fox and Thomas Kretschman as a good Nazi officer who helps him. Evocative cinematography by cameraman Pawel Edlman, Polanski's usual. Musical score by Wojciech Kilar with brilliant piano sounds. Academy Award for best director Roman Polanski, Actor, Adrien Brody and adapted script by Ronald Harwood based on Wladyslaw Szpilman memories.Adding more details over largely described on the movie referred 'the Warsaw ghetto uprising', the events happened on the following manner : In 1939, after the invasion of Poland, Reinhard Heydrich chief of Gestapo began to place all Polish Jews in ghettos, where they could slowly die of hunger and disease. The campaign was to be administered by the Waffen-SS the party's military formations that fought as integral units in the armed forces. The Warsaw ghetto was the largest of these segregated areas established by the Nazis in Poland. In 1940 Heydrich, using the excuse that the spread of typhus had to be contained, set up a special section 11 miles in circumference enclosed by a brick wall 10 feet high. The cost was paid by the Judenrat, the Jewish Council of twenty-four-members, which was in charge of Jewish affairs inside the ghetto. In 1940 more than 80.000 gentile Poles living in the infected area were ordered to leave, and the next month about 140,000 living elsewhere in the city were moved in which the 240,000 still live in the ghetto. Some 360.000 Jews, a third of Warsaw's population, were herded into a 3,5-square-mile area. Meanwhile, Gestapo agents removed all Jews from the economic and cultural life of the city, from factories,shops, theaters, and libraries. On November 15,1940, the ghetto was sealed and its twenty-two entrances closed. No one was allowed to leave or enter, there was to be contact with the outside world.The situation soon became critical,Jews fought for jobs in the ghetto, including work with the labor battalions organized by the Nazis. Those unable to find work tried to exist by selling jewels,clothing, or anything else to obtain food. From 300 to 400 died daily in the Warsaw trap. More than 43.000 starved to death during the first year. Children crazed by hunger crawled through the sewers to the non-Jewish sectors of the city to smuggle in a bit of food. People were no longer moved by the sight of men and women falling dead on the streets. The Nazi authorities began intensified measure on July 22, 1942. As a memorial to Heydrich, Heirich Himmler ordered all Jews except those already in concentration camps to be deported .The ghetto and all labor camps would then be destroyed. Mass deportations to the gas chambers of Treblinka began. In two months 300.000 Jews were eliminated. The Judenrat was ordered to deliver 6.000 Jews daily for deportation. Each day thousands were driven by guards through the gates.Young Zionists, pioneers training to go to Palestine, mobilized first to be followed by members of the Polish workers party . On July 28, 1942, the Jewish Combat organization consisting about 1.000 men and boys was formed. All resolved to kill as many of their tormentors as they could before they died.The Jews fighting from rooftops, cellars, and attics,Poles outside the ghetto now began to send in more revolvers, grenades, and dynamite. In 1943 the guerrillas divided into twenty-two groups built an intricate network underground cellars and tunnels ,linked with command posts . In April 19,1943 German troops moved in on the ghetto to send all who were left to Treblinka in a final action. First came the armed trucks, tanks, and armored cars. The ghetto fighters poured a hail of bullets, grenades and bombs, the fighting went on for twenty-eight days. The guerrillas fought to the last. Many committed suicide at the moment before capture. The Germans dragged survivors from the cellars and rubble. Fewer than 100 escaped, the last 60000 Jews had been exterminated or killed in the explosions and fires.Polish sources reported that the fighters had killed 300 Germans and wounded 1000. From Warsaw Jewish resistance moved to swamps and forests.


                
Spoilers herein.Nearly any film is for me a double experience: the watching and the post-coital rumination. That second phase can make the experience worthwhile even when the film itself is ordinary or poorly done.But it works the other way as well, especially when a film is designed for discussion: the film delivered with so many opinions that themselves are ordinary or poorly done. This film comes so charged. Szpilman wasn't `Jewish enough' to be the center of an important holocaust film, goes the most ordinary and loudest of them. I suppose there are some things about the commingling of descriptive art and definitive life to be said there. But one likes to have more freedom in post-film thoughts and that whole topic is dominated by the sorts of reflexive responses manipulated by film.There's a second prepackaged topic concerning whether `Schindler' was better or `worse.' I don't consider Spielberg's film a holocaust film at all: he lives in a happy world, where justice and right (and lots of other happy values) always triumph. His observations are always external. His goal is always to tell a story, a stance that furthers the distance between his films and reality. Polanski's project has no story at all, merely a life of accidents. His camera is within the artist's personal space. His own mannerisms are Eastern European and depressed, congruent with what he shows. (Speilberg's Schindler really did have the silk unctuousness of the East, but as observed from California.) So I credit Polanski's vision as having more historical credibility than Speilberg's, knowing that despite the best efforts of us all to avoid having practical history made by the movie marketplace.(One exception, where Polanksi is offensively theatrical: when Szpliman runs from the destroyed hospital, he faces a street of desolation as far as one can see, `High Noon'-wise.)Much more interesting to my mind is the portrayal of an artist. Polanski has always been deeply self-referential in his work: always there is an examination of the artist within the art. And I make a minor hobby out of collecting film experiences that do this with music and mathematics because I have some personal experience to work with. For those who don't know: Poland<U+0091>s pride is Chopin, who invented a relationship to the piano that not only defined modernity but reinvented everything about musical performance. (Film would follow this lead in 1941.) Chopin built pieces designed to be bent in performance, designed with empty rooms that a pianist could explore. Unlike, Bach for instance, where the magic of the performance was in attuning to Bach and his intent, the performer of Chopin really could bring his own soul to parity with God. Szpliman was a strong pianist, and therefore more than a national character, instead a reflection of the Polish heart.Here, we  watch this man compromise his own pride, eschew his religion, run away from every opportunity for dignity in order to keep his hands warm to play another day; and not just play, but play on the radio for Poles. So during this painful journey, we assume what we are meant to in films about tortured artists: that the pain we are watching will be transmuted by this man into great art that will lift us all. His own personal denigration - what is done to him and the denigrating choices he makes - are worth it overall.This is where the fatal pessimism of Polanski stops, because he doesn't let us know the musical truth. This is not Szpilman<U+0091>s playing of course, but not much unlike him. Szpilman was a `safe' player, one who never had the strength or desire to add much to Chopin. That's why he was on the radio: his `interpretations' were unchallenging and palatable. But he would never have been considered an artist of note at all if he had not survived the perfect brutality of the Germans, whose own music, though sentimental was constrained in ways that Chopin's never was. The payoff is supposed to be that after his trials, the artist is now - theoretically - capable of expressing the pain and yearning of the world. That we are meant to so think is clear from the end, where he plays with the glow of Dreyfuss from `Music of the Heart.'Ah, but not so. The sound we actually hear throughout is by Olejniczak, a similarly ordinary man. Szpilman did not in fact come through a better artist, but much worse: a meek pianist. `Shellshocked,' postwar contemporaries would say. Contrast this with Artur Rubinstein. Jewish Pole of the previous generation, and the first giant to explore Chopin's rubato. He had his own dark nights, but not because the world was inhospitable. Listen to his recordings (freely available) compared to Szpilman<U+0091>s (hard to get) or even Olejniczak<U+0091>s on the soundtrack. These are two different universes. One is merely pleasant, the other life-altering.Polanski has made some great films (including the under-appreciated `Ninth Gate'), and his thinking through of the intellectual reach of a project is extensive but he has ultimately let us down here. Implicit in much of modern Jewishness is the triumph of enrichment of the people through their tribulation. Perhaps that is true, but this film undermines the idea when selecting Szpilman as metaphor.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4: Worth watching.
The problem with making a holocaust film is that it's a subject that's been done before . Everyone from Steven Spielberg to ( Amazingly and somewhat hypocritically I say ) Vanessa Redgrave has made a film centering around the Nazi attempt to exterminate European Jewry . I have a problem with this because it denigrates history to an extent . If people have to make a film featuring man's inhumanity to man as a reminder what does this say for the rest of humanity ? Can't the rest of humanity watch a documentary like SHOA or the Genocide episode of THE WORLD AT WAR ( My first introduction to The Holocaust ) or read a book of the accounts of Nazi mass murder ? Would it be too cynical to point out how well rewarded Holocaust movies are ? It's also noticeable how formulaic these type of movies are . We start at the beginning of the war and follow the protagonist's survival until they're liberated by the allies in 1945 That said THE PIANIST does have merits of its own even though it doesn't really bring much to the table originality wise . Actually the food allegory is appropriate though slightly confusing . Early in the film we see the terrible conditions in the Warsaw ghetto as its Jewish population are effectively walled up from the rest of the city and left to die . Cut to a restaurant interior as Wladyslaw Szpilman entertains the guests by playing the piano as the patrons grow fat by gorging themselves on food , fine wine and cigarettes as their fellow Jews fall dead in the streets . With a little editing you might find yourself thinking this part was directed by David Irving instead of Roman Polanski ! One thing THE PIANIST does do well is include the apocryphal tale of the Jews discussing their fate at the hands of the Nazis with no one wanting to believe for a second that the lone voice stating the Nazis are deporting them to be murdered may in fact be talking the truth no matter how unbelievable and horrific the truth may be Like I AM LEGEND the story suffers from the fact that the protagonist has no one to speak to for large portions of the narrative but there's so much incident on screen such as the Warsaw uprising it's not a major problem . You could make the point that Szpliman then becomes a spectator to Polish history rather than a character in his own right and you'd possibly be correct but these scenes are very well choreographed and filmed that it shouldn't be made as a criticism . There's also the introduction of " A good German " that we've seen before in films such as MUTTER'S COURAGE but Hosenfeld is so well drawn and acted by Thomas Kretschmann it's very difficult not to feel sorry for his fate In truth THE PIANIST follows the usual structure of holocaust movies but unlike some movies of this particular genre certainly deserved much of the critical acclaim hoisted upon it . As can be expected it's not a feel good movie but is definitely a well made and acted story of human suffering and endurance
"Crap, I rented the History Channel." That was my initial reaction when I was met with a 20 second long, low-detailed, roll-footage type introduction to The Pianist. I knew I didn't need another lecture on the "horrific Nazi death camps" and one more dull lesson on World War II weaved into what Hollywood puts out as a "movie." However, about 10 minutes into the film, I was captivated. As the story began to unfold the life of a large and happy Jewish family living in Warsaw at the beginning of World War II, I started to see traces of genius in Polanski's newest creation.For one, each character had a personality so tangible that the viewers can point out resemblances in their own personal lives. This had a stunning impact on me. It just isn't the same when a story is always about that "someone else." However, Polanski did an awesome job in making that "someone else" personal. One of my own favorite characters was Henryk (played by Ed Stoppard), the brother of the "pianist" (Wladek Szpilman-played by Adrien Brody), who had a stubborn, intellectual, street-smart whim to him that I can identify in a few of my own friends. Of course, Brody was a great actor as well. His passive, stoic response flowed from a seemingly natural-born personality that was so fitting to his character. His personality was never out of place or awkward but well-blended into the climate set by Polanski.Secondly, the director had an excellent charm with the mood of the cinematic. It's interesting to point out that the sky had nearly always been dark and dreary. The clouds and the overall attitude of the film were grey and overcast. They resembled harbingers of a coming storm. It was symbolic, and also foreshadows the coming doom that few people expected and even fewer had hoped to avoid. Polanski, himself a Pole who escaped the grips of death in the camps, spared few shades of darkness in painting the Nazis. Next, it must be noted that Polanski was a master at contrasting mood. A tragically horrifying scene could be followed by a scene with Wladek playing the piano beautifully in a bustling restaurant. By doing this, Polanski noticeably heightens the blow of the calamity and as a result, made the movie so much more spectacular.Also helping to set the sinister mood was the music, which was stunningly beautiful yet overwhelmingly poignant. From Chopin's "Nocturne for Piano in C Sharp Minor" at the very beginning to Chopin's "Andante Spianato and Grande Polonaise for Piano, Op. 22" at the very end, the bittersweet sweet aura of the movie cannot exist without the music. One of the best classical soundtracks of the past years may be from this very movie. The piano genius, Szpilman, represented all the talents wasted away by Nazi rule. Lawyers, writers, politicians, and musicians alike were the subjects of those mass graves and human ovens, and the trills of the keys made it so real, so<U+0085> heartfelt. It was something one needs to experience to know the truth of.I encountered only a few moments of discontent when watching this movie. One of them was that some of the characters seemed quite random and generally impromptu. Itzak Heller for example, the Jewish Police recruiter, seemed to appear out of nowhere, yet the family speaks of him as if he was an old friend. Other parts of the story I felt needed a little bit more elaboration as well. What annoyed me the most was that the director seemed to part with the rest of the family in the middle of the film without ever mentioning them again. However, since this is not a spoiler, I have no need to go into the details.No, I have yet to see a movie that is perfect in every aspect. Though in this human world of flaws and opinions differing from mine, I forfeit my dissatisfaction at the beginning of this film to admit that this has been one awesome experience. It has not only changed my view on Polanski as a director, but also the entire period of the Holocaust in general.


                
The Pianist is far from Roman Polanski's best film or his `most personal work,' as the back of the DVD case says. In fact, it's easily the least personal film I've seen from him; any director who has enough clout to secure the funding for the production could have made this film and had it turn out just as well. As a director, it is a small achievement. Likewise, the screenplay writes itself; in fact, it did write itself, as it's based on a true story. I must admit I have a bias against films dealing with WWII and especially the Jewish experience in Europe. Affecting the audience is as simple as snapping one's fingers. Or, more specifically, executing a Jew. Whenever the audience starts to get a little comfortable, all the filmmaker has to do is have a Nazi shoot a Jew in the head. It's all too easy. Any film with that subject matter is automatically deemed important in the minds of critics and audiences, which makes it difficult for anyone to propose any criticism against it. Truth be told, The Pianist is a very good film. It's well done, and, while I don't think it's Polanski's best work, he does a good job. But it's too easy, I think, to overpraise something like this. It was very entertaining that this movie caused so many upsets at the Oscars, but, after seeing the film, it doesn't surprise me. This is the kind of movie that impresses the Academy most, because it's easy. The three awards it won were not deserved, at least in my opinion. If I weren't so familiar with the Academy and their thought processes, it would really shock me that Polanski beat Scorsese, who made an original picture with verve and passion, and that Brody (I haven't mentioned him, and he is good) beat Daniel Day-Lewis, who, as I've just said above, creates a character that will live forever. As for the screenplay, Ronald Harwood (and/or Polanski) could have made the film much more than just one of ten thousand tales of survival. There are a lot of moments when more substance could have been found. I like how Szpilman has to constantly watch the action while locked up in a room, yearning to be able to do something about it, but always relegated to the spectator's role. They do do well when they introduce the character of the Nazi soldier trying to make good by helping Szpilman, but they don't do very much. Of course, I think part of the point is that this man appeared and disappeared without much pomp or circumstance. In fact, it would have been more powerful if they had never revealed that Szpilman discovered who this man was. Of course, that might have been disrespectful.I have now seen all five Best Picture nominees from last year, and I would rank them as follows: 1) The Hours; 2) Gangs of New York; 3) The Pianist; 4) Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers; 5) Chicago. That I rank the actual winner last shouldn't raise eyebrows, because, to tell you the truth, I don't rank The Pianist and The Two Towers that much higher. The first two were original, intelligent, and challenging. The last three were much simpler, and it's no big surprise that they are more beloved. 8/10.


                
It takes a lot of guts to make a film about arguably the most tragic event in human history. The director must put the film together with care and respect towards those depicted in the film. The writer must pay attention to the details of the events and bring them across in the most respectful nature without exploiting the events for cinematic gain. The actors must have the utmost care for the characters they portray in order to properly tell such a tragic story. Roman Polanski's The Pianist hits all these marks. The film is adapted from the memoirs of a famed Polish Jewish pianist named Wladyslaw Szpilman. It chronicles the events of the Jewish exile into the Polish ghettos and their eventual relocation to the concentration camps. Szpilman, however, was not taken to a concentration camp and had to spend months hiding out from the Germans as they destroyed Warsaw, Poland. It is a very difficult story to portray, as well as watch, making it a harrowing yet memorable piece of art.I would never have known you could make such a despicable event such as this into such a glorious work of art. But Roman Polanski does it. He directs this film with such gracious beauty that shocks and mystifies the viewer. It is a film you can't take your eyes off of, no matter how much you want to. It is strange to call this such a beautiful film, but it is. It isn't beautiful in the sense that we often associate beauty with. It is beautiful in its portrayal of such tragic events through such a subtle and meticulous lens. Polanski directs every bit of this film with the utmost respect towards the subject matter. He stays so far away from making this an exploitation film and instead makes into into a work of art where the tragedy we witness on screen is almost hypnotic in its depiction.And to add to the emotional brilliance of this film, Adrien Brody does a fantastic job as Szpilman. His portrayal earned him an Academy Award for best actor and it's not difficult to realize why. He goes through such an dramatic transformation throughout this film, both physical and mental. He begins as an esteemed Polish pianist who is very likable and very homely. He has a loving family and a great career. But as the destruction of Warsaw caves in around him, so does his whole life. When he is separated from his family he must look after nobody but himself. It is very difficult to watch his tragic physical and mental deterioration. You think he's lost it all until the end of the film when you realize just how much he retains. Szpilman is not a pianist just to add a different kind of aspect to the film. He is a pianist because this supports the entire idea of the film. He shows just how important music and art is to the world, even in such tragic times. His ability to play the piano so well saves his life, as well as renews it. It is a fascinating thing to think about, even though it is something very subtle in the film.All this being said, The Pianist didn't strike as many emotional chords with me as I thought it would. I'm not sure why, but I was more mystified with the quality of the film, rather than emotionally moved by the events. They are undoubtedly tragic and still difficult to watch, but I didn't feel a lot of emotion boiling up inside of me while watching this film. I only felt a sincere amazement by how well the film was put together and how great Adrien Brody was. I am in no way saying this isn't an emotional film, but it just wasn't as striking to me as it would be to other people. I feel like more could have been done with this film, but at the same time I feel like there was just enough in this film to give it its consistent subtle beauty. I wasn't quite as drawn in by this film as I thought I would be, but it is undoubtedly excellent.The Pianist is a beautiful film. I wasn't moved by it enough for it to earn a spot in one of my all time favorite films, but it is a film experience I will never forget. I will always remember just how well constructed this story was and how successfully beautiful of a film it was. This is an unforgettable film that shows what dramatic historical filmmaking is all about.


                
That first scene where Wladyslaw Szpilman (Brody) plays in the recording suite, in Warsaw, for the Polish radio station sums up not only the entire film but Szpilman's dedication and attitude towards his music and his ability to play music. He is sitting there, live on air, as bombs rain down on the city before one hits the building he is in. People are starting to panic behind a soundproof window but it is a suspenseful panic because whilst we in the studio can see the panic and stress the disc jockey is going through, we are tantalisingly put on hold in terms of the horror of the attack. Then a bomb hits the studio room we're in and we wake up to what's happening, as does Szpilman. He must stop playing after previously continuing.The next time Szpilman plays the piano in a war zone where his life is threatened will be the crescendo for not only the Second World Wartime journey of horror Szpilman must endure, but also for the last time danger is that close to him as is a piano. There are scenes in the film where he is so close to a piano and yet playing it would result in his quick demise; but he is strong enough and powerful enough to be able to remember the music and play on through his mind <U+0096> that adds extra importance to that near-the-end wartime scene when he must play with 'danger' watching on.The film begins and ends in Poland, during the Second World War and we are taken through the various stages of horror imposed by the invading Nazi Germans during their assault on most of mainland Europe. The film's opening third acts not too much like a documentary that might shovel the message: "The Germans were evil people" down our throats and not too much like an over the top experimental art film. I read that the film is European produced which should come as no surprise because its aesthetic is very much that of realism, the dominant European aesthetic. So we learn of one family's struggle through the days of the Nazi rule and the film presents us with a hierarchy of Nazi invoked violence. There are the initial scenes of humiliation as a man must walk in the gutter for the crime of being Jewish but there is also the equally awkward to watch as I'm sure it was to shoot scene at a cross roads when Jewish strangers must dance together. From here, the levels are cranked up further and further and it's not long before stone cold violence is being presented to us.But The Pianist is much more than a realistic take on Polish struggles at this time with a few scenes inter-cut to show some atrocity. The film is a breath of fresh air and suggest to me that Roman Polanski has viewed previous Second World War film efforts and corrected them where he thinks corrections should be made. Not a fan of Saving Private Ryan for its lack of mentioning other Allies? Well, Polanski takes time out here for his characters to mention the British and the French over the radio they listen to. Squeamish enough to look away from heavy violence in Second World War films but maintain an interest in the subject anyway? Well here, Polanski shoots his action and his violence in such a way that just these scenes alone go a long way in helping label him an 'auteur'.These scenes and shots are littered throughout the film and contain a certain point of view thinking behind them. For instance, when later on in the film there is guerrilla fighting between Germans and ghetto inhabitants, we always see the action from Szpilman's perspective that is to say the camera never cuts to ground level to show the violence or to try and sell it as entertainment. All we know is that one side is over there, one is over here and they fight; another touch being that for most of the time we do not see the rebels or where they shoot from but we do hear the gunfire. Likewise, when a German soldier is hit the camera never cuts to that level to confirm us the kill <U+0096> everything is done in point of view format from the window and is kept that way. This gives a scene when Szpilman is actually on the ground level and close to a corpse of a woman he saw get shot a few days ago an extra bite because now we are closer to the kill, it is our first proper look at the result of a gunfight that has been and gone <U+0096> our conscience and awareness catches up with us.And this tactic is used by Polanski more than once. When a crippled Jew is thrown from his balcony, we see it from the Szpilman's window but when Jews are executed by way of the gun, we are helplessly trapped on that ground level and must witness the atrocity, partly because Szpilman is not there watching from afar in his home or from a window. The added disturbance for these kills is that the cripple cannot defend himself and the fact the officer must reload his gun <U+0096> also notice how each Jew lying down has their own way of dealing with the inevitable: some keep their face down on the floor but others look ahead giving everything added tragedy. The Pianist works on many levels of storytelling and informs as well as shocks without relying on neatly plotted stories <U+0096> it is a war fought between superpowers told from the point of view of someone who is not a superpower, and the result is brilliant.


                
Soundtrack for this review: El pianista del gueto de Varsovia by Jorge DrexlerIt is hard to review this movie. It is not easy to evaluate this movie in terms of its acting, its quality, its directing, with an armchair attitude that ignores the crudeness and harshness of real life. It is hard to say phrases like "Roman Polanski, perhaps due to its own experience, captures perfectly the feeling of everyday life of Polish Jews during the Second World War, its sadness and despair but also the tiny moments of hope", however true that might be.It is very hard to rate this just as a movie, and not as a reminder for the human race of what are we capable of. I'm often reluctant to watch Holocaust movies because I know beforehand that they will have very hard to digest moments, and they are almost an act of masochism, two hours of intense suffering. But they are necessary, they are real stories that urge to be told, and need to be heard so that they don't happen again.In a world where islamophobic parties are winning votes in Europe, where Americans proudly wave a flag that is the symbol of slavery in front of their president, these movies are indispensable. We cannot allow ourselves to fall into the collective madness that Germany fell into between 1933 and 1945. We should have learnt by now that technology has allowed the State to mobilize way too many resources, and the extermination of an entire group of people is only a button away. Not to mention the fact that these things still happen in more remote corners of the world, where they don't destabilize global geopolitics. So it would be too frivolous from my side to evaluate Polanski's direction or Brody's acting, as if this was fiction. The feeling I have after having watched The Pianist is not the one of a film critic that passively observes reality from behind his desk, but an active one, the imperative of making sure that nothing like this ever happens again.


                
"The Pianist", I know it from my friend who suggest me to watch this movie. At the beginning, and from the title, I think this movie will give me such a nice experience of music composed in every scene. You know, I expect there are so much soundtrack from classic masterpiece and everything will be connected with music. The very first shot is some scene with piano-beat-rhythm. Suddenly, a great shot from tank try to break the whole building and hurt the main character of the movie. Just, what a great opening for such a reality-based-movie.The overcoming story just a very real experience from Wladyslaw Szpilman himself, and some from Roman Polanski, the director. Every detail of each screen is from an actual event, and the movie is not exaggerating the fact. Like action movie that will expose one or two climax scenes, but this movie consistent with the fact. Some people may think this movie little bit boring, but actually that is the beauty of a realist movie, a realist movie. It is not a beauty of comedy or action, just the history way.With a personal approach, this movie is nothing but a great deal of cinema experience. A war-view from an innocent and humble man, who try to survive in the era of crisis. The view, however, is like "Grave of the Fireflies", but the core of the movie is very different. There are sort of soul-power that will make Szpilman keep living, even in the starvation. And this kind of power make Szpilman keep playing his passion as a pianist.But, overall this is a superb movie, not complicated, and enjoyable. Above all, as I always said, it is very realist.
The Pianist is a 2002 biographical war drama film directed by Roman Polanski, written by Ronald Harwood and starring Adrien Brody.[1] It is an adaptation of Death of a City, a World War II memoir by the Polish-Jewish musician Wladyslaw Szpilman. The film is a co-production between Poland, France, Germany and the United Kingdom. The Pianist met with significant critical praise and received multiple awards and nominations. At the 75th Academy Awards, The Pianist won Oscars for Best Director (Polanski), Best Adapted Screenplay (Ronald Harwood) and Best Actor (Brody), and was also nominated for four other awards, including the Academy Award for Best Picture. The film was awarded the Palme d'Or at the 2002 Cannes Film Festival,[2] BAFTA Award for Best Film, BAFTA Award for Best Direction in 2003 and seven French Césars including Best Picture, Best Director and Best Actor for Brody.
This movie is beautifully shot and features some great acting. It has a nice mix of romance, drama and action scenes. The piano music fits the story nicely. I could not help but compare ThePianist to Schindler'sList, which i think is slightly better, as it has a more complete plot. ThePianist's plot is a bit thin; we get to see how the Jewish Pianist experiences the war years in Poland, chronologically. There's only a very thin connection between the things that happen and the fact that he's a pianist, which imho is not so satisfactory.Don't get me wrong; it's a good, sad, movie: see it if you can.


                
The Pianist is a beautiful film in spite of the obvious bleak subject: the survival of pianist Wladyslaw Szpilman, a Polish Jew during WWII in Warsaw. The film has much warmth - human spirit a-kindled behind it all. Adrien Brody is simply superb (almost surreal) in his true to life portrayal of Szpilman - tenacity and courage personified beyond reproach. We get to see a quieter side of Brody (Eric the war photo-journalist in Elie Chouraqui's "Harrison's Flowers" 2000, Sam the union organizer in Ken Loach's "Bread and Roses" 2000, Ritchie in Spike Lee's "Summer of Sam" 1999) - an impressive, subdued performance all the way. Of course, director Roman Polanski is the sustaining unrelenting force throughout the entire 2 hrs. 28 mins. filmic journey. (In his interview with Charlie Rose on PBS, Brody mentioned that he was expected to lose 30 lbs. in weight to inhabit the lead role's emaciating period, besides prompted to diligently play Chopin on the piano for 6 months, 6 days a week.)This is much more than just another Holocaust movie (neither "Schindler's List" or "Sophie's Choice"). It's Polanski's own: he gave the film quite an emotionally restrained treatment, almost felt like a documentary with doses of stark photography, not without hints of poetry at times. Have patience, there is action, suspense, and you shall be rewarded towards last part of the film, with teardrops for sure. Actually, occasional smiles and a chuckle were afforded. It is taut human drama complete - even though we know of the outcome, we still worry and startle, relieve and sigh along with Brody's character at his brush with danger throughout the film. The audience is very much in the first person alone and lonely with Szpilman on the screen. And when joy arrives, it's truly touching.The story is based on Szpilman's book (written 4 years after the war) with screenplay by Ronald Harwood (Cry the Beloved Country 1995, Mandela - TV 1987, The Dresser 1983.) The soundtrack included many Frédéric Chopin (1810-1849) piano pieces: Nocturne, Ballade, Prelude, Waltz, Polonaise and Mazurka. Wojciech Kilar provided additional music, and Hervé de Luze on film editing - both have collaborated on Polanski's "Ninth Gate, The" 1999, and "Death and the Maiden" 1994. Cinematography by Pawel Edelman, who was in many film projects by Polish writer-director Andrzej Wajda. Production designer Allan Starski and costume designer Anna Sheppard were involved in Steven Spielberg's "Schindler's List" 1993. It's worthwhile to visit the official Web site:  Kudos to everyone involved on this project - such integrity and strength, and to R.P. Productions, Focus Features (also distributed Todd Hayne's "Far From Heaven" 2002), and Studio Canal.Roman Polanski's "The Pianist" truly deserved the Cannes Film Festival 2002 Palme d'Or award for the Best Feature film.


                
Roman Polanski is something of a genius for being in the middle of world history. Even if he had never made a film in his life his autobiography would still have been fascinating and history packed. I won't try and summate it in detail, but it involves an escape not unlike the one presented here on film! Having turned down Schindler's List (for reasons much noted elsewhere) he decides to make this as his tribute to the anti-Jewish horrors of WWII. Interesting.Despite the awards (all deserved) this is not what you might call a "fat" film. It has one main theme: "self preservation" in a world gone mad and that limits my sympathy and involvement. Indeed the protagonist (Adrian Brody) has something that people can envy even in his darkest hour - a great musical talent.The question I ask myself is how much of this lifesaver influences his decisions? While many gave up or joined in the resistance movement, Brody watches from the window: very much a curious and non Hollywood approach. Brave but not to everyone's taste.The real Warsaw Ghetto was featured in the great Granada documentary series "The World at War" (quite frankly the most amazing piece of historical television ever created - if you can rent it do so) and nothing can be as shocking as the real pictures. However this is a close second.The early scenes of family life are like the scenes from the Titanic, we know what those on screen don't and we feel like calling out and warning them! In many ways the information is soft peddled and tokenised. We do not see the actual horrors of the death camps and even post war the survivors look too healthy to be believable. The only bum note in the entire movie.Although I had nothing to do with the making of this film I am proud of it. I am proud that millions of people have been educated and will continue to be educated about the horrors of war and what man does to man. But I didn't really enjoy it very much and I have no desire to see it again despite having some wonderful pieces of cinematography.


                
Generally, I skim through the user comments on IMDB taking great pleasure in seeing what others have to say about the film I've just seen. Today, though, I feel astonished and disappointed by some of the things I've read.
The holocaust occurred for many reasons; social, economic and political. However, what fuelled it was a colossal failure of the basic human qualities of compassion, empathy and understanding. It's a nauseating paradox, repeated throughout human history, that when people are regarded as fit only for slavery and destruction it is their persecutors who are made truly subhuman by their actions.I'm not attempting to label the authors of some of the posts here as Nazis or fascists but I am deeply concerned that a film dealing with this issue can provoke such truly thoughtless comments. Of course, it's possible to accuse The Pianist of failing in its ambitions if it cannot convey to every viewer at least a fleeting sympathy with the characters. Perhaps, though, it succeeds by highlighting the lack of comprehension that makes obscenities like the Holocaust possible even today.Maybe some people viewed the film as simply entertainment, in which case I can see why the plot or characterisation might not be to their liking. The Nazis just keep on behaving like thugs, the Jews sit there and take it and the central character doesn't finally go on a revenge killing-spree, liberating Warsaw single-handed. And getting the girl, of course. If you want formulaic movies with sympathetic heroes and a nice, untaxing storyline there are plenty to choose from. I just don't see how anyone could watch this film without understanding that it's about as close to the truth as it could be without passing into the realm of dramatised documentary. Yes, it is based on a true story and sorry - real life has a habit of occasionally deviating from the popcorn norm.So, sorry to pick on the following. Genuinely, it's not personal - your comments are simply the most recent.musidora - If you found it hard to relate to the selfishness of Szpilman perhaps you might consider that many, many Holocaust survivors report an ineradicable guilt, even in the face of all they endured, because they owed their own survival to putting themselves first. For example theft of food in concentration camps was common. What do you think you would do in the same situation if the price of your life, or your child's, were a crust of stolen bread?kylan-1 - You wrote: `He just stands there with a dumb look on his face and fumbles around'   `So whats the big survival story here?'
Seriously, if you were malnourished, cold and being used for slave labour do you think you'd be feeling chipper enough to be a modern-day Spartacus?jmrex - You wrote: `How can anybody enjoy watching a chronicle of how lacking in spirit these people were? It sickens me.'It really is hard to understand how a whole people can sometimes kneel before its oppressor, seemingly without putting up a fight. How can people be so passive in such extreme circumstances? How can they just stand by while their neighbour is murdered and quietly wait their turn? Well, the same thing happens every time the human race decides to turn on itself. From Poland to Cambodia to Rwanda you can see it repeated. Plainly, it's something that happens when a society is reduced to its component individuals and the moment of rebellion seems to each an impossibility. If anything is sickening here, it's your comment, jmrex. If you truly find the concept of human despair something inferior to you in some way then let's put another point on the scoreboard for the Nazis. If all you want to do is simply enjoy a film and leave it feeling better than when you entered the cinema then look for something different next time. The audience leaving the screening I saw were subdued and said their goodbyes to one another with choked voices. That doesn't make any of them better people than you but I think it shows a maturity that you haven't yet reached. I wish you well on your journey there - you'll find the view much better.
Bhagwan Thadani  - You wrote: `The entire movie was so "outre" that I actually laughed when a German officer pulled out his Luger and shot a Jewess to death for asking "Where are we going?" How ridiculous can this myth of the Jew suffering at the hands of persecutors become?'
Please tell me you're not serious. That you know this really went on. I simply cannot understand how anyone with even a passing knowledge of the Holocaust could really think this an exaggeration or regard it as a `myth.' Perhaps you should find the time to talk to some of the people whose families were reduced to a handful of individuals or even just a sole survivor. Maybe if you heard from someone who was there, still carrying the tattoo on their arm used to mark them like cattle, how their mothers, fathers, siblings and children were murdered you might begin to understand how woundingly misinformed you are. The Jews, gypsies, gays, dissidents and other victims of the Nazis were slaughtered both systematically and capriciously. If your life is worthless to someone with power over you then it is a matter of no consequence all to them to end it for the slightest reason.While blindness to the suffering of others, whoever and wherever they may be, remains a part of the human condition the subjects of movies like The Pianist will be not only moving but a salutary warning. It could happen to any of us unless we appreciate the lessons history offers.


                
If I'm being honest, that's probably my best experience with Roman Polanski's art. Speaking of how smoothly the story is told. And, how it challenges our limits, demonstrating everything a director can, murdering, humiliation, free labor/slavery, children starving.
Heavy elements in the movie. Hope and despair and survival.
Maybe more than anything else, I loved that it showed both good and bad actions of Jews and Nazis. Of course it's not even close to a competition when counted, but the fact that it was there cannot be denied. There were some people who abused their friends at some point, and there were people mistreating each other for a little bit more food, and a little bit more prosper in those desperate times.
On the contrary, as brutally displayed the Nazis' actions, I love to think that there is a little bit of humanity inside of everyone and this is shown more than one occasion.
On the same note, isn't wrath, greed, and genocide only observed in humans?
I mean, maybe it is human to kill other people, and it needs something more than that to stop it.
I loved the drama in this movie, many powerful phrases such "Food is more important than time" and the music. What a lucky life we have to experience the music in this movie.
And, well done to well-deserved Oscar winner Adrian Brody.watch this movie, watch it so you'd appreciate your life as well.


                
Traditional World War II-era films focus on the battlefields, whether in Europe or the Pacific. In 2002's 'The Pianist,' we instead see what it's like to live as a civilian under German occupation, focusing specifically on the story of a Polish Jew who must do everything he can to survive over the course of the later years during the war.'Pianist' is really made what it is by Adrien Brody, whose Oscar-winning performance earned much praise from critics and audiences alike. Brody portrays Wladyslaw Szpilman, a pianist who plays on Poland's national radio broadcast. Close with his family, Szpilman eventually must learn to survive in the ghettos of Warsaw and beyond as he fights for his life against the Nazi forces. The story is a real one, which makes it that much more remarkable, but as powerful as it is on paper, it's a tough task to bring it to life onscreen. Fortunately, Brody is able to breathe life into the role, bringing the emotion and rawness needed to make it a respectful telling of the story.As a film itself, 'Pianist' doesn't feel lofty or overproduced. Instead, it accurately depicts the grittiness and horror of war, but still feels somewhat simple. The use of ambient sound over dialogue in long stretches of the film heightens the emotion and forces audiences to really pay attention to what they're seeing unfold on the screen. This is likely what helped Roman Polanski take home the Oscar for best director, despite his high profile personal issues. But the most powerful scene comes near the film's climax - a moment when Szpilman almost literally play for his life. This scene is by far the defining one in the film and will be remembered for years to come.'The Pianist' is a serious account of a dark part of history, but it tells a story that showcases how music can transcend parties, nationalities and allegiances.


                
The film flows surrounding the proper time period for this amazing story.
everything perfect in it. well done.


                
A great movie on a powerful, essential subject -- the Holocaust years in Poland -- directed with such artistry and skill that, as we watch, the barriers of the screen seem to melt away. The closing scenes of the movie involve Szpilman's confrontation with a German captain named Wilm Hosenfeld -- Polanski's direction of this scene, his use of pause and nuance, is masterful. Szpilman takes to performing sonatas in thin air, eyes closed, those jittery fingers stroking nothing but air. It's a wonderful moment in a wonderful, ghastly film, and one of the most moving arguments for the redemptive powers of art ever made. Crafted without a whiff of melodrama, this motion picture takes a steady, unflinching look at the plight of Jews in Warsaw. Polanski, who was a Jewish child in Krakow when the Germans arrived in September 1939, presents Szpilman's story with bleak, acid humor and with a ruthless objectivity that encompasses both cynicism and compassion.VERDICT: "High-Quality Stuff" - This is a rating to a movie I view as very entertaining and well made, and definitely worth paying the full price at a theater to see or own on DVD. It is not perfect, but it is definitely excellent. (Films that are rated 3.5 or 4 stars)
The Pianist is one of many films about the holocaust that I've seen lately which shows either perspective of Jewish man in Warsaw, Poland struggling to survive WWII during the long years that people in Europe thought were antagonizing. I feel moved by Adrien Brody's main protagonist toward the middle of the film. He desperately in search to stay silent, keep out of sight, and his survival to remain alive. It gives me quite an idea of how things weren't so great for him or for anybody during those dark times. I'm forever grateful even though it burns in my fiery soul. Adrien Brody is one of the best choice for best actor in the Pianist. His mind, body, and soul led him through the German-Nazi turmoil to a new and bright future.


                
I watched this film for the first time yesterday. I knew it was about World war 2 but I didn't realize specifically which parts. Adrian Brody is amazing in this film playing the part of Wladyslaw Szpilman. It reminded me very much like Schindlers List not only because it covers the same themes and time period but also because it really made me appreciate the time in which I live. The way people got treated during that time was horrific and heartbreaking. This movie in my opinion had some very confronting scenes such as Adrian Brody's character getting brutally whipped by a German soldier and also a man getting thrown off the balcony from his wheelchair. These scenes for me were quite hard to watch. Overall though this film was good to watch. I can't imagine it would be easy to act those parts and put yourself into those situations but it was acted very well and very genuine. If you managed to watch Schindler's List then this film you will be able to relate to.
I'm not quite sure if I will be able to phrase my thoughts about the movie or not, but I can easily say that this movie is one of the best movies I've ever seen. Probably I've never been touched by a movie like this one. It's not only a biography of a great pianist, it's a documentary about a whole era, a documentary about thousands of people that suffered years ago, that lived, suffered and died, about their everyday lives and their everyday experiences. I've read much about the second world war and I thought that I knew how it was like and how people suffered, until I saw that movie, it made me see with my own eyes what my brain couldn't imagine, the film took me back in time and space, I was in Warsaw feeling every Jewish lived there that time. Also the movie portrayed the life and experience of Wladyslaw Szpilman flawlessly, in times I was feeling him, I was somehow suffering while I'm lying in my bed crying over someone that has already died 16 years ago. The soundtrack fits the events perfectly, the visuals are not impressing but that actually helped concentrating on the emotional aspect. I have never thought that a film could touch me this way, made me think about my real life now and thankful more than ever that we are living in peace and not suffering, it also made me think about all the people that suffers in our days, having a more clear picture about how wars and suffering could be like.


                
A film so traumatic, I don't think I could ever summon the courage to watch it again. The Pianist is a brutal but painfully realistic portrayal of the atrocities caused towards Jewish people during the Holocaust. It forces the viewer to come to terms with the absolute worst that humanity has to offer. The Pianist is poignant, powerful and unrelenting. It doesn't just make you see what these people were subjected to, but makes you feel it as well. It portrays the happiness and desperation that Holocaust victims felt. The soundtrack is also great.Read my full review here: http://goo.gl/iBNRcF


                
A very engaging and fantastically shot WW2 film which is one of Polanski's best films in years.This movie retells the events of Wladyslaw Szpilman, a famous Polish pianist as he attempts to survive during WW2 and narrowly escapes death multiple times.This movie may not be as brutal as "Schindler's List" was but it still contains several dark scenes which can be hard to watch. It showed to us that surviving the Holocaust was based on luck and it was easy to get killed. If you were weaker and unable to work, you'd be in danger of getting shot. "The Pianist" captures this element very well and that was what I really liked about it.This movie is pretty tense because his fate is uncertain throughout the movie. He often hides in Nazi infested areas and his allies have to try their hardest to hide him. Often when his cover is blown, he only narrowly escapes death. Also, one scene in the film (which I won't give away because of spoilers) is so tense that it is guaranteed to make everyone who is not familiar with the true story tense up unlike anything else.Also, I really love the cinematography. It really captures the sense of barrenness very well. Some of its scenes are so jaw-dropping, it's surprising that any movie could be able to film them. This movie is definitely a visual treat unlike anything else.Adrien Body gave a great performance. In the beginning, he seems somewhat calm. As the movie continues on, however, his performance gets better as the tension gets higher. In my opinion, he gave the best performance in the movie. He stole the whole show. He is the actor we see most in this movie and he carries the movie expertly by himself.In conclusion, this movie is by far a masterpiece. It contains everything I think is necessary is Holocaust films. It captures the brutality of the Holocaust very well, it has incredible cinematography, a consistent level of suspense, and it has a great lead acting performance. It fulfilled and went far beyond all of my expectations and it is a must-see film for these reasons.


                
