Even though Avatar is of American origin, it has a lot of Japanese anime influence, particularly visually, but keeps the best of both animation cultures with it's American sense of playfulness and more realized characterization. The creators of Avatar have really crafted an artistic piece of fun and creative storytelling that is a rare gem for American TV. Avatar has strength in all the major areas of film and story, starting at ground level with an exceptionally believable world setting where war is taking place among the different nations. The main characters who find themselves caught in this struggle are three teens named Katara, Sokka, and Aang (the Avatar) who have set forth to bring harmony to the world through their influence and through the powers of the still developing Avatar. There is lot of humor and fun in this show, and you can't help but to really love these characters and their pets. But this is just the beginning of the glue that keeps you coming back. Great plots and stunning visuals are just as much of importance to the overall success of the show. The story lines are top notch, being both episodic in nature and chronologically integral from one show to the next. Each episode usually introduces a new and genuinely interesting opposition and/or characters to be overcome by the end of the show, and visually there is plenty of awe inspiring backgrounds and quality animation. With just enough well paced action, some sincere points of moral conviction (can you believe it), and witty humor makes the show a winning combination. This is entertainment for all ages, and definitely a must see.


                
This review will be very long. I adore this show with every fibre of my being, and view it to be a piece of animated perfection. I implore people to avoid the disgusting live-action adaptation by director M. Night Shyamalan, as it is a disrespectful sham that mocks everything that the show stood for and mastered.So as for the show itself, where to begin? Well let's start with the story overall. Avatar tells a complete a perfectly paced epic plot over the course of 61 22 minute episodes. The show contains several unique and beautifully detailed characters among its main cast, all of whom are given consistent and engaging development throughout. From family related guilt and angst, identity dilemmas and the characters constant, overarching and looming quest, the characters are pressed with many trials which actually truly change them over the course of their magnificent journey. Aside from the primary cast, many intriguing and varied side characters appear throughout the adventure. They offer comedic levity, new forms of drama and help to add to the deep mythological and philosophical backbone of the show. All characters are exquisitely written and voice acted, with not a badly portrayed among them. Next I will cover the show's borderline legendary animation. It is a sight to behold indeed. I believe I am justified in believing that such stellar production values will never again be pared with this level of artistic imagination again, at least not in my lifetime. The scope, creativity and energy of the shows animation is second to no other show, and it's balance of colour is never anything less than sublime. Aside from sweeping and moving visuals, Avatar also offers fast paced and unbelievably well choreographed action scenes (once again, second to none) and well timed slapstick comedy. Not only is the animation stunning, it is also staggeringly versatile. The show's epic mythos is also very strong, and demands to be deepened and added to (thankfully Korra is doing just that). It takes inspiration from Buddhist, Inuit, Western, Japanese and Korean cultures to deliver it's unique world, as well as many original and creative elements in conjunction with the more recognisable real world concepts. The show manages to weave philosophy and deep moral concepts within its world and characters, creating one of the most fleshed out fantasy worlds of the last several decades. In conclusion, what can I even say? I love Avatar: TLA more every time I experience it, and it is one of very few shows (or even films) which can provoke a primal emotional response from me each time I see it, without fail. It sends shivers down my spine, and puts a tear to my eye, leaving me totally satisfied and fulfilled each time. My favourite television show, of all time.


                
Hi there.It is September 2016, more than a decade this this series was done, and I will be your reviewer this evening.Our menu is simple -- we are only offering just one review and that review only comes with the very rare "perfect score" of 10. Sorry, no substitutions.I am a prolific reviewer here (over 1350 reviews) which is a polite way of saying I watch too much TV and have too much time on my hands.When I first watched this series I made the same "mistake" most reviewers do when reviewing anything for the first time. As good as it was, I "assumed" that over time something better would appear. But that never happened.So after 10 years I have given up. I just rewatched the whole series top to bottom and currently have a nice endorphin buzz going because this astonishing series just gets better as you go, and the final episode just plants a big smile on your face.Perfect writing, direction, story, dialog, animation, characters. And all with a chewy moral center.(And some really deep metaphysical concepts -- like the island where everything is connected. That is a reference to one of the oldest religions in the world.) I know what you are thinking. I tried to get into Korra but all I kept seeing there were the many errors the producers made in trying to improve on something which simply cannot be improved on.It is official. I am calling it.The best overall series in the history of TV.And it just gets better with age.


                
I thought that Avatar when it first came out was gonna be another Nick Show flop. When the first episode came out I watched it for about 10 mins. and I thought wow and couldn't stop watching. The show I think keeps you involved. Nick has picked some bad shows but not this one. The plot is very well designed and characters are thought out and are dynamic. I think thats what makes a show good. Also the fact that when a show ends then next time then it carrys on what happened in the next episode rather than acting like it never happened. The show captures a sense of reality and makes the audience more into it. The writers write some pretty decent material. Classic comedy and new moral comedy with good values. All in all I give the show a perfect score of 10/10 stars with both thumbs way up.


                
The art and research put into this story matches the quality of the plot and character development. This show is what Nickelodeon needs to give it some respect. Not since Samauri Jack has an American show been able to pull off an anime style that works. It's good to know that children that watch this show may actually learn what it takes to have a good story. The research put into the story is amazing. The bending styles all coincide with different styles of fighting and can be seen in every episode. The show itself is also planned out, as minor questions formed in one episode may not be answered for another 10 some episodes later, so it's not just another Nick "story" show like Danny Phantom, all episodes are connected and well planned out. I wouldn't doubt that the next 3 seasons are already written. The character development and writing can match even some of the best television writers out there, it may even be able to stand toe-to-toe with the works of Joss Whedon.I give the show an easy 10/10, especially if you watch all the shows in order.


                
Wow. I am amazed at how good this show is. The anime-style look and feel of it make it a warm addition to nick's mostly dull lineup. Don't get me wrong, nick has some good animated shows, like Spongebob, Fairly Oddparents, Danny Phantom is one of my favorites. I think that it is good that they have a program with this kind of look that isn't from an established Nickelodeon company (like frederator for fairly oddparents).Anyway, I think that Avatar: The Last Airbender is a good program, and is sure to be a hit as long as Nick doesn't screw it up. It seems to have the right amount of humor and action to keep it appealing to me (and I'm 19!). As long as the creators can keep the show original and stop Nick from bastardizing it by saying things like "its too violent" or "You can't have Saaka be sexist." Stay the course and you'll be gold!


                
What a breath of fresh air (no pun intended), My boys and I were hooked after the first episode. The action sequences are great, and the lighthearted humor is refreshing...It's about time they came out with something that might become a classic. I like the animation, and the characters are right on...great idea to have the fate of the nations resting in the hands of a 12 year old boy, who wants to be a kid, but at the same time realizes he has a lot of responsibility resting on his shoulders. I hope they can keep it going and not have it break down as we get further into the season. I am looking forward to the rest of the season, and hope they put it on DVD...would like to have it in my library.


                
It seems rare for Nickelodeon to turn out a good new show these days, and even more rare for me to like an anime style cartoon, which is why I'm baffled as to why I love this show so much. Having not missed an episode yet, and having a reminder for new episodes on my desktop, I've seen that it just keeps getting better and better as it goes. Some of the story lines are predictable, but that doesn't turn me off of Avatar as it might some other things, which just adds more to my confusion as to why I love this show so much. Many kudos to Nickelodeon, this is easily greatest show since Rocko's Modern Life (IMO) and after Spongebob Squarepants, that is most definitely saying something!


                
When I fist heard of Avatar: The Last Airbender, I was a little septic. It seemed like it would just turn out to be another cheesy, serialized anime whose only purpose is to make cash. That, and when I watched the first Avatar episode, I noticed that it wasn't a 'true' anime. Avatar is, what I call, 'hybrid' anime: in other words, anime created here in North America. This only added to my skepticism. I have had bad experiences with hybrid anime. Shows like Martin Mystery and Totally Spies are hybrids, and watching them nearly makes me gag. The anime style is chosen for no reason other than to attract audiences. Their movements are quick, jerky, and you can tell they try way to hard to mimic traditional anime style, but in that sense, they fail horribly. Their written is witless and linear (i.e: the jokes in Totally Spies all relate to some sort of stereotype of girls, like hair, nails, etc) and the plot lines are all contrived (i.e: every episode of Martin Mystery). Yet Avatar: The Last Airbender succeeded where all other 'hybrids' had failed. The anime style was chosen for artistic reasons, and each of the character's movements are very fluid, and almost reach movie quality. There are typical anime elements that give the show a surreal touch without taking it over the edge, such as Appa, the flying bison, or the Spirit World. The action scenes probably impressed me the most, as the animators focus mainly on the ensuing battle, and not so much as the reactions of the fighter's or the onlookers. Each battle has a point, as well, and not just some random duel. The character's are very well drawn out, not just in an animated-sense, but also the depth of each character. But more importantly, we see these characters evolve through their adversities, and we see how they struggle to cope with their tasks, which sometimes require them to question their morals. Again, the humour in Avatar is genuine, and always makes me laugh, whether it be a quick quip from Sako, the running joke of the Cabbage Man, or even the coincidential irony. Even it's serious moments are well written, and the character's words have a deeper meaning. One of my favourite quotes is, "Part of being a man is knowing where you are needed". But what impressed me the most is how deep Avatar actually goes. The show has it's own mythology that is easy to follow, but sports a deeper meaning. Each tribe or nation represents a different element, but the fire nation is the main antagonist in Avatar. Yet we gain insight as to why this is. Fire is probably the most dangerous element, as it is essentially alive, and can destroy almost anything. This give us insight into the fire nation's need for power. Yet the fire nation has its own morals too, and we occasionally see things from their side, a technique that helps us gain better understanding for the fire nation, and even creates pathos for character's like Prince Zuko. Each tribe has it's own special abilities, relating to their element, and this relationship between man and nature is a common motif that permeates through many anime movies and shows (Hayao Miyazaki's "Princess Mononoke" and "Nausicaa" are excellent examples of this). Various symbols of Chinese mythology also show up in the series (i.e: panda bear's, dragons, etc.) giving the show another level of depth. Avatar is, at its core, a story of growing up and facing fate, no matter how hard it is. I am so glad I was introduced to Avatar, and I am pleasantly surprised by its depth and wit. The voice acting fits the character's perfectly, and even the music is a joy to listen to. I would gladly recommend Avatar: The Last Airbender to practically anyone.


                
When I saw the previews of this show, I knew that it was going to be something unique. When I first watched this show, I knew that Nick had something going. I only hoped that they would continue it and keep it fresh. So far, Nick has done it perfectly.Avatar: The Last Airbender is Nick's newest show where they took a sudden left turn from traditional American comedy Cartoons into something similar to DC's Teen Titans and Cartoon Network's Samurai Jack. A series anime show with some laughs mixed in while the world literally is on the brink of destruction.So far, Nick has outdone themselves this time and if they can keep it up, Nick is going to have a brand new name for itself.


                
OK, so I was 12 when this show came out and needless to say, I was completely enamored by it. For a TV station like Nickelodeon, best known for its wacky shows like SpongeBob, Rocko's Modern Life and their sitcoms like Drake and Josh, to suddenly come out with this anime-inspired animated series with deep philosophical themes as well as tackling genocide and war, this was a massive step forward.Of course, this isn't the first form of media that has incorporated the power of the elements, but their method of how they do it here is remarkable. For every element to be adopted into its own nation, reflecting the psyches and philosophies attributed to the respective element is truly inspiring.All the characters are written for and performed expertly, save for maybe some of the guest characters (*cough cough* Jet). My favourite character by far is Zuko. The progression and development of this character is incredible and captures perfectly the transition from villain to antihero to hero. Aang is a good character too, but he's a bit of a goody-two-shoes half the time. Katara and Sokka are equally appealing characters, as well as Toph.The brilliance of this show is that it is perfectly paced. Sure, you get the occasional filler episode, but every episode (leaving out The Great Divide) has a purpose and adds more layers to this intriguing story and the world it is set in.Again, for a children's show to incorporate seriously heavy topics and still have a silly sense of humour is just impressive. I get annoyed every time someone stereotypes this series as just a 'kids show', brushing it off. This show can be watched by someone of any age, and that is one of the reasons I admire it so much. It's not pandering at all and tackles the heavy subject matter in a mature way.Sadly, after The Legend of Korra, Nickelodeon never seemed to follow in the footsteps of Avatar which I found upsetting. Kids need more shows like this, if I'm being honest.


                
It's hard to say what's so good about this show, because there are so many aspects that are done incredibly well (such as animation style, voice casting, sound engineering, music composition... There's a lot in this), but all of these pieces come together to form a show greater than the sum of their parts. It begins as a story about children initially for children, but the characters within this mature as does the subject material and range of the target audience. The tone doesn't become some cheap grim-dark escalation piece because there's always a sense of identity from the first episode to the last.What makes this show incredible is how it blends rich colourful storytelling that aims to entertain with deeper nearly philosophical structures beneath it. It's subtle. It's clever. You can watch it again and again and pick up new pieces each time. The story itself is about a child named Aang who finds himself in a world he doesn't belong in - quite literally, as he had been frozen for about a century and 'woke up' in this world. The protagonist is a young boy named Aang and is, as the title suggests, the last Airbender - a sect of humans with the ability to manipulate the air around him, such as using it for his glider to fly higher and for catching himself when he falls. In this world there are 4 kinds of bender: Earth, Fire, Air, Water. In this world, you are born into these sects. Mastering a single form of bending can take a lifetime. Aang however is special, he is the Avatar, the one person who can use all 4 elements and uses this power to maintain the piece between the 4 bending peoples. He has had hundreds of past lives as the Avatar, and has a spiritual connection to each of his past lives, but ran away from his training before connecting with his spiritual past selves.Once awoken, Aang finds out that the world he left behind to be in turmoil as the nation of the Firebenders have begun to use their strength to conquer the world, slaying every Airbender in the hopes to kill the Avatar. The world has assumed the Avatar line is broken and Aang died long ago, such as the two young Waterbenders that awaken Aang in the pilot episode. These two, Katara and Sokka, are two young kids left parent-less by this war, with Katara the only Waterbender in her whole tribe, as the Firebenders remove anyone capable of waterbending in fear of rebellion. Throughout the first series, Aang must learn how to waterbend from Katara - a task that is not without slip ups. The plot begins as a simple coming of age story, but quickly takes to tackling far more mature themes from the deeds of Aang's past life to struggling acceptance that not everyone can be saved, in thought provoking greying morality where right and wrong are nothing more than tidal forces. Each season introduces a new element for Aang to master until finally he must retake the responsibilities of the Avatar and bring balance to the world.This show has so many layers that there is without doubt a character for everyone. There are powerful, well defined story arcs, but within episodes, there are simple adventures that let each character grow and develop into almost real people. There is a plot about redemption from one of the show's main antagonist, Zuko, son of the Fire Nation's supreme leader, Fire Lord Ozai, exploring the morality of what it means to be born into the baddies side of things that in itself deserves the highest awards in plot writing. One of the main characters, the water tribe born Sokka, does not have any super powers but still tries to stand on the shoulders of giants. His grievance that the world is not fair to his attempts to become a man is an enthralling story of acceptance and overcoming limitations. The earthbender companion, Toph, introduced in the second season, is blind and thought of as helpless. She struggles with being thought of as less than everyone else for a disability she was born with, and is as stubborn as the rocks she bends. Seeing her open up and begin to trust her friends enough to let them in is heart warming and portrays human emotion in an incredibly believable light. Even the world itself is a living, breathing thing, the plot lines revolving around the animals of the world are near parable in nature without ever coming off as overly preachy or boring. This show is without doubt for you if you have ever felt emotions and can care about the lives of others, and if you can't, this show will make you feel those things.This show's central theme is Balance. Not winning, not losing. Not for glory, or for sorrow. Every aspect of the story is perfectly fitting and a joy to watch, no matter what age you start. If I ever have kids, I'm watching this with them. It's incredible what you can learn from a well thought out story


                
When I first saw the previews for "Avatar", I thought it was going to be another lame show created during a Nickelodeon slump. Boy, was I wrong. It's my favorite show on Nick, one of my favorites on all of TV. The best parts are definitely the plot line and the world that Konietzko and Dimartino have created. This is definitely one of the most complex cartoons on television.I tune in every week just wondering what will happen; will Aang move any closer to mastering the elements? What's Zuko's plan to capture the Avatar this week? And is there a love relationship growing between Aang and Katara?Once you start watching this show, you won't be able to stop. It's THAT good. Every new episode only adds to the legend of the Avatar, and if you haven't seen it, I suggest you see it soon, because you are missing something great. I predict that "Avatar: The Last Airbender" will become the best cartoon in Nickelodeon history, if it isn't already. 12/10


                
The series that I watched once and thought it was the greatest thing since sliced Pao (Indian bread). Loved it and Recommended it to all my pals and not one person has failed to fall in love with this epic. I ranted and raved about it wherever I went.Then, life took over and I didn't have the time to think about or revisit the original Avatar : The Last Airbender.Until last week, I tuned in again. I finished the episodes by the fistful, completing 3 complete seasons in 3 days.I never thought I would miss my friends so much because by the end of this series thats what the characters will be to you. I cannot express the sadness that creeped in over the last episode when I knew it was all going to come to an end. I would no longer get to see the wonderful lives of all characters I had grown to adore & take into confidence.Watching & experiencing this series has been one the most affirming moments of my life.I beg you not to go without experiencing the brilliant epic that is Avatar : The Last Airbender.


                
So, Nick has decided to join in on the party (along with Cartoon Network, Toon Disney, etc...) and put anime on the line-up. well, avatar isn't exactly anime, but it's inspired by it.Compared to other anime-inspired shows made here in the US, Avatar is a leap ahead of the rest. A big leap. And furthermore, it's on Nick. Nick viewers aren't used to to shows like this. Shows with developing characters, and a deep story. But despite that, and what you may hear from others, Avatar is a popular show. I wouldn't be surprised if this show went far. It has humor, a good bit of it, and those cute anime faces we all love (well, anime fans). It has action. It even gives us a reason to cry once and a while (if you like the show enough). And romance, of course, if you look for it. Overall, this show is worth a watch. However, you have to start from the beginning, so you know what's going on. I give it a 9/10.


                
Watch the series one time just for the entertainment, but then watch it again and I assure you it will change your life. It's deeper meaning and inner wisdom can genuinely change you as a person. It teaches you right from wrong, love from hate, happiness from sorrow... It's not just a show, but a guide to living a fulfilling life. Avatar: The Last Airbender is as memorable as it is beautiful. To start off, the animation is breathtaking. Play any episode and pause it at any scene and at any second and you can print it as a poster and hang it in your bedroom. Every single frame tells a story. The music and sound mix in general is also the epitome of sound in animation. Every note perfectly executed to the mood and every sound just... Works. From the individual musical themes of each character to the sounds of rushing water from a powerful water bender, the show just nails it. While on the topic of sound, the casting of the voice actors is sublime. It's hard to imagine a real life voice behind the characters, and that's what makes it great. I never hear the actor, but rather the character. Every line is delivered perfectly to distinguish the shows nature of comedy vs. drama. And when these two genres are combined (with the right execution) it creates an amazing experience for almost any audience. The story line is obviously the most important factor; without a story there is no show. The very concept is genius and the story behind the concept is simply amazing. If you haven't delved into this show yet, I would advise that you do. In an effort to not give away any spoilers, I will say that it's simply like nothing else, and you will be captivated within the first 10 minutes. By the end of season one, you will have associated yourself with one of the four elements (astronomically speaking it will be freakishly accurate) and you'll want to see how your story unfolds. Just give Avatar: The Last Airbender a chance and I promise you won't be disappointed. So good you might be inspired to get a tattoo, or at the very least... A bumper sticker that reads "Yip Yip".


                
I started watching Avatar when I was about 7 years old, when the show began. When it was on air I would occasionally watch it, enjoying the humorous quips and fun-filled filler episodes, without really divulging into the true nature of the show. It wasn't until years after the show went off air to how I truly understood just how amazing and magnificent this show really is. The first book has its weak points, but as soon as Book 2 starts the action and anticipation picks up and goes throughout the rest of the series. I've always seen this show as Nickelodeon's Harry Potter, an enthralling series with outstanding characters and an unbelievably remarkable plot line. Anyone can learn so much from this.


                
According to Wikipedia, Nick considers the target demographic of Avatar to be 6-11 year-olds. As an 18 year old who has watched the entire show, and who is eagerly awaiting the next episode, I have to wonder what they are thinking. The show features a diverse array of characters, each with story, issues, and flaws. The development and maturation of the younger characters as they encounter a world in crisis and interact with each other is evident throughout the show and is well executed. The world of Avatar draws heavily from various Asian cultures to create an environment for the story that, if not entirely original, is fully realized and feels like a real place with real history and culture. The effects of elemental bending and spirit entities on the societies of Avatar are well thought-out and serve to distinguish Avatar from other Asian themed shows, giving it a unique feel (it is definitely not Anime). The creators clearly strive for realism, in both the fight scenes and in the world the characters inhabit, though blood, swearing, and graphic deaths are notably absent, since it is supposed to be a kid's show. For example, The creators consult with a martial arts expert on every episode to precisely determine how bending moves should look, based on selected real styles. Also, All writing is done in Chinese calligraphy by consultation with an expert. The people who make Avatar have managed to create a story that, while especially suitable for younger people, has elements that resonate with all age groups. Overcoming difficult situations, trusting others and yourself, the necessity of self-discipline and effort, and the value of moderation and balance are central themes in the show. I don't want to include any spoilers, so suffice it to say that the plot is compelling as well. I should also mention that the show is frequently hilarious. There is frequent use of humor, but it rarely detracts from other aspects of the show, and generally only adds to the story's quality.


                
Avatar:The last bender is a must see show. Each episode is action packed and contains light humor and has a good storyline. And another plus is that the animation is great, in fact it is so great that Nickelodeon spends about $1 million on each show. It costs more than making 2 Spongebob episodes. Its basically about a child prodigy with unique air bending powers, who is the Avatar master of all 4 elements, who must save the world from the Fire Nation along with his friends. Katara a water bender, and Sokka, Katara's warrior brother,Appa a giant flying bison, and Momo Aang's(the avatar)pet lemur. Basically the future for Earth is at stake and the people depend on Aang to save them.


                
I just re-watched this series that was my childhood and feel the need to express some feelings. This is the greatest thing ever created, period. All these other reviews can only barely say how i feel about this show. If there is one thing you must do before you die, this is it. There is literally nothing else you could watch, see, hear, do etc. that could top this experience. Have a nice day.
i mean me to thanks


                
Lately Nick has been coming up with some really bad shows, but Avatar shows that there is hope still for Nickelodeon. It's about a twelve year boy who is not only the very last air bender, he is also the avatar, the only person who can master bending water, earth, fire, and air. He travels around the world as he tries to master all four skills, but the fire benders who had ravaged his temple and killed his people keep trying to stop him. It results in very enjoyable action sequences. The show also brings some laughs, like using a stick as a snake. Avatar is a great show ending with cliffhangers that will keep you waiting to see what happens to Aang next. 8/10 stars


                
It seems like nobody who comments on this show is willing to give credit where credit is due. Michael Dante DiMartino and Bryan Konietzko are the creators and executive producers of the series. Nickelodeon has nothing to do with the creative process or anything of the sort. All Nick does is air the show on their awful network and slap their annoying watermark in the bottom right corner.That being said, the show is truly amazing. The characterization is great and the voice actors fit the characters well. The animation is of a fairly good quality, although it's clear that some corners are cut with the animation at times.The reason I say the show is amazing is because of the concepts. The martial arts and bending of the elements are a real joy to watch, and you can tell that a lot of thought was put into it. I would recommend this to anyone who still has enough imagination to fully appreciate it, (a rarity in recent times), and to anyone mature enough to be able to enjoy something that a kid could enjoy as well, (sadly enough it seems these days people think something has to be full of torture and death to be entertaining.)


                
When I first heard of "Avatar: The Last Airbender," I was more than a little skeptic. The fact that it was airing on Nickelodeon was probably the reason I just kind of shook my head. Then about three months ago, on a complete whim, I bought the first two chapters of "Avatar: The Last Airbender" on DVD from Barnes & Noble Booksellers and, boy, was I blown away! This is one of the most humorous, fun, action-packed, and generally all-around entertaining cartoons I've seen in the longest time. It's just a pity that shows like "Avatar: The Last Airbender" are such a rarity these days. I'll be turning 21 on the 12th of next month; 13 years ago around this time at the age of 7, I remember that Nickelodeon had some of the best of children's programming on cable television. Then, 10 years ago, Nick began to slide into idiocy and continues to do so as I write this. Then around 1999, I gave up on Nickelodeon and Cartoon Network completely. My opinion of both channels hasn't changed. But "Avatar: The Last Airbender," what I presume is an attempt to add a little pseudo-Anime'-style animation to its lineup in order to catch stragglers from other cultures (and perhaps Nick-weary adults like myself), is a breath of fresh air for this once-tired soul. While I don't think today's kids may completely understand the overall significance of some of this show's philosophy, subtext and terms (how many 5-year-olds know what an "avatar" is?), they may not have to be versed in Eastern Thought to get everything. "Avatar: The Last Airbender," a fusion of Eastern philosophy, Hinduism and martial arts, is set in a far-off land (dare I say, a Middle-Earth clone?) where four tribes rule the world and the most gifted members of each tribe have mastery over the Four Greek Elements: Air, Earth, Fire, and Water. The mastery of each of these is the term "bending," the ability to manipulate each element and use it for creative or destructive purposes. The Avatar, a sort of Christ-/Buddha-like figure, has mastery over all elements and is the most powerful bender of all. The main plot of the story gets underway when the Fire Nation grows too powerful and sets off on a campaign of world domination. But they first need the Avatar, who has mysteriously disappeared. Prince Zuko, from the Fire Nation, is leading a mission to capture the Avatar and gain re-admittance back to his kingdom. Two Water Tribe teenagers, a brother and sister named Sokka and Katara, respectively, make the discovery of a lifetime when they find that Aang, a 12-year-old Airbender who was frozen in a block of ice and also happens to be the last of his kind, is the new Avatar. But he still has many skills to master in a very short period of time, and the show follows the trio's journey to the North Pole with the mammoth six-legged bison Appa and the lemur Momo. If only more shows on Nickelodeon could follow the promise that "Avatar: The Last Airbender" has. What boggles my mind about this cartoon is its style, which, it really has that is completely original, even though the influence of Japanese Anime' is obviously apparent. We get some fairly funny jokes here and there, way out-there philosophy, and kung-fu-style element-bending battles that are pretty hard to top; it's the single greatest piece of imagination in today's children's programming! But my praise for "Avatar: The Last Airbender" doesn't really restore my faith in this channel (unless they wipe the slate clean and bring back all the original programs from my youthful years), it just reaffirms a hunch that they do have an ounce of competency left when it comes to entertainment.10/10


                
I grew up with this show and I can't imagine my life without it. It truly is not only the best cartoon series, but also one of the best series out there. With an incredible story, beautiful animation, amazing characters, great villains and awesome action sequences, it's simply flawless in every way possible.Season 1 starts off slowly but only because of the terrific character introductions and world building, introducing the lovable team of protagonists, Aang, Katara and Sokka, being chased by the angsty Prince Zuko, accompanied by his adorable and wise uncle.Season 2 is probably the best of the three, and introduces an awesome new character, Toph, and a perfect new villain, Azula. The animation also improves and is packed with action, emotion and epicness.The Final Season is also magnificent and the characters are at their best at this point, and so is the animation quality.Overall this show is a must! I've shown it to several kids and adults alike and they always end up getting hooked.


                
I think I've already watched it about 5 times through because the storyline and characters are ones you yearn to revisit like old friends. It has its 'kids show' moments (usually mid season) but the ultimate arc payoff is unlike any other show.


                
