This show is great, especially for a cartoon show. The show revolves around Anng, who is both the last airbender and the avatar. Anng and his friends journey around their world to train Anng in the 4 arts of bending. Each form of bending is based on a different form of marshal art. The movements from the different fighting style are reflected in how the different benders bend their specific element. The research is a nice added touch and definitely gives this show its own unique feel.The story line is great too with some genuinely funny parts mixed in with some powerful and moving dramatic sequences. I'm a huge fan of cartoons and this is defiantly one of the best out there. If you love cartoon shows this is a definite must see. I give it 5 airbenders...out of 5.


                
'Water... Earth... Fire... Air. Long ago, the four nations lived together in harmony.' This is Katara's catchword.She say this in first. When i heard it,i excited every time. My favorite character is Zuko. Because his element is fire and he is very strong. And he looks like hard as rock but actually, he is so sensitive. I love Azula-Zuko's sister-too. She is cruel and selfish.Every character taught somethings to me in this cartoon. Toph taught be strong, Katara taught be compassionate, Soka taught be funny in every situation,Uncle Iroh taught be relax and wise.Avatar: The Last Airbender is the most creative cartoon i've ever seen.
I've been watching this with my 5-year-old and find it's watchable by both adults and kids. The writing and dialog aren't wooden or simplistic. Although it's not at the depth of an Aaron Sorkin show, there is intrigue and nuance in the conflicts between Aang and his adversaries as well as among the adversaries themselves.It's this kind of writing that can absorb and involve a first-grader yet not drive his parents up a wall that makes this more interesting to watch than say a "Fairly Odd Parents" or Disney's "Aaron Stone". These are writers/creators who trust their audience to "get it" and who try to keep things accessible without talking down to the audience. That takes both talent and skill.


                
Animation: 10/10. Avatar's animation is very fluid, and very consistent. Unlike many other animated series from both Japan and America, Avatar consistently has high-quality full animation, which heavily enhances the series' signature magical martial arts (called "bending" in-universe) fight scenes. It sometimes borrows certain elements from high-quality anime series, like FLCL, Samurai Champloo, and Fullmetal Alchemist (2003), which are sometimes cited by co-creators Bryan Konietzko and Mike DiMartino as strong influences on Avatar's animation style, which sometimes strays away from realism and goes into artistic stylization, especially during humorous scenes, or sword fight scenes. Credits go to JM Animation, DR Movie, and MOI Animation, the three South Korean animation studios who did the bulk of work in animating this series for their work. Visuals: 8.5/10. In terms of visuals, Avatar is beautifully drawn, having been heavily influenced by Miyazaki films. It is riddled with nature shots, which are often very beautiful, sometimes being copied after real- life landscapes in China, Japan, or California. The world of Avatar is filled with plenty of buildings, temples, and spaces modeled after ancient China, a product of the creators' heavy research into the history of East Asia. Its cinematography and camera angles are not really outstanding, but they serve their purpose, and don't distract the viewer too much from focusing on everything else. Avatar: The Last Airbender has some beautiful visuals, and can easily stand up on its own in terms of visuals and scenery in comparison to most anime. Plot: 5/10. Avatar's plot is awfully boring and generic. It's a mish-mash of Naruto, Dragon Ball Z, and Star Wars, due to its fighting against the evil empire using magical martial arts, while travelling around the world to learn all of the secret arts, and simultaneously being aided by the spirits of nature, with main antagonist constantly switching back and forth between the heroes and the villains side. If you've ever watched Naruto, One Piece, Hunter x Hunter, Bleach, The Fist of the North Star, or Fullmetal Alchemist, you can practically predict what's gonna happen next, since Avatar's plot lacks any kind of surprising plot- twists and unexpected turns, and is filled with clichés and overused tropes (like the power of friendship, hidden secret techniques, and defeat means friendship). Its true strength, however, lies in its characterization, described below. Characterization: 7.5/10. Avatar's characterization is one of its strongest points, at least in comparison to other shitty Nickelodeon cartoons. All of the main characters, as well as many of the supporting characters, are well-rounded and multi-faceted, and are much more than your usual shounen manga/anime archetypes, and are all very realistic, facing many of the same kind of problems that the audience might be facing. Avatar avoids using excessive forced dramas, unlike many anime (like Sword Art Online, Naruto, or Elfen Lied), that horribly overuse it. Humor: 2/10. Avatar's humor is childish, often in bad taste and misplaced. That is all I have to say about it. Enjoyment: 9/10. I greatly enjoyed watching most, or nearly every single episode, both the first time I watched them, as well as years later when I rewatched them, maybe due to my strong nostalgia filter. Overall: 7/10. Is it unique? No. Is it worth watching? Yes.
This show is absolutely amazing. Almost everything in it is done so well. Everything from the characters to the story is very well written. And it shows that not every kids show has to be dumbed down. Some of the fight scenes are intense and exciting with wonderful animation. There is only one part of the show that I'm not particularly fond of, and that is the romance between Aang and Katara. Mostly because it just felt a bit forced but other than that it is a great show.
