That Avatar TV series is a wonderfully written well thought out Cartoon Series. The Characters aren't your usual two-dimensional types found in Kids TV. The characters are deep have their own strengths, weakness and in some cases fatal flaws.This series gives kinds exposure to strong role models that I don't mind my children emulating. The characters are thoughtful, caring, noble and fun. The development of Prince Zuko's character through the series is very good.This is show actually makes my children thing about philosophy, good and bad and what it means to be noble. But also it makes them think about why "bad" people may be they way they are.


                
Well.. Firstly I must say this is the best animation I've ever watched. Why? It's because its topic is something awesome. I mean bending elements... and also it has a lots of funny moments which I've laughed for minutes when I was watching it. and also it has a so cool name.. Avatar.. The last..... you know the rest. And one of the reasons I liked this animation is that there's no any racist thing or any insulting for any religion. and also it is safe to watch for kids because there's no any sexual scenes.. only a few moments which are not so dangerous. and musics are cool. and also there's one thing I want to say. It is really the best thing about this animation. When the Aang connects with the other avatars I mean when he goes into avatar mode , you're feeling the enormous power he has... and your body is thoroughly electrified from top to the bottom... It's like your body secretes hormones. I'm talking seriously. Watch avatar and sometimes when aang gets angry and goes into avatar mode you'll feel that enormous power in your veins. Literally. and also Katara is so beautiful ;) and also it makes you imagine what if I've that power... It's the best. But it finished only with 3 seasons... :'( that was so sad. Really. I mean I think they should have kept it up. The legend of korra is not as good as The last air bender... not even close. I mean anyway. This animation is Definitely something you have to watch before you die. Especially about hormones.. you'll feel it in your veins.


                
All right, I just recently watched this series on Netflix and DVD, based on my positive recollections seeing the first few episodes when it premiered on Nick back in '05. Overall, I really enjoyed revisiting, as well as finally finishing it. The animation is fluid and hands- down the best of the Japanese-influenced American shows broadcast in the country, the narrative is wonderfully paced and interesting, and the characters are memorable and engaging from square one. Props to Dante Basco and Mako especially for their portrayals of two of my new favorite characters of all time. I really dig that this was appreciated on release and has the massive following it does, as well as a good sequel series from what I hear. If you haven't seen it yet, this is a high recommendation from me to stop and immediately rent/buy this. You'll not be disappointed.Now I must post a few of my gripes with the show, -SPOILERS AHEAD- Now, overall, this show handles wonderfully when it comes to dealing life lessons and morality to young children, which was its primary audience. However, I sensed, especially in Books 2 and 3, a desperate struggle amongst the writers to avoid the mortality issue when it came to ANY character in the show, as well as most of the darker elements in the show, (see Bloodbending). In order to be lasting, and relatable, I felt it would be wise to address the fact that in shows dealing with these titanic struggles, there are losses on both sides, the Book 1 finale worked this in fine. When it came to Lake Laogai, they chickened out at outright telling the audience that a character was dying, and I believe subtlety was the best option they had and it mostly worked. However, Sozin's Comet gave the impression that the writers struggled to come up with a deus ex machina that they could write off as a fantastic element of the world. IT DID NOT RUIN THE FINALE, that's not what I have to say at all. I simply regret that fact that the writers seemed to think: "D'oh we can't kill the Fire Lord! We can't defend/promote that!" The deus did work, but it was a shot in the dark that just happened to work in context. Oh well, oh hell. When it comes to bloodbending, I simply wish they had gone all out and used it more to its darker advantages, ie REALLY DARK USAGES (see heart-stopping, SCANNERS!). Also, WHY THE HELL DIDN'T KATARA USE IT ON AZULA?!? I'm a messed up, grit-loving pop-culture buff; sue me for trying to make your children's show more interesting.


                
It's clearly one of the best TV shows I've ever seen in my life and I mean it. in every sense of the word.
it's a bit too modestly reserved in some of its dialogues and a bit too kid-friendly gentle but what else to expect from a Nickelodeon series, do not get me wrong.
But, They are supposed to be teenagers and they look like adults, yet mostly talk like kids.
A series that shows that animation can be more than just children's entertainment and one that has inspired me to do more.
The Anime Influence clearly has its place here because I think it created something new a Toonime
(Half catoon and half anime like Japanese-American cuisine)I'm overwhelmed because that was the first series that actually made me laugh, cry, love, hate, fear, tremble, and applaud. (sometimes even in the same episode)
How clearly the whole of their prices earned quite a lot of influence and ended up in the right place so that was no exploited to long.The only problem I have is that Aang and Katara became a couple.
Since my childhood, these stories where "the male main character and the female main character come together at the end" bother me. And that was already clear from the first scenes on, when they saw each other or the first time. For a series of so many different themes, topics and mature moments would it be much better if that had not been the case.From a narrative point of view and character arcs, character evolution and growth, it would be much better if Zuko and Katara had become a couple. I literally would not have changed anything in this series except this relationship. (Think what that would mean Symbolically)Somtimes I had, thanks to this, much trouble getting to the episodes and this redundant aspect has broken parts of the series. Because of that, we had to do in some episodes by dear cutie relationship blabla and the typical back and forth bickering from Julia Roberts movies.I could tolerate that, If in the end it turns out that Katara and Aang are not a couple but Zuko und Katara.
Because that is an important thing of growing up. And that would have put these boring scenes in a new light aswell this series a few places higher.
The character development goes miles ahead + that would be a good lesson for the young audience, that not the first one you met, it also "the one".But if that's my only problem with such a fantastic series, then there's little to say about it except it's almost perfect.
I'll keep it in honor to keep watching it and can not wait to see how my kids will respond to.
Avatar forever.
Yes, it's all true - great story (for the most part), developed characters, lots of fun - it's all there, and it's highly addictive. Got me hooked right from the start. But it could've been so much more... Here the creators had a completely new world, to mold as they please, and all they did was to fill it with all the outdated oriental mysticism they could find. No imagination whatsoever, just borrowing every existing mambo-jumbo from the ancient Chinese, Japanese, and Hindu traditions. The same goes to the animals, cultures, architecture, clothing - just a random jumble of existing things, no novelty. Even the characters seem borrowed. For instance, Toph is just another version of He-Man (as crazy as it might seem), and Azula is clearly based on Mandy, even if you forget that they share the same voice. Another complaint is animation quality. Although it's certainly superb by Nick's usual standards, it comes up short when compared to modern animation series, and that includes the latest anime as well. In a series which relies so heavily on action scenes, I think they could've done a better job. And even though I'm generally a fan of anime, those silly facial gimmicks like large sweat drops and "angry lines" are my least favorite part, and I'd like to see it as little as possible. Avatar uses these gimmicks all too often, especially for a fake anime. As for the storyline, one of my problems is predictability. For example, I had no problem guessing the true identity of the Blue Spirit or the Painted Lady right from the start, or predicting that Ty Lee will betray Azula, and so on. And I'm generally very bad at things like that.Now for the good parts. Although the creators borrowed everything from oriental traditions, at least they enlisted some real experts on the subject. Kudos on that. Too bad they didn't add an astronomer to the bunch - some episodes cry for an expert in that field, especially the one with the solar eclipse. I also enjoyed seeing so many familiar names in the cast - apparently whatever money they saved on animation they used to hire some excellent actors. The second season was a bit too sad for my liking (though I loved the addition of Toph to the group), and I don't think that the plot justified all that tragedy, but the third season compensated for it with excellent, sophisticated, and funny (and not in a usual shallow way) episodes. As the ending approached, I was increasingly afraid that they might ruin the ending like they did for "Basquash", or, worse yet, end it with a cliffhanger like "Angel" or "Mortal Kombat", or even leave it unfinished like "Invader Zim". Fortunately, none of that had happened, and the ending was proper and (almost) decisive, albeit predictable and kind of flat, but tolerably so. I also felt that too many story lines were left hanging. I would've liked to see Toph's parents coming to their senses, Zuko returning his stolen ostrich-horse with apology, Azula in an asbestos mental institution, and a few other things. Normally, so many deficiencies wouldn't merit 8 out of 10, but I was so hooked to this series from the first episode to the last and then all over again, that I guess it deserves a fat bonus.
Avatar The Legend of Aang is about a 12 year old boy who after 100 years is discovered in an Iceberg by his new friends Sokka and Katara. In this Avatar world people are able to use a special form of fighting; some people can bend the elements, but the Avatar can bend all the elements. The world is now 100 years in war and for 100 years the Avatar has been missing. People are afraid that the Avatar never reincarnated to his next life because the airbenders are all gone. But soon it is Aang who appears to be the Avatar and only he can stop the on-going war which has taken many lives. But first he has to learn the other elements; water, earth and fire. He already is a good airbender.On the Avatar the Legend of Aang a lot of people worked on the script. But the story lines included in the episodes were always leading to something. Every character always had his own journey throughout the series and the writers developed those characters wonderful. Every episode is different but at the end ever storyline is leading to the same point. So – also the script was developed fantastic! With an animation TV show it is always much easier to cast somebody for a character than in Live Action. But Mako Iwamatsu and Dante Basco did such an fantastic job giving Iroh and Zuko a voice. Their voiced just suited so well with the character it is fantastic to listen to.I rate avatar 8/10. The Legend of Korra can never be better than The legend of Aang. It is important that people understand that. Korra was a good sequel but plot wise ATLA is much better. Also ATLA was the beginning and for that is always better than a sequel.
"Avatar" is very different from the many noneducational shows on Nickelodeon. It's like fake anime, and there is romance, violence, and scandal in this unique show. Some of the episodes are a little inappropriate, with animal abuse and and kissing. The episodes are very intense, and the music to the show goes perfectly with the action in the show. I think the show is kind of weird, but the fantastic art really makes me watch the show more than anything. The idea for the show is also quite unique, where our modern day world is transformed into a whole different kind of world, divided into four different nations, that all bend either fire, water, earth, and air.
To be honest, Avatar: The Legend of Aang (aka. The Last Airbender) is one of my favorite cartoon series. It really uses a valid martial arts technique and similar Asian culture. However, I kinda disappointed with the ending of this epic. The troops of fire nation is unexpectedly small sized. It's consist of not more than 10 zeppelins. And when Zuko become a king it's only attended by several people, which are incomparable to Obama's. Small things like that really destroys the excitement of the story and terribly disappointing. On the other hand, all aspects of the story is really cool and I'm hoping to see the makers make a new enhanced one. (when i'm writing this, my brother is watching one of the episode downstairs and inspired me to create this comment).
After much thought and consideration... I've decided to write a review for this show. Let me start by saying that I had my hopes so high for this show, since its rating is so high and all the reviews are in its favor and obviously I wanted to like it, to be moved, intrigued, mind-blown and overall entertained. And I got most of them... but overall this show felt pretty average to me. Usually before I choose a series to watch I normaly check the imdb all time 250 list of TV Shows in order to find one that seems interesting, has a pretty decent rating and the balance between its episodes ratings of over 9 and under 9 is decent too. Avatar: The Last Airbender seemed therefore decent enough for me to give it a shot. I'll try in this review to be as objective as I can and to mention both the good things it does and also the bad things.Starting with the good: The premise of the show of having people that can bend the 4 main elements of our world seemed pretty interesting. And the fact that one nation was in war with the other nations really caught my attention. The characters were ok and likeable overall... even though they were a bit cliched (more on that in the bad part) but what I loved about the characters in this show was their development, especially Zuko's and Iroh's (who was my favorite character by far) who were the only characters I truly liked a lot. The others were ok to say the least. The development of these two especially in seasons 2 and three were incredible and the episodes were so good that in someway for me saved this series from being just an ordinary "Shaman King"-like show for kids. Also, at times there were episodes so good that it reminded me of some of the best episodes from real TV shows like Prison Break, LOST, etc... And although season 1 and some episodes from season 2 were just like kids show, the rest of season 2 and season 3 were great and with tension and stakes, storytelling, character development and fitting ending. But the overall fun and excitement this show gave me over its three season course cannot be outweighted by the faults and flaws that in my opinion it had. It was overall a pretty good show that unfortunately didn't surprised me or shocked me through its development or twists in the story, but which had just enough to make it overall fun and worth watching.The bad stuff: Just like any TV Show or movie that takes place in an "alternate Earth" no matter its time period, just like Lord of The Rings or Game of Thrones, etc... it lacks background. And what I mean by that is that it doesn't feel palpable or believable like a story that would take place on "our Earth". And that is through the fact that this show just like others introduces a new world that needs so much background to be believable. You would say "why does it need?". For me something that has a good foundation, good basic explanation for things that happen or exist in the show is overall good and believable. But something that is superficial and expects me to just don't care about that and defies my logic in order to like and accept that, doesn't really work for me. From the premise I had sooo many questions. Like why there are 4 nations? Why certain people could bend only a specific element and others other element? "you may say that some powerful force (like in star wars)" but that is just gibberish. Next, why were there an Avatar? Why only him could learn to control all elements? How did the Avatar reincarnation process happen? How , how and how? Why did the Fire Nation destroyed and conquered so many cities and tribes? And yes the last one is answered by stating that the Fire Nation only wanted to share technology with the other nations. But you do that through force and war, and killing inocent people? Really? Wasn't any other way to do that? Couldn't the writers find a better motivation for the fire nation's actions? It just seems safe writing because after all this was a kids show. Next... story and episodes: The story was overall good except the filler episodes. And those were like 50% of the show. And although there were good episodes and chracter development throughout the show for SOME chracters, others stayed the same. Aang remained just as childish as in the beginning. Soka was throughout the whole show just the third character with funny jokes and overall very cliched. And Katara was the cliche girl-who was in love with the main guy but didn't wanted to tell him that-type. Speaking of the development, Aang's learning of mastering the four elements is not shown throughtout the show to be growing and becoming better. It is shown only in 3 episodes separately for each of the other elements he didn't master and ocasionaly here and there some training in the filler episodes. But you don't get a sense that this guy is learning, is acumulating knowledge in how to control these four elements (or 3, since he was an airbender master). The only time it was brought out was in the last four episodes when he needed to face Ozai. But otherwise no development of his powers during the shows run. Even the opening theme (and this is laughably bad) kept the thing about him needing to learn more before he could save the world until the last episode. I mean wasn't he at least somewhat ready then? How else could he defeat Ozai? It is beyond my mind how no one seems to notice this and just keep praising this show and saying "oh, this show is the best ever!", when it has soo many problems. Next, the finale is pretty weak (I mean only the 4th part) but I wrote a review for that, you can check that out. I spoke there also about the villain. There were also episodes that were extremly overrated like "The Crossroads of Destiny" in which Aang - ***SPOILERS FROM HERE - was in danger of dying by Azula's lightning. That is never explained why he was vulnerable to her lightning although he was in the Avatar State and as it was shown earlier in season 1 finale he was pretty much invincible in that mode, or how did the lightning affected him, at least to try and make some decent sense. I know, it was only a shock tool to make you think he was going to die. But if you would have thought it through you would have realised (and not be shocked then) that he couldn't have died. Since he was the one the show said it was going to save the world. Therefore that shot left me cold, knowing that it had no value at all just shock, since he was going to survive and bring order in the world by the end of the show. Next, and that is probably just as much as disappointing and frustrating is that Zuko betrayed Aang when all the season his character was being build as one who was starting to doubt the side on which he was and go join Aang's side. That build-up was blown into pieces by an unexplicably turnaround by the season 2 finale where he sides with Azula inexplicably. That was just like Star Wars: The Last Jedi. You build a chracter towards a decision and then you make him take the oposite decision. That right there took all my chatarsis away. I didn't feel like my emotions that were being build for the finale could be released and therefore the ending being worth it. - SPOILERS END HERE***I could really go on and on, and talk about other stuff that disappointed me about this show, because my expectations were extremly high. Now I've learned a lesson, never have your hopes and expectations too high for anything. They might disappoint you just like this show disappointed me. In conclusion I would say that this show overall deserves an eight from me since it was very entertaining but at the same time flawed and with some problems that for me just can't make it a masterpiece like everyone is raging about.


                
