Avatar: The Last Airbender deserves some serious credit for introducing a new generation to the anime genre. It is extremely hard to not enjoy this series. It has lovable characters, real dangers, plot development, perfectly-timed comedy and a really well thought out storyline.This series is perfectly suited to adults and children alike. Don't kid yourself there are serious issues dealt with but many children will miss those themes and will just appreciate the comedy.If you find yourself enjoying this series then I also recommend you watch The Legend of Korra too. Korra is much darker than Avatar but just as entertaining and intelligent.


                
I believe Avatar is underapreciated because it is on Nickelodean. Since Nick is famous for its retarded shows with the same story lines just using different characters, and its rather idiotic atmosphere, Avatar doesn't belong there. I would much rather see Avatar flourish on Toonami or Diseny. You need to see Avatar, even if it is an "Amerime" (american anime).Avatar: The Last Airbender is an amazing show. The storyline is original, even if it uses elemental magics (which has been used a dozen times over). What makes Avatar unique is their way of using those elemental magics and the entire Avatar storyline behind the reincarnated Avatars behind the main character Aang's past is amazingly well done. Another thing that makes Avatar a must-see is its wonderful animation. The characters are cel-shaded very clean, and the scenery is amazing as well as the world they must travel in. Everything is sophisticated and wonderful.And another huge thing in the show that makes it special is its extremely well-designed characters and backstories behind them. You have the main good guys, whom each character has a very detailed backstory (Aang, Sokka, Katara). Then, you have the main bad guys, (Zuko and his uncle), whos backstories actually cause you to feel sorry for them. And then, you have the BAD bad guys (the admiral) who is going against Zuko to take the Avatar. This makes you actually hope that Zuko and his uncle will win, but then you remember they are the bad guys. Then, there is the BAD BAD bad guys (The Fire Lord and his daughter) who are against everyone. By watching the show, you begin to feel more affection for Zuko even if he is evil, because of how greatly designed the characters are.With great animation, character designs, and storyline, this series has stolen my attention away from other cartoons. I HIGHLY Recommend AVATAR.In my way of rating shows, I usually look for how good the animation, character designs, and storyline are. When I look for a good storyline, I usually look for a great balance of humor, action, and romance. This series has it all. Sokka, usually being the comic relief, adds to the humor as well as the funny anime expressions some characters have. Another humorous thing about the show is the random Cabbage Man that appears in the episodes, as well as that screaming and foaming villager. (I never understood that screaming villager, but still hilarious.) Then, there's the action. All of the elemental bending provides some pretty cool action scenes, very well animated as well. Then, there's the romance subplots. Aang likes Katara, and Sokka falls for 3 other girls in the series, one of which was killed giving her life to the Moon Spirit.My only complaints are that they had a pretty cool storyline behind the Spirit World, but they only use it like, 3 times in the episodes. Another complaint is that some very slight flaws in the series, like when Zuko moves Aangs' body while he's in the Spirit World, Katara says that its his only way back and if his body moves he won't be able to get back in. Yet, Aang easily surpasses this and enters in his body where Zuko has taken it, and the show never gave an explanation for how he did that.So, to narrow it all down, Avatar is a must see. 9 out of 10. Wonderful!
Avatar is one of my favorite tv shows, I watched it awhile back after it piqued my interest. I was looking for something good to watch and was expecting Avatar to be average at best, but I was so wrong. In 12 days I watched the whole entire show, and felt very excited, satisfied, and sad when it was over. Watching Avatar truly felt like a going on a journey, with these characters and this world. I can always return to it and never be bored, and feel the same amount of excitement as I did when I first watched it. I only rated it a 9 because it does have a couple problems, but they a barely noticeable and at best are nitpicks. Watch Avatar if you love fantasy, animation, East Asian culture, and epic Lord of the Rings-esque stories.


                
Avatar: The Last Airbender is what millions of people automatically think of when they hear 'Avatar', NOT the 2009 James Cameron film. THIS is what Avatar truly is, this respects what the word means; an embodiment of what you are and what you stand for in absolute terms. This show has become a perennial favorite for fans all over the planet and for good reason; it was a convention breaker for Nickelodeon. We got a show with superhero-esque action sequences and character development and a show that finally emulated the aesthetics of anime.This show is now revered as a classic and for really good reasons. Fifteen years after release and people are STILL discovering this golden nugget of television goodness. Don't miss out on watching this in your life. It's a cartoon for the ages.


                
This is a anime style cartoon that kids and adults will enjoy watching. It really is one of the best cartoon show I seen in a while, there is little to almost no flaw to this show. I really wished it was longer though, instead of just 3 seasons. It really is a memorable adventure, which has many elements that will keep your attention from beginning to end. Plus just about every characters in this show is memorable and not just the main characters either, and for a bunch of cartoon characters I actually cared about what happens to them. One of the best animated series I seen, and I highly recommend anyone that enjoys a good story in a cartoon to watch this amazing show.9.3/10


                
I was flipping channels when I came across the Avatar the Last Airbender on Nick and it has turned out to be a really good show.The timing for the show's release couldn't have been better -- it came on the scene just as Cartoon Network stopped producing new episodes of Teen Titans. The artwork and animation are very well done and the show seems to have the right mix of comedy, action, violence, Asian culture,and mysticism. These elements, combined with well-developed characters and a decent storyline/plot make the show appeal to a wide range of age groups. It also seems that the show has blended the best of anime with American style animation -- think of the best elements of Teen Titans, Samurai Jack, and The Hakkenden (an anime show/movie from the early 90's)with touches of Disney-style animation elements. I also like the show for what is not in it -- namely the "trading card" duels that seem to plague many anime shows today. It also features voice actors like Mako who seem to enhance the quality of the show even further.My only fear concerning the future of the show is that they reduce the production budget or start cutting corners in the third season -- right now it is a high-quality show that I would recommend is worth a look from people of all ages.


                
Avatar is amazing. Apart from the fact that Australia is not airing the third book at all makes me rate this a 9. Too much violence?!? It's OK, I have been rebelling the notion by watching them on the internet. that's what you get for canceling Avatar! It has everything, from fast paced action scenes to romance, all tied together within a carefully planned plot. There are no dead ends, every detail is touched on eventually and no questions are left unanswered. And thats the way I like it! It is rare to find hiccups in the storyline, none that I can recall.Unlike traditional anime, such as Naruto, there is always something on. They've got the right idea, go straight to the point! No filler talk, no separate story arcs, apart from a few episodes (for example, the painted lady) where the only thing that happens is character development. It's OK, because I know most shows on nick (and Disney) has no storyline at all...I like how every episode has high quality animation. they actually move, and their mouths make different shapes! In anime, it is really annoying watching them open and close their mouths like puppets, I don't understand why they can't do that (maybe to make it easier to translate?)I want to end with a warning. PLEASE DON"T MAKE AVATAR A LIVE ACTION MOVIE!


                
I didn't grow up watching "Avatar: The Last Airbender". Before the premiere of the abysmal movie I'd never even heard of the show. And it's not until now, at age 24, that I finally got around to buying the box set and watching the series in its entirety. And I am glad I did.The series is far from perfect. The first nine episodes of the series is a real slog, and the first season is by far the weakest of the three. There are times along the way when the show stumbles, as though not quite sure of what it wants to be or who it's made for.But looking back on it as a whole, it's a remarkable achievment. With a thrilling narrative, some of the greatest and most likeable characters ever put to the small screen, and production values to match, it's a must-see. Alongside "RWBY" it actually manages to be a fully-fledged anime despite being American. It's no "Fullmetal Alchemist", but then Hiromu Arakawa is possibly the greatest story-teller alive today."Avatar: The Last Airbender" is fantastic, and deserves your time, money and love.


                
So, i wasn't suspecting a masterpiece when I first watched this, but in the end, it was one of the best series I've ever seen. What sticks out is of course the great art style, which is inspired by Asian and also American cartoon elements. The plot is well written but in the end it's just a bad-guys-destroy-the-world-plot, and is not great but solid. But the heart of this show are the characters, who are well written and believable at the same time: There's Aang, a boy who likes to play and make fun, but needs to grow up in the process of the story to save the world, but also Katara, who is grown up from the beginning, defined by her past.My favorite was probably Uncle Iroh, because he was the typical old, but when he wanted he could get pretty bad ass.There were only small things I didn't like, like the subplot with Appa, because Aang got like the little tearful kid, he never was introduced as. In the end there's only left to say, that only if you are a little bit interested in cartoon series, you should definitely go watch The Last Airbender, because of it's beautiful child- suitable art style, his great characters and the interesting plot-line about Zuko finding his fate, and realize how the fire-nation lied to him.
Let me first explain the five elements first.Earth:-Earth is considered to be primarily dry and secondarily cool. It is associated with qualities of practicality, restraint, and materialism, and with the physical, sensuous aspects of life. It represents strength, abundance, stability, and femininity. Earth is represented by burying objects in the earth, herbalism, and making images out of wood or stone. Earth's place on the pentagram is the lower left point.Fire:-Fire is considered to be primarily hot and secondarily dry. It is associated with the qualities of energy, assertiveness, and passion. Fire represents energy, inspiration, passion, and masculinity. Fire is represented in the forms of burning objects, love spells, baking, and lighting candles and fires. Fire's place on the pentagram is the lower right point.Air:-Air is considered to be primarily moist and secondarily warm. It is associated with the qualities of mobility, sharpness, and ability to penetrate. It represents Mind, intellect, consciousness, study, communication, and masculinity. Air's place on the pentagram is the upper left point.Water:-Water is considered to be both cold and wet. It is associated with the qualities of emotion and intuition. It represents emotions, wisdom, the soul, and femininity. It is represented in the forms of pouring water over objects, brew making, healing spells, ritual bathing, and tossing objects into bodies of water. Water's place on the pentagram is the upper right point.Spirit (Avatar State):- The Combination of four. You are in spiritual state. It is beyond our everyday experience, things composed of pure energy. Bodily, it represents spirit, thought, and creative energy. It represents our ability to think and to communicate, as well as our creativity. It can also be associated with power, creativity, spontaneity, and inventiveness. Through this state we connect to everyone through the entire universe.Now, to the real part. I have never seen such a wonderful and a phenomenal anime show. The characters are handled really well. The comedy, the adventure, the action, the romance, the friendship are handled really well. A very valuable to respect each and everyone's life. Including that of the animals and plants as well. It teaches us to respect nature and maintain balance. There's a lot that happens in this show. Just watch this show guys. It's pretty good and interesting.I can't wait to watch the movie. I hope they don't spoil the show and it's originality.


                
Avatar: The Last Air benderA great show that tells a great story. The theme of the show is really interesting and I really enjoyed watching every episode as it also incorporated humorous lines from the characters. The voice acting is great and the people voicing completely suit their roles. Its suitable for all ages and at only around 22 minutes an episode its easy to find time to watch. Pity their is only 3 seasons. It is one of the best animations I have seen ever and one of the only ones that I would recommend watching. If you have an interest in Fantasy and adventure in a TV series then this is a must watch!I will definitely watch the sequel series to this: "Legend of Korra"


                
Avatar: The Last Airbender is one of the most gripping sagas ever. It's story structure and character development is simply flawless. While being an animated show on a children's network, it has the ability to attract youth and adults alike by blending literally every genre throughout it's story and conveying themes much more mature than those of a typical cartoon. It's a perfect creation by two men with such incredible talent. Their amazing masterpiece is one of the very best things to ever be seen on television or even in theaters. I greatly admire them and will always look forward to and appreciate any of their future works. 9.3/10


                
Ever since i encountered this series, i fell in love with it. I had never seen anything like this on screen before and i think i never will. Solid Characters, flawless storyline and sweet dialogs.. this series has it all. I have seen it over and over again and it never gets boring. I also recommended this to a lot of friends and every single one of them loved it. It is amazing how a "cartoon series" can immensely entertain people of every age. Another prominent feature of this tremendous series is its novelish- character-building. It never feels like a series; it is almost as if you are reading a thoroughly entertaining fantasy work of literature. The characters of Iroh and Tuff are my favorites.For anyone who has not seen it.. DO IT.. and spread it :-) It's so awful that a series so good is relatively unknown to most of people. In short, it is one of a kind and a must-watch. A 9/10 for me.


                
What's to say about Avatar: The Last Airbender? This show is pretty darn popular, its success has even lead to the creation of a feature film, and two more to come. But there is in fact a lot to be said about this show. Why do I think so? Because, this is much more than just another kid's show, and there's a lot of people out there that simply don't know this yet. There's a lot of people out there that still wouldn't even consider sitting down and using (approximately) 25 hours of their time to discover the fictional tale of the last airbender, and these same people may find it becoming one of their favourites if they did. I sure was in that position; I was already surprised when I found out it was only 60 episodes long, and the creators hadn't cashed in on its success by prolonging it any longer. I really thought Avatar was basically the American equivalent of Naruto in that respect, but now I understand. No, the people who made this show didn't make a show so that they could keep it going as long as they could and make as much cash as possible. On the contrary, they did us, the rest of the world, a great favour by producing a kid's show this good - and respectable - in so many areas.Though I obviously haven't hesitated to call it a kid's show (it was broadcast on Nickelodeon, after all), there are many reason's behind my calling it 'more than just another kid's show'. This action/adventure series is exactly what that kind of show should be; smart, funny and exciting. Let's start with 'smart'. The plot isn't Neon Genesis Evangelion style deep, and thank God it isn't. However, what makes it smart is how it presents its story, characters and ideas. The characters here are incredibly believable ones, and the way they are presented is not only entertaining on a basic, fun level, but a deeper level that examines what it means to be human very effectively. Speaking of this, one specific character can't be justified in not being mentioned: Zuko. Character development is another strong area with the show, and again, on this point, Zuko has to be focused on. Zuko is all over the place from beginning to end in regards to what he feels, thinks and believes in. He really is one of, if not the greatest example of a character being used to examine what it means to be human that I have ever seen. If I had to choose a favourite character, it would be him, if only for the emotional attachment I felt to him by the time the show was reaching its final episodes. I really cared about the guy. I don't want to go into too much detail, but you'll understand if you witness his story for yourself. Avatar features a whole host of interesting moral dilemmas, characters and causes worth caring about, and more.It is for these reasons that I must give the series' creators my kudos, as what makes the show smart in these respects is good for us all. I'm 18 years old, and I enjoyed the interesting characters and ideas of Avatar, and I'm sure people of all ages could. But what also came to mind as I was watching the epic, amazing finale is that it's also a great thing that it is a kid's show. Characters this deep and real and ideas this relevant aren't things you see in your average episode of SpongeBob, and while SpongeBob is great for what it is (really), Avatar is something that would be good and beneficial for your kids to watch. Azula's descending into madness in the last episodes may be the kind of thing that I'm sure turned at least a few parent's heads. Let's face it, a lot of parents are a bit overprotective when it comes to what their kids are watching nowadays; however, Azula is just another example of the show being real with its viewers, including the kids. It's still a kid's adventure show, and not the most realistic thing ever televised, but it goes where a lot of kid's shows dare not to in a mature and intelligent way. I know that this is the kind of show I'd love my future kids to watch; full of conflict (heck, it's a war story), but one that would really teach them something. After everything, Aang's final choice (I'm not going to spoil anything too badly here) about how to resolve everything is definitely something I'd want my kids to see, and remember.On a more brief note, of course, the show is also funny and exciting. There were some truly hilarious and well-executed comedic moments all- throughout season one, two and three, and the action just plain rocked. I was on the edge of my seat watching fight scenes like Aang vs. Azula on 'the drill' (season two highlight sup) and the final battle. The entertainment the show offered on this level was a great compliment to everything else that already made it excellent. Speaking of the end, although I'd already enjoyed the series so far and heard that it was epic, I was still very impressed. It would have been nice to actually see just a couple more things resolved, but otherwise it was brilliant.Now, what more can I say about Avatar: The Last Airbender? If you're not opposed to a good action/adventure story, but haven't seen it yet, all I can say is give it a chance, no matter what age you are. If you have kids, watch it with them. The fact that people actually sat down and made a kid's show like this gives me a lot more faith in my fellow man.


                
I'm a 14 year old girl and not really into cartoons like this or anything, but Avatar is the one exception. I LOVE this show. It's original and one of the best shows that Nick has had in a LONG time (almost everything on it is crap now a days). I'm really sorry it's over, I was sad when it actually said 'The End' at the end of the 'Sozin's Comet' episode, I was really hoping for a book 4. The only thing that keeps me from giving it a 10/10 is that I was a bit disappointed about Katara ending up with Aang in the end, I always liked her with Zuko better. But anyways, this show is amazing. All the fighting scenes are awesome, and I love how the characters are all developed throughout the series.In all, 9/10 :)
Anime is something America seems to idolize because it'll make middle-schoolers flock to it and teenagers give a crap. We're out of ideas, so we ask Japan for some. But this show is VERY original.It's about a sort of chosen one, who will save the world from an Evil empire with the help of his crack-team of friends. Nick had mostly comical cartoons, but this serious, with comic relief, cartoon is a breath of fresh air. Aang is colorful an charismatic but not stupid. Sokka is good for comic relief, but not thrown in for only that purpose. Katara is serious, but nice and strong willed. Toph is sarcastic, but is very likable. And Zuko is a villain at first, but is really troubled. The characters are realistic, the setting is colorful, as four nations with distinct people and looks. The choreography is excellent, capturing a thrilling pace of an actual fight. The show follows a continuing story, unlike others, and is a very good one with romance, action, and comedy. The show is awesome. It's fake anime, but it's original, and fun to watch. It I were to pick a fake anime to watch on Nick, it would be this, over Kappa Mikey, and Speed Racer. Ugh, those suck.
Wow - I cannot recommend this highly enough. I am a total fan of anime (owning 100s of series) and I have to say this is about the closest I have seen an NA animated series come to real anime - that's high praise indeed. Story arc and character development are fantastic. You want to see what happens to the characters because you either root for or against them and you want to see how it ends. This is a totally addictive series which I went through 4 or 5 episodes at a sitting.My only minor quibble would be that the video quality on the DVDs is not the best, being blurry/ jaggy - especially Disc 1 of Book 1 - whether due to compression techniques or whatnot. This especially stands out on a large 1080p TV, upscaling aside.Overall - great series. You can see where it borrows from anime, especially Miyazaki, but this strengthens rather than detracts from the show. Excellent.


                
EPIC fantasy I don't care for anime(gasp) mainly because every 5 min or so you're watching a still for 30 seconds and the voice overs sounds like novices are doing it.Avatar however is one of the finest examples of the genre.I know it's an American cartoon but look at the credits almost all of the animators are from Japan. Aang is the Avatar a powerful being with the ability to control all of the elements. Earth, air, water, and fire who has been trapped in a block of ice for a century. In that time the Fire Nation has been waging a relentless war against the other nations in a bid to control the world.Aang and his friends Kitara,Sokka,Toph,Momo and Apa must stop the Fire Lord from this conquest,but first Aang must master the other 3 elements before he can challenge the Fire Lord.What follows is 3 seasons of great storytelling,great action,comedy,drama and animation which just gets better as the series progresses. There is a little something for everyone in this. A cartoon with depth and intelligence you must see it.


                
The only reason I started watching Avatar was simply because I had to babysit my six year old sister that night and she was so set on watching this new show. Well I was hooked. I'm not ashamed to admit that I'm 19 and throughly enjoy the show. In fact all my siblings enjoy the show too, ranging in ages 20 all the way down to six. We would watch new episodes when we were all together on Fridays and stuff like that, and joke around in the pool about how we could water-bend. But this show provides deep characters with backgrounds, faults, and dreams, a rarity in Nick shows. It sorta reminds me of old school Nick. And trust me, i am not a big fan of anime, but I hardly notice it with this show. i find myself so drawn into the characters and the plots, wishing and hoping for the characters to succeed as I do in a show like Grey's Anatomy. And this show teaches so much in terms of life lessons, that one race isn't better than the other, that even the smallest person can make a difference. And personally Prince Zuko is hot. Yes I do realize he is a cartoon character, but he is hot.


                
Avatar is wonderful cartoon for more than just the people in the 6-11 target audience. There is the occasional childish humor (which, for the most part, I find somewhat smart and funny), but for the most part "potty" humor is avoided, which I appreciate. The plot is layered and intelligent, each character is well developed and has many dimensions, and it portrays real struggles--it's more than just mindless eye candy for children. On that note, the animation is also spectacular. People try to define it in certain classes of animation, but in the end it doesn't matter, it's very good. Some cons are sometimes the dialogue can be cheesy, even if it's important and furthers the story line. This include things like bursting saying random information which may be important to the viewer, but seems unlikely for it to be what the character would say at the time. Also, I am not a fan of the romance that develops with the main character because this is not a show about romance. I believe that a tenet of the show is the importance of love and friendship, but it comes off to me as saying that boys and girls can't be friends on television. It feels cheap. A third thing is while I really like the voice of Zuko, the acting is a little weak on his part, but that's up to interpretation. It's easy to list things I don't like, but there is a reason I gave it a 9. I would recommend to everybody that they pick this show up!


                
WHAT I LIKED1. The story was interesting and captivating.2. The characters were fleshed out well. Their struggles with making the right choices and their bonding with each other were shown beautifully.3. The music. "The Avatar Theme" and "Agni Kai" are the stand out tracks.WHAT I DIDN'T LIKE1. Filler episodes.TOP 5 EPISODES1. Book 2: Earth, Chapter 20: The Crossroads of Destiny2. Book 1: Water, Chapter 20: The Siege of the North, Part 23. Book 3: Fire, Chapter 21: Sozin's Comet, Part 4 - Avatar Aang4. Book 2: Earth, Chapter 07: Zuko Alone5. Book 3: Fire, Chapter 15: The Boiling Rock, Part 2VERDICTAn awesome show with an engaging story and great characters.9/10 - Excellent
Luscious blend of martial arts and elemental powers. Deliciously smooth fight scenes and animations. A hero and plot comparable to a cartoonish layman version of The Matrix's with satiating stories and characters. One of the best animes ever made and it's made right here in USA. My own insignificant pet peeves about the show such as questionable and/or hypocritical actions done by certain characters(like Katara and the Southern Raiders or Toph leaving out the fact that her burns resulted from sneaking up on Zuko or Katara's habitual disrespect for other cultures traditions) prevent me from giving it a solid 9. 8.9/10 But the writers did do a great job a parodying themselves at the end of the series. It's a great series. Watch it!


                
Avatar is one of those once-in-a-blue-moon kind of series that is up there with Batman: The Animated Series and Animaniacs as one of the greatest kids' cartoon shows ever. With a wildly colourful world, sprawling mythology, lovable and multidimensional characters, sharp writing and a level of maturity extremely rarely seen in kids' shows, it's a flat-out masterpiece. The characters grow and change over time in believable and significant ways. The tone always stays consistent. The comedy is laugh-out loud funny without resorting to low-brow humor or adult jokes. The stakes rise every season, yet the show never devolves into brainless action. The writing is very sharp and manages to explore complex and unusual themes like broken families, finding one's way in life, loss, responsibility and escapism not often seen in kids' shows. The show's main cast consists of well-rounded and believable characters with distinct personalities and flaws, and they all are interesting in their own ways. The series spends a lot of time exploring their pasts and finding out how they turned out the way they are. Some characters don't quite reach this level, but to count that as a major flaw would be just nitpicking. What separates Avatar even further from the majority of cartoon series is its overarching story with a clear goal and villain defined from almost the word go. Yet this setup never wears itself out during the three seasons, instead taking its time in raising the stakes. Some episodes around two thirds into the series go to really dark places and you'll find yourself thinking "Did that just happen in a kids' show?" The action scenes are very exciting and creative, taking place in places like underground caves, on top of mountains and on zeppelins.Unfortunately, the show doesn't always use its potential to the fullest, opting mostly for separate one-episode story lines instead of one continuous story. Some of the tension raised at the start of season 3 gets lost as the series goes back to its standard formula after a very striking start. It doesn't really bring the direness of the situation across, but I guess there's only so much darkness you can have in a kids' show. Recommendation: As one of the best cartoons of all time, The Last Airbender is a magnificent series to viewers of all ages that will stand the test of time. As a kids' show it's a full 10, but due to the sometimes wonky story structure and some wasted potential, overall it's a nine.


                
This show is probably Nickelodeon's only saving grace of the past decade. Ever since its debut in 2005, I've been loving it. The characters are real: unlike disgustingly flat SpongeBob SquarePants and company, Aang, Katara, and all their friends and foes through the series have souls behind the ink and paint. The concept of 'Good' and 'Evil' is taken through hell and back, bringing along characters like psychotic Princess Azula, vengeful Jet, and devious Long Feng. The show blends humor, horror, sadness, and romance together in a joyful hodgepodge of action that you won't want to miss. Give it a try! My one complaint about Avatar: The Last Airbender, though, is it's advertisements (i.e. on the Nicktoons Network, they used to make fart jokes about the program.) At the time of this review, there is a spin off miniseries in production, called "The Last Airbender: The Legend Of Korra".
Although many people say this show sucks , if you ask them why ... no response. But they no that they say it is bad because it is animated. There have been many disappointing animated shows but this one is not. One of the things that makes this show so good is it story.The writers (Brian & Mike ) are genius.From Aang being discovered in Ice , To Zuko joining team Avatar , anyways it all just goes together perfectly. The voice acting was great too , any other voice just wouldn't have been right. Also , even though it is intented to be a kids show it is not all fun and games... It is so philosophical. At some parts they are all so serious at the right time too. Other then that everyone has a little comedy with them to , which is good. So to sum it up this show in my opinion is fantastic. So go watch it and see what you think !
