After many years of hearing that this film is great, millions and millions of references made to it in other films and TV shows, and seeing it in multiple "100 best films ever" lists, I decided to watch it.I needn't have bothered. There are some "classic, must see" films that are worth seeing, just to be able to claim that you have seen them, such as "Airplane." But Rocky is not one such film. It tells the story of a low-level enforcer for a small time loan shark. He makes his money shaking people down and boxing on weekends for a few dollars per fight. He then forces himself on his best friend's sister, punches animal carcasses, and tries to win a fight against the world champion.For a film about boxing, there is basically none. A few seconds at the beginning, that show that Rocky is a boxer. Then there is nothing until the final few minutes. The film is 116 minutes long. What a joke. The dialogue? It is dreadful. Rocky's best friend just randomly shouts and goes into massive rage tantrums for basically no reason, Rocky is barely intelligible, and his girlfriend basically says nothing. Apollo Creed is meant to come across as some massive ass hole who only cares about the big show, but whenever he is on screen you barely even pay attention to him enough to notice.The whole scene where Rocky practically begs Adrienne do come in, then corners her against the wall and forces her to kiss him is one of the most rapey things I have ever seen. They have zero chemistry. I am just upset that I wasted the time to watch it. The only reason it doesn't get 1/10 is because the day may come when I have to review the sequels, so I need to save that spot.
grubby late-night fare achieved way too much success with a primitive story out of 1912.  A silly promotional song, laughable script and performances.  I have no clue why this picture, wearing its heart on its sleeve, ever achieved the critcal appreciation that it did.  This high -concept film is decently enough made, but it helped herald the wave of no -brain feel-good fare of the eighties to the present.  It is also incredibly racist, and seems to suggest that a boxing champ "should" be white, even though Apollo Creed does win the bout, the audience is supposed to be aghast.  More ghastly is this idiot in the ring who has his eyelid cut with a razor blade so he can keep on fighting.  I never bothered with the sequels, but Aki Kaurismaki's _Rocky VI_ ought to be even more laugh -provoking than this film.


                
