I went to see this movie when it came out. I had never heard of Sylvester Stallone and had no expectations or preconceptions other than it was supposed to be a good depiction of boxing. I hated it when I walked out of the theater in 1976, and I hate it even more now. The film is one of sappiest pieces of melodramatic tripe I've ever seen. Every character is a stereotype, and every turn of its derivative, amateurish plot can be anticipated from 50 miles away. Now for the boxing -- a Popeye cartoon has more realistic action. It rivaled the most ludicrous exhibitions staged in professional wrestling matches, and any combatant who endured two minutes of the kind of pummeling depicted in the title fight would be brain dead. My contempt for this trash reached even greater depths when I watched it beat out three outstanding movies -- Network, Taxi Driver, and All the President's Men -- for the best picture Oscar (I've never seen Bound for Glory, but I have no doubt it was also a far better movie than this drivel). I can somewhat understand that a portion of the public would enjoy Rocky, but I can find no excuse for the voting of the Academy members. Shame on them for elevating this sorry excuse for a movie above such worthy contenders. It makes about as much sense as a punch-drunk bar-fighting buffoon landing a title fight with Muhammad Ali.


                
I didn't particularly like this movie. Dimwitted athletes don't especially interest me. I realize many liked it, but there is no accounting for the public's taste. I generally enjoy most sports movies, too. I realize that this wasn't a pure sports movie, but I just couldn't get into it. The music irritated me, too. I can't believe they are still playing that annoying music.


                
Sorry but I did not like this movie at all. I can understand that it's the story of an underdog boxer who has been given a once in a lifetime opportunity to have a boxing fight with the heavy-weight champion, a David and Goliath type story if you wish to call it that. Unfortunately the majority of this film is a load of boring drivel, it has a lot of unnecessary scenes and has some oddities.First oddity, Rocky drinks 4 uncooked eggs for breakfast...OK that's just weird. Apparently it's something that bodybuilders do to get quick protein but uncooked eggs are not really safe to consume as one might carry salmonella and it would make more sense if you just cooked and eat them like normal as you will still get the same amount of protein. Second oddity, Rocky punches frozen meat hangings like a punching bag *facepalm*...what? What a stupid idiot, the first time he does this he's bleed his hands which I'm not surprised about but not long afterwards when he does a televised interview he punches the things again just to show off, he's like a dog that doesn't learn.Adrian is a terrible character, she has no confidence and seems lifeless most of the time. Even her brother Paulie is weird and throws a cooked turkey out of the door just to make her go out.One scene to mention that was completely pointless and unnecessary was when Rocky wanted to help this tomboy girl away from some street gang and once he walked her home she flips the bird at Rocky and says "Screw You". OK, what was the point of all that?The only part of the film that's flawless is the famous training scene where you hear the Rocky theme tune while Rocky is running and runs to the top of the stairs successfully and putting his arms in the air.Once we get to about the last 30 minutes of the movie we finally get to the fight itself between Rocky and Apollo. Unfortunately none of them actually won out right and realistically it was a draw even though Apollo wins by a judging decision and then Adrian cries out she loves Rocky and comes into the ring with him. I don't get it, there was absolutely no sense of accomplishment apart from being battered and bruised to oblivion with snot coming out of the nose. Overall the film is just boring and very dull, not a classic film in my eyes.
Honestly, i don't get whats the big deal about this movie. Other than the happy ending- all is good- fulfill your dreams theme, it doesn't have anything.I was so bored in the first 30 minutes, i had to force myself to finish this movie, just because I'm a film student.Maybe i had too much of a high expectation.i get people wanting to see stories that inspire them, but i also feel like movies should have you immersed in their universe and keep the audience interested, and this does not do that for even 10 minutes.So much unimportant and mundane dialog, the takes are too long, almost no cuts, no different takes.i will give it that it was one of the first to use steady-cam, and for being innovative i guess i can overlook the extreme long shot of the trainer (i don't even remember the name) going up the stairs.Avoid this movie if you can, or if you really must see it (for your career or curiosity) be warned. this is not entertaining, at all.
I'm going to come out and say it. I didn't like this film. I know that this is going to get me hate, but it's the truth. I don't have any interest in boxing, so the film's content or Rocky's struggle didn't really resonate with me, as well as it could have done. I didn't particularly like Stallone's portrayal of Rocky either. Between his mumbling and his shouting, I couldn't understand anything that he was saying. This didn't really help with me empathising with the character. Although all credit to the set-designers. Rocky's apartment did look like a horrible place to live with the peeling wallpaper.Just thank God, Burgess Meredith was in it.Read my full review for more: http://goo.gl/mM9IxQ


                
I was told by many that Rocky is a beautiful movie and I must watched. I did. The movie is set in the same annoyingly slow pace made unbearable by the clichéd characters that too are delineated horridly.Although Stalone was not bad, the plot was. I don't even think its called a plot when you can guess the end with your eyes closed. If you enjoy watching grass grow this movie might seem a little fast paced and if you have never heard a story before or lack intellect you might find the plot gripping. I hated it and I want my time back. It was just overrated and I would not suggest this mind numbing movie to anyone, unless I hated them. Maybe thats why my friends told me to watch it, as a practical joke.


                
I'm glad to see that each of this motion picture's detractors here showed the guts enough...even on the Web, where there usually (and hopefully) is little threat of immediate face to face confrontation. The film, if one characterizes it as less than even merely mediocre, generates more arguments than it does healthy discussion.There is rarely an occasion where one can even attempt to tone down the other person's strident tone by discussing one of the movie's precious few merits. To its credit, the production credits are top notch. Talia Shire's performance was worthy of an Oscar nomination, it is for the most part well directed (until, ironically, the final scene) and... and that's about it. Even the very theme song itself was one where people wanted to stomp you if you said you didn't care for it. The recording somehow manages to be not only bombastic, it is threatening at the same time (actually, a bit of an accomplishment). It defies you dislike it. And finally, while there are some iconic images in it...(particularly, the poster) some of those are still of short of merit. It is my understanding that in Philadelphia, there is some sort of monument to the title character jumping for joy on top of the lengthy steps. There's only one problem with that...the man never existed. So not only is it unwise, the tribute doesn't even particularly make sense.
How this movie won 3 Oscars (best movie, best director and best editing) is beyond my comprehension. It has only two combats, at the beginning and the end, and badly done. The rest of the 2 hours is to see Stallone stroll around the neighborhood, putting up with his boring and unbearable best friend Paulie and trying to woo Paulie's vapid sister, Adrian, between takes that are too long of his training sessions. Meanwhile, we do not see his opponent Apollo training once, but I still have my doubts if that alone would be enough to give Rocky a remote chance to stand up to the final gong, since he only had just a month to prepare against an adversary totally above his league.I think this movie appeals to so many people for being a "David vs Goliath" tale and for conveying the false hopeful message that a nobody can, through much effort, win the lottery, which is what happened to Rocky when "chosen" for the heavyweight final. The movie is very slow and boring. The dialogue is the most basic I have ever seen, but it gives me the impression that this was on purpose to further depress the caricatures of neighborhood' people (probably the masses review themselves in this - and I'm not trying to be condescending here since I myself come from a low income social class!!!). The only positive point is Stallone's portrayal - probably the highest point of his career here - conveying some life and credibility to his character, who seems a bit inspired by Marlon Brando's interpretation in "On the Waterfront", but while Brando had the pigeons, Rocky has little turtles.
