This film is very different than the sequels. It's more of a Drama that explains Balboa's early life. It's cool to revisit, seeing him before his success. For those who just want boxing, you won't get too much of it. It focuses on the drama and character buildups more than action. You still have to watch this before you watch the others.


                
The movie that make Stallone superstar.Rocky wasn't the perfect movie.If you want to find problems at the plot and the screenplay you will find for sure.But the whole movie and the legend of the Rocky works well, even with these problems because it was one hundred percent creation of Stallone and the acting and the energy of the Italian Stallion was very improvised.In conclusion as movie it was just a good boxing film but some iconic scenes, the brilliant soundtrack and the fact that Stallone did all the jobs, make the movie write cinematic history.


                
Have a few hours and want to see a classic underdog film? Go watch Rocky! If you're a city kid this film's got nostalgia painted all over the walls of Philly for your eyes to scan over.It took me awhile to see this film and it's not the film you're actually thinking when you come to it - it's NOT about boxing. It's about one man's struggle to make it to the top - not necessarily the top of the world, but just the top of HIS world.Here you'll find the classics: The jealous and awkward friendships The shy tensions of love interest The people who attempt to befriend you once you get a jump in the world And those who have different motives, motives you strive to stray fromI'm not going to tell you anymore, but if you want to see a film that's part patriotic, part drama, but all passion, please watch this film!Adam
File this one under the "I finally get what everyone is talking about" section of movies I have waited too long to see. Now I understand why people scream "yo, Adrian", or why my friends burst into a run up the stairs at the Lincoln Memorial on our class trip to D.C. It took Oscar month for me to see the 1976 Best Picture Winner, starring Sylvester Stallone, directed by John G. Avildsen. I had some preconceived biases about this film. I am a huge fan of Martin Scorsese's Taxi Driver, a film also nominated for the Academy's top prize in 1976. I am also a fan of another film that was up for the top prize that year, Network. Since I enjoy these other films so much, I have shunned Rocky throughout the years believing my favorite (Taxi Driver) to have been brutally snubbed. Regardless of my feelings, it was time to see Rocky, and I'm glad I did.Rocky Balboa (Sylvester Stallone) is a simpleton, working for a loan shark and boxing part-time with a local gym. He is enamored with Adrian (Talia Shire), the equally simple-minded sister of Paulie (Burt Young), a friend of Rocky's from his neighborhood. As much as he wants to be, Rocky is not proving himself as a fighter. He is losing matches and performing so poorly that he has gotten the locker he has occupied for 6 years taken away by gym owner, Mickey (Burgess Meredith). With a brilliant stroke of luck, heavyweight champion Apollo Creed (Carl Weathers) visits Rocky's home state of Philadelphia. While he is there, his manager's set up an exhibition match between Creed and a struggling boxer, promoting the event as a way for "a nobody to become a somebody". They choose the most desperate opponent for Creed when they select Rocky. Dejected and seeing this fight as his one big chance to finally achieve his dream as a prize fighter, Rocky gets a manager in Mickey and starts intensive training in hopes of achieving a huge upset over Creed.Rocky told a great story and was filmed in such a perfectly gritty way that related well to the titular character's plight. I wish there could have been a little more character development of the boxer, but based on the ending of this film, it seemed as though the director/producers already knew there was to be a sequel in the works. Perhaps Rocky II sheds a little more light on the intricacies of the boxer; I'll have to check that out. Chemistry was exactly what it should have been. Rocky kept an emotional distance from everyone, therefore, everyone maintained emotional distance from Rocky. The acting was true to character and believable. I can't say enough good things about the cinematography of this film. I truly miss the days where every movie was shot on film; I'm definitely not a fan of digital.I am happy to have seen Rocky. It is a cultural phenomenon, with another movie in the series being released just last year. Rocky also proved to be a very well-done film, regardless of my reservations over Sylvester Stallone's acting. As good as Rocky was, I have not wavered from my personal assessment that Taxi Driver should have bagged Scorsese his first statuette. Taxi Driver was a better, more developed film, but for a different audience. But hey, now I can say "yo Adrian" along with the masses now.


                
Seeing this again for the first time since it was in theaters 35 years ago, I realized this is a very odd film. A strange blend of low budget 1970s street grittiness and realism, and low-brow Hollywood fantasy and cliché. I appreciate the bittersweet ending, much of the writing, and some of the acting (Burgess Meredith), as well as the very well done fight choreography. But other moments come off as amateurish improvisation, over the top performances, and old- fashioned hokum (e.g. Talia Shire's absurd physical transformation from over-the-top uber- nerdette, to sexy young love interest). Still, enjoyable and fun, if not quite the great film I remember it as.
American cinema in the 1970s was marked by the new generation of filmmakers' bombshell of originality, liveliness, sexuality and a fervor for the artistic importance of film itself, with a pervading emphasis on realism, subversive political themes and sexual candor. But what won Best Picture in the year of Taxi Driver, Network and All the President's Men---the legendary arguable masterpieces of three of contemporary cinema's finest directors---is this paint-by-numbers inspirational sports flick. Stallone's screenplay is the most wholesome 1930s Hollywood fantasy. It's the tale of Rocky and his girl Adrian, when he, because of conditions too irrational to go into, is given the chance to fight the world heavyweight champion, Apollo Creed, fashioned after Muhammad Ali so sketchily as to be a practically senseless misuse of character. It's not sufficient enough to even be defamation, but by making the Ali-like fighter such a garish fool, the film treads regions of undeveloped racism that might not be all that undeveloped.There are intermittent twinklings that the film may be condescending to the subordinate end of the proletarian attitude, as much if not more than the characters who continue putting Rocky down, like Gazzo's bodyguard and the (black) boxer who taunts Rocky after usurping his locker. Then again, Avildsen is known for creating such indistinctness with films he made before such as Joe---which dealt with what mainstream film hadn't yet dared about the neutral depiction of overt racists, junkies and gritty urban living---and the great Save the Tiger, which punctured stereotypes and sought longingly and urgently for answers to the seeming moral predicaments of modern times. Rocky is a devolution of that thread.However, there are some extremely fine actors in other supporting parts. Burt Young is convincing as Rocky's best friend, a drunk jerk, as is a both deservedly Oscar-nominated and very underused Burgess Meredith as Rocky's antiquated trainer. It's actually Shire who comes off the best, Coppola's sister and Connie in his Godfather saga. She's a genuine actress, truly moving and also droll as a budding bachelorette who comes behind schedule to sexual life. She's so effective, actually, that she almost adds credence to Stallone's performance, which is frankly way too goofy. (I keep getting the impulse to mock him out loud in that mongoloid exaggeration of Italian-American brute brogue.) So Rocky, by day, is a petty debt collector for a neighborhood loan shark played by Joe Spinell. Rocky's the kind of character who evinces his genuine compassion by thinking twice about breaking a stakeholder's thumb. At night, as we all by now very well know, chases a substandard boxing career in rundown sporting rings. But consider when Shire sits, crying and furrowed, in a corner of her small bedroom. Her brother has wrecked the living room with a baseball bat. Rocky, the guy she has become smitten by, enters. She timidly asks him if he wants a roommate. "Absolutely," he says, which is precisely what he should say, and how he should say it, and why Rocky is such an involving movie despite its otherwise ultimately stale framework.


                
This movie was a rather good drama starring Sylvester Stallone as the title character Rocky. It also is one of those movies that has a theme that sticks with a person because it is so memorable. The movie, too is memorable although kind of slow moving in places as well. They try a bit to hard making Rocky seem real, showing a bit to many details of his courtship of Adrien, though I have to say that these scenes while slow help with the ending making it a bit more emotional. The story, the heavy weight champion of the world Apollo Creed (Carl Weathers) is about to fight a title bout. Well the person he is supposed to fight drops out so Apollo decides to fight an unknown guy and picks a local named Rocky. Rocky is a bit of a washed up fighter, he can win but he does so clumsily. The trainer who I think owns the gym, Mickey, decides to help Rocky train for this fight and these two opposing forces meet in the ring for more of a fight than Apollo was expecting. This fight is a bit more realistic than the fight in two in that Apollo was not taking this fight seriously at all and was not training hard. An underdog that he had never really seen before could have taken him by surprise the way Rocky did here. So a good fight sequence a some filler before then to pull at the heart strings and inspire one. Still good though for a sports movie.


                
7/10From the slums of Philadelphia comes a courageous if misguided nobody, who has the heart and determination to reach his goals if only he could believe in himself. Indeed this movies plot line is somewhat over-used nowadays, but you cannot argue that Rocky was a catalyst for the 'it's not the size of the dog in the fight that counts, its the size of the fight in the dog'. Sylvester Stallone portrays the wannabe fighter, and the character development is extremely touching on times especially as he forges a partnership with Adrian (Talia Shire) who throughout is tremendous. Sure the boxing sequences are a something of make believe, but that only goes to enhance the entertainment. As Rocky begins to reach the big time he faces the ultimate task of trying to beat the American dream that is Apollo Creed and take his chance in the big time. Burgess Meredith is outstanding as the long suffering boxing trainer and his angry characteristics only served to give a deeper emotional side to the love and warmth he feels for Rocky. The direction could have been a little better and of course the story line is something out of make-believe, but it is undoubtedly one of those hallmark films that every generation should enjoy.


                
In the 1976 Oscars, Rocky went up against such films as Taxi Driver, Network, All the Presidents Men and Bound For Glory.  Rocky won because it was not in the least bit cynical.  Sylvester Stallone gives the best performance of his career.  It's not weighed down with overwrought cliches, or explosions.  He's a nice guy from Philly who has a big heart.  All he's ever wanted to do is fight, and go the distance.  Apollo Creed gives Rocky the chance, and you're not given many chances like this.  In Rocky's eyes, we see the fear and excitement mixing.  He knows he won't win, he just wants to prove to the world, and to himself, that he's not a bum.


                
It doesn't take an expert (not including myself) to recognize ROCKY as a genuine B-movie, something that hasn't been mentioned yet in the minds of IMDb users. Even for a 1976 Best Picture Oscar, the film really isn't all THAT great, until you're caught by the outstanding wonders of Sylvester Stallone's personally talented writing and his impressive street bum character of "The Italian Stallion". There are no stellar production values as expected from an upper-class Hollywood, but it's an easy-going movie that you can sit all the way through. Other than the landmark finale that remains among the most memorable shots on film, not a whole lot can be said. This is, pure and simple, great entertainment thanks to a bright mind who overcame tough obstacles in hitting a big time movie career.***The mention of "B-movie" in this message can be exploited. Noteworthy in the film is Troma's founder and creator of THE TOXIC AVENGER Lloyd Kaufman, who took part in casting as a "drunk", and also serving as a pre-production supervisor. He also appeared (and presented) in John Avildsen's earliest directorial effort, CRY UNCLE. Long before ROCKY, Avildsen was known for making a couple of low budget films. It is assumed that he and Kaufman are true buddies in the movie-making business.Don't be shocked and stunned at the original ROCKY being the greatest B-movie to take home the greatest honors in the world, particularly the Oscars!


                
ROCKY was one of those big-hit films that I'd never got around to watching – much like SUPERMAN – but at last I've corrected that film-fan error. Yes, I've finally watched the movie that made Sylvester Stallone a star, the low budget surprise hit that turned out to be the best-remembered boxing film of all time. I suppose there are a lot of reasons I never got around to catching it before – always something more interesting, plus the fact that sports films aren't really my sort of thing. I should have checked this out sooner.It's not a boxing film at all. Instead, it's a human drama, an uplifting story about a guy who goes from having nothing to having everything. Rocky Balboa is a wonderful creation, played to the hilt by a surprisingly human Stallone. For those used to seeing Stallone as nothing more than a well-muscled action man, think again: he brings plenty to the table as Rocky, giving his most human performance as a man filled with failings but whose spirit wins out come the end.The low budget is sometimes glaringly obvious, and I can't help but feel that some long winded scenes and sub plots could have been cut out. I appreciate Rocky's romance with Talia Shire, as it gives the movie its core emotional thread, but I can't help but feel there are too many scenes with a drunken, unlikable Paulie than are strictly necessary. On the other hand, Rocky's scenes with Burgess Meredith are very well handled and moving, so kudos to them.The training sequences are very well handled and it's no surprise that they influenced just about every sports movie that came afterwards – along with all the martial arts movies that copied DRUNKEN MASTER by focusing on long and strenuous training scenes. There isn't even any boxing until the end, as the whole film builds up to the terrific climax that doesn't disappoint. Carl Weathers is very tough and believable as Apollo Creed, too. So yeah – a fine film and another to tick off the list, even if it isn't something I'd go out of my way to watch again. I intend on catching up with the sequels, though.
What most people don't realize is that Rocky isn't so much of a boxing movie as it is a love story. Well, that's what I got from it, anyway. The boxing is a big part of it, but we don't even get to the real meat of that story until about an hour in. And without even realizing it, we're getting a whole lot of character depth during the first half of the film. Forget the creepy way that Rocky forces Adrian to give him that first kiss. The story as a whole is sweet. She's a true diamond in the rough. It's almost not even believable at first, but the two have so much chemistry that it works. But like most of the movie, their relationship is without much conflict. Rocky doesn't overcome any crazy obstacles. He's a lazy boxer who hasn't made anything of his life, and when some freak opportunity presents itself, he finally works hard and gets what he wants. There isn't anything really standing in his way. Perhaps if they threw some conflict in there it may come off as contrived, but how it is now, it seems too easy. Maybe that's the point. I don't know.Undefeated heavyweight champion, Apollo Creed (Carl Weathers) needs a new opponent for the title fight after his current one drops out. But he wants this new competitor to be a no name amateur, so that the public will get into the underdog story. And it's a good underdog story at that. You root for Rocky undeniably. But there could just be a little more in terms of a struggle. The biggest risk he takes is handed to him. And what does he have to lose, anyway?Much of the film is dated with the fake punches and the already antiquated dialogue. There are points where the patter is so rhythmic that it sounds like it's from the '40s or '50s. It's a slow moving film, and some scenes just drag on for way too long. It helps add to the character development, but it does a number on our attention span. Then there's predictability. The end result is telegraphed from a mile away. We can guess what's going to happen for most of the film. And we are usually proved right--another side effect of there not being any unexpected drama. Nowadays, we have a quixotical view of Rocky, the all-American hero. Even the Academy was lost in its gaze with this film winning Best Picture back in 1977. But sadly, it's not as good as we want it to be. But that's not to say it's not good. It's still a cool underdog story, albeit not paying off as well as its predictability wants it to. However, corniness aside, this film set the pace for countless stories that came after it. And most of all, it has a lot of heart. You can't knock it for that. Twizard Rating: 74


                
*WARNING* My English is bad, because i started learning English 2 years ago at school. So this review contains some English errors.I heard a lot about Rocky's legacy. But I didn't want to see the movies because I thought they're too old to be good. But then, Creed came out. My father watched the movie and told me, if i want to see the movie, I have to see the others. So i watched Rocky 1 with low expectations. And after 119 min, at the end of the movie, I was satisfied.The movie didn't change my life. I think this movie is not even the best from the legacy. But, this movie is 40 years old, it's a very good movie, thumbs up!Sure, the movie isn't perfect. The chemistry between Rocky and Adrian is very bad. The acting of Stallone isn't great at all. Yes, he is cool, i'd say very cool, great one-liners, very good training sequences. But in romantic scenes he sucks. The antagonist, Apollo Creed, is awesome. I like him a lot, also in the following movies (especially in Rocky III). I didn't like Adrian. She is too shy, the acting isn't good at all, and the love story is a bit unrealistic. She changes her opinions and feelings in 20 seconds, first she doesn't want to enter in Rocky's apartment, and you'll see what happens 3 minutes later. I think you can imagine...A bit more about supporting roles: I liked Mickey very much. Pauline wasn't really good, with time he's a bit annoying. But he's much worser in Rocky 2,3,4 and 5. The training sequences are perfect. Legendary music, a legendary Stallone, great pictures...I wasn't 100% satisfied about the box fight. Yeah, it's not bad, and the movie is very old, but in Rocky 2, only 3 years later, the fight is better. The movie has some kitschy scenes.So finally, this is a very good movie, and I think if I watched this movie in 1976, i would celebrate this movie as a masterpiece.7,5 points out of 10


                
The setup: Rocky Balboa, a small-time boxer gets a supremely rare chance to fight the heavy-weight champion, Apollo Creed, in a bout in which he strives to go the distance for his self-respect.The verdict: It's "Die Hard" for the boxing crowd as Rocky kicks some major buttocks. I love the fisticuffs back and forth. It is somewhat light-hearted and it isn't complex at all as all the characters struggle against a system that has perpetuated many falsehoods. This film was nearly perfect, but sadly still not made for everyone. Oh, and the acting is very effective, save for a couple of scenes. A true gem from the '70s.


                
Even in the hands of more capable directors like Walter Hill (UNDISPUTED), Martin Scorsese (RAGING BULL) and Michael Mann (ALI), boxing has proved almost impossible to do well on The Big Screen. The way over the top slugfests in ROCKY lend the character an almost comic-book aspect (which suited the character well in later movies, when he faced everybody from Rocky, Junior- played by Tommy Morrison- to Godzilla- played by "Hulk" Hogan). Stallone would base yet another of his ROCKY movies (III) on the shenanigans of Ali (against giant Japanese professional wrestler Antonio Inoki) and Wepner (versus Andre the Giant). Stallone's debt to both Ali and Wepner is something that the star only begrudgingly admits (though it's crystal clear to anyone with at least one working eye). (As far as the Apples and Oranges argument about Boxing versus Wrestling goes, one wonders why it's always a boxer trying to wrestle and never the other way around...)


                
My dad told me to watch this movie. he said it was a really good boxing movie. So i decided to watch it. Of course all movies has an introduction in the first movie. Like batman begins. Thats the boring part about it. The introduction. It has stuff that the watchers don't need to know about. The last 25 minutes is when he does boxing... and this movie is almost 2 hours long so it has 100 minutes of just talking and having introductions... I don't like those movies. I don't know about you all but i don't like those.. and its my opinion. I didn't watch the other Rocky's but i hope they are better! :) I would give this movie 7/10


                
"Rocky" is one of those quintessential "right place/right time" movies. Movie-going America, beleaguered by bleak and cynical tales of everything their country was doing wrong, were ready for this underdog success story, which illustrates that living in America ain't so bad after all.But come on. If people were being honest, they would admit that "Rocky" just doesn't hold up very well now. Director John G. Avildsen's only notable film since this one was "The Karate Kid" in 1984, so that tells you something right there. There's nothing wrong with loving "Rocky" for the inspirational fairy tale that it is, but the fact that it looks gritty and real like all of the other serious socially-themed films from the same time period has allowed it to join them on the list of important cinematic achievements so abundant in the 1970s, and it's just not an important film.With, of course, Sylvester Stallone in a star-making performance, one that he's been trying to recapture ever since, and Talia Shire, fresh off the "Godfather" movies and ready to have a leading part of her own. But the scene stealer in this film is Burgess Meredith, who plays Rocky's coach and agent like a cranky pirate.Grade: B


                
From director John G. Avildsen comes a very good story of down and out fighter "Rocky" Balboa, who, against the odds, takes the world champ, Apollo Creed, fifteen rounds; something never before achieved. This film made Sylvester Stallone the household name he is today; forever synonymous as he is with the lead character.Writing as well as playing the lead role, Sylvester Stallone dispenses with razzmatazz and delivers the goods from the heart. Talia Shire (as Adrienne) and Burgess Meredith (as Mickey) are very good indeed, while Burt Young and Carl Weathers lend support. An honest and believable movie, this Best Picture (1976) is a winner!Sunday, February 10, 1991 - Video
By law in the UK its compulsory for the Rocky Movies to be shown once every 6 months and so we're all something approaching experts on the Italian Stallion and his best bouts. I therefore humbly offer you the benefit of my country's Balboa expertise. Rocky's one of those movies that's pleasure tends to defy logical scrutiny. On paper its a fairly familiar archetypal inspirational drama about a poor boxer who gets the chance to fight the heavyweight champion of the world in a one-off for America's bicentenary dreamt up as a gimmick by the champ himself, Apollo Creed, to celebrate the countries mantle as the land of opportunity. Fairytale stuff then, except instead of getting to wear pink slippers and marry a prince, Balboa gets to have his brains smashed out in front of a baying for blood crowd. Obviously Rocky, who already looks as though he has brain damage from too many head blows, isn't thought to stand a chance. Creed's the champ after all, he's got all the money, all the experience - it'd be like me picking a fight with Mohammed Ali (in his heyday not now naturally, I'm not a complete bastard) and as Creed puts his feet up and awaits the walkover, the sound of etching can be heard as the Stallion's marble memorial is prepared. Can you see where this going? Of course you can and that's the point. Rocky is old fashioned Hollywood - adversity and long odds conquered by raw guts, determination and heart. It's what America is supposed to be all about and released in 1976 it was barely a shock that the gutter to the stars tale was rewarded with a best picture Oscar. Stallone's titular meathead makes for a likable hero. He may be dumber than a box of rubber swords but the semi-audible lug is a suitably endearing contrast with the arrogant Creed who wins on points (stetching credibility would be left to the sequels) but loses the battle for hearts and minds. If it's supremely entertaining it's because we're all a sucker for this kind of inspirational bilge. Rocky woos the demure object of his affections, runs up steps, trains hard and all to the emotive strings of Bill Conti, who goes a long way to wringing the last shred of cynicism out of the audience. It's never going to feature in your top hundred but Rocky packs a punch and we all know he really won the fight anyway.


                
Although I saw this film at one point during my life (as a child if I remember right) I figured it was time to see it again as an adult, and as with many films I have seen again, though decades apart, it held entirely different meaning to me.  When I was a kid, my Dad used to go out jogging, and I used to laugh at him when he would play the theme song to Rocky on the turntable while he stretched.  It's still a little corny, but I partially realize the meaning behind it, because `Rocky' is indeed a very inspirational film.-Possible Spoilers-Rocky (Stallone), seemingly simple yet basically good-hearted mediocre amateur boxer gets a shot at a boxing match with the heavyweight champion of the world, Apollo Creed (Weathers) who is all about style and show, and not about substance.  The film basically centers on Rocky's training regimen, and going from a guy who couldn't even have a locker at his local gym, to one who can attempt to go the distance with the best.  Along the way, there are some subplots, (romance, tests of loyalty and friendship, greed) but its basic theme is his inspirational rise to the challenge and eventually, the fight.  The fight itself is very realistic, with the result even more so, and the ending is logically abrupt.  The film ends when the fight ends because ultimately, that is the main plot line.  `Rocky' is an inspirational and decent film that lives up to its legend and deserves its reputation.--Shelly
This is the film that really rocketed Sylvester Stallone's career. He plays Rocky who is a journeyman professional boxer in Philadelphia. Apollo Creed is the World Champion who decides to give an unknown a shot at the title when a leading contender pulls out of a scheduled fight.The film follows Rocky's two key relationships. His relationship with his trainer Mickey (Burgess Meredith) is certainly rocky. Rocky is also keen to woo Adrian (Talia Shire) who is a very shy pet shop assistant. These parts are all very nicely played and it is this that gives the film great depth. The fight scenes are nicely done and whilst the ending might be a bit ott it's forgivable. 9/10


                
