One of Stallone's first and finest feature film performances is as Rocky Balboa, a lonely, small-time boxer who gets by doing muscle work for a neighborhood loan shark. Everything about his life spells "underdog"-- he's even left-handed. He lives alone in a shabby apartment, and when he's not slowly being swept aside at the local gym, where even the trainer calls him a bum, he fauns over an introverted pet store clerk named Adrian.He gets his first break when he's chosen at random by heavyweight champion, Apollo Creed, to take a shot at his title. No one thinks he can beat Creed-- not even Rocky. All Rocky wants is to be able to go all ten rounds with the champ, because no one else has. And in the final ten minutes of the film, Rocky finds out just how far he can go.What's terrific about this movie is that it's about Rocky. It's not about winning; it's not even about fighting. It's about Rocky and his desire to get by in the world without being a bum. The sequels to this widely popular film have focused more heavily on the upcoming fight, whereas this story focuses on Rocky's life. He doesn't want to win; he just wants to survive and feel good about himself. That's what most of us want, and that's why this film is a classic.


                
If you think Sylvester Stallone has made nothing but stinkers you just have to see 'Rocky'. This is a brilliant film, based on Stallone's own screenplay, where he plays a complex character in such a terrific way it is not strange people thought this was going to be a great actor. Compare it to another great film about a boxer, 'Raging Bull', and 'Rocky' will be better at some points. It goes without saying that it's quite an achievement.The story is about Rocky Balboa (Stallone), a boxer who once had a glorious future, but now fights for little money in gyms. Then, out of the blue, he gets the chance to fight the heavyweight champ Apollo (Carl Weathers), a stunt from his side. Although Rocky seems to have no chance he starts his training to make the best of it, although at first he is too proud to accept any help. The scene where he finally accepts the help from his old trainer Mickey (Burgess Meredith) is one of the best scenes in the film. Rocky also starts dating the very shy girl Adrian (Talia Shire), sister of his friend Paulie (Burt Young).'Rocky' is a terrific film in every aspect. The acting is what amazed me the most. Stallone gives such an impressive performance it is very hard to believe he is also the star of films like 'Over the Top', 'Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot' and 'Judge Dredd', and from the other 'Rocky'-films for that matter. Not only Stallone is impressive, Shire, Young and Meredith find perfect notes for their characters as well. Every little thing that happens seems natural through their acting and of course Stallone's screenplay does a great job here. Director John G. Avildsen serves this material the way he should. Of course he is no Martin Scorsese, 'Raging Bull' stays the better directed film, but he knows how to tell this story.I do not like boxing very much, so a boxing-film is not something I would enjoy. But this is not a boxing-film, it is a film about a boxer. It tells about a character who happens to be a boxer running for a title. This is probably one of the points where the other four 'Rocky'-films fail and where films like this one and 'Raging Bull' and Clint Eastwood's 'Million Dollar Baby' succeed.


                
As much as the media mocks Stallone, he won best picture for this film. He will never top this film, which made him a icon.  It's a story about a down on his luck loan collector/ boxers who gets a one time shot at the heavy weight championship, because of a late pull out by a contender, and the champ does not want to lose his money on the deal.  There is romance between Rocky and his new girl friend who lives just as hard of a life as Rocky, and together they make life livable. The rest of the cast is other down and outers who give the viewer a feeling of hopelessness until Rocky gets his chance.  This film is touching, and unforgettable.


                
Stallone is just perfect as Rocky, a "bum" who gets a shot at the Heavyweight title in Boxing. What works perfectly here is the era in which this film was made. I seriously doubt that had this movie been made a decade later it would be half as charming. It's got that glorious 70's trashy style film-making and setting which made films like Midnight Cowboy or even Five Easy Pieces so appealing to begin with. The characters here feel real and authentic, and most of all, completely human. Nothing spectacular about them, more or less lowlifes who wouldn't arouse any interest in other people than social workers perhaps. The script by Stallone is exceptionally good and completely deserved the Oscar. Rocky is a treasure of a character and Stallone plays him to perfection, really should have picked up an Oscar for that as well. This is basically a fairytale story in a different setting and almost feels very real.


                
For me personally this is the best boxing movie of all time. As a former boxer myself i can say this movie comes near to perfection as a movie. The movie is about an ameteur boxer called Rocky balboa/The italian Stallion (Sylvester Stallone) who gets his chance of a lifetime when he is offered to fight the world champion in heavyweight boxing who is apollo creed. What makes the movie special for me is that it doesn't focus that much on boxing but the drama aspect of rocky's life, and how he survives on the street and trying to get the girl he's in love with. For many that might be boring as they rather want to see constant fighting and stuff, but for me it works because it gives you a reason to care for for rocky when he's in the ring. 
The only downside with the movie that i have is some of pacing, it's just sligthly slow in the start (just like what i said about it being boring for some people).


                
Sound: The musical score is excellent. The fanfare brings the tone of the film to life; reminds me of Copeland's Fanfare for the Common Man. The the incidental music is also excellent ranging from newer street doo wop and some eerie early techno. There are a few poorly done adr lines though 
95/100 Narrative: The story flows well and does not have a conventional ending. 
100/100 Characters: Well acted and memorable characters. Some background extras acting poorly though. 
95/100 Technical: Well edited, shot composition excellent, artistic use of lighting. Poor use of some mismatched film stock and some camera shake in a stationary shot. I also noticed some lens flair that did not lend to the mise en scene. 
85/100 Artistic Merit: An excellent example of film. It's grittiness believable in the sets and costumes. The characters are moving and hold your compassion. The tension and climax of the conflict hold your attention. 
100/100 Did I enjoy it: Yes, very much so. 
100/100 Overall score of a 95.8.


                
A story of a boxer and a man in the pursuit of the American dream, Rocky is a beautiful tale of an underdog. It depicts not only an underdog in the ring, but an underdog in life.The screenplay unites Rocky's dual identity forming a parallelism in the plot that rings true for so many, making a masterpiece of a movie. The only faltering point is the undoubtedly clichéd nature, which squeezes the originality of the movie dry. The acting is superb: Sylvester Stallone as the despairing, no-life Itallian Stallion, Talia Shire as the estranged, beautiful- on-the-inside Adrian, Burt Young as the desperate alcoholic Paulie, and Burgess Meredith as the wistful trainer Mickey. Each actor perfectly adopts the mindset of each desirous character searching for their own American dream. What can be said about the training montage and its filming, except describing its utter perfection. The soundtrack also works to inspire hope in the audience for the hopeless underdog.The director worked against all odds to finish this film with class. A million dollar budget, 28 days to shoot, and Stallone's stubbornness to work against, but he pulled it off. He created an underdog movie that rose up and won Best Picture about an underdog.Rocky is a perfection of the clichéd underdog that may never be achieved again.9/10


                
Rocky Balboa (Sylvester Stallone), a second-rate boxer in Philadelphia, gets a match with the world champion Apollo Creed (Carl Weathers).  Also he falls in love with mousy Adrienne (Talia Shire) who blossoms with his love.  He's trained by a tough-as-nails (but loving) trainer (Burgess Meredith).This is the type of story that was being laughed off screens in the 1940s...but it works beautifully here.  The characters are believable, flawed human beings; the script is just great (written by Stallone before he became full of himself) and (surprisingly) all the acting is good (Meredith and Shire take top honors).  The theme music is rousing and the climatic fight is just fantastic.  It's predictable as they come, but it's all so well-done you won't care.  A HUGE hit in 1976.  As much as I like this I still can't believe it won the Best Picture Oscar back in 1977.  Still, don't miss it!As for the sequels, Rocky 2 wasn't bad but 3, 4 and 5 were horrendous.


                
"Rocky" both starts and ends in the boxing ring. We first see Rocky, Sylvester Stallone,in the ring fighting journeyman boxer Spider Rico, Pedro Lovell. After getting illegally butted by the Spider a mad and outraged Rocky pounds him into the ring and into defeat. Pushing 30 and with his best fighting days behind him Rocky works on the Phillie docks as a collector for local mob boss Gazzo, Joe Spinelli, to make ends meet. Even as that, collecting mob debts, Rocky is too kind and good natured, a real softy, to break peoples arms legs and thumbs who are late in paying up. With his life set as a low level hood, thats just what Rocky is a mob enforcer, and washed up as a professional boxer he had nothing to look forward to in the future. Meanwhile the World Heavyweight Champ Appolo Creed, Carl Weathers, is out of opponents to defend his title against and needs a new act to attract a big crowd for his next payday in the ring. Appolo and the top promoter in the world of boxing Jergens, Thayer David, come up with this great idea that to celebrate the 200th anniversary of the United States, in 1976. Why not defend his championship against one of the descendent's of the man who discovered America Italian navigator Christopher Columbus. All at once the bleak future that was staring wash-up broken down club fighter Rocco Balboa became the once in a lifetime chance for proud Italian-America Rocky Balboa to show the world that he's not the bum or has been. Which everybody in the local boxing circles in Philidelpia thinks of him With the exception of his trainer Micky, Burgess Meredith. Rocky goes on the prove in the movie that he's a champ today as the champ that he always was of days past but never knew it. Stirring boxing film about the rags to riches story of a nobody, Rocky, who became a somebody in the ring against the heavyweight champ with nothing more then the guts and determination and those who stood behind him throughout the entire ordeal. Rocky trains and works himself into a championship caliber boxer to fight the fight of his life. Even in the end when he lost a close fifteen round decision to Appolo Creed he won not only the hearts but the respect of the whole boxing world as well as the world itself.Sylvester Stallone has never been able to top himself since he stared in "Rocky" and I doubt that he ever will. "Rocky" is a truly once in a lifetime movie and Stallone had just one once in a lifetime movie and he already used up his "Rocky". As good as the fight scenes are the movie is even more heart lifting and touching with Rocky's actions out of the ring. Micky who at first humiliated Rocky in public when he threw him out of the locker room and later wanted to train and manage Rocky for the big fight with Appolo and get the chance, like Rocky, to be a champ. Rocky after telling the old sick man off and practically throwing him out of his apartment runs out to apologizes for what he did and then accepts his offer and lets bygones be bygones between him and Micky. This was so effectively done with no duologue at all but you'd have to be dead or blind not to see and understand it. Rocky's feelings for Adrian, Talia Shire, was even more effective then any of Rocky's fight sequence in the movie. The shy Adrian who was considered by everyone including her drunk and bitter brother Paulie, Burt Young, a loser like Rocky. With Rocky's kind and sweet attention towards Adrian showed that she was as beautiful when she got over her insecurities as he was, when he got his confidence back, brave and courageous in the ring against the worlds undefeated Heavyweight Champ Appolo Creed. Working himself into shape with a tremendous uplifting sequence, to the movies theme song "Gonna Fly Now", of Rocky hitting the speed and heavy bag doing one-handed push-ups and running his heart out along the docks crowded streets and railway yards of Phillie. Rocky finally at the end of his long run makes it to and climbed up the steps, two at a time, of the massive Philidelphia Museum of Art. Which earlier in the movie he after doing his morning roadwork almost collapsed on. Rocky was now ready for his place in movie history in his battle with World Heavyweight Champ Creed in the city of Philadelphia.Everyone involved in the film "Rocky", Stallone Weathers Shire Young Meridith Spinlli etc. etc., their lives and their worlds would never ever be the same again.


                
Yeah, you can come along with deep, dramatic and artistic films. Movies about true life. Movies with the greatest special effects ever shown. Stories, written by the best-payed screen writers ever to be. Bring in Kubrick. Send me Scorsese. Come on, Kurosawa. Don't be shy, Coppola. Hurry, Leone. Bring'em all in. I will just sit calm on the fancy couch with my shoes on the fancy couch table and tell them that the script and the performance of a young, broke Italian guy touched and moved me more than all of them ever did.Yes, I call ROCKY one of the best movies ever.Yes, I call the training sequence one of the most inspiring moments in history.Yes, I call Rocky Balboa one of the greatest guys I ever got to know.ROCKY is a religion. ROCKY's there for you, if you don't feel like doing, trying anything anymore. When you're plain crap on the floor, then ROCKY is the thing to lift you up. The story of this naive bum from Philadelphia, who had a miserable life with one little sparkle in the darkness, which he took and turned into a big fire.The will is the most powerful force in the world, Rocky Balboa showed us. And damn, every time he does it again, I feel the old shiver running down my spine and I say quietly "Go and get them, Rock!"


                
This is the story of a human spirit ... This is not a boxing movie ... This is a story not about winning but about going the distance ...... This is a story of survival against all odds ... This is the story of one Rocky Balboa an Italian stallion ... A fighter who according to his coach has a heart but no talent . So many times in life we give up due to self pity .... we think that what we have is not enough .... This is all bullshit ... we only need to try our level best and give our best shot ... in whichever profession or career you are in when up against insurmountable odds just go the distance even if u fall short of success it doesn't matter... u r still a winner ...... Rocky ends with this amazing moral ... Watching Sylvester stallone in this movie made me wonder if it is the same actor i saw in his later pathetic productions ..... This is his one and only good film the sequels to rocky are the same hollywoodish feel-good movies not really worth watching ... some of the moments and dialougues in the movie stuck to my heart and made me cry ....... Stallone give the performance of his lifetime as rocky balboa a man who is criticized by even his closest friends as a no good bum. The final boxing scene is very realistic ... the movie on the whole is very realistic ... this movie is about a true champion ... a core fighter at heart ..... it is the story of an underdog who lives his dream ... it is the story of a free spirit ...... embark on an emotional journey of a lifetime with stallone ...he didn't need to act in this movie he was just rocky .... A definite must see movie ... if you ever feel down and out in life watch this movie i guarantee u that it will change your life


                
Opening with a black screen, following by giant white letters, the word, 'Rocky' scrolls across from right to left, accompanied by the iconic theme song 'Gonna Fly Now' from composer, Bill Conti ; this Bi-Centennial sport film, tells the story of a down on his luck, boxer, Rocky Balboa (Sylvester Stallone) on his quest to achieve success in the boxing world, by accepting, the role of replacement opponent for world champion, Apollo Creed (Carl Weathers) in an exhibition match in Philadelphia, PA. Without spoiling the movie, too much, while many of film historians & critics, labelled this, as the 'greatest boxing movie of all time'; in truth, this film directed by John G. Avildsen has little fighting in it. When it did, the punches look a bit fake and hokey, despite Stallone and Weathers suffered injuries during the shooting of the final fight; with Stallone suffered bruised ribs and Weathers suffered a damaged nose. Nevertheless, the fight scenes are not really, the heart of the movie. Instead, this film written by Sylvester Stallone works best, when focuses mostly on the titular character, trying to seek the love of a mousy pet store employee, Adrian Pennino (Talia Shire), by proving his own self-worth. If anything, this movie should be label as 'one of the greatest love stories of all time'. Because of this, I wouldn't say, this is action-packed film. The love story takes a big part of the movie, making the fight with Apollo, somewhat secondary. I know, that some people might find this choice in direction, a bit slow paced and somewhat boring, but if you can push through that, you would find yourself, loving the dramatic, more, because how awkward, and real, the love scenes, seemed, between the simple-minded, Rocky and the somewhat recluse, Adrian, even if Rocky is a bit, too dumb to taken serious, while Talia Shire's character, can be a bit off-putting, with her close-minded introvert attitude. It's worth it. You get, a lot of iconic unforgettable scenes like the ice skating sequence & the climatic 'Yo Adrian!' call-out. However, the best scenes in the film, had to be, the training montage. The sequence in Rocky uses meat carcasses as punching bags, and jogs through Philadelphia is very memorable. Yet, the best, out of these training sequences is the scene, where Rocky run up the Philadelphia Museum of Art's flight of stairs. It got so famous, that tourists, around the world, often mimic Rocky's famous climb, as a metaphor for an underdog or an everyman rising to a challenge. The site also got Rocky statue, situated just northeast of the steps as a memorial. Nevertheless, one of the most common misconceptions about this movie, is that, Rocky's trainer, Mickey Goldmill (Burgess Meredith) help Rocky, train for his fight. In truth, most of that training, including the infamous 'catch the chicken' scene was, in 1979's 'Rocky II". In this film, Mickey barely does anything, but make Rocky's life, a living hell. So, don't bring up, your hope, in, seeing them, connect with each other. As for other supporting characters, like Paulie (Burt Young). He was alright, but his character hasn't yet, became the famous comic relief, that he would become, in later movies. In this, he just a big fat jerk, most of the time, who doesn't know, if he wants to hook up Rocky with his sister or not. It's a bit confusing. As for Apollo Creed, Weathers really has the charisma to pull this role, off. I really don't think, the movie's original choice, real-life boxer, Ken Norton, could do this. As for the main character, Rocky, I really couldn't see, anybody else, playing the role besides Stallone, because how much Rocky mirrors his real-life. However, I do have to say, the original choice, James Caan does look the part of a fighter when, parodying himself, in 1976's 'Silent Movie'. He was very close, in becoming the title character, before the studio took a chance with Stallone in the lead role. Nevertheless, I still think, every actor in this movie, played their roles to the fullest, despite how mean-spirited, their characters, were, even the cameos from real-life, boxer, Joe Frazier. However, I do have to say, some supporting characters were a bit, pointless. A good example is little Marie (Jodi Letizia) who pretty much, disappears for the rest of the life, after Rocky's life talk. Her character doesn't really come back, until, much later, in the sequels. So, what was the point of having her!? It's filler. It's weird, that this movie won, Best Editing & Best Screen writing at the Oscars, that year, but they kept scenes like that. They really could had cut her from the movie. Anyways, I still kinda glad, the film script was somewhat influence by a real-life fight, between journeyman boxer, Chuck Wepner against controversial, charismatic, and overconfident champion Muhammad Ali. I just kinda wish, Wepner didn't take it, so personal. There wasn't no need to file a lawsuit with Stallone for an undisclosed amount. Rocky acts and looks nothing like him. Anyways, with its Cinderella 'feel-good' crowd-pleasing story, 'Rocky' was the highest-grossing film of 1976. The film was nominated for ten Oscars and won three, including best picture; which 'Rocky' became the first sport film to do. The film also spawned six sequels: Rocky II (1979), Rocky III (1982), Rocky IV (1985), Rocky V (1990), Rocky Balboa (2006), and Creed (2015), the latter a Spin-Off about Apollo Creed's son, with hit and misses results. Nevertheless, overall: Despite some goofs in production, this low-budget movie was indeed, a huge hit for me. It's a movie, I will watch, time and time, again. I highly recommended seeing it. It's worth going to the distance for.
I first saw Rocky in the theater when I was a little kid back in the 1976 and remember liking it, though being a bit bored during the whole Adrian romantic subplot. If it inspired me to want to be a boxer, which it no doubt did for many young boys of that era, it soon got swamped in my imagination by more kid-friendly fodder like Star Wars, War Games, and Raiders of the Lost Ark.Like all classic movies it's easy to take Rocky for granted. But watching it again this weekend I was reminded that it is an extraordinary film. Never mind that Stallone has not come close to repeating its success (artistically) since then and his name has long ago become a punch line. His screenplay for Rocky is exquisite, and his performance unforgettable. It's no wonder that critics compared him to a young Marlon Brando. And in fact, Rocky has much in common with Brando's similarly iconic Terry Malloy in On The Waterfront. A couple of boxing bums wrestling with redemption.It's funny how unreliable memory can be. For the last, oh, 30 years or so, I've been operating on the assumption that, of course, Rocky won his first epic fight with Apollo Creed by knocking him out in the last round. So I was shocked to discover that it actually ends in a split decision. I was also amazed that Rocky is in reality a gritty, soulful, kitchen-sink drama bookended by two boxing bouts which has more in common with Paddy Chayevsky's Marty, for instance, than other underdog sports films such as director John Avildsen's later The Karate Kid.There are so many smart, pitch-perfect, gutsy little choices in Stallone's screenplay where he pours honest emotion and breathes real life into scenes instead of following some stale formula. The long take of him staring slack-jawed at the picture in the mirror of himself as a boy. No words, just the soul-searching look on his face and the silent eloquence of his sorry apartment all around him. Another long take of him dragging himself out of bed before dawn, cracking precisely six raw eggs into a glass and gulping it down. (Is that really healthy? Doesn't matter. You buy it because it's sold so well.) Then willing his tired bones out the door and lumbering around Philadelphia in what passes for a morning jog. The pet-shop scenes where he babbles like a lovestruck schoolboy at the virtually unresponsive Adrian. Huffing after ice-skating Adrian in the otherwise empty rink in his loafers, the ill-tempered owner counting down the lousy 10 minutes he grants them off-screen as Rocky desperately attempts to make a connection with her. (It would have been so easy to have Rocky lusting after some beautiful blonde, or perhaps trying to reform a sexy stripper or hooker, but, no, he chooses mousy, introverted Adrian. I didn't get it when I was a kid, but I get it now. They match. They "fill each other's gaps.") Another long, quiet take of Rocky alone in the giant empty arena the night before the fight. (Note to screenwriters everywhere: don't be afraid of strategically placed long takes, even wordless ones – they can accomplish just as much as dialogue, often more).But the most extraordinary scene is between Rocky and grizzled, miserable old trainer Mick in Rocky's apartment. Mick finds out Rocky is getting the chance to fight Apollo, knows he's been a bastard to Rocky all these years, but pathetically tries to make nice so he can share a bit of the limelight as Rocky's trainer. Rocky resents the hell out of the two-faced little front runner for it, but grudgingly hears the old man out. He bites his tongue, tries to hold his emotions in check, until Mick gets the message that he's not wanted and exits. And then Rocky erupts in an electrifying tirade, unleashing all the hurt feelings and blows to his pride he's kept inside for years in the now empty apartment while Mick listens meekly at the bottom of the stairs. But it doesn't end there, lamely and predictably, with the underdog more determined than ever to go it alone. If Rocky is going to have a shot, any shot at all, with Creed, he knows he NEEDS Mick. Pride be damned. He races after Mick and catches up to him at the end of the street in a beautiful, silent, unbroken long shot. An arm around the shoulder. A handshake. I've done my venting. All is forgiven. Let's roll.Rocky also boasts perhaps the second most memorable film theme music by Bill Conti, right behind John Williams' score for Jaws, and fine supporting performances from Talia Shire, Burgess Meredith, Burt Young, Carl Weathers, and Joe Spinnell, not to mention inspired direction from Avildsen. So Stallone didn't quite become the next Brando. How's the old saying go? Better to have been compared to Brando once than to have never been compared to Brando at all. Rocky remains Stallone's shining hour.
I never for one second appreciated the first time i watched the first Rocky movie. Being about 8, i actually didn't even know who won the first fight between creed and balboa, i'd paid that little attention to it. being told of course over and over that "the first is always the best", "huh, yeh right" i thought. I'd expected it to be like rocky 3 or 4, but better. They were the films id grown up watching first off as a kid and loved them! The all action blow outs, with big hitting rounds of straight to the point boxing. At the time i felt it to be just too long, too boring and just so action less in comparison, and lets be honest, action as a kid is what we all wanted! I then eventually got to wait up late one evening and watch number 2, so basically i watched them all over the place in terms of order.However, much further down the line in my life, i watched Rocky for the first time in about 16 years, nothing els on, i had nothing to do, so i just sat and watched it. By the end of the film, having wiped a tear i might add too, being much older, and much more appreciative of life in general, of course having now gone through some of the difficult riggors of growing up and seeing first hand what life can throw at us, i was completely touched and blown away by the overall relevance of this film, i no longer found it boring, old school, too long or action less, but was actually taken in and enchanted by the whole story, not to mention you get the first true glimpse of that famous music and feel good factor that the whole rocky saga brought to us all. The fact i understood what was actually going on this time made an over riding contribution to me loving and really appreciating the story of the film.I guess one of the biggest regrets i have thus far was watching this saga half way through first off, missing the first films out and watching them all in stupid order. I look back now and so wish i'd never watched the 3rd and 4th instalments first, but i guess for one reason or another that cant be helped as a kid, i mean mum and dad do what ever it takes to keep us happy as kids right? haha! So Having carried the opinion that the first rocky wasn't all that good kinda makes me sad i thought that now.All in all i rate this film as one of the all time greats, deserving of its classic status and subsequent Oscar nominations and actual winning of Oscar awards, along with many other awards down the years, and of course the citical acclaim it received. As an 8 year old, i never knew i was watching something that never actually set out to be "all action blow-outs" but in fact inspirational, something that changed millions of lives, a hope giving and eye opening movie, something that was about to set millions of people on a jurney through life to get what they always dreamed of, and in fact sending that message across the globe that if u do want something, if u want to achieve, grab that life changing dream with both hands and is do-able, of course you can do it. Of course, it is only a film, but what this film did was inspire. A way to sum it up? a story of the unknown bum given a 1 in a million shot at the WBC belt, living the life of a small time club fighter, to eventual 2 time and multi defending WBC heavyweight champion of the world, a dream nearly every little boy had, I know i did.


                
"Rocky 1", a film that even after 40 years still manages to express its purity on the highest sentimental scale. A simple movie that still charms the story of the fifth-rate boxer who has never achieved anything relevant in life and one day has the opportunity to prove his worth. Rocky is to be just one more in the millions, but he had the chance, and he grabbed it, it's easy to identify, it's easy to cheer, it's easy to fall completely in love with the movie, which his big top was supposed to be the final fight , which is nothing more than a fight, because its result is irrelevant, Rocky has never been about winning or losing, but about overcoming your limits and achieving your dreams, and this is for every anthology. "Rocky 1" has a powerful moral that stirs the American dream, it's not the movie that takes place in the bicentennial year of American independence and its location, the sad, cold and depressing Philadelphia masterfully recorded by director of photography James Crab that manages to incorporate these characteristics that are fundamental to the film. His screenplay is simple but well built, the rocky, heartbroken, silly rocker, Balboa, who can not say no to anyone and is full of lessons and annoyances, and at the same time excites the viewer, his characterization is great and Rocky , as all the characters in the film are trying to prove something, Paulie, Adrian and Mickey, everyone has something to say and everyone develops along with Rocky, his script carries a development and individualities of impeccable characters that gives a unique three-dimensionality to each character . The good direction also helps the great script and the excellent performances, with one of the most vibrant, iconic, unique and exciting soundtrack of the history of the cinema, composed by Bill Conti, it is impossible not to mention its exquisite fit the work, that later would come to being an anthem not only of the franchise, but practically everything that involves boxing, other highlights are the excellent montages and compositions of scenes, costumes and the wonderful makeup, mainly in the final fight that is ahead of its time in terms of makeup and effects . Rocky is pure feeling, Stallone shines in this film as nobody, with script written by him in three days and a beautiful performance, the brucuto that years later would be seen as bad movie signal shows his talent, or not, because Rocky is a mirror of Stallone's life, he does not act, he only lives the character he created himself in the truest way I've ever seen in the movies, "Rocky I" was an absolute success, such as Stallone, born along with the powerful franchise which would be created in the future. This film goes beyond many technical or aritic aspects, it is a lesson, a feeling, a more complete demonstration of clarity of ideas, with problems is true, especially in its rhythm and in the narrowing of the third act but even so Rocky enchants the world more than 40 years for its genuinely true and touching simplicity.


                
The Rocky franchise, starting with this one, is what propelled Sylvester Stallone to stardom. Written and staring Sylvester Stallone, this is by far the greatest boxing movie franchise in history. Excellent story, and very inspirational. If you have not seen this franchise, then do so in chronological order, and finish it off with Creed. It's a 9/10 from me!


                
Ah, Rocky. What else is there to talk about that hasn't already been said? The movie that put Sylvester Stallone on the map and won the Oscar for Best Picture back in '77. As a movie goer, I wanted to explore the Rocky films, as I got the Blu-ray collection of the original 6 movies. It was a truly great experience watching these films and made me a fan of the series. But with that being said, how does the original hold up compared to the sequels? Well, the answer may be obvious, but let's just start anyway, shall we?Rocky Balboa (Sylvester Stallone) is a broken boxer, who is looked upon as a "bum" because of his habits in the streets of Philadelphia. He is later seen being competed against Heavyweight Champion Apollo Creed (Carl Weathers), giving Rock a one to million shot on New Year's Eve 1975. He decides to accept the fight, as well as dealing with his relationship to his friend Paulie's (Burt Young) sister Adrian (Talia Shire), and having his old trainer Mickey (Burgess Meredith) come to help him prepare for the battle.One strong aspect of this movie is how believable the characters are due to its solid casting. Take the title character himself for example; he may seem like some bad cause to the locals, but all he is is just a lonely guy who's hoping something good will happen to him. And even though Stallone may have been repeating words over in his sentences ("You know" being a prime example of this), it was in his early times, so it's understandable.Another thing this movie has to offer is the score done by Bill Conti and the cinematography (most notably the training scene and the final fight between Balboa and Creed). The music just gets you invested and the camera shots are excellent, like the iconic "running up the steps" scene with the amazing "Gonna Fly Now" tune. It just makes you so excited it gives you goosebumps each time you see it.However, if there is one thing to criticize here is that it can get rather slow at times. The first act is just Rocky trying to live his normal life. This is even worse when sequels like Rocky III and IV would come along and make the series more enjoyable to watch because of their nonstop action sequences. But that's not to say it ruins the whole movie, in fact by doing so, it makes it feel a lot more subtle in addition to the grainy atmosphere that makes the movie feel so realistic and down-to-earth.To many people, Rocky is a film that teaches us that it isn't necessarily winning that matters, but how much you try that counts. Thus, it doesn't feel like your typical sports drama, where the protagonist has to win the game to succeed their goal. Unfortunately, many of the sequels do rely on the goal of winning, which in a way, kills the original's meaning. But if you can get past that, this message is motivational enough to become a timeless piece of advice whenever you're feeling negative about yourself.With believable acting, a fantastic soundtrack, memorable characters, well-structured plot, and a great message, the first Rocky movie is really a 1970's classic you wouldn't wanna miss out on. Chances are, though, you've already seen it, but if not, do give it a watch. It is essentially the film a lot of people should see for its realistic morals and how we tend to fail plenty in life and need to learn to get better. The best of the Rocky franchise, and probably Sly Stallone's best next to First Blood, I give this movie an 8.5 out of 10, closer to a 9.


                
This is Sylvester Stallone's greatest work of art. 70's period piece set in Philadelphia about the strugglers of a down on his luck amateur boxer. One day the Champion of the World Apollo Creed enters his world and gives him an opportunity of his life. Rocky must rise to the occasion, overcome life obstacles fight in the biggest contest in the world against the greatest Boxer of them all. The drab setting of Rocky is somewhat hard to get into at first but as the movie progresses you come to admire Rocky more and more until finally you see him as a cut above the rest with his love Adrian and determination to prove he is a champion. Never quit, never lay down and always aim for the stars is the Rocky story. The fact that it so happens to be a boxing movie and the violent nature of the sport just goes to show how good drama is that people who would normally dislike such a sport can get invested in it.
I must say this idea isn't new but its original to filming. I guess I'm a little bias. All new movies involve comic book characters or some cartoon. This was back when star wars, jaws, and the godfather were around. Great movies which seem written by people, not the production company ripping off someone else's idea. Yeah rocky was based on a fight ali had. And its a lot of stereo types clearly all over the place. And yes most of what is in this movie will at the very least get you slapped and probably honestly arrested (loan sharking big no no). But you can feel the realism in this movie. The pictures on the wall he shows adrian in the movie. Yeap some of those are of him. The orange that the person on the sidewalk throws as hes running, yeap that is real. They didn't even want to do the movie with him but he refused to sell it even with only a 100 dollars in his bank account at the time. Which probably more than I have in mine right now, no joke. But he had passion and he had a dream. And you can see it in this movie. I guess I'm bias too on the Italian accent. The actors all the way down to the mobsters played their parts well. Carl Weathers was a great pick as well. Without him the film probably wouldn't have made it. His acted was really great. And of course they played into the white street guy making it big beating up a known unliked hyped up guy. It was easy not to like apollo creeds character. I know I hit telia shire hard in a lot of her movies including the godfather. But her acting was great in this. They couldn't have picked a better female. And we have to remember carrie fisher was around as well many other females actresses. Cher was thought of for the role? That would have been a huge mistake. I was very unhappy with her character (talia shire)in the godfather as sonny's sister. Always getting beat up. And this almost played into that. But when she decided to speak up it was different than other films. Other films take it way too far. You seem to get they are targeting a female audience (which nothing is wrong with that) by giving it the "you go girl" kind of feeling. Something I instantly take a point away when reviewing movies. The movies need to just let it rip and let the audience watch a good film. Don't try to muck it up by throwing in something to please a certain group. Whom ever it maybe. Her brother paulie fights she sticks up for herself and says "you need a roommate". And it sounded so real, realistic, true. Nothing forced.Paulie played a great part as well. Its not as easy playing the part of an alcoholic. And unlike other films he kind of made you like him. He wasn't beating up on his wife or sister. He lived with his sister. Hard times which hits at the heart too. Sometimes family members move in together. I recently took over my friends brothers half of the rent cause he moved out. And this that was 2016 and families still live like that. Although we live in pleasantville compared to philly but still.Last but not least it left you wanting more. Too many movies want to tie and finish everything up and be done with it. Too many fans want to know everything. Sometimes its great to ask questions when you get done.Once again sly wrote the script and I think I read the filming took a short period of time. Highest grossing film of that year. And people doubted him and said they even didn't want to act with him. Carl weathers was hired instantly after he acted with sly and said he wanted to act with real actors. He didn't know that sly was the real actor then after finding out he says "well he will get better" That is how the whole movie is. The promise that you can do something and eventually step up to the next level. Never hold your own thoughts about yourself back. How could this film be anymore than the American dream? If people doubt you, keep living your dreams. The man even had his own dog in the movie. How crazy is that. This is a must see movie. I just bought the series on blue ray in disc set. I don't review a movie unless I recently seen it. Just so I can give a good review.
Rocky is still a movie that is enjoyable 40 years on. Released in 1976, the movie itself could be classed as an underdog story that came out of nowhere that was met with critical acclaim as well as a box office success. Rocky also netted 3 well deserved Academy Awards but unfortunately nothing for Sylvester Stallone who was not only the main star of the movie, but also wrote the screenplay. Rocky was also the movie that catapulted Sylvester Stallone into stardom.Rocky Balboa (Sylvester Stallone) is a small time boxer in Philadelphia struggling to make ends meet in the ring and outside the ring where he earns a meagre wage as a debt collector for local crime boss Gazzo (Joe Spinell). To make matters worse Rocky finds himself on the outer with his trainer Mick (Burgess Meredith), with Mick dismissing Rocky as someone that has needlessly wasted his talent as a boxer. Rocky's fortune changes when heavyweight champion boxer Apollo Creed (Carl Weathers) seeks out an unknown after his scheduled opponent withdraws after injuring himself. Apollo Creed picks Rocky on the basis of his nickname "The Italian Stallion". Rocky also finds love after hooking up with the shy and timid Adrian (Talia Shire), sister of Rocky's good friend Paulie (Burt Young). Mick also mends fences with Rocky and agrees to train Rocky. Rocky trains harder for his million-to-one shot at the title to earn his own self-respect and vows that no matter if he wins or loses, he wants to go the distance with Apollo Creed.Sylvester Stallone is a delight to see light up the screen as his now iconic character Rocky Balboa. After a successful shot at box office glory, Rocky spawned 5 sequels as well as the spin off movie Creed (2015).Director John G. Avildsen nets himself a well deserved Academy Award for Best Director bringing the story of Rocky to life on screen but the main driving force is Sylvester Stallone who fought to have his screenplay made into a movie after being inspired by the Chuck Wepner-Muhammad Ali fight in 1975 which prompted Stallone to put pen to paper and the end result paid off with Stallone triumphantly earning himself a winner.The now inspirational theme "Gonna Fly Now" is synonymous with Rocky which plays during the montage of Rocky training his heart out at the gym and running around Philadelphia which ends with one of the famous scenes of the movie as Rocky runs up the steps of the Philadelphia Museum of Art and triumphantly makes it to the top of the now famous "Rocky stairs".40 years later, audiences still loves to cheer for Rocky as they watch the underdog Rocky Balboa earn himself a shot at the championship title.9/10.


                
Sports-drama which follows Rocky "Italian Stallion" Balboa's life and struggle as a small time boxer challenged by a boxing champion, Apollo Creed. Actors really 'acted'. The script of this movie is just beautiful. I liked the way the story becomes character-driven but in a non-boring way. This is not a boxing movie with full of actions and lots of cheesy romance stuff but with an emotional and the thoughts of struggling life. I was entertained with this movie, although it was predictable. A must-watch classic film.


                
This is the underdog story that really hits the core of the heart. That really pulls you in because of the character Rocky. Who is a very likable and yet flawed amateur boxer. The struggles to make ends meet and falling in love aspect of this film was raw. Even the slow scenes had my attention and I really felt for the character Rocky Balboa despite him being fictional and all. Sylvester Stallone did a fantastic job writing to script and I could tell why he wanted badly to take the lead role in this. Even by making big sacrifices and taking cuts in his paycheck to make it work. It really is a touching boxing film. The build up has a lot of meat to it and when it hits it brings the momentum. This is a movie about a underdog that goes the distance to prove to himself. It has heart and has elements that uplift and inspire the viewers. This is a true classic that will be a part of Sylvester Stallone's legacy.9/10
A crowning achievement that, amongst other accolades, earned the Academy Award for Best Picture in 1976, "Rocky" tells the story of Rocky Balboa (Sylvester Stallone), a washed-up boxer who serves as a strong-arm for a loan shark by day and fights for cash in dingy clubs by night. When flashy heavyweight champion Apollo Creed (Carl Weathers) challenges him to fight, Rocky finally has a chance to prove to himself and the world that he is still worthy. With the aid of an aging trainer (Burgess Meredith), a hot-headed but loyal friend (Burt Young) and a mousy pet-store clerk, Adrian (Talia Shire) Rocky goes the distance in a bid at self-redemption.Rocky Balboa's rags-to-riches story echoes that of Sylvester Stallone's professional career. A virtually unknown at the time, Stallone was propelled to superstardom following the film's success at the box office, and got his foot in the door not only as an iconic action hero, but also as a prolific writer/director (he would later go on to direct four out of five "Rocky" sequels while writing and starring in all of them). His portrayal of the titular character earned him an Oscar nod, and it's easy to see why. Charismatic and ultimately human as the underdog hero, this is the stuff screen legends are made of.The script, written by Stallone himself, is focused more on the everyday life of Balboa and less on the sport itself. A boxing film with very little boxing, "Rocky" is more of a character piece where we spend the bulk of the film getting to know and sympathize with our lead so that when the third act kicks in with a rousing montage and a whopper of a fight, you're cheering him on every step of the way. The film is aided by a nostalgic soundtrack and a slight-of-hand by director John G. Avildsen. Avildsen could very well milk the sappiness at hand, but instead, keeps the film feeling raw and real, yet inspiring at the same time."Rocky" is, in a nutshell, a classic for the ages. It's easily Stallone's finest film and certainly had an immense impact on pop culture. Even if you don't particularly appreciate boxing or any sport for that matter, you'll find it to be a worthy, involving and inspiring underdog tale. "Rocky" is a true knock-out, time and time again.


                
This is one of a kind. I have never saw a movie so realistic in my entire life. It's not stylish, not cute, not even close of being extravagant.It's just one of those incredibly real films, based on the life of Rocky Balboa, a man who found the strenght to fight for a shot, any boxer will kill for, the heavyweight title of the world.This film isn't all about boxing, in fact only last third really shows box, in the actual sense of the word. It's about the world we live in, a world in which today you are notorious and tomorrow nobody knows who you are. Well Rocky Balboa remained the same, a sincere, maybe not so clever, funny guy, who fought for acclamation and became the Philadelphia dream.We are all looking, in a way or the other, for that one chance which may, or may not change our life, depending on how much, and how hard we can fight to keep it alive. Rocky did just that, he had nothing to lose and everything to gain. It may seem like an easy decision, but I guess there's no pleasure in meeting the heavyweight champion in a 15 round of boxing, match.I will always respect Sylvester Stallon for giving life to this amazing film. He was the first one to say: Hey what if we do this? and for that we deserves all the praise. I think he did a pretty good job as Rocky Balboa, actually the whole cast did a great job, nothing to criticize here.Moreover the sound was absolutely awesome, it gives you an unique sensation, can't leave you indifferent.It suggested to me the same passion, and desire the film brought up so successful.With all being said, i repeat myself, I liked this title so much because it is exactly what I was looking for, a getaway from all those ordinary criminal films, a film which shows us the real value of self respect and desire, in a way which deserves all credits.That is why I rate this title a ****1/2 out of *****


                
The making of the movie, seems to mirror the movie itself. As much as Sylvester Stallone struggled to make the movie, as much is his character Rocky in a struggle in life. And that's what makes the movie so great. The boxing reflects the life of it's characters. And Sly believed in this movie, which is why he wanted to star in it too. His choices were right.Beginning from the script, to the actors he chose, to the music (I'm only going to say stairwell, because who ever saw the movie, can't deny the power of that scene ... and the music that played an integral part for it to work). Everything fits like a glove ... (no) pun intended.And while it seems so simple, it actually isn't. Ask "Ali" (the movie) or "Cinderella Man". Both with big star players, both "Box movies", but both didn't succeed (at least commercially). There aren't many great movies about boxing, but this is definitely one of them (like the entirely different "Raging Bull").


                
