This is a show about two guys fulfilling a long held dream of adventure. During a four month journey they travel on their motorbikes from London to New York the long way round through Western Europe, little visited parts of Eastern Europe (including Kasakhstan, Mongolia and Siberia), Alaska and Canada. We see the preparation and the actual journey.I can't stand reality shows, don't care about actors private lives, don't like motorcycles and only bought the DVD because my husband had seen some bits on TV and nagged me into it. I also didn't want to shell out for the DVD as I was very sceptical that we'd want to see this more than once.Wrong, wrong, wrong. We ended up watching it in one go until 2am on a workday. Definitely want to watch it again. What a thrill ride.I enjoyed the show because it engaged me as a viewer on many different levels: it was fun to watch two guys (three including the cameraman) having an excellent adventure. Interesting to see countries and cultures we know very little about (Kasakhstan, where the hell is that?). Touching and humbling to see the Unicef work they visited on the way.There are funny bits and really scary bits, amazing and interesting people they meet on the way, moments of hardship and friendship, individual endurance and teamwork.Travelling is a state of mind as much as being in different locations and we get treated to all the highs and lows you can expect on such a difficult journey. Ewan and Charlie are very honest and open about their feelings and thoughts. The show is as much about what they are experiencing as people as about the actual journey itself.Ewan McGregor is of course a natural showman, I was quite amused to watch his transformation from bespectacled actor to somewhat scary easy rider. This was a nice visual reminder of the influence a long journey has on you as a person.I found the show inspiring. Ultimately it reminds us that we are all just people, regardless of our race, location or occupation.The boring bits: The camera-work is good to excellent (I would have liked to see and know more about the cameraman, after all he was part of the team). The soundtrack is good. Solid production values. A few nice extras on the DVD. In short, you get value for money.


                
A thoroughly enjoyable series. Not only was it serious and informative, but hugely funny too, not to mention moving. It was a real insight into other cultures and countries. Beautifully filmed, giving a 'warts and all' view, and yet emphasising how stunning these countries really are, and the people who live there. Makes you realize just how much we take for granted, and how tough life can be without a few home comforts! Refreshing to see celebs looking rough and struggling with emotions, hardships, mosquito's and dodgy cuisine! I have to confess that I would not normally watch anything like this, I expected it to be a couple of actors being macho, trying to win popularity (not like they need to!) by being REAL people. However, I underestimated them - it was awesome and I take my hat off to all those involved, not only out there in the wilderness, but the patient families also. It was a very brave and worthwhile thing to do. Good on ya.


                
The only downside is it will make you want to get on a motorcycle and see the world. :)Except maybe not so much of it in one trip.And maybe stay ... Ah, well, watch the series, you'll understand...Ewan impressed us as being a pretty down-to-earth superstar - even from the get go. And if you have family, the ending will make you cry with tears of joy.We couldn't stop watching, we had to watch all 7 episodes almost straight through. Even my 4 year old daughter found most of it interesting...


                
I have never seen Ewan McGregor as a real "movie star" and Charley Boorman is a journeyman actor.The camera-work is okay, sometimes excellent and often good.I don't like motorbikes and abhor contrived "reality TV".Why have I watched this series twice already then?This is a story about 2 friends who go off around the world and see *real* wilderness -not David Attenburgh like Serengeti - the real wilderness that is on the doorstep of Europe. As much a political and social wilderness as a geographic one.Ewan and Charley are genuinely interesting and real people. They get fed up, hungry, tired. They sometimes argue and often get scared. This all goes to make a fascinating insight into both a "land that TV documentaries forgot" and a relationship that is as real as the cultures they ride through.Being on motorbikes, they are forced to experience the journey first hand and the films are all the better for this - in fact it would have been a waste of time without them.Ewan said "it's all about the motorbikes". Well, it isn't. It's all about Charley and Ewan and - more importantly - their friendship. It's all about the people they meet and the fascinating and often moving experiences along the way. As it happens, they had 2 wheels and a reliable BMW engine to help them along - but don't dismiss the biggest land mass on Earth and 2 good friends.This is what television should be about. Good on the guys for having the vision, determination and stupidity to do this. Thanks!


                
Whenever I buy DVDs I always pop them in the player to make sure they work and then shelve them. I popped L.W.R. into the player and I ended up watching three hours of the series before I realised the time.This is truly compulsive viewing as, no doubt has been said earlier, it is not the standard celebs on a cushy ride under the guise of reality TV. There are times when there is genuine fear for their safety - and lives, and shows a real insight into the genuine personalities of Charlie and Ewan. Their is also a great sense of personal effort and struggle despite the well organised support crew who are, in the main, nowhere to be seen.The one thing I felt could have improved this was more screen time, and so a better understanding of the role and personality of Claudio, their cameraman.This is one of the few DVDs I own which gets a regular playing and it loses none of its appeal/humour/drama whatsoever.Fascinating and Addictive.10/10


                
Brilliant, excellent, gritty, realistic, inspiring, And those are the bad bits.This is a fabulous piece of television , and I would recommend that you watch it.If you like bikes, or even if you don't, it won't matter, this is a class apart.The whole premise is so real, with a warts and all approach, you feel at one with the two guys, at times I was helping them, and sharing their laughs and their problems.I can't recommend it highly enough


                
I bought this DVD just before christmas'04, after reading an interview with Mcgregor on the internet. This is kind of a 'Michael Palin' documentary, but with two good friends and very funny camera man. The DVD gives a personal account of the journey that when you watch it you feel like you have become a member of the team and after a short while you begin to connect emotional with both of the guys. It is often very funny and the humour generated is simply two men having the time of their lives while seeing and experiencing some of the world's most beautiful places and unusual cultures and traditions. Ewan Mcgregor in particular is amusing and you learn is very good at impressions and coming up with comedic anecdote's about his life. The book that accompanies the series (also the same name) goes hand in hand with the footage you see on the DVD, and becomes essential reading when it comes to filling in the blanks left out of the footage. The book reads like a diary and is littered with banter between the guys and honest accounts of their feelings about their lives and how it reflects on the trip. I recommend this DVD to anyone who is a fan of the 'Kilted One' but to anyone who enjoys an adventure.


                
When I've seen it first on Viasat Explorer, I was stunned!!!! The great show especially the moments at Russia and Mongolia where the crew meet most of the difficulties on the long way round. Warm and sensitive, the show here touches you even if you are not a bike person.(And now I replay the tape over and over again!) I was crying in tears watching most of the episodes 'cause this show is not like any other show, this is the real thing! Emotions, drama, excitement, homesickness,... from the bottom of their hearts.If you haven't seen this series.... YOU JUST HAVE TO! (sorry for my poor English,..... and all the best to all the crew of the Long Way Round !!!! especially Ewan, Charlie and Claudio )


                
I got this series on DVD for Christmas as at the moment I'm quite interested in traveling. Its brilliant, Ewan and Charlie are such strong characters and have that great attitude that I try to have that life is just a laugh. Its good to see too that actors are not all Clooneys and Pitts and that they have a desire for real life and don't like to brag about there riches. I have a real dream to see the world and this is an inspiring step in the right direction.I'm saving up as we speak for my motorbike and then ill be off London to New York - The Extra Extra Long way round. From London I'll cross the channel to France then through to Spain and across from Gibralter to Morroco then across to Eygpt. Then Over to China and down through the rest of Asia to Australia. When in Australia i'll cross to South Africa and then to South Ameerica and up to New York. Simple.Anyway Great Series, well worth a look."This trips about motorbikes, it always has been and it always will be" Ewan McGregor


                
If this doesn't rate a 10 nothing should. Truly one of the best documentaries I've ever seen. It helps if you're a motorcycle fanatic like myself but even if not, this is greatly entertaining. I couldn't stop watching till it was all over and it caused me to search within myself for the answer to the question, have I done enough in my life, am I stretching myself, will I have regrets when I look back through my 80 year old eyes? This series reaffirms that it's the most difficult times that can be the most rewarding. The only part I hated about watching this was that I had to sit in a comfy chair to do so when I really rather would have been in the midst of the action slogging it out in the mud.


                
Scottish heartthrob Ewan McGregor is a man that takes risks. His new reality show on Bravo (Thurs. 8 Eas.), is a fascinating look at a celebrity's real life adventure around the globe. Most of the traveling is done on motorbikes which makes for some crabby as well as hilarious moments. The messes Ewan and his crew get into on their journey from London to New York are so bizarre not even the most talented screenwriter couldn't have scripted them better. The show is full of extremes, from the hilarious encounters with the Ukrainian mob, to the heart wrenching visit to a children's charity house, to the nerve racking accidental spray of gasoline in the eyes, to the beautiful song writing and voice of Mr. McGregor, the show leaves you pondering each commercial break "what next?," and each new adventure tops the next. Ewan has shown America that he really is the kind natured gentleman he plays so well on the silver screen. The show is humorous, surreal, educational, and an all around A plus effort. You almost don't want to fun to end, it's as if you're along for the journey. I highly recommend it.
Who needs a scripted 'buddy movie' when you have real buddies on a trip of a lifetime? I've been enjoying the recently edited 10 part (rather than the original 6 part) version of the series on Sky One and am hoping a new directors cut DVD is released soon. The original run, although excellent did give the impression that there was so much more of the trip that hadn't been shown and this extended re-run does the show even more justice.I guess maybe the American people that are eagerly anticipating the DVD might end up getting the extended series? The book accompanying the Series should definitely be read if your a fan of the show. The personal insights by Charlie and Ewan are great and it's interesting to get two perspectives on certain situations; a pretty funny confession from both of them was that out of boredom on long legs of the journey they would purposely avoid a pothole at the last possible moment knowing that poor Claudio who would be directly behind would never have a enough reaction time to avoid them!


                
The entire idea of this show was that two friends take a trip out on their respective motorcycles and relax but this goes far beyond that and goes into the personal relationships that they have with each other and the difficulties that each other face while trying to keep to a mountain of a deadline and try keep to the spirit of their voyage while also keeping to their commitments of check points and meeting's with various people along the way. A sometimes painful clash of objective between the guys meant that what started as a two man journey of discovery quickly snowballed far beyond that and into a corporate game of cat and mouse and that was before they even started their trip.My hat/crash helmet goes off to the guys not only for the guts it took just to think up what most people would see as an impossible task but for the sometime literal pain they both went through to make their dream off two mates two bikes and 20,000 mile come true through hellish heat and high fast flowing waterA great travel adventure that is recommended to all
I was intrigued from the start at Ewan McGregor, major and rightly so movie star, for wanting to undertake something so un-Hollywood as a months-long bike trip. And being a big fan of the man, I made a point of checking out the ensuing DVD, expecting a bit of a bore still.The first two episodes, which concern only the preparations and not the trip itself, left me physically and emotionally drained. The two adventurers, McGregor and his friend Charley Boorman (son of renowned director John Boorman) are so human and devoid of hypocrisy or flashiness that it leaves you with nothing but their pure passion and investment in their quest. Such that from the get go I was swept along, and felt quite heavy-hearted when it was all over.The basic premise of this series is that, as mentioned, McGregor and Boorman make a round-the-world trip on "motorbikes", from London to Russia, then with a quick plane fare pick up in Alaska all the way to New York. A third motorist accompanies them with a camera (a poor lad who confronts the same hardship as the two "heroes"), while a support crew follows in trucks on easier roads. What comes of it is anything but a Bike trip. It is a journey to the end of a man's expectation and understanding of himself and his planet. The things they see, people they meet and obstacles they overcome makes the viewer rediscover life with ever maturing eyes.The visual quality itself is nothing short of an accomplishment, given the difficulty level of filming from a motorcycle in terrains that would bring any grown man crying on their knees. Breathtaking imagery and editing are equalled only by the most engaging and exciting soundtrack I have ever heard attached to a simple documentary.Highly recommended to absolutely everyone. It plays not only as a documentary, but as a dramatic comedy as well as reality show. Quick tip for enjoyment - resist the urge to watch it all at once. It really IS draining. And for those who fall for it as much as I did, a second series has just started airing in the UK, called "Long Way Down", about this time a trip to South Africa.


                
A marvellous journey for the audience. This is an addictive series that makes you want to watch the next episode without regard for time. This is a real journey for both men, and of course the crew that travelled with them. Marvel at the European red tape and then the utter desolation of the "Road of Bones". This will touch you as you see them all coping with potentially fatal accidents so far from home, missing family and friends but never giving up when the roads seem to have disappeared giving them no way of moving on. Breath-taking scenery, harsh weather and injuries all add to this heady adventure. I can honestly say, that though the journey was rough, especially through far eastern Russia, and I do not know anyone on this challenging adventure, I feel proud that they succeeded and grateful that I was able to watch this through their eyes.
Gosh, 'Long Way Round' what an eye opener. The documentation of the entire trip was beautifully filmed by Claudio and the diaries done by Charley and Ewan added a great insight into how the trip was turning out for them. Before watching 'Long Way Round' i'd heard of places like Mongolia and Kazakstan but didn't know much about them. After watching Charley, Ewan and Claudio drive through some of the most inhospitable places you began to understand how travelling from London to New York sounded easy enough, yet the places in between had to be approached with great caution. 'Long Way Round' made me understand how different one country may be from another. Ewan noted that as soon as you got out of Europe and into Russia/Asia it was like your were back in the Middle Ages, where workers used old techniques to plough their fields or mine for coal. I throughly recommend you read the book if you're a fan of 'Long Way Round'and indeed buy the DVD if you haven't already. Its an incredible story of 2 friends who just want to go out for a ride on their bikes, and the freedom and rush of riding their motorbikes around the world is truly understandable!


                
I've always been a Ewan McGregor fan, but when I watched this I felt inspired, and I wasn't just thinking about him.This made me feel like I was travelling around the world with Ewan and Charley, even though I've never met them. I have a desire to learn how to ride a motorbike when I grow up now.It really teaches you that we should be lucky for what we have, because when they went through those countries like Kazakhstan, they didn't have loads of technology like we do. And the Unicef visits they went on were so touching.You should definitely watch it, even if you do hate motorbikes or Ewan or Charley or all those countries.


                
It is difficult to write about "Long Way Round", because it is a truly extraordinary story about what people can do. I believe this is one of the greatest travel series done in the past few years, comparable only to marvels like Michael Palin's "Himalayas". I absolutely loved Charley and Ewan, and how honest they were, not trying to hide their annoyance or at times despair from the hardships they met. Yet, the entire team was really great, and it showed how much they started to rely on each other during the course of the journey, and I believe all the travails really pulled them closer, and made friends for life.But this is just a small part of the series, because it shows a whole new world that you will probably never see elsewhere. The sheer vastness of Asia is probably best captured on a motorcycle, which also lets a much more intimate look at the countries and people you are passing by. I absolutely loved the approach they took, trying to feel what everyday life means in those countries, and I do feel sympathetic, when they got a police escort through most of Kazakhstan.And of course I absolutely enjoyed the parts in Mongolia and Siberia, which probably showed what truly means to travel by a motorcycle from London to New York, the long way round. I could almost feel the enjoyment they had from each passed obstacle, and the sheer exhaustion they felt after it. Besides, you see that even though Ewan McGregor is a big film star, he doesn't get any preferential treatment, compared to anyone else on the team.In the end, I like a lot what Ewan said about his growing optimism about the human race, and how this trip has really changed him (and Charley, of course). I really wish more people to see these series, because it does show that there might be hope for us, after all.
The personification of wanderlust. Loved this so much, couldn't get enough and immediately watched Long Way Down after. I miss the guys now, and have nothing to watch. The show starts of with the guys in pre production. It was fascinating watching what the crew go through before they go. Not just their travels but the amount of work that goes into filming a show of this size is unbelievable. The show has not encouraged me to pursue my dreams of world travel, but has also given me a massive appreciation of motorcycles. I also fell in love with Ewan McGregor and Charlie Boorman (no homo) ;) They are so down to earth and have no egos. The show then goes on to demonstrate the beautiful world we inhabit. The countries, cultures and people all make the show what it is. It really is fantastic and I doubt they will ever top this!


                
I loved Long Way Round for MANY reasons. But possibly the most compelling element, surprisingly, had little to do with travel... it is the genuine affection and friendship shared by these two guys. I've had many good friends during my wonderful life... but nothing like what these two have. They truly care about each other and have a fantastic time hanging out, and giving each other hell, of course.The video diaries were exceptionally good - they dealt with feelings of insecurity, depression, irritation, worry, fear, and fatigue. I watched many scenes twice and destroyed an entire weekend watching the whole series non stop.


                
Absolutely brilliant, excellent or every other superlative! I bought the DVD and every time I finished an episode I got the feeling deep inside to go into garage take my bike and start a trip like that - it creates that yearning inside to do the same thing - really unbelievable. Both Charley and ( superstar ) Ewan McGregor are that naturally guys - they are so likable. It is so funny to listen to there conversation, they are joking during the whole time even when they completely destroyed because of the unexpected circumstances. I felt like watching close friends and there keeps a kind of emptiness inside when the DVD is finished ... Absolutely have to be seen!!! I finished the DVD some hours ago and I could start watching again just right now.


                
I truly enjoyed this DVD series and once i started watching the first one i couldn't stop and watched all 10 over 2 days. Ewan Mcgregor and Charley Boorman were so genuine and real in their account of their adventure that it gives one a taste of what it might have been like to go on the journey. You don't have to be a bike enthusiast to enjoy this series. Its a great story of friendship and trust. Living in Australia, I haven't ever seen Europe, much less enjoyed the panoramic vista of places like Mongolia and Siberia. It is true. that although the planet appears vast, that we are all the same as one people. I highly recommend this to anyone who enjoys travel, comedy, and real-life drama. Well done lads!! A must see!


                
I got this DVD set based upon a 10 minute bit I caught on the TV - having a a 5 year old TV is rarely seen unless cartoons. I'm NOT a fan of motorbikes. Have to make that clear as some may be put off by the mode of transport that is central to the theme of the journey - it is integral but you don't have to be a biker or even a liker of bikes to enjoy it. This is a fantastic journey - funnyBe warned, in the UK it came with no censor's certificate - foul language from quite early on - but never aggressively. Just as people speak as adults. Also a couple of sexual references (te boys were away 3-4 months).But otherwise it's fantastic. A better use of my time I've not had for a while. I'm old so seen thousands of things and this is in my top 5. Not number one - but hey - how many things in your top 20 would you watch again. Watched it. Love it. Want to watch episodes 4-6 tomorrow (I'm doing a couple a day again).


                
"Long Way Round" with Ewan McGregor (Moulin Rouge, Stars Wars I, II, III, Traisnpotting, Big Fish) and actor friend Charley Boorman, travel from London, England to New York, United States. They go through training, homesickness, bug bites, river crossings, police, wild bears, sandy deserts, and many more things to accomplish their dreams and see their family after their long trek through many countries.Their book, Long Way Round by Ewan McGregor and Charley Boorman, has chapters full of memorable quotes that you'll always remember.Only released in Europe, many Americans, and other natives to other countries, are eager for this DVD to be released. They are waiting for the first, or second time to see Ewan Mcgregor and Charley Boorman accomplish their dreams, and make memories.To help make this DVD available to the US, go to www.amazon.com, go to the DVD section, and type in Long Way Round. If you please, type in your e-mail, and you will be notified when this DVD is available. It will also help in a poll that will let the studio know how many people are waiting for this DVD to be released.
In the Long way round Ewan McGregor and Charley Boorman ride motorbikes from London to New York via Europe, Kazakhstan, Mongolia, Siberia and Alaska. This is a journey of 20,000 miles! This involves riding over extremely difficult terrain (especially in Mongolia where they don't really have roads) and meeting interesting people from different cultures.Ewan and Charley come across as having an excellent attitude to life, and are funny throughout the series.Long way round is filmed very well, with good use of the amazing scenery that they encounter.I can't recommend this enough.


                
