This is truly is a great way to document the journey of the two best friends doing the things they love to do: Riding their bike and travel around the world.And it happens to be our very own Obeiwan : Ewan McGregor and Charley Boorman. Starting off their bike from London on the 115 days journey to New York; crossing three continental <U+0096> Europe, Northern Asia, And Northern America.This is somewhat one of the most pleasant documentaries to watch. It is not just because we know we have an actual star in it but also the document shot in a very friendly ways and to the extent: personal. The document capture the meaning of friendship between the two best friends and new friends like one can see excessive appearance of producer, camera man, and the local people and so on. But most importance of all it is passion of traveling and riding bike.Recommendation: Definitely A Must Watch Rating: 8/10 (Grade: A-) PleaseRate My Review Yes/No, After Reading. Thanks!!


                
Two buddies (Ewan and Charlie) are taking the long way from London to New York on a pair of BMW motorcycles... they are going east across Europe, Russia and then down through Alaska and Canada, before crossing the mainland US.The actors and their bikes are outfitted with cameras and microphones so we get a candid opportunity to ride along on their exciting trip through far away places most of us will never visit. See the great scenery, watch them fall down in the mud, meet interesting people and eat exotic (and scary) food.It's fun to see another side of motorcycling getting attention instead of the standard chopper-building, wrench-throwing, and grouching of American Chopper and the other clones of that show.I never score anything a 10. I gave this one a 9.


                
It's 2015 and I am watching this show slowly in my own time. I am loving it!! Of course it helps I adore traveling myself and oh, yes, Ewan McGregor!! But he and Charlie and wonderful mates and the idea of the show is a wonderful ride with them on their motorcycles. I was upset about Ewan getting gasoline IN his eye and then very upset about him getting some sort of insect bite that swelled up around his forehead. The film was done quite a while ago so everything turned out fine, but, jeez, could have been bad, not to mention they were harassed by a bunch of thugs in Khazakstan. I was not surprised to learn from Charlie that Ewan feels things deeply. I roared in laughter when they got painful massages in Khazakstan by 2 sumo wrestler type guys in speedo's. Hilarious!! My ONLY criticism of this series they devote their lives to is, someone chose the WORST music supervisor!! Dear LORD a fantastic opportunity was missed to create an atmosphere worthy of music, journey and visuals and the majority of the music SUCKS!!!


                
This is not a linear professional documentary I expected.First, it needs to be noted that although the premise indicates that the show will talk about a whole bunch of countries these guys pass through, that is not the case. There are only 7 episodes (10 + special features in the special edition) and there is no way in hell you can cover all those countries in a meaningful manner in that time.So instead the show concentrates on events in Mongolia, Kazakhstan and Russia.Secondly, the structure of the show is very...nonexistent. Despite the fact that there is a whole support team assembled, the show feels more like it is someone's home-video. This is not necessarily a bad thing.This documentary is like a really good home-cooked meal, with Ewan McGregor and Charley Boorman. It shows only the weird characters and situations that these two guys encountered on their way.Would I really like them to have more content spread over 10 more episodes including Europe and US. Yes, but this concentrated version was cool too.Because there is a film crew and actors involved, the two travelers at the centre get a lot of attention from various people and governments, which makes their experiences feel a bit unrelatable. You and I, we would not get police escort through Kazakhstan you know. On the other hand to some this may seem like a good thing, causing more weird stuff to happen, but to me it puts them further away from the countries they visit.It was still very personal and interesting though. The two main characters, being friends, have a lot of chemistry. Definitely worth a watch.


                
This series is great. My husband and I drove from DC to Patagonia over the course of 8 months and we watch both of these series (Long Way Round and Long Way Down - the Africa journey) to relive some of the feelings we experienced during the trip. Ewan and Charley have great chemistry, and are surprisingly good natured during all of the trials and tribulations of mud, sand and river crossings. This series explores more deserted terrain than the Long Way Down - not many encounters with people or animals, and for that reason it's a much more touching, soul searching journey. Highly recommended for anyone that loves adventure and travel.P.S. Ewan - my husband is an audio engineer and would love to remaster these DVDs! Only drawback was the audio mix needs some work ;)


                
First of all I thought I was going to see two bikies make a long and dangerous journey on their motor bikes from the U.K. to New York. I soon realized of course they had a back up team who followed them and helped them when the journey got too tough.I got the impression that Charlie Boorman and Ewan McGregor whilst being motor bike enthusiasts did not know a lot about the engineering aspects and relied on others to help them in distress.Some of the roads encountered were no more than tracks with deep pot holes filled with water. There were numerous rivers to be crossed, so many in fact one wonders how well researched their journey was in the early preparation of the long trip.The cameraman who rides the third bike is rarely seen because the documentary is about Charlie and Ewan.The warm relationship between Charlie and Ewan is felt throughout the film and the love they had for their wives and children was forever in their thoughts as they journeyed through lands which seemed devoid of people. Occasionally though they did meet families who opened their homes to them and gave them a comfortable bed for the night. Ewan remarked on the friendliness of every stranger implying that we human beings are really the same the world over despite our different languages and physical features. Food differences can be a problem at times and one can gag at even the thought of it.The journey is very long and no more than a minute can be devoted to some of the interesting places they visited. The film is divided into 10 episodes with a large proportion of the time spent in Mongolia. The Road of Bones over which our bikies travelled snakes its way for many miles and remains as a memoriam to the millions who died while constructing it and there bodies interred where they fell.When I set out to watch the 3 DVDs I thought I might find them a bit repetitive and may be boring, but it proved to be otherwise. The more I watched the more interested I became and I felt a little disappointed when their journey ended. It was really good sharing their trip in the comfort of my lounge chair and to hear their cries of "We made it! We made it!" mixed with a few tears when they reached the end of their journey.
