I really hate to discredit art when credit is due. But in the case of memento if you like to watch a barrage of continuously replayed and ominously boring clips and a truly not so thrilling movie with a has been leading actor who would sadly do better on a lifetime movie rather than this. This is sad to see what is becoming of America or rather the world when this kind of a movie gets such a good rating. This movie was a blundering piece of reverse psychology that a 6 month old child could have guessed from the beginning. However if you feel like watching an almost 2 hour movie with only 45 minutes of film love going from color to black and white with no intentional purpose and like to feel like your mind is stuck in an ipod shuffle with bad 80s music for what feels like hours be my guest and watch this boring pile of garbage just remember i told you so.


                
An empty theatrical experience. A dull movie with no emotional core. Clever editing substitutes for lack of substance and dramatic appeal. Christopher Nolan's failed attempted to invent an original narrative structure.The only intriguing aspect of this glossy Hollywood film disguised as daring indie is the fact it has received accolades from movie critics as well as average movie fans. 'Memento' is so smartly put together that both groups lack the courage to say that the movie is a failure and a bore for fear of not coming out ignorant and unsophisticated.Long ago it was observed by Pauline Keal that art house audience accepts lack of clarity as complexity, accepts clumsiness and confusion as 'ambiguity' and as style. If you thought 'Limey' was pretentious, wait 'til you see this. Or, better yet, don't! Just forget about it!


                
After all this time, I am still not sure why I hate this movie so much. Perhaps it is because so much undeserved praise was heaped on this pretentious and presumptuous MTV video with aspirations to being a "serious" movie. It meanders, sometimes careens, from one gratuitous plot twist to the next, yet in reality very little actually happens. In the end, this is not a bad approach if we are going to get character development instead. Alas, none is here. The characters might as well have had their profiles tattooed on them, like the main character does, because they are no less obvious and devoid of subtlety. Memento confuses plot intricacy for story, of which there is precious little here. Granted the story had to be sparse to further the self-conscious conceit that ties up this formulaic and trite little package with a bow. Now don't get me wrong. Any film that causes us to reconsider what we think we know and to see things in ways to which we are not accustomed is great. But that must not be confused with clumsy subterfuges designed to suggest one thing and mean another. That's just plain silly and cheap, a mindless maze that wanders aimlessly until the author runs out of gas. That's what we have here.Guy Pearce, the Other Australian Actor, is good, reminding me at times of Brad Pitt before he demonstrated so convincingly time and again his epic lack of talent. Unlike Brad, though, Guy is talented. Perhaps too talented for such a claustrophobic little film. And what's up with Joe Pantoliano? Let's see, maybe we can give just him a sandwich board to carry around announcing his ulterior motive in every scene. He is the most typecast actor around, and he could phone in a performance with more mystery and finesse. Still without Guy and Joe, formidable talents in better vehicles, this film would be desolate. Oh, there's lots of little black and white vignettes, and the story is told backwards which has been universally acclaimed as genius, but which, at least for me, smacks of artifice and cliché.Look beyond the gimmickry, and you have a film that aches for a purpose, a theme, a message. What it has instead is a sort of Michael Mann vapidity that even throws in the car and the suit. Holy Don Johnson, Batman.I cannot begin to tell you how over-rated this movie is. It is a favorite of ersatz intellectuals who want to prove their smarts and congratulate themsevles by "figuring out" this empty, pointless wankfest of a monumentally overrated movie.


                
Why didn't this idiot keep an organized journal instead of always shuffling for small pieces of paper and pictures in misc. unorganized places, not to mention different rooms, when he knew he wouldn't remember anything come tomorrow? There was no way he should have been/could have been on the street driving [not knowing where he came from or probably why he was going to point B] let alone seriously be carrying a gun trying to fulfil a vengeance correctly. I'm lucky he didn't point the gun at me. A boring story told in forward so it had to be told sloppily and in reverse as a last ditch effort to be "intellectually" interesting. Save your time on this one. And ya, ya, don't bother to tell me about the nuances of it being told in reverse it was just lackluster film.


                
Memento is far from an original concept and the plot closely resembles Swiss-cheese. It quite simply does not warrant the praise given it, which I suspect is heavily weighted by the 15-21 male demographic (see Bottle Rocket). The blatant contradictions presented by the sub-standard writing are conveniently covered with mind-numbing violence (as opposed to that which is stimulating, thereby justifying the waste of 90 minutes of my life). Ooh! I have no memory; it must be a "condition"!If you don't get it because it is so "mind-blowing", wait until you grow up and understand that being confused by the story doesn't indicate clever writing. I can't stress enough, SAVE YOUR VOTE UNTIL PUBERTY IS OVER! At the very least, commit to a second viewing before casting! It is simply embarrassing to indicate that this movie is rated as #9 by US voting standards (what are the French going to think?). It is going to lower the standards of movies being produced worldwide!Resist the temptation to fall into the pit of hype! Watch Groundhog Day instead.


                
I had heard all the raves. A reviewer said "you'll want to watch this movie several times because it's so complex". I really wanted to see it... Then I did. My wife gave up after less than half of it. I forced myself to see it through, because I hoped there was something to redeem it. Well, there wasn't. Complex? Nothing worthwile is revealed after the first half, actually, the thing is pretty much clear after the first scene - never mind the sordid detail revealed later, doen't add anything for me. An uninteresting, unbelievable, unappealing story acted out by characters one cannot get oneself to care for. So it's told backwards, big deal. I've seen similar things before, done much better. No short term memory? Try "Winter Sleepers", that idea is used there much better. Acting? The characters had to look bewildered and smarmy, in turns. Not a great range, in my opinion. My conclusions: don't bother with this one!


                
Rated 10th best overall by IMDB? There was nothing above average in this movie. A weak plot that unfolds backwards is worse, not fresh, creative, or ground-breaking. If you ranked this movie in your top 10  you probably enjoyed such classics as Lost Highway and Drowning Mona.If you can appreciate an art display consisting of a cage of live chickens running around, this movie is for you. Otherwise, this movie was a sharp stick in the eye. Avoid at all costs.


                
The novelty of this movie is supposed to be the shuffled time-line and slowly revealed plot elements. But, neither improve the mildly lackluster story. Rather, they make it an agonizing waste of time.Movies are meant to entertain, or at the very least, to educate. This snoozer does neither. It seems to me merely an exercise in hipper-than-thou pretentiousness. And, so many of the high-ratings coupled with reviews raving over how artistic and original the approach absolutely confirm this by presuming that anyone who doesn't like Momento is somehow incapable of understanding the complexity. Rubbish (both the movie and the smug reviews). If anything, it is they who are incapable of seeing through the hype to know when they've been duped.Yes, I hung in there for the entire movie... only to wish I'd ditched after the first 10 or 15 minutes when I was first inclined to give up on it. And, yes, I do know the difference between art and pretense.Take my advice. If you reach the same impasse shortly into your viewing, BAIL! I give you my permission. You won't be missing a thing.


                
Recipe for success in filmaking in the 00's. Write a dyslexic 20 minute short story about a good looking tattoed idiot in a motel room. Shuffle pages, go to Kinkos, make 300 copies, shuffle again, call Tarantino. Rake in the dough.I give this film credit for trying to be different, but the only thing it succeeds in doing is being a monotonous bore. The votes for this dog are proof positive of the near complete dumbing down of this country...either that or just another example of the "Bandwagon" Syndrome. Do any of you people really know how to think for yourself anymore? Pitiful.


                
Sigh.Let me first point out the tremendous amount of good in this film.First, Christopher Nolan and young filmmakers like him are to be commended and supported for stretching cinematic conventions and taking chances with the medium. Memento is certainly an important film, a very innovative move from the older flashback structure that has gotten to be somewhat overused. What a refreshing directorial debut, to the point that I think it rivals Orson Welles's famous directorial debut. Kudos to Chris Nolan!Also, there is Guy Pearce. He is outstanding in what must have been an extremely challenging role, and I cannot praise him enough. He succeeds in making us feel sympathetic for a character we never really understand, and that is indeed difficult. To me, this performance is head and shoulders above most if not all lead male performances of the same year.Skip the bad, onto the ugly.Some have tried to give the rest of this film the benefit of the doubt. I cannot. This is another one of those annoying intellectual-exercises-disguised-as-motion-picture a la American Beauty whose popularity I can only ascribe to their sheer complexity. The latter tried to use a complex theme to pass for worth; this one tries a complex structure.Unfortunately, the foundation of a good movie will always be a good, cogent story with strong, well-developed characters (at least in my opinion). Memento has neither. Told forwards, the plot (or non-plot) would be mediocre, even boring. As it is, told backwards, it just makes no sense. I'm not sure it would make sense told regularly. Inventiveness is great, but it is not enough to make a film one of the greatest films of all time (ahem, Citizen Kane). I would put Memento up there with Kane as one of the greatest DIRECTORIAL EFFORTS of all time. But simply put, great direction alone does not equal great film. There are also such things as writing and character, which have been lost in the age of the auteur.I cannot be the first to have noticed the plot's crucial non-sequitor. If the main character couldn't remember anything after the incident, he wouldn't be able to remember that he has a memory problem. However, he constantly tells people this, and it proves to be of central importance to the plot (which is full of other holes). He also has nothing that he would see every morning to remind him. I understand that in real life, this condition does allow you to remember some things, but the film makes it clear that the main character remembers nothing. I'm not merely picking at the film, for this plot hole actually is the plot. And I'm not quite sure how Chris Nolan or anybody involved with the film managed to miss it. Maybe they didn't care? That's likely, because this film does center more around slick direction than great writing.There is a saying that applies: to break the rules, you need to know them. This movie could have been brilliant if Christopher Nolan had taken the time to write a wonderful movie in real time. THEN, had he decided to tell it backwards, the effect, if done right, would have been awesome. However, I left this film just as confused as I was throughout. Even the endless speech at the end that was (I think?) supposed to tie everything up did not help, not to mention the fact that the "long explanation by an authority" is a trite, amateur denouement to begin with. It hasn't really worked since Psycho -- which, lord have mercy, is apparently a lesser film than Memento according to IMDB voters -- since the Psycho ending speech was merely tying up loose ends that the audience already knew rather than rewriting the film in seconds like this one does.Frankly, I'm sick of movies that cater either to the box office (Titanic, Gladiator), or critics (American Beauty & now Memento), and somehow end up being branded as great. Movies should be watchable and entertaining, not simply there to win awards so that film nerds can pat each other on the back congratulating their brilliance.If you want writing, character, plot, direction AND complexity, see The Shawshank Redemption or All About Eve. Memento is not the movie for you, and so far its the most overrated movie of the century.


                
As for the story: throw in the usual wrongfully deceased wife/daughter. Add a formula, like memory loss, also a proved recipe. Now throw in a little gimmick, lets write it backwards in time, or half of it forward and printed backwards so you need to read it using a mirror.. Something like that. Great idea! Really, after I managed to recompose the story from its fragments, all I had was an incredibly thin story. With entirely one- dimensional characters, all equally unlikeable. This one I can spoil in a single line. Guy suffers from memory loss from a head injury, and tries to get revenge, but is used time after time because of his memory loss. Give or take a handful of unimportant and uninteresting details. Top ten movie? Apparently people can be bought cheaply, and they take chaos for complexity when given the chance.
I use these ratings all the time and have found them to be pretty much spot-on how I end up regarding different films...but THIS...I'm not wondering about the movie as so many have commented, I'm wondering about the other reviews. THAT'S what just doesn't add up.You know how Quentin Tarantino creates all those scenes that gen X think are awesome, but are just physics challenged? You know the world doesn't work like that, and there's no plot reason to violate the laws of physics, but Quentin thought it would be neat and his sheep think so too? This is the social relationship version of that kind of...being reality challenged.The temporal order in which events are presented is absolute nonsense. He doesn't remember things that way, so why would you present it that way just to...look cool? Is that what it's supposed to be? I'm a neurologist and can tell you that the portrayal of his condition is also quite reality challenged. Where are the police? It's the kind of totally self indulgent gen X rubbish where "nothing exists outside my head" and "I dream that I am a..., so I am" that drives Boomers insane. THAT'S the real plot reason, I think, for his condition. It allows for the a priori decision to do this from a POV view that is, well quite frankly, produced by managing to insert one's head far up one's rectum. The jokes aren't even funny. This movie scares me. It scares me that there is a whole population of people that can identify with what the screen writer and director were trying to do. A lot of the glowing reviews are the only one written by the author, so there could be a good deal of "paid buzz" generation going on here as well. Bottom line, if you actually liked Kill Bill or Blair Witch, you will probably find this awesome. If Pulp Fiction made you want to go out and take a cattle prod to the first gen X you could grab, then you'll hate this.Very sad that I will no longer be able to trust IMDb ratings any more, but when complete and utter rubbish gets an 8.5... Sigh. And relax the spell check restrictions. "T-o-s-h" is a perfectly good English word and it is spelled correctly.


                
The praise that I usually hear about this movie is that it "makes you think" or "is really confusing, and that's cool".  What's frustrating to me about it's continued popularity is that while it does have a cool idea, it ends up more like a parlor game than a good film.  Sure, it is cool trying to piece together the story, trying to remember what happened in the last scene, and trying to figure out who thekiller is.  But the movie is ultimately unsatisfying.  The characters are flat, emotionless, and none of them sympathetic.  The editing is great, it is in fact the saving grace of the movie, but the directing is stale, boring and cold. Nolan doesn't get anything near good performances out of his actors.  They seem tounderstand what works about this movie, but never perform in a way that moves you (with the exception of Joe Pantoliano, who is convincingly evil, but notgreat) The movie is sterile.  It has no power over the audience.  The story is ultimately uninteresting.  Just because a movie engages you mentally doesn't mean it is a good film.  Sure it makes you think.  It makes you think alot.  But so does a calculus test.


                
As I write this, Memento is listed as number 10 on IMDb's top 250. It is ahead of Apocalypse Now, Raiders of the Lost Ark, Dr. Strangelove, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, Lawrence of Arabia, The Graduate, Raging Bull, The Sting, The Empire Strikes Back, The Wizard of Oz, The Bridge on the River Kwai, The Deer Hunter, Gone With the Wind, every Hitchcock movie, every Woody Allen movie, and every Kurosawa movie, except Seven Samurai, just to name a few.To hear the people on this board tell it, Memento is the 21st century's Godfather or Citizen Kane. I rented this film because of all the high praise it received. What I was treated to was an average film with only one outstanding performance (Joe Pantoliano), enough plot holes to drive a Jaguar through, and a gigantic gimmick that is as essential to the film as the shark is to Jaws.The movie is chopped into a number of scenes and shown in reverse. If one were to re-edit the film and show it front to back, it would be devoid of suspense. All the "cerebral puzzles" etc. would be gone. Even in its weird order, it's not all that deep. The director uses the sequencing and the protagonists's disorder to keep the viewer guessing. It's all a big trick, and by the end, the viewer is just relieved that it is over.There may be real people who suffer from this inability to create new memories, but I highly doubt they are able to function effectively as Pearce's character did. Nor do they have a network of friends who help them function and fail to get them professional help, especially when they are on a homicidal vendetta.Do not waste your time here. This movie has been rated highly by a bunch of people who mistake directorial sleight of hand for real movie magic. Rent any of the films I mentioned in the first paragraph. They actually deserve their praise.


                
The story changes track every 5 minutes, and is a torture to watch. I can appreciate if short term continuity is not an issue to come up with novel plot that you want to cram into one movie as much as possible, the whole movie would turn into something like - this !But honestly, you have to ask yourself, are the characters in this movie worth that much attention ? To me, they weren't. There're nothing likable about any of the characters that spurred me to find out the "truth" about their situations. So overall, it became like who cares after about the first 20 minutes, and no, I don't want to see this movie three or four times just to understand what's going on.So the movie is just a novelty, and I doubt that it will be remembered as any kind of a ground breaking masterpiece even if the ratings are high. How many people can honestly say that they went to see this movie four or five times at a theater ? I bet none. If I paid $10, I expect to be entertained in the first viewing, not shown some self indulgence of the screen writer that I have to sift through the mess to understand what's going on. You work for us, not the other way around.Please take it back, and you can keep it.


                
You must first ask yourself: Is the story good enough to be run from beginning to end? I say no. So everyone who gives this movie a ten clearly fell for the gimmick of starting the movie at the end. I challenge...no I beg...anyone please, PLEASE tell me why this movie ranks where it does. Funny thing is, I don't know anyone who likes this film either. Do you really care for any of the characters?? Whatever happened to good old fashioned storytelling?? Liking this movie is almost considered trendy, and please, all the elitists, save your breath...I get it. You don't have to be a genius. As a whole this movie is awful. 1 out of 10.
Don't be seduced by the f***wits. This is your basic pretty-boy hollywood tripe (poorly) disguised as an indie.There's also clearly some scam here to artifically inflate the votes attributed to this film - no way does this deserve the reviews it's so far got. Outrageous.


                
If more movies were made like this, Memento, with its empty story-line and cute direction, would be seen more easily for what it is: mind-numbingly pedestrian schlock.  Pearce does well, but this movie annoyingly and shallowly overworks a fascinating premise, as most con jobs do.


                
In Part 1 of my commentary(posted earlier in IMDB), I wrote that "Memento" almost fulfilled its ambition of "not only being a film with A Beautiful Mind(pun intended), but also one with A Beautiful Heart(ditto)."
And I stressed on the word, "almost". In this concluding part of my commentary on this film, I shall proceed to explain my position in making that statement(as promised).********************************************NOTE:PLEASE STOP READING NOW IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE FILM BUT INTEND TO. IT IS NEVER MY POLICY TO REVEAL PLOT TWISTS AS IT IS PLAIN EVIL TO DO SO. AS I AM NOT SURE WHETHER WHATEVER I REVEAL BELOW WILL OR WILL NOT SPOIL YOUR ENJOYMENT OF THE FILM, YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED.********************************************Not wanting to reveal major plot revelation for this mind-altering plot twister, I can only say that this "ALMOST" aspect of the film meant the difference between it becoming my all time No.1 favourite film to just one I respected for its sheer ingenuity. What truly bothered me about the film, especially after repeat viewing was the dubious intention of the writer/ director(Christopher Nolan I presume).
At first the film looked and felt like its predecessor(e.g. The Usual Suspects, Shallow Grave etc) - smart, intellectual and armed with a modern day cynicism. It maintains a respectful emotional distance from its audience as this is ethical(don't ask me why) and a reasonable price for being the uber-cool pic that it is. Memento would thus have been fantastic if it stayed that way.But Nolan got greedy, he misrepresented the film with hints that it could be more than the sum of its parts, that it could transcend its genre origins and segue into a realm of cinema reserved by a select few films(e.g. "Magnolia", "Dancer in the Dark"). A film which demanded not only intellectual subscription but a level of emotional investment or even wild abandonment that ensure people like me will embrace it fully, should the investment pay off.I got hooked by this heightened anticipation and was almost ready to kiss the feet of Mr Nolan by film's half-time. However, the way he chose to end the film rubbed me the wrong way in more ways than I care to describe. At the last minute, he chose to cling on to his "uber-cool film" safety net, suddenly  distancing itself from the emotional guise built up throughout the film. The final revelation? The joke is on me. The audience were being talked down at and made fun of for having feelings, for showing empathy, for being human. There is nothing clever in that.There goes, this may be my longest piece ever for "a film I struggled to love but may never". Its been months since I last saw Memento. With each passing day, I hold "Memento" in higher esteem as an visionary film from a cinematic standpoint. But with each passing day, I become increasingly disappointed with its sinister agenda of tainting all values that I hold true. Alas, this to me is thus, "The film that could have been".


                
I checked out IMDB to find a good movie to rent.  Saw that 'Momento' was ranked 9 on the all time list.  My wife remembered seeing it at the local store yesterday, so I rushed to get it!As I was reaching for it, a lady next to me said "it's not that good".I thought, "yea right, 16000 IMDB movie reviewers are calling this a top ten of all time movie, and you are saying it's no good..."Well, she was right, and 16000 IMDBers were wrong.  Not really a good movie. Don't believe the hype.  Pass this one up!


                
Never thought I would see a more terrible movie than 'The Piano' but this was it. Now, I have nothing against films that backtrack - sometimes this is used in films to very good effect - but what we see in 'Memento' is just plain ridiculous. Boring scenes are repeated ad infinitum as the film constantly goes back, then forward to scenes we've seen already, and then go further back only to then run forward into those same scenes again. This is not clever, it may be different, but it's also stupid. Now, all this might even be bearable if you feel any empathy or sympathy with the main character, or anybody, or anything in this. No such luck with 'Memento'. The only positive emotion I felt in the whole thing was when the main character was running down the street and couldn't remember why. At least that was funny. The only other plus for the film - at least it was in color.


                
I hate these so called "critics" who give slow confusing movies like this high ratings. 8.9? What the hell were you people thinking.Plot - Boring, confusing, and I know it goes backwardsActing - not that good, Guy pearce acts the same in every movie he is in, Carrie Anne-Moss can't act, only joe pantanlio acts decently.Overall Value: If you don't like arty-farty movies like this, my advice is DON'T SEE THIS MOVIE!


                
well, where should I start? the movie is not just bad - it's pathetic, disgusting and horrible. the maddest and schizophrenia-packed movie that exists there. enough said.wasted an hour+ of my time. really sorry. gave a film time to develop; swear to God - really^10 (power of 10) tried to watch it. was forcing myself, actually. had to stop one day, tried to continue the next one. alas.moved forward - still the same lame stuff. boring-boring-boring!!! the movie is so slow, excruciating, vexing, painful and bizarre. - gazillions of incoherent flashbacks, stupid lame references, pretence on medical research in parts. 72K people are just insane to rate it so high. on the other hand - if it (the film) features insane stuff then corresponding audience (lets call it this way) will enjoy it. other IMDb recommended films of similar type are so-o-o much better (Kill Bill, Fight Club, Sin City). though I'm not surprised. majority is often wrong (put it mildly without calling names). in top250 there are another ''masterpieces'' of similar kind. so it's not an indication of a great film. generally, you folks at IMDb are right on scores. not this time I am afraid. yeah, the last thing - I am not thick.couldn't refrain to write this review. basically - AVOID by all means. the worst film ever. even if one tried - couldn't match to make such a piece of ....


                
Although people may view this as a stupid comment.The entire film is based on a gimmick,yes,there i said it people i mean its basically a simple story done countless times before.A guy is exacting revenge on his enemies for murdering his wife so obviously in the filmmakers mind they had to come up with a cheap gimmick to throw off the viewer and they use this backwards gimmick nonsense that really makes no sense when you look at it by making the main protagonist in the film,a man with short term memory loss who writes on himself,oh how weird is that.The film has average acting,mediocre cinematography but nothing else going for it except a simple story wrapped in a convoluted wannabe virtuoso type film-making.I mean Christopher Nolan is a great director but this is not an outstanding debut like M Night SHyamalan's The Sixth Sense which had a great story,a superb twist and larger than life characters,a scary movie with doses of romance and the physchological horror.Nolan basically rips off Tarantino here with the chronology type film-making.I'm sure some other filmmaker one day will film a similar story like this sideways or some nonsense and it becomes a sensation like the overrated Memento.Besides IMDb rating sucks anyway.This movie would be forgotten eventually


                
This movie contained the two things I hate the most in movies - narration and flashbacks.  As far as suspense is concerned, it is completely lacking. I consider a movie to be suspenseful when I'm sitting on the edge of my seat entertained and not knowing what's going to happen next.  Well, it wasn't like this with this movie.  I was sitting on the edge of my seat unentertained and not knowing how much I could take before snatching the movie out of my DVD player in anger.  Since I already knew what was going to happen in the end (I mean, really), it was a complete waste of time.


                
