If you're looking for something intense, suspenseful, and different than your usual effects-packed thriller, this is the best movie you will see all year. You will be talking about Memento at work, at the grocery store (to total strangers!), and you will find yourself joining conversations when you hear the word "Memento." That's why this little film that received almost no marketing stayed in theaters for months and was in the top 10 money makers for several weeks.The movie starts with a murder -- a revenge killing, in fact. But was the right person killed?Leonard Shelby (Guy Pearce) is a man with no short-term memory. He hasn't been able to form new memories since the night his wife was murdered. Now he's on a hunt to find the murderer but with no way of remembering names, dates, places, facts and faces. Instead he tattoos himself with mementos of his search. When someone knows his name, he checks Polaroids to see if he knows them. Does he like this person? Does he trust this person? Is this the killer? He doesn't know unless he's scribbled a note.Don't worry about trying to empathize with Leonard because Writer/Director Christopher Nolan puts you right in Leonard's shoes. You live the story in reverse order so that you never know more than Leonard does. In one scene you see Leonard getting information from a person who knows him -- maybe a good person; maybe bad. In the next scene you see a previous meeting between the two which sheds more light on their relationship. Later still you see how they met. But is that all of the story? You've yet to find out... and you won't know everything until the last scene. By living it backwards, you, like Leonard, have no knowledge of what came before.It's brilliant story telling. But you might get frustrated because you don't know what's going on. That's normal. In fact, that's the whole idea. Just sit back, try to relax (though that's difficult in this movie), and find out just how twisted and complex Leonard's world is.This film will leave its own memento on your mind, and you'll have a hard time forgetting how much you enjoyed it.
FACT ONE: "Just because there are things I don't remember doesn't make my actions meaningless."FACT TWO: "Your notes could be unreliable."FACT THREE: "Memories can be distorted."FACT FOUR: "But, even if you get your revenge, you won't remember it.  You won't even know it's happened."FACT FIVE: "I want time to pass, but it won't. How can I heal if I can't feel time?"FACT SIX: "We all need mirrors to remind ourselves who we are."When life becomes incomprehensible human beings tend to simplify things, revise memories, select facts that may or may not be representative of "the truth."  We strive to make events as intelligible as possible but that act often has unintended consequences.  Now, if you can capture this existential human reality on film in such a way as to allow the viewer to experience this struggle for understanding, for the placement of private aspirations into the context of the moment even as the primary character makes this same struggle, then you have connected our hearts and minds seamlessly with the film's lifeworld.  That is a rarity indeed.Such is Memento, a brilliantly conceived and executed work of art that has its audience literally at their wits end (just like the film's main character) trying to understand it all.  The great debate of whether Teddy's version of the truth at the end is really "the truth" is symptomatic of director Christopher Nolan's purposeful craftsmanship.  The very fact that we are as uncertain throughout most of the film as to the context of Leonard Shelby's actions as Leonard himself signifies that Nolan has succeeded in not just telling us Leonard's story put allowing us to know what it is like to *be* Leonard.  This allows the film to work at a much deeper, almost subconscious, level scarcely achieved on film.Guy Pierce, Carrie-Anne Moss and Joe Pantoliano all deliver terrific performances with some of the most original material I've seen in years. This film grabs your brain and won't let go.  It twists and turns and <U+0096> just when you think you've got things figured out <U+0096> Nolan whips the rug out from under your feet.  You are left totally involved and struggling with creating some sense of closure out of the infinite loop of the film's structure.You can debate endlessly whether Teddy's final summary of events is the truth.  You can argue both sides of whether Leonard killed his wife or invented Sammy Jankis out of thin air.  In the end these are open questions. In the end there are no definitive answers.  In fact, in the end ANY answer is plausible, just choose the one that sits best in your mind.  Make that the truth.  Because THAT is what this film is all about.  It's about a man who can remember who he is but not what he has done and, to that extend, it is the prefect postmodern critique.  We are often forced to act without sufficient information.  The accelerating rush of our lives sends us headlong into our present without full consideration of where we've been. And on that level Memento provides a bold, compelling narrative that connects Leonard with every person.  It is the mirror image of our divided selves.No matter how much his audience might disagree with the film's conclusion, Nolan understands that - in the end - truth doesn't matter.  It is what we choose to do with what we think is the truth that's important.  And that can mean anything at all.
So the "innovative" concept of filming out of sequence has been cliche for at least a few years now, but here's a film that makes it work far better than its been shown in a while.Having read the reviews and talked to others who saw it, I thought that I'd go into the movie figuring everything out right away and declaring the concept unworkable.  I couldn't be further from the truth.  This movie does things to your head that are illegal in some countries.  Portrayed (for all intents and purposes) backwards, it forces you to think in the same way that our lead character, Leonard Shelby (Guy Pearce being more brilliant than usual) does.  Suffering from a condition that renders him unable to remember anything for more than a few minutes, he is searching for the man who raped and killed his wife.  Since each seen lasts no more than 15 minutes before jumping back to the what happened before that, our perceptions are shattered in the same way.Carrie-Anne Moss and Joe Pantoliano (both of The Matrix) put in great performances that leave you guessing; simultaneously endearing and revolting.Overall I left the film trying to figure out what was what, and I'm still not sure.  This film noir concept shouldn't work, but it does so wonderfully.


                
Losing your memory would have to go close to one of the worst experience anyone could ever suffer from. In the movie <U+0091>Memento', we get to see how bad it is to suffer from short term memory loss. It also gives us the chance to see how far a patient of such a disease will go to remember what is most important to him. In the vain of <U+0091>Pulp Fiction', Memento is a movie that has to be seen to be believed. It is no wonder that this movie is so popular with the movie going public around the world. Leonard Shelby wears expensive, tailored suits, drives a late model Jaguar sedan, but lives in cheap, anonymous motels, paying his way with thick wads of cash. Although he looks like a successful businessman, his only work is the pursuit of vengeance: tracking and punishing the man who raped and murdered his wife. The difficulty of locating his wife's killer is compounded by the fact that Leonard suffers from a rare, untreatable form of <U+0091>amnesia'. Although he can recall details of life before his <U+0091>accident' Leonard cannot remember what happened fifteen minutes ago, where he is, where he is going, or why.Christopher Nolan has made one great (but confusing) movie. His style in directing and editing <U+0091>Memento' is quite unique, as no movie has ever been made quite like it before. The story being told in a backward kind of motion makes the audience have to think hard about what they are watching. It also makes the audience feel for a guy like Leonard, whose condition only gets worse and worse as the movie goes on. I am almost 100% sure that Nolan and his brother Jonathan, made up this story in the realisation that it was meant to be confusing. What is also cleverly done by Nolan is the use of black and white and then colour shots. In my opinion, the variations in these shots are used so it confuses the audience even more. 
Guy Pearce's role in <U+0091>Memento' shows me why he is so successful in Hollywood today. Pearce plays Leonard Shelby, a man on the hunt for his wife's killer. The only problem is that Shelby is suffering from <U+0091>anterior-grade amnesia', a disease that cannot be treated. With <U+0091>Lenny', I feel the audience suffers partly the same condition as he does, and partly does not, as we can remember what has happened in the present. Memento's other main stars include corrupt cop <U+0091>Teddy' (Joe Pantoliano). A friend said of Pantoliano's performance in Memento, <U+0091>he was perfect for the role of <U+0091>Teddy', as he comes across as the mysterious bad guy'. I could not agree more. There is also the character of Natalie (Carrie-Anne Moss) who is a lot like Teddy in her own way. What is similar about these characters is the way they use Leonard's condition to advantage their own situations.
Other characters include Sammy Jenkis (Stephen Tobolowsky), who is a victim we learn about from an old case when Leonard Shelby was an insurance investigator. There is Leonard's wife, Catherine (C.S.I.'s Jorja Fox) who is another fascinating character. Although we do not hear her say much, she is a vital part of this most confusing story. Add in the funny role of Burt (Mark Boone Jnr.), the motel clerk, who openly admits to Lenny that he is ripping him off, by giving him two rooms, but that he will not remember it happening anyway.Yet in no way do any of the characters in <U+0091>Memento' realise they are in a time reversed movie. I am sure that many of the performers would have had to read their scripts many times to understand what was happening from a cinematic point of view. But from an acting prospective, this would have been an easy experience to be part of. Memento also has some interesting devices to tell the story. The way Leonard tries to remember things in the present and the future, via notes tattoos and photographs, making them an important element within the movie. Without them, our hero would not be able to remember anything. Nonetheless, memory is the most vital element in this movie, because without it, people are confused, isolated and abused, which is what happens to our <U+0091>hero', Leonard.  As Lenny mentions early on in the film, "Memory's unreliable ... Memory's not perfect. It's not even that good. Ask the police; eyewitness testimony is unreliable ... Memory can change the shape of a room or the colour of a car. It's an interpretation, not a record. Memories can be changed or distorted, and they're irrelevant if you have the facts."  But it has to be ironic that Leonard is the one who narrates <U+0091>Memento', when his recollections and memories of events are inaccurate and jaded. There are also some powerful scenes in <U+0091>Memento'. The one <U+0091>which sticks in my mind the most' has to be where Natalie abuses Leonard, calling his dead wife a <U+0091>whore', snorting smartly <U+0091>that you won't be even able to remember what I have said'.  So, if you watch this movie and it confuses you the first or even the second time, I can assure you that is how you are meant to feel, confused. If you hated watching <U+0091>Memento' the way Christopher Nolan intended, then I can only recommend that you get a hold of the DVD and watch it in chronological order, as it will really help you. Memento also shows how bad <U+0091>mental disease' patients can be abused by healthy people and what lengths sick patients will go to try and keep <U+0091>sane'. Also, if a movie makes you think, then in some way it has been successful in doing something that many movies do not do <U+0096> making you think. Those sorts of cinematic experiences are the ones that we need to cherish for life, as they are few and far between. Memento is one such experience. CMRS gives <U+0091>Memento': 5 (Brilliant Movie)


                
I saw "Memento" in the early afternoon, a fact for which I am thankful. Why?  Because it then proceeded to dominate the majority of my thoughts for the rest of the day.  That night I lay in bed, tossing and turning, my mind trying to wrap itself around the story, and I absolutely could not GO TO SLEEP!  I finally just gave up on sleep, got up around midnight, and watched "Election" to cleanse my palate.  Then I went back to bed and starting contemplating "Memento" AGAIN.  Finally, out of sheer exhaustion, I went to sleep.This is a movie that gets in your head and will not get out until you figure it all out.  And that can only be done with extensive internet research. Reading "Memento Mori", the short story upon which the movie is "based" helped, too."Memento" is nothing short of a phenomenon.  And a brilliant one at that.


                
If you hate reality-based film-making this is awful. If you hate Film Noir, this is ugly. But for me, Nolan has convinced me he is one of the most important directors out there. I was even thinking, "It must be easy to edit a movie so that it's all backwards." But it's not, it's not any easier - and he leaves you straining and watching from scene to scene, searching for the truth. Even the final revelation will affect each viewer and leaves them searching for their own "ultimate truth" according to their own experience.Most people comment about manipulation in connection with this movie, but after watching the last scene, I'm convinced that manipulation is not the main theme at all. I don't want to spoil it for you, but the basis of unfolding backwards in time is that you are enlisted to scrutinize the film trying to discover some set of motivations behind each character's actions later in time that makes sense. If you think you would enjoy this sort of puzzle, I think you will enjoy this excellently crafted film.
During the movie "Memento," the audience is left guessing throughout the whole movie until the very end. It has a unique style of presenting the plot in which the movie begins with a scene and then it plays backwards from there. While the movie jumps backwards scene by scene, there is also a transition played in black and white that is continuously playing forwards until a certain point. It is not until the very end of the movie where the scenes played in color meet with the ones played in black and white. This is where the climax of the movie occurs and all the revelations of each characters role are revealed. It is a must see and you will not regret it.In the end of the movie we find out that the main character Lenny, who suffers from short term memory loss, has been tricked by his so called friend Teddy, into killing a drug dealer. Throughout the whole movie Lenny is on a quest to kill the murderer of his wife, who is in fact Lenny himself. Lenny gets the identity of himself and a man named Sammy Jenkis confused and we find out that Lenny is in fact Sammy. It leads us to believe that Lenny has used his brain condition to illicit forgetting what really happened to his wife to clear himself of shame and anger. This caused him to create Sammy Jenkis and allows him to believe that the ones who assaulted his wife and gave him the brain condition were the ones who supposedly killed his wife. We find out that Teddy, who is a local cop, has already helped Lenny kill the man who assaulted his wife. Yet Lenny forgot all about it and Teddy kept the proof and then used Lenny for his own benefit to kill a drug dealer for money. Once Lenny figures this out in the end of the movie he decides to burn all the evidence and leaves himself a clue that indicates Teddy is in fact the one who killed his wife. Lenny then leaves the scene reminding himself that he is still alive and then as fast as it was all revealed it is then forgotten. This leads us back into the rest of the movie in which we had already seen in reverse order.When the movie is over the audience is left shocked and slightly confused about how to view Lenny. He acts as if he is an innocent man who has now become a conscious free murderer. He forgets everything he doesn't write down but he is the one choosing to leave out the facts that he finds out on multiple occasions that he is in fact a murderer for pleasure. It started as pay back but for someone who forgets the feeling so easily and has no direction to his life, why not make it a hobby. It's odd to think about that he is spending all his effort searching for his wife's killer when in reality it is Lenny he is looking for. He takes the lives of others to free him of guilt which in the end makes him more of a villain than the movies hero.
Incredible, riveting and powerful.  What else could I say?  This movie has all of the qualities of classic film noir as well as the magnitude of an original, unique concept that has been tried and tired before but works here.  Guy Pearce has been underrated for years (just think back now to Priscilla and can you believe this is the same guy) and finally might get the recognition here that was at least well-deserved of him back for LA Confidential.  Powerful perfomances, well developed story with suspensful buildup of what our main character pieces together little by little makes this a must see.Easily in my top 100 of all time.


                
I was totally blown away by this movie. I think this is a total masterpiece. I wish I could have thought of something as ingenious as this. I recommend it to anyone that enjoys a good mystery, acting, editing, directing, plot. I can and have watched it over and over again. This should have won for best picture the year it came out. Go out and rent it. Go and watch it. Go out and buy it. you will not be disappointed. This movie is about a guy who loses his short term memory and tries to hunt down his wife's rapist and killer. I won't say anything else. It is a masterpiece, thought not perfect it probably should be about a 9.8 on the IMDb but I'll give it a 10 out of 10.


                
Christopher Nolan is a magician. No other way to put it.This movie ended up on my top ten list when I saw it a few years ago. It is one of the most original thrillers to have come from America and it supposedly became popular solely on the basis of word of mouth.Leonard Shelby(Guy Pearce in an excellent performance) is a man who has short term memory loss. He is a man on a mission. He is determined to find out who killed his wife. He has various ways to remind himself of small facts - writing them on notes and sticking them on the wall, tattooing facts on his body and so on. The story also involves two other characters - Natalie and a man named Teddy who seems to have a shady past. There is also the story of Sammy Jenkis which is told in bits and pieces by Leonard in disjointed scenes. Sammy also had the same problem which led to Sammy being placed in a mental institution.The main feature of this movie is that it goes backwards. Which means that the scene that follows is actually the incident which happens prior to the current situation. This is quite demanding for the viewer and people with short attention spans may not appreciate this movie so much. Repeated viewings may be required to actually understand what is going on in the movie.What I liked about the movie was the fact that despite the complex and confusing style, it is ultimately a movie which is not inaccessible. It is no art film which might bore viewers to tears. It is a fast moving thriller which can keep a viewer hooked and this is what separates Memento from other such complex thrillers. Most importantly, it is the little facts and clues that are the most interesting. The loose ends are tied up expertly at the end with such brilliance that I am still at awe at the execution even several years after watching this movie.Overall, it is in fact quite depressing. There is not one likable character in this movie, except for Leonard, and we see how his medical condition is used by people to serve their own interests. It presents a bleak view of human nature, in many ways.As far as the performances are concerned, Guy Pearce is fabulous as the determined but confused Leonard Shelby. Carrie Anne moss is brilliant as the mysterious Natalie who may have other motives in helping Leonard. She has the right kind of mix of beauty and mysteriousness which make her perfect for the role. Joe Pantaliano as Teddy makes a big impact in this movie. His dry humour and screen presence make this role one of my favourite performances on film.Altogether, it is one of the best films of recent years and it is exactly the kind of movie I like.10/10


                
I write this after having to write a bad review of Nolan's "batman Begins." "Memento". after more than seven years, remains the most important English language film of the 21st century. Into it, Nolan pours all the fundamental problems of film, and the fundamental problems of memory that gave rise to film in the first place.It takes about four viewings to get any grip on this film - yet none of these viewings feel wasted in any way, as though the director has played tricks on us - on the contrary, it is the film's bald-face honesty which leaves us in despair of ever getting just the right handle on all the details and the characters.Its hard to understand how Nolan could have betrayed himself and his vision after this film, by selling out to Hollywood's highest bidders - hopefully, he'll recover and give us the Christopher Nolan film we should expect after seeing this one.But in any event, this remains one of the most important films ever made - brilliantly written, filmed, acted, edited - a necessary companion piece to Welles' "Citizen Kane" or Eisenstein's "Potemkin" - hopefully, Christopher Nolan will actually direct another film some day....


                
Imagine you're in a bathroom and you see a bottle of whiskey. And you have to question whether that means you're drunk.Imagine a woman gets you so angry you hit her in the face and bloody her lip. She walks out of the room, but returns in a few minutes. You ask her who hit her and she tells you some other guy's name. You vow to punish that guy.Imagine you're running down the street. Some other guy is running too. At first you think you are chasing him. Then, he fires a gun at you and you realize you are the one being chased.This is Leonard's problem. He's out to find and kill the man who killed his wife. But he can't remember what happened five minutes ago. He uses notes, tattoos and Polaroids to keep track of information he has learned. But some of this information is wrong.And get this <U+0097> Leonard's mission of revenge is told in scenes that are backwards-sequenced.Ingenious. That's the only word to describe this outstanding puzzle movie. Anyone unwilling to devote very close attention to a film should avoid this one. Those willing will find it immensely rewarding.I like highly contrived movies. Ironically, I'm not a big science fiction fan because I like the contrivances to be within the realm of present-day plausibility, if that makes any sense. If you share that sensibility, check out "Memento."
First time I saw this movie, I got a little confused, but, at the same time, I was amazed by the director Chris Nolan's work. The history is so fantastic and the format of the movie is so audacious that i became a real fan, bought the movie and watched it every day for like two weeks.Nolan talks to us in the movie through the little details. The space in Lenny's chest is one that becomes interesting in, at least, three different moments: when he shows it to Natalie at her place, when he sees himself pointing at it in a Polaroid picture and in the end, when he remembers his wife while going to the tattoo shop. In this last scene, the space appears filled with the message "I've done it". I believe this blank space summarizes his pointless odyssey, I mean: it will always be blank, although he knows, deep inside, that it should be filled with that message. It is a proof that he won't stop.The way Lenny feels his hand aching as he speaks to Natalie (after beating her), the way all people use him to their own purposes, the little details that prove that Sammy Jankins' history is his own (the scene with a needle that flashes his mind as he lays on Natalie's sofa and the talking with Teddy in the end/beginning), his deepest reflections about his condition ("How am I supposed to heal if I can't feel time?" or "I can't remember to forget you"), all those elements are the ingredients for this real masterpiece. A movie that proves to us in a weird, yet ingenious, way how we lie to ourselves to live, how far can we go to give our lives a meaning and face the awful truth.
I cannot believe when I see the other bad reviews of this movie. Once again, I think that the plot goes over peoples' heads and they do not realize what is going on. If you have a good head on your shoulders, there is no way you could fail to be drawn into the mystery of this film. Guy Pearce is unbelievable and this was the first time I saw what an incredible actor he is. Also, Carrie Anne Moss is ubelievabley gorgeous and Joe Pantoliano (also another favorite) is hilarioius and inscrutable. I can watch this movie time and again and never get tired of it. I love it when a story takes a twist on classic Noir. The other plus is that the soundtrack/score is really edgy and complements the b leak tone perfectly.


                
"Memento" is one of those movies that I fear discussing because I don't know how much I can tell without giving the whole thing away. You might have heard that the story gets told in reverse and that Guy Pearce plays Leonard Shelby, who has a memory problem. People are able to abuse him and all sorts of other horrible things. Then, he has to use the little bit of memory that he has left to...no, I can't tell you; it would give the whole movie away. My point is that "Memento" is a most incredible movie. You quite literally have to see it to believe it. You might even want to watch it more than once, possibly backwards. Or something similar.


                
Dear Christopher Nolan:You´re not very famous here, in Spain. I´ve never heard nothing about you and your films. You were a completely strange for me. No cinema shows your "Memento" in Granada (I think a cinema in Madrid and another in Barcelona did it).I was a happy man until I saw Memento. One of my friends, in one of this crazy nights at home, recommends us to hire Memento at the video. We were surprised, we only want to have a nice time and have a laughs watching one of these stupid teenagers films. Finally, we accepted and took memento at the videoclub.Since the first second, with that marvelous start (I can´t remember such one in other films) we felt very atracted by the film. The running of the story, the splendid direction of the film. Nothing is out. Everything has his explanation. That ending...Some of my friends said that he understood nothing. I laughed. "You are silly", I cry to him. I thought I had understood everything. Then I watched the film again, and I was confused. "Did I understand everything?". I watched it again and again. "Did I understand everything?"Simply, dear Christopher Nolan, fascinating.


                
When my sister and I were out to rent a video, she suggested Memento. I refused saying: "Nee, niks aan", which could be translated as: No, it sounds boring. And now I regret my words. When she bought it(I looked it anyway because it wouldn't be a waste of MY money), the first scene alone was enough to catch my attention, as soon as I watched it too. I watched the entire film with open eyes, even though it was very late. I loved the film. In fact, it's my favorite movie ever! So I asked my sister every day if I could see it again and now, I bought it from her. I watch it at least one time every week and it never gets boring. The story is great, the acting is superb and the whole backwards-thing really gives you the idea that you have short-term memory-loss yourself. I recommend it to everyone. NEVER DOUBT A MOVIE, like I did.......


                
this  is an excellent mind boggling movie that realy needs someone with a brain to understand. the plot is new , The acting is excellent and the screenplay is just amazing. this is a must see flick.


                
I thought Memento was a wonderful, thought-provoking movie.  The end-to-beginning storytelling style was very interesting, though it was a challenge to get used to it.  After the first half hour it starts to make sense though.  Still, it is not a movie you can just passively watch; it does take some effort on the part of the viewer to understand what is happening.Some have criticized this film as having glaring plot holes.  I disagree. Leonard's problem is not what it seems and the answers to many of these "plot holes" are right there in the film.  Watching this film once is not enough.  Much like "Sixth Sense", the true enjoyment is in watching it again and seeing how all the pieces fall into place.Well worth a viewing 8/10.


                
Never given a 10/10 review to any other movie. The fact that someone can even think of a story like this and put it to life is beyond me. Hats off to the Nolans on this one.


                
If you have to say a word to resume this movie the word is BRILLIANT!
The narrative structure is unique, the acting is amazing and the storeline is full of suspense and unexpected outcomes! =D


                
You have to watch this movie very patienty, becasuse each detail has its meaning, actors's play is good and perfect editing as for me makes this movie one of the best in the world. 100% watch, but only if you have already watched some other movies and its not one of the first movies you have ever watched.


                
Loved it. It's not a movie for kids for sure but I'd recommend it to everyone older than 16


                
This movie has a very original plot and an amazing storytelling.


                
Unsatisfying ending as it should be. Watching multiple times is must if you have a weak memory. One of Nolan's best work.


                
