First of all, this is not a horrible movie.  It does keep you mildly interested.  But it has several, fatal flaws. One reviewer mentioned that the film was too clever by half.  I totally concur.  The film went out of its way to create something unique, and in the process lost the entire narrative structure.  So when it ends, you barely even know if it happened.  In fact, you don't know that it happened.  If Leonard was delusional about Sammy, then perhaps he was delusional about all the characters in the movie.  The fact is, you will never know.The problem is, this doesn't make for a good film.  Good films are those where the narrative art is enhanced by the photography.  By this measure, the movie fails, as the photography does almost nothing to tell the story, and Guy Pearce is as milquetoast a leading man as there is.  The fact is, the film is about trying to put you in his shoes, to show you what Leonard must have felt like living with no memory, but you end up feeling nothing at all because he is such a bland character actor.  I would compare this film in some ways to Se7en--except that Se7en does a much better job telling the story (even if the ending wasn't at all surprising).  The major difference is that you care about what happens to the characters in Se7en.  There is no empathy with Leonard, partly because the film never gives you the chance because it's too busy being clever.Perhaps people will rate it highly, but it is definitely not a Citizen Kane or Casablanca, a movie where you can take it out and watch it over and over again.  It's far too dismal for that.  It's more a movie like Resevoir Dogs, where you like the idea (and perhaps the execution), but the way the story is put together keeps it from being a classic.3/10


                
It eludes me how this movie has gotten such high ratings and even two Oscar nominations.This movie is for the most part mind-boggling boring, with endless repetitive sequences of how our main character writes notes, tries to remember certain events or persons. This goes on for about 80% of the movie in an desperate attempt to create "suspense"...but it gets tiresome. The end admittedly had a moderate surprising twist...however, from a certain point of view, the end was also predictable and, somehow, disappointing. The only positive thing about the movie is a good performance by Carrie Ann Moss, however the main character did not convince me, neither did the plot. (If there was one, besides of a repetitive line-up of the character's confusion and attempts by him to puzzle together memories.) This movie is breathtakingly boring and the ending *extremely* underwhelming. One of the movies which is praised about all over, you watch it - and it turns out a huge disappointment.


                
I'd heard a lot of great things about this film before going out to rent it.  But once I did, I must say I was not extremely thrilled with it as the rest of the world seems to be.It is a brilliant and creative idea of how to make a movie (backward revealing of pieces of the story with every new scene) but unless I missed something, I believe that this is all this film had to offer. The acting was good, the story was good, the movie was good... but I do not believe it should be rated the number 1 best indie film and number 10 best film of all time.  (As it is on IMDB while I write this review)I think it simply receives a lot of praise because it is a movie made in a way that no one has ever seen before.  A friend even told me that he thought it was an amazing movie--though he didn't quite totally understand it.  Maybe it is appealing because it is confusing and people view it as a "smart" film because they can't quite follow totally what it going on and they have to watch it over and over again.  Either way, I believe it has received much more acclaim than it deserves.  It has certainly won many awards for great editing and original screenplays, etc--which it has.  But a movie of the year--or of all time as some IMDB users are rating it--I totally disagree.Finally, It is indeed totally original in the way a story is told and presented, but it is certainly not the greatest movie of all time.  I was disappointed overall with this film.  I do not believe it is a must-see.I could film an entire movie by attaching a camera to a dogs back and having him film the action, then playing it on the big screen mirrored and upside-down during some scenes.  That would certainly be an original idea never seen by movie-goers before, but that doesn't mean it should be voted into a group with The Godfather or Citizen Kane.I'm not saying Memento is like watching an upside-down film from a dog's point of view... But I'm saying it's up there with the Godfather for reasons that it should NOT be.


                
Just a deception package! In NO WAY this picture is only half as intelligent as it pretends to be. A quite good idea in deed, but after a promising start it gets  a heavy-handed, mechanical and  predictable bore and a pure letdown, especially because it stays beyond the means. And sorry folks: It really is no achievement to UNDERSTAND this movie -but it sure is to to keep up till the end.


                
Many people seem to consider this to be a brilliant film. Not me. It was a confusing barrage of flash backs, flash forwards, flash whatevers... There were few times when I thought I was beginning to get the drift of what was going on, but that's not how I felt by the end of the film. I believe that the intention of this film is just to mess with your mind, and that was not the sort entertainment that I was looking for when I watched it. Perhaps, at the end of the movie, they hoped I could have empathy with what it must be like to suffer from the memory condition that this guy has, so they tried to create an environment where my brain is turning itself inside out while trying to understand what's going on. Perhaps they succeeded, but I didn't like it and don't recommend it.


                
I can scarcely believe the cult status this film seems to be getting here at the IMDb board. It's a totally enigmatic mess of a nightmare "from end to beginning", to coin a phrase based on the fact that the story is told backwards.If it made even one iota of sense to me, it was only toward the end when I had a clue as to what I suspected all along. But even then, nothing was clear and much of the story is unresolved so that you, the viewer, can fill in all the gaps depending on how brilliant and imaginative your mind is.The storytelling technique used here is a tricky one and altogether unsuccessful, in my opinion. As far as I'm concerned, short term memory would be a blessing if only to forget this one entirely. The payoff is zero, as Leonard Maltin has already suggested, and makes watching a film like this a total waste of time.GUY PEARCE does an okay job in the central role but his talent is totally wasted in a script that is as ungrounded in reality as his character is supposed to be. The film itself is all style and no substance, as pretentious and manipulating as any film can be that does not respect its audience.JOE PANTOLIANO and CARRIE-ANNE MOSS are competent but their characters are given coarse language full of expletives that should have been directed at the script they were forced to recite rather than inflicted upon a viewer patiently trying to follow a deliberately incomprehensible storyline. What hurts here, is there is no real solution to the puzzle, leaving the audience just as confused as the central character.What should have been a taut film noir turns out to be nothing more than a cheap shot at manipulation.Apparently, audiences these days are willing to swallow anything that seems unusual or offbeat in its appeal but--even so--there is no way I can account for the sort of comments I see here. Are we watching the same film???


                
From reading the pretentious reviews here, you'd think that this is going to be a great movie.You'd be wrong.The words "strange" and "weird" come to mind, but if you want me to say something really nice, all I can think of is that I borrowed the DVD from the library, so it was free.Making this one of the top movies on IMDB is an insult to all the other truly good movies that are on the list.  I gave it a 3.


                
Memento started out well, I was enthralled for the first twenty minutes. The next twenty minutes I found ok, the twenty minutes after that I started to get bored and after that I just wanted the film to end.  No I did not get the ending before the end reel but by that time I didn't care, it had turned into a matter of wills, which would break first my will to watch the film or my will to say to a friend that this was the most boring piece of s*** I have seen in ages and could he please turn it off.  The former won, but I felt tha I had wasted two hours of my life which I cannot now get back. If you want a film with a good plot twist watch The Usual Suspects, if you want to watch a film and then be able to say well I'm a real fan watch Memento. Watching Memento and saying it is wonderful isn't a case of watching interlectual film its a case of thinking you are watching a interlectual film, whilst in fact you are watching second rate tat which isn't smart or clever.


                
A very manipulative movie that constantly tries to fool the audience.  It runs in reverse, but only halfway up the story line where everything that went before is called into question.  The director is a David Lynch wannabe, but the expostion is SLOW and BORING.


                
My friends had raved so about this one, I was expecting depth, intricacy, and brilliance.  Instead, this played like a contrived derivation of an old Alfred Hitchcock episode that starred John Forsythe with a dash of Mr. Buddwing and a pinch of Wait Until Dark thrown in for good measure.  # 14 movie of all time !?! -- someone is playing a joke -- right?


                
Man am I going to lose some "artistic" cred here. The formula is very well done, and totally apt to the condition portrayed by our main character. It is a very interesting story and well told by Nolan and the entire cast. Yes I'm aware of all of that, and based upon all of those things "Memento" was brilliant. That being said, I didn't enjoy watching this movie. After being interested for about the first 5 minutes, I lapsed into waiting for the story to progress. It never did. I don't see how anyone could pull off this type of "pacing" any better than Momento, the problem is I don't see how the pacing of this story can be good either. It's not the fault of anyone involved, I just couldn't stand constantly receiving the same information over and over. I already know this, I don't care that the main character does not. It could not have been put together any better than it was, but it just kept frustrating me over and over. Every single second of the movie is spent re-hashing information about the movie that the movie has already established. And I don't think that's even possible. The entire film I was thinking "movie, show me something we don't already know." And it never did.


                
This was OK, I suppose-but I'm glad I rented it from the library and didn't actually pay money to watch it. It wasn't the worst movie ever, but it just was not very good, in my opinion. Instead of trying to tell a story, the film jumps around with time which can be confusing unless you're paying close attention. I actually thought it was a clever way to go, but they just overdid it to death. By the time it was over, I didn't much care about the plot twist at the end. The jumping around made it less interesting to me.Overall, it was OK I guess, but it lacked something. This was a good idea that could have been a great movie, but it was fumbled. There were holes in the plot and a few things that just didn't make sense to me.


                
You see the ending, and then have to wade through the rest of the movie, as it is told in scenes that are presented in reverse order, to see if the ending was a good thing, or a bad thing.  I had that figured out as the opening credits were rolling.  I didn't find the story at all interesting, I knew how it ended, it was just a matter of seeing how we got there... it didn't work for me.Also, I found the guys affliction very odd.  I've never heard of such an extreme memory problem.  I also kept asking myself if a person with this problem could function well enough to leave himself notes, and to tatoo himself with notes, and go on this quest, would he be going around with no one to help him a little... he knows that eventually he will be lost again, except for his notes.  I didn't buy it.  Too odd... too silly.


                
My take, omg i don't know wtf this movies about. It lost me at the end. What if teddy ended up being the murderer and like the guy he was chasing the cop. May be solve the problem with the non-sequential themes. Harder to read then a frank miller comic book without the rest of the series imho.These are one of those movies that could be good, if they do it right. Is there a book or guide to this movie? The reason why it failed is because in my book the characters got all mixed up. They lost coordination on how to make the movie interesting. If you were to watch 12 monkeys, it would be interesting because the key points, if you watch pulp fiction it would be interesting. This movie would be an interesting comic orientated mobster movie thriller full of suspense or thought provoking if they didn't add sooo many characters. Jesus, who is the guy at the end?!? Why isn't Teddy the killer? I figured the doctor was in his position as an amnesiac, okay. But umm did he just fly into France from Hollywood is my question. The movie is way too thought provoking with too many characters, and some people don't have the time to watch a guy try and remember something until the quarter end of the movie where it takes a back seat in interest. Its as if the user is tricked into actually liking the movie. Horrible. TBH no one would care about a throw in character who is suddenly the killer of his wife, who is now....alive. Whom he kills cus hes an idiot. Okay. Maybe they grew old together. Makes sense, except it would be more interesting if i knew his wife was diabetic, and he kills his wife while in the hospital after the accident. Maybe he could have killed his wife, or maybe he could have had like a son or daughter instead whom he killed. Maybe his wife should have survived and his daughter was the unfortunate casualty. Maybe he went to the town of his killer and made friends with the residence, true...okay but then his killer shows up and the guy he was chasing or chasing him is out of the picture. I would expect even, teddy to actually be lying, while the guy he was chasing be a cop. Sure, throw in the obvious...but what if teddy had a motive to kill him at the end. What if teddy was insured and had him kill the cop, whom he finally realized he killed. What if Teddy was the 'second' guy. Maybe cripple his mind a little psychologically. Was the movie trying to be like funny or something? I don't think so. I like the mood of the film though, it was very light so they went in that direction but i would like to see a light funny comedy thriller with dark humor, very artsy makes you feel really small in a big world. Except this comedy thriller needs murder, it just does..and lots of it. Good idea, not so good outcome. What exactly were they trying to do here is my question. Need's work.


                
How is this film rated one of the greatest of all time? It boggles the mind! The only good thing about this movie is the acting of Guy Pearce. He gives a terrific performance as the amnesia-stricken lead character. I believe this film is ranked so high because it was completely different than anything anyone had seen before. That being said, just because it was different doesn't mean it was good. I found the film boring and repetitive to the point where I became disinterested. I would not recommend viewing this film unless you are looking for something different. But remember, different isn't always good.My rating : @ 1/2 (out of five)


                
The story of two different characters who lose their memory and have no recollection of the previous day each time they wake. Our hero, Pearce, survives by taking notes on the back of polaroids and tatooing important facts on his body. The story is well told and Pearce and the rest of the cast do OK, but basically this is only a 1/2 hour Twilight Zone that would have been better if Rod Sterling had produced it.Save your money and wait until this hits Showtime or HBO.


                
Memento is an original idea in filmmaking, but it doesn't provide a satisfying end.  The story builds up to a point where the audience is expecting a major climax, but it never happens.  That lack of a finale makes the journey much less rewarding in hindsight.  5 out of 10 stars.


                
I just don't know.  I was energized by all the hype for this film.  I found it rather flat and somewhat predictable.  And, I must admit, I fell asleep at least twice - thank God for DVD and I was able to replay it.I understood to a point and agree that going "backwards" and challenging the audience is interesting and at least new to me.  However, this would have been better as a comedy - in the vain of "Groundhog Day" than it is as a serious piece of film making.Guy Pierce is excellent as the man looking for his wife's killer.  His intensity was about the only reason I was able to get through the film. Good supporting cast as well.Memento is not a "spectator" film.  You must watch everything and suspect everything.  Perhaps another time I will rewatch this endeavor and maybe understand it.Good luck to others who are considering seeing this and make sure you are fully awake - watch everything.3/10 for Guy Pierce and supporting cast.


                
In India, one of the top Bollywood super stars Khan <U+0096> Amir Khan is making a movie. We hear that he is very choosy, selective and does lots of discussion with the Director of the movie before saying YES. So when he said yes to act in a movie everyone got interested and we knew that he is re-making a Tamil version of a movie called Ghajini in Hindi for national release. While reading the story of Ghajini, I remembered that this story is something I have seen. I thought for a while and realized that during one of my International flights I saw a movie (and felt asleep half way) with same story line. So researching on the web <U+0096> I found that the story on which Ghajini is made is Memento. That is when I decided to give Memento another shot, determined not to sleep this time during the viewing.The story is about a man Leonard (Guy Pearce) whose wife (Jorja Fox) is killed and due to the fight with the killer Teddy (Joe Pantoliano), Leonard looses his short term memory. Leonard remembers every event till his wife was alive, but after that his memory captures only events for 12 seconds maximum. To remember that he has to take revenge for his wife's murder <U+0096> he has tattooed all over his body the events and facts, and he keeps taking photographs and writes lots of paper notes to remember what he has to do, where he has go etc. That is the way Leonard takes the revenge and kills his wife's killer.It is a typical revenge story. What makes people interested are two things <U+0096> the concept of 12 seconds memory thrown in and the story is told backwards by the Director Christopher Nolao; meaning the movie starts with the killing of the murderer, and it goes backwards to the scene when wife was killed. This I think is the unique selling point of the movie.The Director must have really spent a huge amount of time and energy in scripting this unique concept. Why one should say the story backwards is a question I still am not able to figure out. For what purpose and sake <U+0096> just for experimentation, just to show that yes a story can be told in this fashion too? I suppose YES. Earlier we have seen many movies of the same genre where the episodes are juggled and presented to the audience, and only through the last episode the real mystery is uncovered. But does Director Christopher succeed in this experiment? Yes <U+0096> in getting audience interested in the concept, and yes in getting nominated for Oscars for best scripts and editing.As I told earlier <U+0096> during the first viewing I fell asleep, because I could not make head or tail of this movie. My second viewing, I forced myself to see it through the 113 minutes. I saw it. As the movie is presented in reverse, I viewed the movie twice in reverse to get hold of the story better. I must have spent about 250 minutes viewing this movie again and again from all possible ways. My verdict is the movie is badly made because: The director even though experiments with a new concept, but fails to hold interest of the audience. All the actors have acted with stoned faced expressions. The love scenes between Guy Pearce and Carrie Anne Moss (another woman Natalie <U+0096> who helps him) are too irritating, distracting, clichéd and unnecessary for the flow of the movie. The direction <U+0096> apart from the reverse presentation is very poor.The biggest flaw is that it thinks that the audience is stupid and fool. I could not understand when this hero is not able to remember anything more than 12 seconds how come he figures out that he has kept the notes and photographs in his pockets? Every time he pulls them out <U+0096> how his memory works then? The story seems to be said lasting two days in total, during which time <U+0096> he solves the mystery and kills the murderer. What happened between the accident and that two days? How many days have gone by? I saw the movie backwards too. The precision with which he solves the mystery and leads up to the killer is so simple and like child's play <U+0096> one thing leading to another. The director says that the police don't believe in the hero analysis and thus have not helped him. The efficiency and confidence with which the hero analyzes and corrects his notes is laughable. How he knows what he wrote earlier was false, just because someone has just said the opposite? Could be the person who just gave him the facts <U+0096> must be telling lies. No questions asked <U+0096> just a big gimmick by the Director Christopher <U+0096> who wants to prove a point that he too can make an intelligent movie.But according to me he has failed miserably. I would like to give this movie a zero rating out of 10 just to bring it out of the number 28 slot on IMDb database, but because of this unique concept and attempt I have to give him<U+0085> (Stars 3 out of 10)


                
I don't know...for some reason I just didn't like this movie. A bunch of my friends had said thati it was really good and messed with your head and everything and came out at a time when I really respected M. Night Shayamalan (he said this was probably one of his favorite films). So I got the DVD and I watched it and was just bored to death. Sure, the acting was okay and the story was good, but the direction just went nowhere and the minutes seemed to drag on.And then there was one thing that really brought it down for me. The "I don't remember anything before the night my wife died." If he doesn't remember anything before his wife died, how does he remember that he has a condition. Something that Quentin Tarantino pointed out.This movie just never ticked me with. I found it too slow and too drawn out, like Christopher Nolan was wanting you the get it instead of messing with your head (like the repetitive scenes where Lenny meets the girl and Teddy keeps saying hello). But that's just my opinion and I think you should just judge this movie for yourself like you should judge anything.


                
Yes, Another MESS of a film starring Guy Pierce (The Man of One Faces). This film is totally predictable and it borrows from 10,000 film plots before it. I'm slowly losing faith in IMDB viewers...to put this anywhere near the Top Ten of 250 films of all time is a total disgrace. This website is slowly losing credibility because of mindless 20 somethings. Don't waste your time on this film. Do laundry or give the dog a bath.


                
Within the first 10 minutes, this film had me hooked.  I immediately understood the reason for the choppy 1-step forward, 2-steps back modus operandi of this film.  They are successfully recreating Lenny's condition (Guy Pearce) and immersing the audience in it.However, this proves too good to be true for the director, who promptly allowed the ending to crumble, and left the very ending wide open, which is nice in a normal film like Castaway, where you want to leave the viewer with some nice possible outcomes after the main conflict of the film is already resolved, but KILLS the movie when you leave the conflict of the movie not only unresolved but unexposed!


                
This is not a bad movie, don't let the 3* fool you. Memento is just a movie that takes itself way too seriously and i know Nolan intended to make it a smart one much like he did inception and interstellar afterwards, but therein lies the problem : there is a magnanimous difference between being smart and therefore sounding smart and trying to sound smart therefore sounding like a damp confusing mess. Memento unfortunately falls into the latter category. and dont be fooled by being confused the movie hasnt outsmarted you, it is a vague series of events going both backwards and forwards simultaneously thus rightfully confusing you if you even attempt to get invested or even care enough to try and understand it, i have watched this movie. All of it. i left the cinema thinking to myself "What did i get out of this movie ?" the answer was "Absolutely nothing" just a waste of a valuable 113 minutes of my life. Do something better with these 113 minutes...


                
I wanted to like it. No, I really, REALLY wanted to like it. I was eager to see how the main character's condition was represented. And I will say the approach was unique. But not in an especially good way, as it became wearying to the point of apathy -- I stopped caring what had really happened, the kiss of death in what should have been a psychological thriller. I like Carrie Moss as an actress, but her character in this film was uninteresting -- I stopped caring about her. I also really like Joey Pants as well, but as good as his performance was, even he couldn't make the movie worth it. After struggling to keep watching the movie, overall I found it trite, unsatisfying, and not worth the time spent. When you find yourself "tuning out" from a psychological thriller, because you don't really care what happened or will happen to the characters, the point of the movie is lost.


                
Enjoyed this flick.Interesting technically, as been told backwards.And also of course the main protagonist's strange "condition" Even though the film overall works pretty well but I wouldn't go out of my way to watch it again just to find out what really happened or maybe i will.The story and charactersare very compelling.Clever technique, good story, good performances! Very original! very twisty.A gem!


                
