After seeing how many people loved this flick, I am surprised.  I guess you should be wide awake and completely alert to watch it.  I was tired and I could not wait for this movie to end.  It left too many questions unanswered at the end.  I will admit that it was an interesting way to film a thriller.


                
Very little substance in this movie, with the gimmick (very well done) of telling the story in non-continuous sequences and almost in reverse order. But it is a frustrating and non-rewarding movie that cheats the audience at every step:  a fictitious illness, characters that do things more to startle the audience rather than for a realistic reason, and an ending that is way too predictable and really silly at the same time. Basically, if you told the movie in a normal fashion, it would show more holes than a certain cheese I am fond of.


                
This is nothing special and I find it hard to accept the high voting for this film. The ending is so unspectacular and a huge anti-climax. With the excessive amount of time-shifting with scenes not shown in chronological order - it just overly confuses and irritates. Pulp Fiction for example did a much better job of this, but here scenes were all over the place and made the film difficult to follow. I stuck with it thinking that the ending will make sense of it all and will be worth the wait- but that turned out be very disappointing. Yes it has some clever moments in it but one viewing was enough for me-the film just doesn't interest to justify watching it again.


                
When I saw Memento in theatres I left feeling numb. The film did absolutely nothing for me---in fact, I found it intensely awful. Hearing so many positive things about the film and taken by the possibility that it might've been my mood, I decided to revisit it when it appeared on my movie cable channel. I found myself appreciating Mr. Nolan's directing more at home, and Mr. Pearce's performance stood out the second time around. What remained the same, however, was the complete lack of interest I had in the story. It seems Mr. Nolan was so pleased with the gimmick he had that there was little atttention paid to generating suspense and creating involving and/or compelling characters. There were moments at home when I was entertained by the film, but I was never fully interested in it. If I really want to watch a reverse chronology film I'll take "The Betrayal" over this any day. My rating: 2/5Sidenote: I look forward to Insomnia, however, if only because I know that one will have an interesting story.


                
Let me put this straight: This movie is simply boring. It is different from other movies and it does have a plot twist but it failed to hold my attention so when the plot twist was revealed, I didn't even bother to care anymore. The storyline is stupid, I don't understand why many people here say it's clever and entertaining, to me it's so so so boring, repetitive and pretentious to the point that I kept wondering: "what is the point of all this when we all know the protagonist's final action already?" Oh and talking about the protagonist. He is an incredibly unbelievable character, at the beginning I thought he was supposed to be funny but after that when I realized he was pretty serious about his "condition" and all the vengeance thing I lost interest and couldn't care less. The movie is only 1 and a half hour long yet the number of times I yawned while watching it was countless.


                
Fragmented, disjointed, unsequential story and screenplay, is innovative and certainly attention-getting, but ultimately mutes the emotional impact of film.  Too few moments when the viewers here could connect, possibly because you have to work so hard continuously to figure out what is going on.  An intricate cerebral puzzle but without passion.


                
Since I've started watching and reviewing movies, I was searching for innovation and fantastically. What then happened, it proved actually that my theory about British directors have stile, been wrong. That was when I saw Memento<U+0085> At first, I found it unusual that the film begins extremely violent, do even the most controversial films ever made, like Cannibal Holocaust, or (what's more possible that this film is a copy of that movie) Pulp Fiction, don't begin by killing people, by showing how they die. Its true that's a shock for the audience and that they will stay to see the movie, but the next move, was so unprofessional, like he did never get a video camera in his hands. He broke the main rule, of every filmmaker that ever broke a rule. He tortured the audience by showing too many flashbacks. The rule, of every film is not to do a same thing more then 3 times<U+0085> or 7 times but not at once. Even if you look at Pulp fiction, it's got not less then 7, yeah, seven my friends, seven! Memento's got 22 jumps. A man, a normal human, looses every wish to see a thing if you have repeated something more then 11 times. I'm somehow surprised that it became a success. I have nothing against the actors, because Nolan chooses quite well actors. What I'm really mad, are the characters<U+0085> In every Nolan movie! The characters are mean, evil, stupid<U+0085> I mean, you don't have to think in Nolan's movies, they tell you anything at the end, so you have to just watch the end, cause anything else it for throwing away: the horrible music, poor characters and no style directing, only some trademarks, but nothing else. But let's go back to Memento<U+0085> You may have notice that the characters are changing, but from good up to evil. This lends realism, that's for sure, but it does not automatically made a great feature. Some of you would probably say that a man gets rotten, because the society wont help him with his problem, but that's not the case in Memento. Leo's the guy who actually killed the only person, who was ever kind to him, and understood his problem, Teddy, what makes Leonard a guy, who doesn't want any help from anyone which turns his character not into a anti hero, but more a antagonist: he has no purpose, he doesn't want any help, he loves nobody<U+0085> a villain. Finally, some of you might think that I'm only writhing bad reviews all the time, but true's that I love much worse movies and writhe reviews that show how charming films are. I even see something positive in Michael Bays films, but this film doesn't have a place at IMDb top 250.I'll give this film a rating 5.6 out-ha 10.0, cause I still think that the idea to have a whole film going backwards nice. As well the actors are pretty good, and its not easy to forget such a film, but its nothing special or innovative. Its mean, evil, not well directed and overrated<U+0085>
having been given recommendations from friends to watch this film, i duly booked a night in to watch it. what a mistake. i believe this is the most over-rated film in history. ok, the film was original yes. but entertaining? no, not in the slightest. even after watching it on another 2 occasions, my views haven't changed.!


                
But not as clever as others have made out. The first hour is confusing, its supposed to be. The whole point of this film is to keep you guessing until the final scene where the whole thing comes together. I just thought that the final revelation wasn't that mind-blowing and a bit disappointing. One other point that I didn't think was too realistic was how quickly everybody around the main character accepted and adapted to his condition in order to exploit him.All in all its a good film with excellent performances from Pearce and Moss and is different to anything else I've ever seen - 7/10.


                
I think that the people who gave this a decent vote must have been watching the wrong film. May I suggest you go back and have another look. If they told this story fowards it would have received about 3.0 and although it may be "clever" to tell the story in this backwards forwards whatever format I think the film would have benefitted greatly from being set in space or possibly under the sea.


                
Phew, what a ride! A stunning piece of art! Or maybe not. You don't need any substance, just make some clever surprises, and the mediocre pepsi-drinkers think it's brilliant. Maybe some good entertainment in a hangover, but not worth watching another time, which is a good reason enough to say: Memento is NOT a masterpiece, just a somewhat handy and therefore empty piece of postmodern dullness.Why is it that movies get so easily attention by shallow tricks? In the beginning I thought that Memento might have some levels, but the feeling of mystery involved can all be reduced to the plot, not to the theme, which is just some insignificant decoration on filmmakers' intellectual masturbation, not like in Donnie Darko, for example, in which the complex elements are related to some content.All I'm saying, not a terrible movie, but you gotta be kidding saying it's "highly intellectual" or a "masterpiece". Unless you are uneducated or just dull.


                
This movie is waaaaaayyyy too confusing to even be considered one of the best of all time. Guy Pearce is super in it and the acting is wonderful. I like the idea and the concept of telling the story is pretty original. But wow!!! What a bummer ending. It works up all this suspense and intrigue and you find out, the story we saw was for nothing???? I don't mind not knowing everything, but not knowing anything???? Not acceptable. I didn't like it and call me stupid, but after being intrigued and following along the whole time, the ending is just too stupid. At one point, I was just ready to get the movie over with. Not something a movie should want me to do. There is some entertainment value, but at some point, it becomes too complicated to even really care. That's how I felt. This movie is pretty overrated for where it is in the standings. It's half-way decent, and DEFINITELY NOT ONE OF THE 20 BEST FILMS EVER MADE!!!! Go see the Usual Suspects instead.


                
I was recommended this film by someone whose opinion I value. Perhaps consequently my expectations were too high and I was left just feeling disappointed.The positive thing about the film is that it did give an insight into how confusing life must be with this kind of short-term memory disorder - but so what?, is that supposed to be entertainment?It's a novel approach to show the ending of a film first and then work backwards but it made the (otherwise very simple) plot overly complicated and more like a memory-test puzzle than a film.The acting was good enough but I think that overall this film is greatly overrated - how on earth did it get in the ImDB top 10?Algis Kuliukas


                
Perhaps since the storytelling technique - unfolding things backwards - didn't knock my proverbial socks off, I'm not terribly impressed with the movie as a whole. I did like it, and it was an enjoyable film, but in its self-imposed restriction of only allowing the audience to know as much as Leonard it becomes victim to that restriction. Some reviews here have mentioned good characterizations, yet I think that despite very good efforts by the performers, there was no room for character development because of the very limits the movie imposes on itself. Its greatest achievement is in leading the audience to believe that what Leonard knows - what Leonard holds as "certainties" - are all true.MEMENTO is good, and worth seeing. I just feel that its own narrative rules, clever as they may be, prevent it from the "fleshing out" that it seems to need.


                
This movie's strength is that it keeps your attention, trying to figure out just what the heck is going on.  It's well made, but suffers mainly from being too cryptic.  I'm not a stupid person, but I can't imagine anyone with an IQ of only 100 being able to figure out what's going on and therefore to enjoy it.  (I'm sure the viewers who gave it a "10" will be duly flattered.) By the time the movie ends, you have a wonderful idea of what it must be like to lack short-term memory -- the director and editor did an outstanding job here -- but as a viewer you are still owed a denouement, and what you get isn't complete; there are yet a few unresolved facts that gnaw at you. Furthermore, the plot is grisly.  A person with the protagonist's problem could be pursuing an entirely different quest.  Which gets me to the last point:  the scenes of violence were more gratuitous than necessary; they didn't strengthen the plot.  If you really like to work hard while watching a movie, or if you enjoy something out of the mainstream, this one's for you.  It's "out there".


                
I finally watched this after years of hearing how great it is. I've come to the conclusion that the only reason this movie is filmed "backwards" so to speak, is because in chronological order it would be even more boring. No action, no suspense, nothing. I get the movie, but I don't get the hype.


                
*Tiny unspoilers within*No, it's not a dig aimed at the formerly great MGM, I talk of Memento. Intelligent film making? Perhaps. An intelligent film? I think not! In this post Tarantino age of cinema this is what passes for a masterpiece, god help us! It was Tarantino's Pulp Fiction that sparked this brave new age of cinema we are currently suffering, the age of mediocre is the new good. It is so fitting that the so called benchmark for film making in the 21st century should be the personification of style over substance. In fact there is hardly anything worth extracting from this self congratulatory thriller other than the over stylized imagery and technical wizardry on show. This film is stone cold, a lifeless film made purely for your aesthetic pleasure.The premise for the film IS intriguing, the director provided himself remarkable scope in which to create a fantastically gripping thriller by virtue of the protagonist's 'condition' combined with a muddled take on the old reverse narrative. This allowed him the chance to chop up the plot and deliver the punch line from each segment first then show us the events leading up to that point. This is fascinating the first couple of times, but by the 4th I was thinking "wow, that's getting old fast" by the 8th time I just wanted the punishment to stop. The narrative device is purely and simply a clever gimmick, and one that is clearly wasted on such a banal story. The argument has been used that the connect the dots narrative structure is the only thing that makes it intriguing. Heck, so what? It is possible to take a half decent plot and spin gold from straw with the right narrative structure. Not here though, even told in reverse it had no worth in my eyes because the plot is beyond redemption. A thriller should be thrilling, this film is snail paced and instead of being intriguing the narrative structure quickly begins to resemble someone desperately trying to draw blood from a stone, futile. Further more a thriller or drama should have interesting characters and a bit of intrigue. The plot was not captivating, the situation was not captivating, the characters were not captivating and I did not care about them, especially not Lenny and his questionable motives.There is not one good character in this film, not surprising since the actors don't have any challenging dialog to work with. Also they look like they were sleepwalking through filming, only Pantoliano attempts to bring anything resembling life to this turkey. I can almost forgive Pearce as he is playing a vengeful, obsessive psycho, and he has no short term memory so he might well have zero personality or emotion for good reason. However Moss' character is simply a horrible film noir cliché, the femme fetale, and she performs the role with no style whatsoever, perhaps because she has little work with. All she is required to do is look moody and menacing and be a bitch. Please, can nobody come up with good characters these days? The effect is not good at all, I felt these characters and the swiss cheese style excuse for a thriller/drama were spat out as the appendix for a Nolan master class in technical magic and whiz bang editing. The cast are rendered pointless by a senseless plot that only exists to be manipulated and rearranged to display the fact you can take a terrible story, mix it up beyond recognition and somehow disguise it as some sort of epiphany, a la Pulp Fiction.Then the ending (sorry beginning?) was just the icing on this grotesquely elaborate cake, I don't want to totally spoil it for those who have not seen it as the surprise of having your head deflated in disappointment is one not to be spoiled. It's suffice to say the preceding events were rendered even more senseless by the anticlimactic conclusion, I had not seen an ending this whiffy since Fight Club (later bettered by Mulholland Drive). I was left apathetic and cold by the conclusion to this 'riddle' that seemingly offered two possibilities, neither of which would validate the rest of the miserable excuse for a film. Why? Because I didn't care! Memento (and it's message) is like ouroboros in the most literal sense - circular, self contained, endless and ultimately pointless. Forgive my apparent artistic blindness, I DO appreciate creativity and inventiveness, my message to Mr Nolan and his peers would be "please use it to INVENT a decent story!" In reflection, perhaps the most annoying thing isn't that Memento is so mediocre in every way, it's the fact that it has been so widely regarded as a great film, much like the two putrid films that it rooted from - Fight Club and Pulp Fiction. I don't know, my friends say I am a cynic and the harshest of harsh critics, well I simply say I am just reflecting on a harsh and cynical world that thrives on misery and depression like they are going out of fashion. With the rapid development of special effects, filming equipment and creativity in cinema it's easy to look back on the 'golden eras' of cinema and chuckle at the technical integrity and naive world view of some of the oldies. However it almost makes me want to shed a tear that cinema has come such a long way technically but sadly seems to have lost the values that used to be at it's heart. Films used to tell stories, they used to have REAL characters and had soul and substance. Now I look at the 'classics' of todays material world - films like Pulp Fiction, Memento, American Beauty and Fight Club and I see nothing but hate, cynicism, sharp emotionless dialog, 2 dimensional characters and most importantly style over everything else, a sad but accurate reflection of the age we live in? Indeed.
This film is a work of art on self-delusion. But not the self-delusion of the main character but the self-delusion of viewers and critics that praise this movie as the new Citizen Kane!! My respects Mr· Nolan! You managed to make thousands to believe they watched an artistic, complex and challenging film out of a simplistic, boring, really boring! gimmick that just edits a story backwards.If the film would show the story in order the "mystery" disappears, hence the gimmick. I recognize the edition and the acting, that's why I don't rate it lower. But good edition or good acting don't mean good films. What about cinematography as such? What about the viewing experience? What about thought provoking craft? Complexity and pleasure don't come from just toying in the edition room. But apparently many people was framed to believed so. My respects Mr. Nolan.


                
I have read so many positive reviews about Memento being great and surprising. First 60 minutes didn´t lure me into the story,I thought it was boring. After the 60 minutes, the plot became slighty interesting, but it was too late. The climax isn´t interesting, actually I wasn´t even interested how the movie would end. The cast is excellent and it was one of the reasons, that kept me awake through this boring movie. I give MEMENTO 4 points out of 10 (** out of *****).


                
Maybe this film is, as others have stated,  trying to give us the experience of being Leonard rather than just observing him, so we end up being just as confused and frustrated as he is, for that I can give it allot of credit, I know of no other film that attempts to give you the experience of the main character in such a literal way, but this of itself does not make a great movie. Solving an involved math equation might be a better time. There has to be some character development, these characters never become interesting and the motivation of the main character for revenge seems shallow and becomes boring quickly. Everything seems to ride on weather Teddy is telling the truth or not. This is never reveled and so everything is open to speculation. Probably one of the best films ever concocted for the purpose of  discussing endlessly afterward and for multiple viewing.  A plot that you care about would help allot here. I could appreciate the cleverness of it all if the story was more of a hook.  Leonard thinks revenge will give him peace? Even though he'll never remember it? All he remembers is his life up to "the event" but is able to remember he has short term memory loss? It seems this film is trying too hard to be something "original" and "creative" and comes of more like an exam puzzle and is seriously lacking a soul.


                
Perhaps this film's success will signal the transition of film from a medium of words to a medium of pictures, but that doesn't mean i have to approve.  The problem with Memento is that the film shown backwards (ie without the gimmick) would not be watchable.  The plot develops at a slow pace, the dialogue is riddled with ughs, every time Guy says he has a "disability" as an example (South Park speaks more intelligently about the topic).  The acting is flat, which i think could be attributed to the filming process during which the actors have said they weren't told much about their roles.  The film is mostly predictible, barring plot twists which seldom make sense due to the backwardity. One thing that this film proves even moreso than The Limey (a better, if average, movie) is that editing counts. Another thing this movie proves, except this time by bad example, MUSIC counts.  The score in Memento is typical pad swells and synth strings, it only hinders a film which would be much more riveting with no music (or perhaps some odd backwards soundscapes). While the directer immerses you in the world of the amnesiac, it's not a world worth inhabiting, as nothing is really happening.  Memento is sort of like throwing a party but spending all your money on the band and not being able to afford invitations.  It's just you sitting alone, enjoying the show of your life (the editing), but wondering why you bothered. 6 of 10


                
Watch this movie only if you absolutely have nothing better to do for two hours. The storyline contains an interesting idea but is portrayed in a boring predictable manner. The characters are as dull as the writing. I found it near impossible to relate to any of the characters as they are flat and emotionless, it felt like I wasn't even watching real people. I was disappointed in Guy Pearce's performance and a little surprised that Joe Pantoliano's character was the best part of this movie but it was not enough to make it a good film. I feel like the movie had to run in reverse otherwise it wouldn't be worth watching at all. The stability of the plot is constantly contradicting its self and is at times way over complicated. The flashbacks and narration really seem to distract from the story, not that it's that believable anyway with its lack of continuity. Since the events play out in reverse you already know what is going to happen and that completely eliminates any suspense. I believe with a better script and character development this movie could have been a lot better. I personally enjoyed the short story much better and wish the movie was more like the that. Definitely read the short story.


                
This movie has been 'sliced and diced' so that it is confusing and hard to follow.  The last five minutes does little to bring this abstract video into focus.  The movies subject matter, dealing with short term memory loss, only made me wish I was suffering from that malady when I left the theatre and could forget the whole flick.


                
Reviewer "lasher42" rates this film 10/10. Always suspicious of 8/10, 9/10 and especially 10/10 ratings for so-so movies, I checked the history of "lasher42" and find that he/she has REVIEWED a total of only TWO motion pictures !! 
A joke. And he/she spells SCENE as SEEN. Hmmm. 
So WHY did he/she rate this film 10/10 ? A cast member? A crew member? 
A friend or relative of a cast or crew member? I don't know, but I am growing more and more teed-off at such "reviewers". A waste of time. Are they kids? 
This is a so-so movie. I rate it 4/10 as it is not particulary well-acted or well-directed and the story is somewhat lame. The cinematography is OK.
This film must be getting so much hype and praise because it's a somewhat interesting experiment in form, starting at the chronological end and then jumping backwards in time about six minutes after every three minutes that passes. This device is intriguing, and was enough to keep my interest for the first fifteen minutes or so. But once I realized that it wasn't going to stop until the movie was over, I began to go slowly insane.
Also, the structure implicitly asks you to take it for granted that when you reach to the end, everything is going to make sense in terms of character and motivation. Without going into any details, let me just tell you that it doesn't. The acting was good, and the writing, in terms of dialogue, was competent. And there were a few good moments that made use of the memory-loss theme effectively. But in general, I think that history will find this movie little more than a mostly-failed exploration in form.


                
