"Memento" is a sleaze-ball suspense movie with a twist. As if you don't know it yet, the scenes are played all jumbled and out of order.What could have turned into just a nasty trick on the viewer is actually very well-done here. You see things from the perspective of our main character who suffers from a bizarre memory loss condition. Rather than explain the plot, I will just say that if you plan on watching this movie just once, get ready to change your plans. You will need to watch it twice to fully GET it. It moves too fast for the viewer and by the time it's over you will tell yourself that you GET it, but you don't.To those who say there are no holes in this film I scoff at you. Why does Leonard have no memory loss in the murder sequence? He remembers long enough to drive all the way to that abandoned building and then wait for the murderer. In other scenes, he forgets what he is doing after two minutes. Maybe he is just psychotic and made the whole condition up in his mind to excuse a rampage? The hypotheses are endless. Personally, I'd rather watch a movie that just makes sense on it's own and no matter what you say, this one doesn't. "Memento" tries to do what "Pulp Fiction" did but takes itself way too seriously. The viewers are treated to a narrative from the character Teddy at the end when he has to explain the situation to Leonard thus explaining the movie to us. Kind of cheap, Nolan.One thing is for sure: Guy Pearce is one of the best actors alive.7 out of 10, kids.


                
The majority of people on this comments board attribute this film's success to its very original editing style. The film is built upon this style, showing you a present-time snippet of the main character which leaves you wondering about why he got there and what he's doing. The film then continues showing you a snippet of the immediate preceding past of the main character, and so on backwards in time helping you understand the beginning of the film. That's where the movie's originality stops. The plot itself is filled with huge holes. While the premise is interesting, it is hardly plausible that someone with no short-term memory would not be 'assisted' by society in any way, nor that he could not have a notebook handcuffed to him or something rather than all the tattoos. I found the movie rather predictable and did not really care about the movie after about halfway through.Still, an interesting and innovative movie-making style with a neat, if unplausible, situation for the main character. This coupled with sometimes very unconvincing acting by the main actor (although it is a hard role, he never really pulls it off) and a wholly boring plot earns this movie a 7 in my book.If you want to see a real whodunnit type movie that will haunt you for a long time to come, try Thesis by Spanish director Almenabar which I saw last night and save Memento for a day you want to study film rather than enjoy it.


                
This 2000 crime thriller stars Guy Pierce, Carrie-Anne Moss and Joe Pantoliano. This focuses on businessman, Leonard (Pierce) who has short-term memory loss. He tries to figure out who murdered his wife by writing clues or tattooing them on his body. Moss (The Matrix) plays bartender, Natalie and Pantoliano (The Fugitive) plays undercover cop, Teddy. This is a good flick with a good cast I recommend.
Some people just can't take the reality as a whole. They make some extra details to make their bitter past less bitter. It is ironic how Lenny told us that memories doesn't lead to the truth, hand writings and facts do. But his memories alternate his own hand writings and facts. He manipulates himself and cause him lives of people. I do think he doesn't kill his own wife as he loved her very much. But was it the right John G that he killed? Some people just create memories to make their life more meaningful like Lenny did.
This film is essentially an exercise in non-linear narrative- not that that's a completely bad thing. Having been told that this was one of 'the best films of all the time', and 'brilliantly written', I was disappointed when i watched it, especially towards the end. I enjoyed watching the film however as it is a tricky and entertaining puzzle to solve. This is a good viewing experience, and a good starting point for Nolan who went on to make some solid films.
First and foremost I'd say to anyone going into this film blind, do not come in thinking you're in for simple linear narrative with a clear start and end point; it's one of those films that can will never be easily explained, the narrative is just that complex.The film follows a man named Leonard or "Lenny" with after an accident now lives with extremely short term memory. This characteristic is the very foundation of the film because we as the audience follow Lenny from start to finish, we know everything he knows, we learn everything he learns. However just as we learn everything Lenny does, Lenny is unable to remember the new information which adds good layer of intrigue and mystery as to how the film will end.The narrative as I've mentioned before is non-linear, the events as we see them are not chronological for the most part. The only scenes that actually run in chronological order are the series of black and white scenes that incorporate flashbacks providing additional plot points. The scenes in colour play backward in contrast to the black and white scenes in what Christopher Nolan (the director) describes as a hairpin narrative where the narrative loops on itself and the true end point lies around the middle of the story.As my summary suggests Memento had me confused for the large majority of the run time, what with the unconventional narrative structure and the slight frustration I felt as Lenny's memory issues proved to be his greatest weakness amidst everything and everyone around him. However the overall mystery of the film kept me engaged from start to finish, although the conclusion may leave some (as it did with me) with an anti-climactic feeling due to how Memento resolves its plot threads. Despite this Memento is still gripping from start to end and I'd highly recommend checking it out, especially for those interested in more unconventional and experimental storytelling.
Huh? Talk about an unreliable score for a film! Unfortunately, IMDb is very, very, very skewed by recent movies. So many older great films have very few reviews or have generally lower scores--not because they are worse than newer films, but because there is a bias against older films because SOME reviewers are teens or people who simply won't consider anything that was not made in the last decade or so. Likewise, there is often a strong bias only for Hollywood blockbusters, even though many foreign or "small" films deserve recognition but are ignored because people just refuse to try something outside their comfort zone. This is a real shame, as there is just so much more out there. While MEMENTO is a decent and very unconventional film (I sure respect them for trying something DIFFERENT), it isn't great when viewed in context.Okay, so you may think I am just some crazy crank who is totally negative! Well, this might be true (the verdict is still out), but of the IMDb top 250, over 30% were made just in the last two decades. Also, films like THE WALLACE AND GROMIT movie, MAGNOLIA, FINDING NEVERLAND and V FOR VENDETTA make the top 250 and yet films like MARTY, THE CHILDREN ARE WATCHING US, SHOW PEOPLE, MY NEIGHBOR TOTORO, BANSHUN, THE CAINE MUTINY, CAPTAIN BLOOD, MY MOTHER'S CASTLE, CHARIOTS OF FIRE, DINNER AT EIGHT, DODSWORTH and ELMER GANTRY don't make this list (among others). It's sort of the like the expression "out of sight, out of mind"--if a film isn't recent or make a ton of dough at the box office, it's chances of making the list are very low indeed.Okay, enough of my rant--now on to this movie. MEMENTO is a very strange movie in that the film starts at the very end and works its way backwards towards the beginning. This is an intriguing and clever idea. You know that the main character who was brain injured committed a murder, but because his injury makes it physically impossible for him to remember any events AFTER his injury, he tries to solve a mystery by leaving notes for himself and tattooing himself so he can eventually put all the pieces together. The problem is that after a while, the very stylish film becomes awfully tedious. Plus, the ending, to me, just wasn't very satisfying--it's an ending you will either love or hate. Leonard Maltin gave the film only 1 1/2 stars out of 4. I won't be THAT critical, but I just can't see how stylish film making and an odd plot result in this movie being elevated to near the top of the IMDb list of films!!NOTE TO PARENTS--the "f-word" is used about 200 times in the film and there is some intense violence, so this film is rated R. I watched it with my 16 year-old, but you might want to think twice about letting the kids see this one.


                
Don't be fooled.  This is certainly a good film but I strongly believe it has been consistently overrated by most voters.  Its originality - and it's original like hell - has surely generated more enthusiasm among voters than it should have.  When you come to a cold analysis, however, it's definitely not a better film than American Beauty, Vertigo, The Seven Year Itch, Cat on Hot Tin Roof, East of Eden, Mighty Aphrodite, Requiem for a Dream, Chinatown and The Green Mile, to name just a few among a hundred.  Relax, forget the 8.7/10 rating, and enjoy its mind twisting puzzle.


                
I went into this movie with high expectations and found it to be good, but by no means great. I think that this movie would have been better if it were shorter, about 50 minutes. Within 30 minutes I had figured pretty much everything about the movie, who's bad who's good, what's happening now and what's gonna happen next, predictable. In fact I was bored for the rest of the movie, it was not suspenseful and not thrilling. The good things that this movie did have going for it was excellent directing and a slightly confusing turn of events from one scene to the next, but again after the first 30 minutes it became very predictable. It was pretty unique, though i have seen a few movies that begin with the end first and work backwards. This is also done in Seinfeld, in the episode titled "The Betrayal," which came out two years before. Overall, it is a movie worth seeing, though it is highly overrated.
Telling stories in a movie lends itself to many different techniques and devices.  We see something similar in The Limey where our central character stops and we see what he imagines for a moment in a series of scenes.  But in this movie the character himself has some problems that we share as an audience.  We see only brief fragments of what is going on based on his inability to create short term memories.  He has had a head injury that prevents him from doing this.There is an overall story and early in the movie we come to realize this will be what we are to figure out in the end.  But the end does not bring us any huge surprises even though we have been musing on the possibilities throughout the whole movie.Still, the premise is a good story all by itself and it is a good movie even if the plot is not exactly Hitchcock.


                
Memento was a very good film about a man called Lenny with anterograde amnesia and in order to progress with his journey he takes photographs and write on them to remember. The storyline uses a technique called fabula and ceujet which is Russian and means the story line from the black and white to the colour crosses over after building from different points.


                
This movie is great not because of wonderful stories but how they are told. I could not figure out what this movie is trying to say for the first time I watched it. However, I knew these stories were narrated from the end for the second time and could narrowly understand the whole structure. After watching many masterpieces of Christopher Nolan, I gradually developed a particular sense to know how the plots would go on because his technique is basically playing with clips. This movie tells a very simple story that the leading role's wife was 'murdered' somehow, and he tried his best to find and kill the 'murderer'. Monochrome scenes were narrated from the beginning while colorized ones from the end. Only at last could we know that it had always been him that created puzzles and solved them himself.


                
This is a decent movie, it's in no way a masterpiece/classic! People rating this a 10 or a 4 star movie have been fooled to believe the movie is somehow deeper then it actually is. It's actually a very simple movie. When you first watch the movie you aren't sure what's going on (confusion is the intent to kind of give the viewer Leonard's perspective), you believe it's a mystery and are trying to piece things together, but in all actuality, it's not a mystery and there is nothing to really piece together, which is fine, just don't kid yourself that it's some type of mind bender that you as a viewer must figure out. Spoilers At the end of the day, Leonard is constructing these endeavors to give his life meaning...that's the big ahhah moment! So the whole time you're trying to figure out what's going on, the answer is; Leonard is just giving himself something to do. Not that big of a deal. Not a biggie, but the scene where Leonard found out that the Motel Clerk was ripping him off was kind of lame. Wouldn't that be something worth writing down, rather then chuckling about? It's kind of a big deal.


                
Mememo, you may say, bought Christopher Nolan truly into the spotlight and soon he was on an A list set directing the likes of Pacino and Robin Williams in a few years. This film about a man who suffers from short term memory loss is a very good work by a young talent about to explode. The script is good and the acting from Guy Pierce is very fitting into the theme and approach. The inverse mode of showing things is unique and although now, used umpteenth of times it seems stale, it was revolutionary when the film came out. This is a great example of an independent film. Be sure to watch it and you will see the pattern of Nolan's work.


                
I like the way it is filmed, quite new at the time.I like the concept but it is used too much, too much exploited. We see the same scenes again and again. It is a good thriller though, we have a different portrait of the character since we go backwards. The actors Carrie-Anne Moss and Joe Pantoliano do a great performance.Most of my friends really enjoyed the movie, so did I. We try to figure out the movie during the whole time, thanks to the concept. It makes us think and the story is not predictable, which is nice. Of course it can be confusing, and some people don't like these kind of movies. For me the ambiguity is what makes the film great.


                
I've been trying to watch this movie for ever and finally got a chance to do it. This movie is like a puzzle for you to figure out. Guy Pearce is Leonard, a man who suffers from short-term memory...the last thing he remembers is his wife dying.Now he seeks for revenge and in order to do so, he creates a system, he takes pictures of everyone, he writes down important facts and it gets tattooed with reminders.That's how he copes with his condition. I don't want to give too much away but the way this film is told is pretty unique to say the least and has influenced other movies like The Machinist.That said, Memento is a really good movie and the concept is amazing,the only thing less positive is that it gets a little boring sometimes.I can see why this is on the top250 but it doesn't deserve to be in such high position. 7/10


                
This is just...I don't even know. I watched this years ago and was really blown away by its odd structure, but really it's rather simple once you get a grip on it - heinously simple, even. It's told backwards in a linear line and interspersed with black and white shots of the lead actor telling us the back story, so what? This movie is given a lot of credit for being complex, but it's not that mind boggling when you think about it. And the ending just feels like a huge slap in the face, especially after all that build up and guessing...it's deceitful! And a lot of the first half of this is just too dull at times - especially the bits where the lead character is telling you about his client in the past who had a similar condition. It just feels too forced; they could have done it in a better and more interesting way. But I'd be lying if I said it wasn't a good movie anyway. The deceit of the ending has its purpose and everything is fulfilled in the end; I just can't help feeling a little odd about it anyway. The strength of this movie just lies in the suspense that comes with it. Deceitful or not, it keeps you watching and guessing until the end. Sigh, this is a really dividing movie, as you can tell. You just don't know what to think about it, and I guess that's another good thing about it. Memento is a perplexing case and I would recommend it if you like thrillers - although you could always do better, this one definitely stands out.


                
End the from begins that thriller dark a. If you have problems with understanding the previous sentence, you are going to have even more trouble with understanding the film. Its basic idea is turning the action around. Not in a mechanical way, fortunately. "Memento" is a pack of scenes that end in the moment the previous scenes started in.The main character is an ex-detective from an insurance company (Guy Pearce). His wife, as everything seems so, has been brutally raped and murdered while he himself was hit in his head. The effect of damage is the so-called short memory loss. Our hero remembers exactly who he was before that tragical incident, but he doesn't remember who he talked to and what about five minutes ago. That is why he has to write everything down. He collects Polaroid pictures of the people he meets. He fills his pockets with some quick notes. He even treats his own body as a big organizer and he tattoos his chest with the main memorized clue: "John G. murdered your wife".This film has its own style and class. The idea itself about a guy who doesn't remember his experiences from a second ago is great. The "reverse gear" narration used here seems to be both logical and functional solution. Sometimes it is quite funny. For example, when the character doesn't know whether he chases someone or he is being chased.


                
I really love when the movie makers tried to surprise me. Tried to make me spend two hours of my life with good entertainment mixed with a more elaborated history then the Hollywood usual. And even more, i really love when them shows me that a history who not seems to have so much potential at the beginning and accomplished a whole different dimension if showed from another perspective. Memento it's a movie that can full almost completely this description, but if not do so, it's because we can saw in this movie what happened when you have a thousand of ideas, a strong will of executed them, but failed in what matters the most: makes those who watched the movie believe in that history as them believe in their owns. And this can be verified after the half of the movie, when the history, exciting and fresh until that moment, turn to a extreme confuse narrative, dialogs in the limit of the good sense, with characters taking the most strangers decisions in pro of the most complicated and untouchable final a as possible as can be. A common addiction in the post-Tarantino age. And i just can't agree with that.
Great the first time but there are inconsistancies noticable after a couple of vewings. But the premice of the movie is great. The backwords time thing makes it difficult to notice inconsistancies. Also Guy Pierce's memory isn't quite eraced in some of the scenes.


                
Momento is a great film full of twists and turns that keeps you guessing throughout


                
Memento is a classic film. You will need to pay attention and will probably need to watch it a few times. The story structure is a series of events from the main character's perspective.All you need to know is that if you are into films and/or filmmaking, this is a film you just have to watch. You don't need to take vitamins but you need to watch this film.Whether you like it or not, you will learn something important about filmmaking and storytelling: What captivates your audience is the hook that gets them at the onset and once you have the viewers' attention you need to reel them in slowly until the end. Stories all have a beginning, a middle and an end...but not exactly in that order.


                
Leonard Shelby, who suffers from short-term memory loss, attempts to find the identity of the surviving thug who raped and murdered his wife (Jorja Fox) by retaining Polaroid photos and notes that are stuffed into his pockets, and by tattooing essential clues on his body. Although he was able to shoot and kill one of his wife's two assailants, the second villain caused him a serious blow to the head, damaging his brain. The police do not believe in a second attacker. As Leonard remembers the past before his wife's murders, he has anterograde, and not retrograde amnesia, and knows how to read, to drive, get gas, handle personal affairs, etc. If Leonard's conversations exceed 5 minutes or so, he will forget what the subject was to begin with. His personal struggles are obviously great. When he awakens, he has to determine where he is and how he got there. When a man chases him, he is at first confused and thinks he is chasing the man and wondering why. He knows the truth when the other man fires a gun at him.To tell the tale, Director Christopher Nolan demonstrates an unusual take: there are two alternate timelines. They comprise a black and white part told chronologically and the color sequence division that is told in reverse (non-linear). They merge in the middle of the film although the black and white scenes continue to nearly the end. Each scene is divided into 5-10 minute segments.The film begins in color with the murder of major character John Edward "Teddy" Gammell (Joe Pantoliano) and works backwards to show the events leading up to it. Leonard, in his own mind, believes that Teddy was one of two assailants that killed his wife. But Leonard is looking at the picture from his own (flawed) perspective. Teddy may be a corrupt undercover cop who takes drug money to enrich himself, and even uses Leonard for his own purposes, but he is no murderer or rapist. And the way the film is constructed, we probably have to believe Teddy's comments because there is no other explanation from the director. Nevertheless, Leonard wrote "Don't believe his lies," under Teddy's photograph, and Teddy was doomed.Then there is the woman, Natalie (Carrie-Anne Morse), who also has her own agenda and definitely uses Leonard. Her boyfriend is drug dealer Jimmy Grantz (Larry Holden). Near the end of the movie, in the last black and white segment, Leonard murders (again) Jimmy because he thought that he was the man who supposedly killed his wife. During the confrontation, Leonard receives those two annoying scratches seen throughout much of the film. After that Teddy warned him to leave town, discard Jimmy's expensive suit, and drive his jaguar because he would be a sitting duck for dealers looking for him. Leonard ignores Teddy.The black and white chronological portion explains Leonard's life as an insurance claims investigator. He has authority to handle the case of Sammy Jankis (Stephen Tobolowsky), who has claimed short-term memory loss as a result of an automobile accident. After many tests Leonard concludes that Sammy's problem is mental, not physical from the accident, and advises his company to deny the claim. Later to test her husband, his diabetic wife subjects herself to a fatal test. Nevertheless, near the end of the film in a color sequence, Teddy explains to Leonard that Sammy was faking and never had a wife, and that it was Leonard's spouse who was a diabetic. Furthermore Teddy explains that it was he as a cop who was assigned to Leonard's wife's case. The two of them tracked down the thug and killed him. Also, he states that his wife survived the assault, and that Leonard invented Sammy's story as his own! Did Leonard forget to give his wife an insulin injection? Or did he give her too many? Assuming Teddy was telling the truth, why doesn't Leonard remember that his wife was a diabetic? Note that there is a color scene where Leonard lies in bed with his wife. He does appear to give her an injection in her right thigh, and right after pinches it. And near the very end we see tattoos are already on his body with his wife alive. She must have survived the assault.The film ending is in color and shows Leonard driving up to Emma's Tattoo parlor. Guess what he will have tattooed on his body this time!?The acting is top-notch throughout, as is the editing and pacing. The storyline is unique, to say the least, in the way the timelines are presented. Viewers have to pay close attention and trust their own memories when watching this one! I believe that there is a plot hole. Near the very end we see tattoos on Leonard's body with his wife alive. On the left side of his chest, a tattoo reads, "I've done it." (So he killed the thug who assaulted his wife.) But why is the particular tattoo missing throughout the movie? Anyway, Joe Pantoliano steals every scene where he appears. By the way, the movie doesn't say, but if this writer were a betting man he would say that Joe Pantoliano's character is called Teddy because of his strong resemblance to Teddy Roosevelt when he was a Rough Rider. Check out his old photos circa 1898.
No spoilers, this movie runs from beginning to middle and end to middle at the same time, once you piece it together you really appreciate the way you get there. It's a breath of fresh air in the way it tells the story and does a lot right. Christopher Nolan pushes himself to think differently and use the tools at his disposal to convey a unique story. Give it a watch, then again and holy crap it was there the whole time


                
Should've watched this 18 years ago but I liked it.


                
