If I told you the entire plot of this film it really wouldn't matter as it is an exquisite paean to the subjectivity of memory and therefore is in itself ambiguous; the <U+0091>truth' of it is up to you. You come out of the cinema questioning yourself, your memories, your truths. Nothing in this film is as it seems, and yet paradoxically everything is as it seems. We see everything through Guy Pearce's characters' (Lenny) eyes, unfortunately he has no short-term memory so cannot form new memories. He would have already forgotten the first sentence of this review. He lives in snapshots of life; his only form of memory is his Polaroid camera, just like in the excellent German film Wintersleepers; also (partly) about a short-term memory disorder.In this film Lenny takes snapshots to remember who people are, where he now lives, his car, everything. As you can imagine this is perfect for paranoia, suspicion, uncertainty, confusion, and betrayal. And that's exactly what you get in extreme doses. The difference between this film and Wintersleepers however is that Memento is entirely from Lenny's perspective. This therefore creates an imaginative, creatively unsurpassable film. The film begins where it should end, so far so trite, but here's the beauty, we, like Guy Pearce, learn in fragments what's going on. It is therefore perfect for those who love to second guess what's going to happen, who did what, who's doing what and why. The beauty of this film though is that my interpretation could be so different from yours, and neither of us could be sure whose interpretation is the right one; if there is a right one at all. Nothing is certain, nothing is clear. Another beauty of this film is the way it is filmed and edited. Pieces are shown a number of times with no real linear link between them, just like it would be if we ourselves had a memory disorder, and then they are cut up and edited next to things that happen either before or after it. It's just like holding ten different and linearly distinct Polaroids in your hand and having a short-term memory disorder. Excellent.I'm not even sure if watching it again will make things any less ambiguous, but then who cares? The ambiguity is what makes this a great film, if it wasn't so cut up, or from Lenny's perspective it would be both very short and trite; and lacking in tension, suspense and interest. But as it stands it has all three, isn't trite and says so much about humanity. Oh, and the plot? It really doesn't matter, all you need to know is that everything about this film is indicative of the subjectivity of memory, of our experiences and interpretations of all that happens to us. Nothing will seem as black and white as it did beforehand. It will make you question every memory you have, almost as much as possessing a psychology degree, as I do! So, go and see it: be confused, acknowledge the frailty of all you know to be true, and then imagine the freedom of actually being Lenny, and then the horror of having nothing, nothing but the reliance of a pen and a Polaroid camera to know who you are.


                
MEMENTO / (2001) ***1/2 (out of four)By Blake French:	How is this for a scenario? A man breaks into your house in the middle of the night. He kills your wife and leaves you with brain injuries. Furious, you pledge your life to track down and kill whoever is responsible. There is just one problem: after the head injury, you are no longer capable of creating new memories; everything before the accident is crystal clear, but now you cannot remember anything past several minutes.	Now chew on this: what happens to guilt if you cannot remember what you did? How can a person have emotions if he does not know where they came from? How can we learn from our experiences if we cannot remember them. What is the purpose of revenge if someone cannot recollect or prosper from it?
	"Memento" wins this year's prize for inducing the most audience participation. Not only is the film thought-provoking and unusually absorbing, but it also places us in the main character's shoes. How can we be in the same mental status with the main character when he cannot remember anything? Writer/director Christopher Nolan has that answer: he tells the story backwards. We begin at the end and work our way towards the beginning. However, each individual scene plays running forward, often overlapping, providing us with clear, constructive transitions. The main character, Leonard, is confused in prospects of time and experience, and so are we.	Other characters include Natalie (Carrie-Anne Moss, from "The Matrix"), who also lost someone close and can help Leonard, and Teddy (Joe Pantoliano, also from "The Matrix"), whose identity often shifts mysteriously. Then there is the series of flashbacks of Leonard's experiences while working as an insurance agent. The situation involves an individual named Sammy, who has a memory disorder similar to Leonard's. His diabetic spouse is not sure whether her husband is faking his condition or not. To prove it to herself she arranges a test I dare not reveal. Leonard is more intricately involved in this story than he even believes.  	"Memento" is smart and imaginative. It doesn't pass up little details of the characters. Leonard is constantly jotting himself notes and taking Polaroid pictures so his life can make some sense. He even gets permanent tattoos all over his body so he does not lose or forget some of the most important information. In a movie like this, it would be almost impossible to make without leaving some information out; even some of the film's actors were confused and requested a script told in sequence order. But these filmmakers have constructed a movie with a plot hole big enough to drive a semi through: If Leonard cannot remember anything after the accident, then how can he remember that he has a memory condition? There are no tattoos or notes to remind him, and whenever he meets someone he explains his condition thoroughly. This is necessary information he reveals, but there are better ways to do so. We could be there when his doctor explains the condition to him, or see his friends talking about it. The sky is the limit in a movie like this. It was not essential to leave such a massive, obvious hole in the plot. "Memento" is still a unique mystery thriller. It is a tantalizing experience we do not often come across at the movies. For audiences who like to sit back and relax, this film is a waste of time. It requires us to follow along, participate, fit puzzle pieces together-"Memento" doesn't provide any easy or obvious answers. All but the most intelligent and thoughtful kids will not be able to follow this film; it is intended for adult audiences. "Memento" is one of the year's most challenging movies, not to be missed if you are looking for something clever and original.


                
Excellent movie. This movie shows Nolan's early spirit in movie making, as this is his second feature film. However this is not for everyone. Even if you're a die-hard Nolan fan, you still might not like it. It was in my cup of tea, so I loved it. The movie is a complete mind bender. It doesn't play in order. It jumps from the past to present a TON of times, so it can be a hell lot of confusing. It's a slow movie, but fantastic. It grabs your attention from the start till the end. The suspense builds stronger as every second ticks by. If you haven't seen it go see it now, because in the second part of my review I'm going to talk about the ending. The ending is something to talk about. There is a plot twist at the end, rather twistS. It is one of the most unpredictable twists ever.Spoiler Alert!As many of you have seen the movie, you will know the ending is completely mind blowing. I never expected that Leo had killed the attacker over a year ago, and that now he kept forgetting and believed that the killer is still alive. Also another crazy twist was when Teddy told Leo that Leo's wife survived the attack, and that Leo himself killed her by accident with an insulin overdose. The real shocker was when it was revealed that Leo was mixing Sammy's life with his life. Everything that was said about Sammy, indeed revealed Leo's life. Totally mind blowing. There were like 3-4 twists at the end, which blew me away. To be honest, I didn't even expect one of the twists. I was blown away because there were many twists at the end, and none of them were predictable. From all the movies I've seen this movie had the second biggest twist ending, right after "The Prestige", also by Nolan.This movie is very suspenseful and interesting. It doesn't let your interest leave until the very end. In short, fantastic movie and it deserves at least one watch. For me many more watches. Nolan never disappoints. Not one of his movies disappointed me, and I've seen all his movies, including his short films.


                
It is very tempting, and it is also fair, to compare Memento with Nolan's Prestige. Both require multiple viewing to fully grasp and enjoy the scenes.18 years later, Memento still puzzles. And when you finally think that you've understood it, the truth makes you shiver. Yes, this movie will make you discuss and argue its meaning.While I believe it could have been better in terms of sequencing, when I look at the progress that Mr. Nolan has made following this film, I can only applaud at his bold approach to Memento as stepping stone.
Bravo.


                
Memento was a much better film than anticipated from acclaimed writer/director Christopher Nolan the man behind films like The Prestige, Insomnia, Batman Begins, and last years blockbuster hit The Dark Knight which was my favorite movie of 2008. In Memento Nolan really establishes himself as an extremely talented filmmaker. Memento has an intricate but not too complicated story and the way the movie plays out with the ending in the beginning and the beginning at the end makes it feel different (in a good way) and original. Its one of those films to watch a couple times to fully understand what it was all about and so that you can pick up on little things you didn't notice the first time around. The surprises in store for anyone who hasn't seen it I wasn't quite expecting myself which made the film very enjoyable to watch at least to me. The three leads in the movie are admirable in their roles including Guy Pearce as Leonard a man with a rare brain disorder after an accident who can't form new memories. Pearce's Leonard is after the one who raped and killed his wife a man's identity he can never know for sure. Pearce is believable in the role and does a great job as the main character. Carrie Anne-Moss does a decent job as Natalie an ally to Leonard who helps in his quest to find his wife's killer but may not be who she appears. Moss is quite good at playing a character you're not sure is trying to help Leonard or just using him. The same can go for Joe Pantoliano whose equally impressive as Teddy a man Leonard isn't sure whether he can fully trust. The rest of the relatively unknown cast also turn in solid performances. The ending is fitting which reveals some secrets while keeping other questions unanswered but that doesn't hurt the movie. Overall Memento was much better than expected because of it's interesting revenge story, complex characters played by talented actors, and surprising plot twists that make for an above average entertaining thriller to watch.


                
A man (Guy Pearce) searches for the man who raped and killed his wife.  One problem--he has no long-term memory and forgets things a few minutes after he hears them.  Another thing--the whole story is shown backwards so you have to pay strict attention to what's going on.  It's difficult (most movies don't want you to think) and exhausting but absolutely fascinating. The acting is simply superb, direction assured and the story full of unexpected twists and turns.  Also there were revelations at the end (or beginning) that totally caught me by surprise.  It's not a perfect film--I still can't figure out what Moss' character was doing in this--but how many films can you name that challenge you and don't treat you like an idiot. This will probably be a bomb (it's way too difficult for an average audience), but if you like something different and intelligent this is definetely a film to see!


                
Memento is a 2000 movie by Christopher Nolan. The history follows Leonard, a detective who has amnesia in his attempt of doing... what exactly? That's the premise of the longplay; the obra is a tribute to film-noir but with a unique way of storytelling that goes partly forwards and partly backwards, this aspect is the most brilliant element of the whole motion picture, also, the form it develops, the acting, everything is so well executed and as every other play by Nolan you'll never feel bored. Totally recommended for any fan of drama / crime / mistery cinema


                
Christopher Nolan's "Memento" will change your perspective on how stories can be told. Being adapted from a short story his brother wrote, "Memento Mori", Nolan takes the story and warps it into a completely different experience. With the use of time manipulation and perspective, the viewer is forced into being immersed in this enigmatic tale. 
The story is about Leonard (Guy Pearce), a man who is looking to avenge his wife's murder. After being injured the night of his wife's death, Leonard lost the ability to form new memories making this day the last he can remember. The film starts with the image of a fading polaroid followed by the killing of a man played in reverse. The rest of the scenes are played forwards, while the chronology of most of the film remains in reverse, foreshadowed by the opening scene.
I feel that it's important to explain how the film's timeline works so I can reference it more easily. Throughout the film Nolan cleverly uses two main timelines, as well as flashbacks that happen before the main story to maintain immersion. The first being the main timeline which is being told backwards, and the second being a timeline that is being told forwards. The way that Christopher Nolan explained the timeline was by thinking of it as "hairpin" where the timelines meet each other at the end of the film. Scenes chronologically reversed (the main scenes) were played in color and were significantly longer than the sections played chronologically (the alternate scenes), which were played in black in white.
The use of color change here is notable because it creates a contrast that keeps the viewer's attention and makes it more obvious when timeline change occurs. As the film progresses, the main scenes were cut up evenly by the alternate scenes. Nolan made the scenes switch back and forth throughout the film while mixing in some of the other flashbacks when they fit the best. I believe this was done to add rhythm and keep the audience's focus. To get rid of any potential confusion about the chronology, Nolan made each the main scenes and the alternate scenes overlap where they were cut so the audience would know right where they are in the story. However, with how complex this timeline is, the film may not be the right choice for someone who likes stories with more of an external conflict.
To accompany the manipulation of time, perspective is used in "Memento" to filter information the same way that Hitchcock does in "Rear Window". Very few parts of the story are not told through the eyes of Leonard, which, due to his condition, makes the audience unsure of what exactly is happening throughout the film. In "Rear Window", Hitchcock lets you develop your own opinion on the events that are happening because you are seeing the film through the eyes of the main characters. This same theory applies to "Memento" in the way that if you saw the movie through Teddy's (Joe Pantoliano) eyes, or any other character, you would have a completely different film where Leonard would probably look more directly like an irrational person and maybe even the antagonist. 
While digesting the movie you must consider the smaller aspects that Nolan felt appropriate to add. For example, when Leonard tries to push the door rather than pull when walking into the Discount Inn a certain aspect of comedy is created. Also, the drastic change in sound whenever the wife's murder is being shown adds an aspect of horror to the film. These smaller details scattered throughout the film make viewers that may have not been entertained by the main aspects of the movie, have some relatability with the film. 
When you combine time manipulation, use of perspective, and Leonard's short-term memory loss, you get the final product. If you are a fan of stories with an internal conflict and a complex plot you are bound to find entertainment here. Even though this film might not be for everyone, the experience is unforgettably unique and will leave anyone thinking for days after you watch it. Every time you watch this film your opinions change, and you notice more and more depth in places you couldn't imagine.
This is the kind of movie that pops in my mind when I think about Nolan.
Not only the plot and the idea behind it are both interesting, but the way the movie's scenes are presented just let you get involved that much it feels you are the main character yourself.
Need to say that even if Guy Pearce is incredibly into is character and gives us an amazing performance, Joe Pantoliano is, in my opinion, even better.
The movie has a lot of hidden "Easter eggs", that can lead to different ideas about the story itself: I personally suggest to watch it twice in a row to get them all!
Anyway I would not classify it as a Thriller.


                
I'm so fond of this movie that I even thought about playing this part of the review backwards.The story of a man with blackouts trying to find the murderer of his wife does not sound very exciting.
Because you need a lot of talent to present that interesting, a lot of courage to dare to publish such a lame story at all and a lot of creativity to bring out the special and to present it in a unique way.
No joke I think Memento is one of those movies that would be mediocre if not for the super creative narrative structure and the excitement you got from talented people in front of and behind the camera.
Here was clearly the thriller aspect capitalized so I did not just have to watch this movie several times, I even think that we should shoot more movies in the Memento style or make some remakes and shoot them like Memento Hey I would do all those Watch movies again if they are shot like memento.


                
Movie chronicals back in time as a man with shoort-term memory attempts to solve his wife's murderFeatures: Lenny altering the identity Sammy, Teddy the "Untrustworthy" Cop, Jimmy the man set-up for wife's murder, and Natalie Jimmy's gf who wants revenge by using Lenny memory problems to her advantage.But in the end , Lenny makes his own rules, and if he decides to grieve forever that's his decision
For all these years, I had a presumption that its no different than Ghajini(Tamil/Hindi), but I was totally wrong. It was way different, actually there was no link b/w them except the concept(that too was modified). But, seriously the movie let me into a dilemma, I didn't get to understand it completely even after watching it after 18years, may be I'll have to watch it multiple times to get it. 
I liked the way the movie went backwards breaking all the screenplay rules. I get it on why it is called as one of the cult classics.


                
Much worse to say something this time after 17 years when it came out, but rather each and every time I went through this masterpiece I threw away into a psychological aspect of a big tunnel where I can't understand anything properly. It's not the fact of question that every viewer asks to themselves and trying to get what actually the story might be. Not an ambiguous in the approach, but in the making it is quite went backward and that makes the audience unto the stage of short-term memory disorder.


                
Before Inception and The Prestige, Christopher Nolan created a film with a completely different feel that is based on his brother's short story that follows a man lost in his own mind, unable to separate truth from lie.Memento is centered on Leonard, played by Guy Pearce, who is a man determined to find and kill the one who raped and murdered his wife. However, throughout this investigation, he experiences one immense handicap: he is unable to retain any memories after the death of his wife. Despite this setback, his determination leads him to take pictures, write notes, and even tattoo himself with facts he refuses to forget. This is only the first sign that he won't stop until the man he wishes to kill is dead.Without spoiling the movie for future audiences, I would like to start out by saying that this movie has a fascinating flow in its sequence of events, and it gave me true joy when I first recognized this unique element. If you have already seen Christopher Nolan's later films, recognize that Memento is nothing like them, nor should it be. It has a completely different pace while intellectually expecting much from its viewers. This is a movie that demands your attention, and I can say without a doubt that it received mine. It is as though the movie is always challenging you to be as perceptive as you can, while taking note of the most minute of details that flash by you on the screen. I don't believe this is a perfect movie (although I have yet to find anything of the sort), but it is a movie that excels in so many ways, creating interesting characters, an interesting setting, and most importantly, an interesting flow.If I haven't said it already, Memento is an incredible movie that should not be missed. It is unique and knows how to separate the fun pace from the emotional plot, giving it even more flavor. I personally found it difficult to emotionally bond with Leonard, given that he didn't always seem as heartbroken as he should over his deceased wife. Fortunately, I didn't find this issue to be nearly enough to hold this movie back from being truly amazing movie that captivates audiences of all kinds.


                
Memento is not a movie to be taken lightly. Do not get me wrong, it is definitely a good movie to watch, but it is not like many movies where you can watch it, sleep through the middle, and then wake up almost at the end and totally know what happened. These days many movies are like that, but not Memento. This is a very unique, from the way it was written, to the way it was taped, even to the way it was edited. It is a movie told backwards, in all sense of the meaning. You cannot understand the beginning without understanding the end, yet you cannot understand the end without the beginning. However, at the end of the movie, you do not go away with a feeling that something is missing, instead you get the majority of the movie, and you're are so excited to be able to say that, since most of the movie you were so confused, that you settle for the feeling that at least you got the basic idea behind the movie.I encourage everyone to see this movie with someone else, because it is definitely a movie that gets better after a good discussion. There is a lot in the movie, and since it is told backwards, it is easy to forget some things, or to forget to tie two things together. That is why the movie gets better and more interesting after discussing it with someone else, and even watching it a second or third time. The main character, Leonard has a memory disorder, and is unable to convert short term memory into long term memory. This plays out in many ways, but most importantly in the way it affects the people around him. At first one would assume that the people around him are manipulating and abusing him because of his memory problem, but in the end, which in this particular movie was the beginning, there was definitely someone alive and someone dead.Something else to think about when watching this movie is the difference between the black and white parts and the colored parts. At first it may feel that only the colored scenes are giving you the part of the story you want. However this is not true. If you watch the black and white scenes closely, you can figure out many of the secrets that make this movie to intoxicating prior to them being bluntly given away in or towards the end of the film. At first Leonard may seem like a simple guy, but you must realize he is more complex than I can explain without giving too much away. Understanding that even while he has no control over his memory, he still has a large amount of control over his life will make it a lot easier to understand. In the end, my explanation will do no justice to actually watching the movie, so I highly encourage it. But do it when there are no distractions, and perhaps when you have time to watch it a second time, even if it's not until the second day, but trust me this movie gets better the second time, and in many cases even the third time. It is well edited, and except for a few lighting problems, it is very pleasing to the eye. Over all, I think it is a top notch movie, and I do not understand why it took me so long to finally watch it!
"Memento" is a little, minimalistic drama, artistically and technically well done film, which has received accolades from all corners well beyond both budget and hype. A "whodunit" of sorts with a curious premises, the film tells of an insurance investigator (Pearce) who suffers midterm memory loss and can't remember anything for more than 15 minutes. Pearce sets about find the killer of his wife, a difficult task for a normal investigator much less one with his "condition". The film's story is simple, the characters few, and there's no sex and little action or emoting going on. Rather the film focuses on the investigation with a clever one step forward, two steps backward flow and tortuous denouement which camouflages the many holes in the plot making for a compelling watch. Recommended for all adults into whodunits who want something to mentally chew on.


                
SPOILERS AHOY!Hehe, after seeing this film i did what everyone else did and tried and figured it all out :)But I kinda agree with what one guy said was that it isn't really meant to be figured out. You are meant to form your own conclusions, and that is exactly what the director was trying to point out, that there is no real truth, just a mixture of preceptions and memories. OK, fair enough ! SO there are alot of images thrown about to make you think one thing then another, and enough evidence given to suggest quite alot of different things. Did he kill his wife? Was Sammy a projection of himself? Did Teddy deserve to die? etc etcI'm going to close the lid on this for myself right now anyway, by saying that its just one of those things that you are not meant to figure out. You are not given enough evidence to form a conclusion, especially as alot of the film is seen through the eyes of someone with a severe mental condition and thus unreliable. In Scotland we have a verdict between guilty and not-guilty, known as 'that bastard verdict', 'Not Proven', and I'll have to leave it at that. Having read alot of Philip K Dick I do like this sort mind twister stuff, but as I said, I don't think the director wants you to be able to figure it out, so that people can have something to argue about in the pub! :P
WOW!!Wel i have seen this film twice and the first time i watched it i thought 'very clever, but whet the hell is the truth?!'I watched it the second time VERY closely and after a while of thinking my and my friend thought we had worked it all out!But now i'm not sure, after reading some of the reviews for this i'm not sure if what I thought is really what happened, so i'm left thinking i need 2 c it again!When i first watched it i was intrigued from the word go! i couldnt stop watching it and my eyes were glued to the T.V. I couldnt wait to find out what happened next (or before depending on how u look at it!!) It is a very clever storyline and i enjoyed it but u definatly cant relax while watching it, its almost as thought u need a pad of paper to write down everything that happened! which is just what lenard needs to do with his condition, which i suppose is the whole point to the movie to make u feel like u r him!But i am still confused on to what actually happened and i would love to ask the writers, directers etc what is the truth and what is the audience meant to think!! Is there a right answer ?? I dont know, but i determind to work out the truth so i need watch it again!I think it was a brilliant film because of how it was edited and it has such an different storyline and it is very weird but interesting to watch a film 'backwards' from the truth!I'm sum what confused but it is good :)If someone knows wot the actual truth is please please write a comment on here for me 2 read so i can compare what other people think happened to what i think! thanx!Definatly worth seeing but buy the video dont rent it because you will definatly need to watch it more than once! The first time u dont have a clue, ur just thinking 'wow thats clever but i dont get it'!!SEE IT ! ITS WORTH IT !


                
This is a huge movie i mean a great movie i have ever seen..movie has a great concept and most important thing it's logic.movie is like you don't know what is happening until you do a favor for yourself to watch it little bit a scene then you will able to get the previous scene.i didn't get the movie's end first until i saw a explained video of memento then i totally understood it clearly..it just preserved in my mind that what a great logic has hidden in the end of movie..before i start to watch i knew this is gonna be something huge because of Christopher Nolan,because he make great sort of movies you know,i have watched Batman trilogy in which i have encountered this director so definitely this was also a high class movie.


                
'Memento (2000)' may seem somewhat pedestrian when viewed in the 'right order' as opposed to the way it is actually presented, in reverse, but even then it stands up as a nuanced character study. Its backwards nature is a clever conceit that's more than just a gimmick, though. It's woven into the very nature of the narrative and, as such, one should not be presented without the other. It also comes as a natural extension to the main character, allowing for plenty of unique moments that challenge audience perception. This is essentially the piece's mission statement and it achieves it in full. The characters are beautifully realised, with the protagonist's inner journey coming full circle just as the movie itself does so. 8/10


                
Christopher Nolan's "Memento" is truly a rare and exceptional achievement in modern film-making in that it manages to be new, fresh, hip, and exciting without ever tiring its audience out - unless you're walking into this film without the desire to participate and actively analyse the mysterious details. If that's the case, then this is DEFINITELY not a movie you should see. If, on the other hand, you are open-minded, creative, and alert, you'll definitely appreciate and get a kick out of this one. "Memento" is an old-fashioned "film noir"-type mystery thriller with an intriguing, ingenious twist: outfitting the entire film with a style that mirrors the protagonist's own mental condition while giving the viewer(s) their own perspective as well. It is masterfully filmed and edited in such a way that it is chronologically presented backwards (with two initially separate, parallel story lines - the main one, shot in colour, is the chronologically-backwards story with scenes that intercut with those of the other story, which is filmed more like a documentary, shot in black & white, and mostly takes place inside a motel room with the main character narrating, talking about the effects of his condition, etc.) While the average viewer may already be put off by such a complicated, confusing format, it is a very original premise that is well worth the struggle to figure out.Acting is solid across the board, as is the writing, directing, etc., but special kudos must be extended to the very talented editor Dody Dorn, who successfully managed to put all of these fragments together and help them flow in a smooth, healthy manner that is not easy to pull off.One of the most "memorable" films you're likely to ever see, "Memento" is an instant classic due to its ground-breaking narrative style and impressive dramatic undertones. For those jaded moviegoers who seek something to keep them awake, interested, and constantly thinking, there couldn't be a better choice than this film.Excerpt from "Movies that Moved with Prakash Silwal https://www.facebook.com/ektafilmsnp/
This movie had a very interesting start when I saw that the main character could not form new memories I was in shock. I thought it was very interesting that the main character tattooed the truth on himself or what he assumed to be true. I love how this movie showed Leonard in the fight for truth to his own memories that me may or may not have remembered. I love how the movie showed flash backs of his memories as well to combine in the suspense and confusion. This movie was excellently done by Christopher Nolan!
Christopher Nolan made an excellent film for his second time out with a bigger budget and wild story. Leonard Shelby (Guy Pearce) has short term memory loss so the entire story plays out backward. Leonard kills Teddy (Joe Pantoliano) because he believes he is the one from instructions written on the back of a photograph. He uses tattoos to help him understand what he needs to remember and the message scrawled permanently on his body leads him to a man named John G. who raped and murdered his wife (Jorja Fox). Revenge is his primary motivation and he uses facts and clues to fuel his constant investigation. He meets up with Natalie (Carrie-Anne Moss) who leads him back to Teddy, whose real name is John Gammell. He tells everyone about his condition that he meets including the hotel manager Burt (Mark Boone Junior) who profits off his condition by renting him a second room. Leonard has been drawn into something dangerous by Natalie as he is attacked by a man named Dodd (Callum Keith Rennie) who he beats up and requests Teddy help him scare off. He is accustomed to waking up in hotel rooms but is never sure where he actually lives. He believes he can use logic and facts to keep his world in order and live a better life. Check out more of this review and others at swilliky.com
No spoilers in my review, but plenty on this board.  I just saw a sneak preview of Memento here in Houston, and it was excellent.  I wish I hadn't known as much about it as I had, but it was still a fascinating, involving, humorous, draining, challenging film.  The less you know the better it will be, so stop reading and go see it!


                
Do yourself a favor and do not read any detailed reviews of this film. It's like opening a present where someone tells you at the last second what you are getting.  The twists and surprises are half of the fun of the film.Constant attention is needed to fully appreciate the work that went into a high complicated screenplay and film.  The makers paid particular attention to very small details that you might miss on a first viewing.Bravo!8 out of 10


                
