Simply, the greatest one hour in television history. Imagine what a hit the show would be now, considering it influenced so many cop shows today? The story lines are incredible, that arc for multiple seasons. ITs like one great book, and lots of secondary stories and characters in between. The greatest show on television from years 1-6.Some people say that show lost some steam when half of its original characters left from the first 4 season, but the story arc from season four to six, involving Luther mahoney, was brilliant. It tied every character together, and no one, and i mean no one, came away clean or unscathed. Brilliant, powerful, emotional, heartbreaking, funny, Witty, classy, real, authentic, and just plain good. Television was spoiled to have it. Andrew braugher created the single great character of the cop drama. It did what some shows can not do back in the day; it held a single story line through out each season, instead of making one out of the last four episodes.


                
Ever since first encountering this Series, its title has held a certain fascination for this writer. First of all we have HOMICIDE, now that makes perfect sense. We've all heard that term used in countless Feature Films, Radio Dramas, TV Series, Pulp Magazines, Detective Novels, etc.Then we have the second part of the Title, "Life on the Streets", the Sub-Title if you will. This is also a very descriptive, loaded phrase. The discussion of being "on the Street" is certainly an authentic phrase, used by the "Real Police" as much as by any authors.But try putting the two together, as has been done here in this series and in the book that proceeded it, and what do you get? "HOMICIDE:Life On The Streets", is our answer but of course. But this is one Title that appears to be an instant oxymoron, for the juxtaposition of the two elements just doesn't blend. It would be much like blending Fire and Water, this Homicide & Life.And yet, we do see what the Series creator Paul Attinsano is driving at. Either term by itself would not be adequate. It's just another case of the sum of the parts equaling more than the total.Okay, now that we have that out of the way, let's start off by saying that there has never been a dramatic series that has started out to have such a high quality of story line and writing, and maintained the same as did Producer Barry Levinson's Baltimore Cop Show.Starting off with the Cast, there was a certain vigilance observed to insure that there would be no 2 dimensional, stereotype cops and robbers situations. he actors charged with this task would all have to be first rate and selfless, as the series wasn't afraid to portray characters with "warts". You know, we see the thorns, as well as the roses.Starting at the top, we have Unit Commander, Al Giardello(Yaphett Kotto), the product of a bi-racial marriage, having had an Italian Father and a Black Mother; Al navigates through the lexicons and cultural pools of either. Detective Steve Crosetti(John Polito) a truly grizzled veteran Cop/Detective. He would not move 2 feet if 1 1/2 feet would suffice. Very and obviously an Italian Ethnic, he is sometimes taken to be Lt. Giardello, as in the 1st episode. Det. John Munch(Richard Belzer), a guy who has wanted to be a Detective ever since he was a kid, though this would seemingly fly in the face of his Jewish heritage and upbringing. Being that he is well educated, extremely intelligent and street smart, he is doing this Detective business because he wants it, not because he failed at something else.* Others of the original Duty Roster are: Det. Frank Pembleton(Andre Braugher), a Black Guy who both grew up in the inner-city, but also can boast of being very well educated, by the Jesuits, yet. A manic when it comes to work, which is to a point to which he almost destroys his own health. Det. Tim Bayliss(Kyle Secor), new to the Detective Division. Smart, eager to learn he gets teamed with Pembleton. Formerly had some (Empty Holster)job in the Commissioner's Office. Melissa Leo as Det., a status seeker, works, slaves and studies hard to become a Detective/Sgt. of Police. Captain Megan Russert(Isabella Hoffman-Woo, woo, woo, woo!)now get this, she is a fictional cousin of NBC Newsman & Moderator of "MEET THE PRESS", Tim Russert(honest, that's what the series says!) Rounding out the original "work sheets" are:Det. Stan Bolander(Ned Beatty)seemingly a sort of "dull blade', the blue collar guy found a great interest in classical music, even learning to play the Cello!Det. Meldrick Lewis(Clark Johnson)grew up in the Public Housing Project, Street Smart, Easy Going, Get's along with anybody and can work with anyone. My personal favourite Characterization.**ASA Ed Danvers(Zeliko Ivanek)excellent portrayal of Prosecutor and their relationship with "The Fuzz!" (Remember, in some States and the Federal Court System it's ADA(Assistant District Attorney), whereas such States as Maryland & my own Illinois use Assistant States' Attorney( ASA ).Like so many series that last for any length of time, there were many, many changes in the line-up, more than most. Look it up! No more space will be allotted here! "HOMICIDE" truly dared to be different, and remained so through the course of its run. It made use of some multi-shot repeating fade-ins, all seen from slightly different angles,donned with accompanying sound of a short, blunt musical queue. (It has to be seen & heard).Also, each and every "HOMICIDE" episode is much like a feature film. That is, each is able to stand on its own. And yes, there are a lot of continued story lines and ideas that carry from week to week, and it is better to follow the series week to week, but it's not necessary.And it has the quality of sets, cinematography and really great, haunting music, both in theme and incidental music by Douglas J. Cuomo and Jeff Rona.The whole story was neatly wrapped up with the 2 hour Made for TV HOMICIDE: The Movie(2000), which maintained the flavor of the series, yet still dared to be different.NOTE: * Richard Belzer re-prised Det.Munch for "LAW & ORDER: Special Victims Unit. Munch has many 'crossover' appearances on the various other "LAW & ORDER" 'offspring'. NOTE: ** In this author's 35 years on the Chicago Police Dept.,I met and worked with a lot of guys like 'Meldrick', but this was in my own "series"(my life on the streets!).


                
"Homicide" was an original crime drama that aired on NBC between January 1993 and May 1999. It was based on David Simon's book, "Homicide: A Year on the Killing Streets", which was based upon Simon's experiences in 1988 when he spent a year as a civilian assistant to the Baltimore Police Homicide Unit so that he could document what life was like in a big city homicide squad. His extensive notes, interviews, and observations were eventually published as the book.Much of the cases chronicled in the first two seasons of the show are adapted from actual events in the book. The first two seasons focus on rookie Tim Bayliss's first case - the murder of 11 year-old Adina Watson whose murder is never solved and haunts him for the duration of the series. The original cast was truly brilliant, but to get a third full season the show's producers had to delete veteran actor Jon Polito (Crosetti) from the cast and pretty up the cast by adding Isabella Hoffman as shift supervisor Megan Russert.There was an entire episode, perhaps the best of the series, dedicated to detective Crosetti's suicide at the beginning of season three. Crosetti left no note, and apparently had no huge looming problems in his life. He just chose to fill himself with alcohol, tranquilizers, and antidepressants and then throw himself into the Chesapeake rather than return to his job after his vacation, in spite of his deeply held religious beliefs that would make you think this is a choice he would never have made. This is one thing you'll see on Homicide time and time again - the writers are not afraid to leave the tough questions unanswered...forever.Season four is also great, although two more original cast members depart - Beau Felton and Stan Bolander. The two additions to the cast include Mike Kellerman, whose boyish, fun-loving exterior hides a cagey and complex detective with a penchant for self destruction. He is transferred from arson to homicide as a result of the help he renders on closing the case of an arson-related homicide when a dead body is found in a burned warehouse. Also, J. H. Brodie, a news cameraman who is fired because he gives a tape showing the attacker of an elderly woman to the police rather than to the station for which he works, is also added to the cast. He is apparently meant to be an analog of David Simon. The only problem is, Simon took great pains to keep himself out of the story while Brodie is constantly included in the plot, making him a somewhat awkward although likable addition.By season five, the "NYPD-Blueing" of Homicide is becoming a bit more pronounced. Never having stellar ratings, the series was forced by the network to show less detective work and gritty realism and more of the personal lives of the cast members. Still, the episodes are excellent. In this season, Michelle Forbes, the new M.E. with a "Queen of the Dead" vibe, speeds into town and becomes involved with Mike Kellerman. Frank Pembleton is shown recovering from the stroke he had at the end of season four and struggling to return to full duty. Elijah Wood stars as a the spoiled sociopath son of a Baltimore judge who believes he can get away with anything, including plotting the murder of his own judge mother. Finally, there is the apparent suicide of a long-since departed detective that turns out to be a murder.Season six is where things begin to go downhill in the show. At the conclusion of season five it was determined that detectives would rotate between departments. This was used as a vehicle to introduce three largely uninteresting and even unlikeable cast members - Det. Ballard who actually comes from a Seattle homicide unit, Det. Paul Falsone and Det. Stu Gharty. Falsone always came across as a sneak and Stu Gharty had already been shown up as a coward in an episode from a previous season. Melissa Leo's character, Kay Howard, is now completely evicted from the series. Still, there are some interesting developments. In "Subway" Pembleton gets an opportunity to speak with the dead for a change rather than for them. Bayliss, at the ripe old age of 37, decides to explore other facets of his sexuality, much to the surprise of Pembleton. Kellerman's execution/shooting of arch-criminal Luther Mahoney in the previous season leads to all out war between the police and Mahoney's family that ends up in a shootout in the squad room and also with Bayliss taking a bullet for Pembleton. Both Pembleton and Kellerman resign from the force.Season seven is largely forgettable. Bayliss has converted to Buddhism following his brush with death and becomes "The Zen Detective". Giardello's son joins the cast as liaison between Baltimore PD and the FBI, although the two look more like brothers than father and son - the age separation is just not there, and neither is any semblance of a believable family connection. Michael Michele joins the cast as ex beauty queen/detective Rene Sheppard and does as good a job of helping this show jump the shark as Ted McGinley could have ever hoped to do.The main episodes from season seven worth watching include those that wrap up Mike Kellerman's story after his exile at the end of season six - the two parter "Kellerman P.I". There are also the episodes that further Tim Bayliss' character development where he is forced to shoot the killer of a Buddhist monk in self defense - "Zen and the Art of Murder". The other storyline worth watching involve episodes on the Internet killer, who is released on a technicality but vows to Bayliss that he will kill again. These two story lines - the Internet killer being freed and Tim discovering that he can kill if he has to - collide in the excellent series finale "Forgive Us Our Trespasses".
Homicide was the best show of any genre to be made for television. It honestly gave the most detailed and truthful accounts about how criminal investigations really happen. It also touched on the personal lives of how many police officers live and how they deal with the daily grind of the job. I say this because I've been in law enforcement for 7 years and I know how things really happen. Homicide puts the truth in crime TV....all crimes don't get solved overnight or at all sometimes. Homicide touched on that very point in different episodes. It was a show that TV executives should have just let it run it's natural course. It was taken off the air well before it's time!!!


                
Homicide is, without question, the greatest T.v show ever produced. Brilliant writing and acting, and even with cast fluctuations, the quality rarely ever dipped.It's a shame it never caught the public's full attention, like inferior shows such as NYPD blue, but still survived 7 season's of close on perfection.Of the core cast, most people will pick Andre Braugher as the standout, playing Frank Pembleton, but for me Kyle Secor, as the decidedly odd, and constantly evolving Bayliss, and Yaphet Kotto as Al are the standout characters.The show is set in Baltimore and was produced under the watchful eye of Barry Levinson, a Baltimore native.All seven seasons are available, and a must have for any discerning viewer. Buy them now!!!!!


                
Yes even better than Law and Order and CSI. As it portrays really gritty and really violent. As also really in your face. With a one camera angle that would really open the door to several other shows like "The Office and Brooklyn Nine Nine that stars one of the actors on the show, the great Andre Braugher.It was shot on location in Baltimore MD. As the ensemble cast had witty Richard Belzer who would have his John Munch go on ten shows besides this and Law and Order SVU. Future Oscar winner Melissa Leo, Ned Beatty, Yaphett Kotto as the worried boss LT G.One gritty show and really well written and produced by the great director Barry Levinson! You don't see shows like this now a days!
Homicide differs from most crime shows out there because it doesn't conform to the usual drama that most others in the genre carry. There are no high-speed chases, no shock value love affairs, no extended action scenes, no nerdy book and film trivia scattered in for no reason. Homicide is as close to reality as fiction can get. The characters, not played by the usual glamorous celebrities, look and act like ordinary working joes dedicated to their grim job, "speaking for the dead" as they put it. And viewers connect with the characters, whether it's Giardello's speeches, Munch's cynical but well-placed comments, or Pembleton juggling work and family all at once. The show might've been dark, but it worked extremely well.Around Season 6, it began to decline noticeably. Kay Howard, the "woman doing a man's job", whom viewers come to admire, is out of the picture, replaced by two new detectives who have supermodel looks but nothing outstanding or memorable about them. Brodie, the geeky but ambitious young videographer, is sent away just as he starts to become part of the Homicide "family". Pembleton and Kellerman, major characters, resign and are replaced by Gharty, a watery-eyed, often-drunk, middle-aged detective who mostly just mopes around and makes passes at younger women. Munch, once a sardonic jerk but a great detective and a surprisingly kind person and great friend when he wants to be, becomes lazy, a gossip, overly crass and annoying and is hardly ever in Season 7 anymore, spending all his time working the Waterfront Bar with Billie Lou, an eccentric barmaid who looks more like his daughter than his girlfriend. Their relationship, which is supposed to appear comical and cute, just comes off as extremely creepy, as they frequently discuss their sex life in front of other characters. Watching them carry on that way just makes me cringe. It looks so weird! Billie Lou isn't exactly devoted either, as she often flirts with Gharty (Gharty is even older than Munch). The FBI arrives in later seasons, expanding the usual small Baltimore homicide unit unnecessarily and throwing in extra drama. Bayliss becomes a "zen detective" and starts reciting proverbs and claims to be bisexual, again throwing more drama into the mix. The trademark camera angles and 16mm film look of grainy browns and grays change to an unoriginal appearance with bright blue paint and a renovated office.The good thing about Homicide is that the first five seasons are something you can watch over and over again, while still being impressed every time. This show isn't afraid to leave questions unanswered and mysteries unsolved, just like real-life. What drove Crosetti to suicide? Did Munch turn vigilante and shoot Gordon Pratt in the night? Who killed Adena Watson? What makes Homicide unique is that sometimes, things aren't easy, things aren't cheerful, but hope still prevails even in the darkest times, and this show does an excellent job at portraying that. Personally I like it far more than The Wire or Law & Order, and I was really sad to see it go when it did, although, with the direction it was going, maybe it's for the best that it still got to die with dignity.
While I think the series taken as a whole would certainly rank among the best ever put on television, a few things make it the absolute best. One is the cast. From Braugher to Kotto to Beatty to Johnson to Belzer to... the actors were (are) just phenomenal. Another is the writing. No smart-alec CSI hot shot zingers. True conversation from sophisticated adults. The last but not the least are the story lines, the greatest of all being the Mahoney story. Wow...! I dare say Shakespearean. The angst, elation, tragedy, morality (and lack thereof), vengeance, pain, and desperation throughout that saga has to be seen to be believed. What a great great risk they took by not taking the easy way out. The contrast in the scene at the park from the vengeful glee felt one minute to the totally unexpected tragedy the next was one of the great moments in the history of television and will never be equaled.
I give NBC tremendous credit for keeping this show on the air in the first place- even if its air times were sporadic and its fate had to be suspended across every summer before the executives decided to keep it for one more season. It wasn't a typical crime drama, not using a lot of car chases, explosions, or erroneous soap opera plots. The mundane of the precinct office and its eccentric inhabitants were the real stars of the show. The shows were character studies, frequently only focusing on one or two leads per hour- which made for a lot of story telling across the large ensemble cast. And though some have criticized the series' excessive use of hand-held camera and jump-cut editing, I think that gave the performances a more spontaneous, breathless appearance. This wasn't just television, it was theater. One could imagine this series being shown 50 years ago at the time of "Studio One" or "Playhouse 90," when live television drama was the norm: gritty in appearance, but sleek, literate dialog and excellent acting. (Witness episodes featuring Clark Johnson and a suicidal Reed Diamond on a sailboat; or guest star Vincent D'Onofrio mono-a-mono with Andre' Braugher while lying crushed under a subway train; or an entire episode dedicated to the graveyard shift at the height of a sweltering summer- with no working air conditioners.) This show revealed wonderful theatrical performers not only in Braugher but in Richard Belzer, Kyle Secor, Ned Beatty, Melissa Leo, and Daniel Baldwin, to name a few. I'm glad I witnessed it on network television.
Another show I binge watch. I think every actor in this series is superb.


                
SPOILER ALERT:*phone rings.
"Homicide..."
S6E7- Subway or "Accident", Emmy winning episode.
This will be the episode to watch, if any question of what this show 'Is'.
25 years ago you'd hear people say, " Best cop show ever!", these days, w what's available as 'cop shows', Homocide is just simply, The Best TV Show Ever!
In my opinion, Homicide: Life On The Streets is the best TV show ever. Frank Pembleton in the box is as compelling as TV gets. David Simon wrote over 100 episodes of Homicide before creating The Wire, my other favorite show. The acting of the cast is superb, especially Andre Braugher, Kyle Secor and Clark Johnson. I liked the first few seasons the best because they featured Pembleton and Bayliss the most. The last few seasons, which featured Gharty, Falsone and Ballard more, were still excellent television. As good as NYPD Blue, Law & Order and CSI are, they never hit me emotionally like Homicide did. Try to catch the reruns on WGN and the Sleuth network.


                
I ORDERED THE ENTIRE SERIES IN NOVEMBER AFTER LOOKING HIGH AND LOW FOR THE SHOW AND FINALLY FOUND IT ON AMAZON. I ENJOYED HOMICIDE: LIFE ON THE STREET WHEN IT WAS ON TELEVISION BUT COMPLETELY ENJOYED IT FROM NOVEMBER THRU TODAY - JANUARY 2018! THESE WERE SOME OF THE BEST ACTORS IN THE BUSINESS AND I FELT EACH WERE PART OF MY FAMILY DURING MY VIEWINGS. REALIZING THAT I HAD MISSED SEVERAL SHOWS WAS A EXTRA TREAT BECAUSE I WAS ABLE TO CAPTURE ALL OF THE MISSING LINKS. THE WRITERS DID A SUPREME JOB BY PULLING ALL OF THE CHARACTERS TOGETHER IN THE MOVIE VERSION. THE MOVIE WAS THE BONUS DVD INCLUDED IN THE PACKAGE. AND THE WAY THEY BROUGHT IN THE TWO DETECTIVES WHO DIED BY SUICIDE AND IN THE LINE OF DUTY WAS OUTSTANDING AND BROUGHT REAL CLOSURE TO THE SERIES.THERE WILL NEVER BE A SHOW LIKE HOMICIDE AND I MIGHT ADD NONE OF THE CURRENT CRIME SHOWS WILL EVERY MEET THE LEVEL OF ENTERTAINMENT THAT HOMICIDE PROVIDE. THE BEST TO EACH AND EVERYONE INVOLVED AND KEEP UP THE OUTSTANDING WORK!


                
Oh my gosh, and only because not enough people watched this show or appreciate GOOD ART on television do I take the time to totally gush over the incredible piece of work this show was. This truly was THE TOP show of (I'll be modest and say this common era) I mean every episode was like watching a play, a piece of theater. I just recently by the grace of God caught the beginning of its syndication on Superstation WGN here in Florida, like I just happened to be in the hospital and the very first episode of Homicide comes on. I'm like its a miracle. Faithfully I turned on the TV for the next few days at 11am sharp to contentedly and thoroughly enjoy this beautiful show. I missed this show. I wish I could write the producers and say thank you for having the courage to do something good on TV. Thank you for blessing us with this gift. I do not have TVO but I do have a VCR and now that I have to return to work next week, I will definitely tape this show and cherish it.


                
This isn't your usual run of the mill procedural cop/law enforcement show it was way ahead of it's time. You can kind of view at a forebearer to The Wire which itself is probably one of the best shows on all time, but that's a review for another time.David Simon who was a newspaper reporter in Baltimore and road along with real homicide detectives for a year then wrote a book which was Homicide: Life on the Killing Streets which NBC turned into this TV show.Many of the actors who appeared on this show would then later on go onto being on Oz and/or The Wire.Most of the focus was on the main detective team of Frank Pemleton and Tim Bayliss.The character of John Munch appeared on this show before going off to being a regular on Law & Order: Special Victims Unit and about 5 or more guest appearances as the same character on other shows.


                
You will not be disappointed that you bought the entire seven seasons of Homocide Life on the Street.It is, without a doubt, the best series of its type put on TV.The episode called The Subway with Vincent Donofrio only is worth the whole series; but, there are so many more excellent episodes.Three times a Peabody Award winner, twice an Emmy award winner, numerous times Emmy nominated, twice WGA award winners, plus numerous other awards and nominations.Guest star appearances are too numerous to list. It appears that big name stars were lined up to appear on this well written, highly praised series.PS:The John Munch character played by Richard Belzer is heading for a longevity award now that he has moved over to Law and Order Special Victims. Already over 15 years and counting getting closer to James Arness and that Frasier Crane guy, Kelsey Grammar.


                
I still miss a show like this drama. It had a first cast, crew, and writing that no other show on television had until that point. Andre Braugher (I love you), Kyle Secor, Melissa Leo, David Belzer, Ned Beatty, Isabell Hoffman, Stephen Baldwin, etc. I only wished that they didn't get rid of Leo's character, Kay Howard, who I think was the best female heterosexual cop on television up there with Cagney and Lacey. I like the real life and on screen relationship between Hoffman and Baldwin. Let's put it to you this way, when they did the reunion film, everybody in the cast and crew reunited which is amazing because this cast and crew worked so well together that they formed relationships that would last a lifetime. Braugher's Emmy winning performance as Frank Pendleton is amazing and unforgettable. The show shot much of it on location in Baltimore itself and that city became part of the show's unique character.


                
Remarkable cast, great writing, funny as any sitcom, as serious and poignant as any drama ever produced, Homicide still stands the test of time! Adapted from David Simon's book of the same name, this is a epic TV series. Check out the Homicide podcast on Sound Cloud called "From Red To Black. "


                
