Doctor Who ran for 26 years, and its last episode was as fresh and imaginative as its first.The show chronicles the adventures of a time-and-space traveling alien who wanders the universe battling evil conquerors, ruthless corporations, and other exploiters of the innocent and oppressed.  Every few weeks, the Doctor would travel to a different planet or time, allowing the show's cast, setting, and tone to constantly change.  Even the Doctor himself was periodically replaced by a new actor, "regenerating" his body whenever he was on the verge of death.  This format gave the show an amazing freshness and allowed it to last for over a quarter of a century without becoming stale.  Since the show's cancellation, Doctor Who has been sustained by hundreds of books and radio shows.  Although the concept is beginning to seem a bit old now, great "Who" stories are still coming out all the time. 
Television remains the ultimate format for Doctor Who, however, and the series has something to offer for just about everyone.  The early episodes, starring William Hartnell, were mysterious and realistic in tone, and are terribly underrated by the show's fans.  Tom Baker, the most popular Doctor internationally, had a succession of wild and colorful adventures that are more entertaining and a lot funnier than most of the sitcoms on TV today. In its dying days, when Sylvester McCoy was in the lead role, Doctor Who became highly allegorical and politically charged.    Every Doctor's era has some merit, though some are obviously more inspired than others.  In the early 70s and early 80s in particular, the show suffered from some poor production values and repetitive plots, but even the bad episodes are fun to watch and often redeemed by some strength <U+0096> good performances, an interesting plot twist, etc.  Lovers of modern, flashy science fiction will probably laugh Doctor Who off the screen because of its modest special effects, but nevertheless it remains one of the most visually inventive TV shows ever made.  Episodes like Tomb of the Cybermen and Remembrance of the Daleks contain unforgettable images that stack up to anything Hollywood produced on a 100x bigger budget.  If you want to pick the show's visuals apart, you can, but you'll be doing yourself a disservice if you don't suspend your disbelief and allow yourself to be drawn into the Doctor's universe.I may be in the minority, but I enjoyed the 1996 TV Movie that attempted to resurrect Doctor Who years after its cancellation.  I don't buy the argument that Doctor Who couldn't survive in today's big-budget entertainment arena. The intelligence of the X-Men and Spider-Man movies has convinced me that a slick, cerebral version of Doctor Who could be produced today that would be faithful to the not-so-slick, cerebral original.  But regardless of whether Doctor Who returns or not, it remains one of the great TV shows of all time. It still wins awards even today, and enjoys widespread popular and critical acclaim.  Even Doctor Who's detractors only serve to prove that the show is famous enough to draw criticism!  In short, Doctor Who is smart, fun, and endlessly creative.  It has kept me entertained for over fifteen years, and my enthusiasm for it has barely waned.  Science fiction is in a dumb rut right now, so you could do a lot worse than look back at this show, one of the genre's crowning achievements.


                
Doctor Who was my childhood. This show was, and still is, awesome. Right from the start, it was set apart from sci-fi shows at the time. This show was originally intended to be educational. But all that changed one fateful day in 1963. Yes, that's right, I'm talking about... the Daleks.These monsters were one of the few things from sci-fi that could illicit pure, unadulterated terror in me. Other monsters eventually cropped up over the years, like the Cybermen, Sontarans, Silurians, Sea Devils, the Master, the list goes on...In short, there is a reason this show has spawned countless spin- offs, a TV movie, and has lasted for 50 years.It is because it is a staple of British television. Even cancellation couldn't stop this gem.After 16 years in development hell, barring the aforementioned movie, Doctor Who returned.


                
It is now wonder this show has run for as long as it has. I'm reviewing the classic series only, although why it's split into two I've never fathomed out. Seven actors held the mantle of being the Doctor, credit to William Hartnell, for being the hook, for gripping the initial viewers, and credit to Patrick Troughton for doing the unthinkable and taking over the lead role. I love how each generation of my friends had a 'Doctor,' and how passionate they felt towards theirs. I grew up with Sylvester as mine, and sadly by then the show was in a huge decline and subsequently ended up being axed.Purple patch of the show for me Series 13, Tom and Lis on supreme form, fantastic production values, and writing to match, the whole Gothic horror format worked amazingly well. Such a shame that the quality went out of the show during the late eighties for the most part, but there are definite hidden gems in there, Remembrance of the Daleks being a prime example.I'm sure we all know parts of the series inside out, so doing a general review is quite difficult, all I can say is that I've loved this show since I was young and continue to do so.Highlights, Caves of Androzani, Genesis of the Daleks, Pyramids of Mars, to name but a few.Legendary 10/10
'Dr.Who' was the first television programme I got hooked on. It was 1968, when Patrick Troughton was the incumbent. The story, a repeat of 'Evil Of The Daleks', was the most incredible thing I'd ever seen. Wild horses couldn't have dragged me away from the set at the same time the following week. Dalekmania had passed by then, so I never got my toy, but I did get a Dalek colouring book on Christmas morning, as well as that year's 'Dr.Who' annual. As the '60's gave way to the '70's, my interest in the show intensified as Jon Pertwee and Tom Baker steered a successful course through the choppy seas of T.V. ratings. I started to lose interest in the '80's though, though that was probably my fault for growing up. When it ended in 1989, I wasn't surprised. Now its back - and a whole new generation of children are just as excited about 'Dr.Who' as I was back in 1968 - my enthusiasm has rekindled. We can all look back on the 1963/89 series as 'the classic years' even though as far as I'm concerned they're not over yet.


                
Doctor Who is the greatest series ever. I guess the reason why I love this show is because it is lots of fun as it take a story any place and any time period and make it work. That is why the classic series is so loved and that is why there was a lot of demand for it to come back in 2005. To the naysayers of Doctor Who, it is their loss and their problem why they do not get the appeal of Doctor Who. It is their problem and frankly it should never be mine and watching Doctor Who is the best viewing decision I have ever made.It is often been said that Doctor Who could easily run forever (notwithstanding the gap between the "classic" and "new" series). That is because flexible in its format and it is that flexibility is why Doctor Who aficionados always stick with Doctor Who because it is worth sticking around for.


                
Of all the TV series I've seen, this is in my mind the best, since it had a huge impact in my life, ever since I first saw it in 1982! William Hartnell, Patrick Troughton, Jon Pertwee, Tom Baker, & Peter Davison represent the program for me, an imaginative, intelligent, engaging and fun adventure for the first 21 years....then alas it went off the rails disastrously, becoming a gaudy, unappealing mess with the miscast Colin Baker and poor writing ruining my favorite series. I just ignore the final five years as a result(though Sylvester McCoy was fine, the irreparable damage had been done...) I remember wishing that I could travel with the Doctor as a companion and share in his adventures, but then again, so haven't millions of fans. The Tardis is still like a second home for me, and I can revisit it anytime I like now that the DVD range is complete!


                
Yes we may have had bubble wrapped cryons. There may of been the worst special effects rat ever, but what we had was a plot. Of course though a series going this long has it's bad episodes, but by and large the plots and characters were sound.When it was cancelled in the 80s it was far better than the tick the pc box emporers new clothes who of today.Each Dr bought something different to the role. There the suave of Pertwee to the scheming of McCoy. It also posed real moral dilemmas like genesis of the Daleks.Then we had the great companions and easily as good villains. From the brigadeear to the master and everything in between. So many iconic characters. Daleks still relavent even now.All in all a classic series that refuses to be a sheep like new who.


                
Is there any stopping the Doctor? My answer is no. Even though some reports have suggested that time lords may only go through 12 generations, hopefully the Doctor will break that tradition and the internet geeks will bury their faces in their hands with shame.Even though it may not sound like it, I used to be a normal little girl who liked pink and ponies before I discovered the wonderful world of Who last year. I was never into science fiction or fantasy, just comedy and family, but Doctor Who changed all that.It was in April 2005 when my middle-aged aunt had misheard something about me liking Doctor Who. She bought 'The Three Doctors' on DVD, and I had no choice but to watch it. Since then, I've been hooked.I know Romana's full name (well, it's either Romanadvoratrelundar or Romanatrevortrelundar), how Adric died (he was trying to solve a logic code when a Cyberman destroyed the keyboard and the ship blew up), the importance of the sonic screwdriver and nearly all the monsters and planets mentioned. I am a true Whovian (complete with a crush on Matthew Waterhouse) and I'm not afraid to admit it.If the Doctor had to die for the last time, the world would be in deep despair. People would talk about for years. I would be one of them. If the Doctor died, shame, shame. At least the Who legend will live on.


                
DOCTOR WHO is a triumph of the imagination. A premise that is elegantly simple with an enigmatic hero, who is staggeringly brilliant and yet endearingly flawed. The show's strength has always been its consistently powerful writing, and the performance of the lead actor, of who there have been many. (Seven all together in this series.) The premise: A time traveler from an advanced race flees his suffocating, antiseptic society, to experience the wonders of the universe in his time/space vehicle, the TARDIs (Time and Relative Dimensions in Space). He starts out as purely an explorer, but soon becomes a galactic crusader, using his amazing science and resourceful ingenuity to defend the weak and fight evil.When the series first star, William Hartnell, became too ill to continue on in the role, the writers came up with the ingenious concept of "regeneration". Whenever the Doctor is dying, he can regenerate into a newer, healthy form. This explains the seven varying actors, who not only don't look alike, but have decidedly differing personalities.Doctor One was an aging, eccentric curmudgeon. He had little patience and he didn't suffer fools gladly. He could be very intolerant and dismissive of his traveling companions (except for his beloved Grand daughter Susan) although he started to lighten up as the show went on, learning to enjoy a bemused chuckle once in a while.Doctor two was a complete reversal. He was friendly, funny and frivolous. He liked to play his flute, wear disguises and use lots of puns. He was like a mischievous little imp. He would certainly show fear at a frightening moment and was not adverse to running away when the situation warranted it. He often played the fool, making himself seem like a bungler...but this was all an act, designed to make people underestimate him. And he knew when to stop playing games. When he was all business, he was very formidable.Doctor Three Was the most physical and action oriented of the Doctors. Although he was certainly not a young kid, he was athletic and a master of a unique form of martian arts. This Doctor was a product of the James Bond era, relying on gadgets, like his cars "Bessie" and the Whomobile. He was elegant and classy looking, in his ruffled shirt and opera cloak. He exuded a sense of supreme confidence. He always seemed to be in control, no matter what the odds against him.Doctor Four was eccentric, unpredictable and maybe just a little bit crazy. There was no telling what he'd do or say next. He had a childlike enthusiasm and a sometimes a childish petulance. He would frequently enrage an enemy with his verbals barbs. Wrapped in his long, multi-colored scarf, he'd bound recklessly into danger, grinning that big boyish grin, as if the idea of defeat had never occurred to him. He was as fearless as he was curious.Doctor Five was a kinder gentler Doctor. He was patient, gentle, and displayed more vulnerability than other Doctors. His amiable nature was often put to the test, since he was saddled with the most disagreeable and argumentative group of traveling companions that any Doctor had ever been burdened with. He tried to play the adult and keep peace among his squabbling crew, but sometimes he just had to storm out and get away from these pests. He was a big sports lover and always dressed in a Cricketers outfit.Doctor Six was the most unlikable and irritating of all the Doctors. He was bombastic, boastful and belligerent. He showed little sympathy for his companions, and was quick to use lethal force to defeat an enemy.Doctor Seven began an a comical, impish fun lover, but soon revealed a darker side. He was the most enigmatic Doctor since Hartnell and displayed many layers of mystery beneath his smiling exterior.The tone of the show changed with each Doctor, and allowed the writers to reinvent the show over and over, keeping it as fresh in it's 26th year as it was in it's first.


                
Doctor Who is by far the best science fiction show ever. It also has the best theme music of any show. And it ranks as my number 2 favourite show, beneath The Simpsons. The original series (which was far better than the newer one) is extremely enjoyable to watch. From the black and white episodes from 1963 through 1969 to the last episode in 1989, Survival, where the Doctor's old foe the Master returns once again, the show never fails to be entertaining. The characters are excellent, never lacking in originality. The plots, though some are outrageous and fantastic, as in the episodes where the Doctor travels between dimensions as well as through timespace, are always fun and full of adventure. There is depth in the characters, especially the Time Lord race, of which the Doctor, the main character, is a member. The Doctor's constantly changing companions, usually less than three, provide the audience with a tool to ask the time traveller questions they themselves would wish to ask. Explaining the police box shaped time machine TARDIS takes a lot of time. Another component of the show is the famous theme music written by Ron Grainer and created by Delia Derbyshire in 1963 with limited electric technology. It's still incredible to hear now, and would easily make most modern popular music seem rather simple indeed. Ten Stars for this classic show.
Okay I am huge fan of doctor who I love the monsters and the time travels I have been watching new series for a while now so I give the classic series a try I wanted to see the ones from Tom Baker and John Pertwee and Peter Davsen's era so I watch one from Peter's era and I was not let dawn by him so watch Tom's and John's as well The doctors I like from the classic series are the 4th 3rd the 5th 7th the 2nd and the 1st are okay the 6th was my least favorite doctor and as for the monsters their where some monsters from the new series and some I did not know until now so you can I good time watching this series its a bloody good show and full great things my favorite episodes are the ones with the Daleks and the Cyberman The tomb of The Cyberman was outstanding watch and I watch bit more the classic series because I have seen almost all the episodes from season 3 from the new series and to me I think the classic series is good as the new series I give this a 10 out of 10 for outstanding work.


                
While I fully acknowledge that the "traditional" Doctor Who series has endured its ups and downs, I gave it a perfect rating because of its very concept and energy. One character, the time-traveling Doctor, could be interpreted by several different actors in so many different aspects. This ensures a long lifespan for any television show, but the Doctor's space-time travels offer so many story-telling opportunities, regardless of the limited BBC budget or the occasional blooper. Doctor Who began as a BBC family show in 1963, in those days when families -- especially in the UK -- were fortunate to own a single TV set. Most fans consider the classic show in terms of which actor portrayed the Time Lord during which period. When William Hartnell began this role in 1963, no one could have envisioned six other actors playing the same character, until the conceptual introduction of "regeneration" in 1966's "The Tenth Planet." Hence, the Second Doctor, played for three years by Patrick Troughton, has his own "era" of adventures before his regeneration into Jon Pertwee in 1969's "The War Games," and so forth.Unfortunately, many of the episodes of Hartnell and Troughton's tenures were destroyed by the BBC (or stolen in some cases) when their 1960s overseas resale values had expired. Periodically, "lost treasures" have been recovered by the BBC, such as the entire four-part Patrick Troughton story, "Tomb of the Cybermen," located in 1991 at Hong Kong.One of the show's perennial attractions were its monsters and villains, adversaries for the Doctor and his friends. Beginning with the Daleks, those robotic mutants who spawned two films and "Dalekmania," Doctor Who has created its own unique mythology. Cybermen, while similar to the Cybernauts from the original TV Avengers, certainly inspired Star Trek: TNG's well-known Borg Collective. Other alien races have been introduced, as well as the Doctor's renegade arch-enemy, the Master. At various points in the show's history, Doctor Who attempted to grow in terms of maturity, albeit not in the provocative sense of the 2005 BBC-Wales production. In fact, I approve of IMDb's separate category for the newer series, because it bears only topical similarity to the original. Unfortunately for traditional Doctor Who, parental concern over violence (mostly alarmist) and conservative watchdogs like Mary Whitehouse served as a shackle to prevent the show from reaching its logical potential. In comparison to U.S. productions, however, this series seldom ventured beyond PG boundaries of violence. Sexuality rarely entered the picture, even though many of the Doctor's female companions were considered attractive, even glamorous.I am not going to speculate on my favorite Doctors, because I have enjoyed each actor's contributions at various points. I will leave prospective Doctor Who fans to discover their "favorite" Doctors for themselves. But as to general hints, William Hartnell began the role as a stern grandfatherly figure with occasional whimsy, while Patrick Troughton's whimsical wanderings masked an enigmatic intellect. Jon Pertwee's debonair Third Doctor resembled John Steed of the Avengers with perhaps a dash of James Bond, with Pertwee's love of gadgets and cars. Pertwee's era also debuted in color, well-remembered for its contemporary Earth-based format and the UNIT family.After 7 years as the Doctor, Tom Baker became an icon, especially in the United States, where syndication and Public TV brought new fans and convention appearances starting in 1979. Baker's trademark grin and long scarf became famous, as did his off-screen clashes with some directors and producers. But Tom Baker's departure in 1981 marked a great time of trouble for the classic series. Incoming producer John-Nathan Turner would helm the series for its remaining decade, but he would be challenged to retain the show's once-invincible position. Arguably, Turner's removal of Doctor Who from its traditional Saturday tea-time slot caused a decline in viewers. John-Nathan Turner sought to attract famous guest stars, and wanted a well-known actor to play the Fifth Doctor. Previous Doctors had been played by experienced character actors, whilst Tom Baker had been a virtual unknown. Peter Davison, already a television star in England, portrayed a much younger Doctor in a cricket blazer, with more subtle humor and a touch of irascibility. Davison's tenure lasted only three years, before John-Nathan Turner chose Colin Baker, best known for playing villains. Wearing a psychedelic jacket and a cat badge, the Sixth Doctor's crusade for galactic justice was plagued by renewed complaints of violence. After a year's hiatus, Doctor Who seasons were reduced to 14 episodes and four stories, and Colin Baker was unfairly dismissed in 1986 by BBC chief Michael Grade.Doctor Who might have been phased out without a trace, if not for the valiant efforts of Sylvester McCoy, another obscure actor chosen to play the Seventh Doctor. After an uncertain first season, McCoy's portrayal had won over young fans despite some rather weak story lines. However, his last two seasons featured some genuine classic moments. Toward the end, McCoy's portrayal grew more somber and manipulative, even toward his companion, Ace. But when the series finally ended in 1989, the Seventh Doctor's era ended on a high note in "Survival," after the Doctor and Ace outwit the Master for a final victory. One can still take the original series without reading the copious fan-fiction novels that ensued after 1991, or accepting the premises of either the 1996 Telemovie or the new series, which has destroyed or radically altered many of Doctor Who's original concepts. 26 years remains a body of work unto itself, and I believe families can still sit together and enjoy the legend almost 50 years after it began.
Doctor Who is a long-running award-winning British science fiction television programme (and a 1996 television film) produced by the BBC. The series shows the adventures of a mysterious time-traveller known as "the Doctor", who explores time and space in his TARDIS (Time And Relative Dimension(s) In Space) time ship with his companions, solving problems and righting wrongs.The programme is listed by the Guinness World Records as the longest-running science fiction television series in the world and is also a significant part of British popular culture. It has been recognised for its imaginative stories, creative low-budget special effects during its original run, and pioneering use of electronic music (originally produced by the BBC Radiophonic Workshop). In Britain and elsewhere, the show has become a cult television favourite and has influenced generations of British television professionals, many of whom grew up watching the series. It has received recognition from critics and the public as one of the finest British television programmes, including the BAFTA Award for Best Drama Series in 2006.The programme originally ran from 1963 to 1989. A television film was made in 1996, and the programme was successfully relaunched in 2005, produced in-house by BBC Wales. (Some development money for the new series is contributed by the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC), which is credited as a co-producer, although they do not have creative input into the show.) Doctor Who has also spawned spin-offs in multiple media, including the current television series Torchwood and The Sarah Jane Adventures.Series 3 of the relaunched programme, starring David Tennant as the Doctor and Freema Agyeman as his companion Martha Jones, aired on BBC One from 31 March 2007 to 30 June 2007. A Christmas special, "Voyage of the Damned", will air in December 2007, with Kylie Minogue co-starring next to David Tennant. A fourth series has been commissioned and it is scheduled to air in 2008. It was confirmed on the July 4, 2007 that Catherine Tate would be returning to Doctor Who in her role as Donna Noble from the 2006 Christmas Special as the Doctor's latest companion in the fourth series.
Doctor Who, the worlds longest running sci-fi television programme. it ran from 1963 - 1989, came back in 1996 for a made for television movie before triumphantly returning last year. For nearly 43 years the good doctor has enthralled millions of viewers, fighting the evils of the universe, not bad for a programme that was only supposed to last for 13 weeks. i've been fortunate enough to have seen every surviving episode and can honestly say that i've enjoyed them all, and i think it's great credit to the writers that every single story is different and they've never repeated in content after all this time. what an idea re-generation was! it has without doubt ensured the longevity of the programme, and kept it unique as no doctor has been the same all 10 t.v. doctors have brought something new to the role and kept the programme fresh. the enemies the doctor has faced have also been a big part of the show's success especially the Daleks. the Daleks were single handedly responsible for keeping at least 3 generations of kids behind their sofa's, and have become a massive pop culture. all in all doctor who will go down in the annuls of time as one of the greatest t.v. programmes of all time, and long may it continue. well done the BBC! doctor who is worth the price of the license fee alone!!


                
From Arthur C. Clarke to Philip K. Dick, many of these sci-fi pioneers helped shape the genre into what it is today. Sydney Newman also helped shape the genre into the diverse masterclass of entertainment it is, when he commissioned the development of Doctor Who all the way back in 1963. Since then, Doctor Who has blossomed into a household franchise that's inspired films ranging from Star Wars (The Daleks and The Cybermen inspired R2-D2 and C-3P0) to The Matrix (yes; one of the stories The Deadly Assassin had a 'matrix' sequence in it).54 years on from its premiere, Doctor Who is still thriving and producing new stories today. Though the cast and crew have changed throughout the show's dense history it still manages to produce some stellar stuff regardless of the changes.What else is there to say about Doctor Who other than... it is truly its own special thing that has earned the rightful title of being a bonafide classic in the British television canon.


                
So far I've only seen a few episodes of "Doctor Who". What I've seen impresses me. I interpret the show as a look at how we might respond if suddenly forced into another world (i.e., will we cooperate to do something that helps everyone or will we resort to war?). I also like the idea that the Doctor regenerates (meaning that twelve different people have played him). Admittedly, some of the sets and special effects look dated, but the plot is what matters, and there's plenty of that.The series is one of the favorites of the nerd/geek crowd. The characters on "The Big Bang Theory" reference it, and it's easy to find Comic-Con attendees dressed as the Doctor. It's not my favorite show by any stretch, but I like what I've seen. I recommend it.


                
This British science-fiction/fantasy television series (commonly referred to as the classic "Doctor Who" series) features an alien time traveler who journeys across time and space. The character, known only as the Doctor, has a habit of becoming involved in various situations during his travels. The Doctor is usually accompanied by one or more traveling companions, most of whom are humans from Earth. As a consequence of a malfunctioning chameleon circuit, the exterior of the Doctor's time machine is permanently disguised as a blue British police box.This show is the longest-running science fiction series in the history of television. The series evolves along with the evolution of the technology of television itself, with episodes serving as samples of television from different eras.The role of the Doctor was played by a number of different actors. As the show's lead actor was replaced, the change in the Doctor's appearance was explained in terms of a regeneration process which helped the Doctor to recover from potentially lethal injuries. Each actor played the Doctor in a different way, giving each Doctor a different style and personality. While the recasting of roles usually resulted in negative consequences for other television shows, the regeneration of the Doctor in this series usually caused a great deal of interest and excitement. The change of Doctors breathed new life into the series and kept the show fresh.The Doctor frequently encountered a number of regular villains on the show. The most popular villains were the Daleks, which were mutants encased inside robotic bodies resembling salt and pepper shakers. Other popular villains included the Cybermen, the Sontarans, and the Ice Warriors. The Doctor's ultimate foe was the Master, who originated on the Doctor's home world of Gallifrey.The classic series ran from 1963 to 1989. Adventures from the classic series typically spanned several episodes, most of which ended in cliffhangers. Public television stations in the United States frequently edited the episodes together into longer movies. After the end of the classic television series, the adventures of the Doctor continued with a television movie in 1996 followed by a new television series which started in 2005.This series was always interesting. Adventures ranged from historic stories set in the past to futuristic stories set in space. The show was always colorful and exciting. The constantly evolving nature of the series resulted in the show being embraced by multiple generations of television viewers over the decades. This show is highly recommended
...along with You Can't Do That On Television, made life bearable for much of what was a distressing childhood. In spite of dodgy special effects, Doctor Who suspended disbelief so well with its characters and personality that it gave an illusion that we were really watching two (sometimes three) people travelling through time.Having just sat and viewed The Five Doctors (a misleading title, given that one of them only appears in stock footage), I can say that the film reminded me of why this show was still going strong after twenty-seven years. After seven carefully-chosen actors and hundreds of clever scripts, however, the show went into a "hiatus" after the 1989 season, although the BBC maintain to this day that the show has never officially been cancelled. An attempt was made to ressurect the Doctor with a telemovie featuring an eighth doctor, but this only serves as a reminder that special effects are no match for a well-developed story with good characters.This isn't to say that the story isn't without faults. I can remember at least two distinct origins of the Daleks, and all you had to do was run down a flight of stairs to get rid of them. Still, plot problems like this were easily overcome, and in the last official season, the Daleks suddenly developed the ability to fly their way down stairs! Perhaps special effects can help with plot problems?As for the ideal series to get started with, I'm just going to say that one series is as good as another, although I personally recommend Doctors one through five in sequential order. The fifth doctor isn't quite the best, but still a worthy successor to the others. I also recommend watching The Five Doctors, even though there's really only four Doctors involved. It ties the five actors together nicely, and they act well with one another in spite of the fact that the first actor had to be replaced with an impersonator (the original original Doctor was replaced in the TV series because he was diagnosed with MS).Actually, even if you only ever see one episode of Doctor Who, The Five Doctors is a great place to start. Any episode featuring the Brigadeer, the Master, or the Daleks comes recommended, too.


                
The longest running sci-fi show in the world, this has possibly the smartest and most versatile format of any TV show going, allowing not only for anything to happen, anywhere in the universe, and at any point in history, but also for the lead character to change as and when necessary - usually through the actors choice to leave, though occasionally through the BBC wielding the axe - as well as providing a steady stream of supporting characters in the form of the Doctor's companions.I think we all know how this one works, at least any Brits reading this. The Doctor is a Timelord, who travels through time and space in his TARDIS, a vehicle which should be able to blend in wherever it lands. Unfortunately, it's got stuck in the form of an old fashioned Police Box. Wherever he goes, he seems to land smack in the centre of trouble. Alien invasions, alien dictatorships, alien plans to take over the universe, that type of thing, and frequently he is the prime suspect initially. Inevitably though, the victims in the plot begin to trust him, until eventually, usually, he saves the day.In 2005 the BBC took the surprising decision to resurrect the show after a hiatus of 16 years (give or take the odd dodgy Americanised feature length pilot), and the show is once more firmly ensconced in the hearts of the British viewing public. Highly varied, but rarely less than entertaining, this is one of my all time favourites.
When Sydney Newman commissioned this series at the BBC in 1962, nobody expected Doctor Who to become the cultural barrier-breaking phenomenon it became after JFK's assassination in November, 1963. But alas, the show's first ever serial, An Unearthly Child, was re-aired a week later and Doctor Who became an overnight phenomenon that gave people happiness and entertainment after JFK was taken from the world too soon. Of course the following serial that made Doctor Who something more than a trending franchise in the 60s, and that serial which helped Doctor Who shoot right up into the pop-cultural stratosphere , was the story: 'The Daleks'. This story introduced The Doctor's most iconic enemies, The Daleks: cybernetic monsters from the planet Skaro who would shout 'Exterminate!' whenever they kill their prey. And thus science fiction would never be the same after Doctor Who left its mark in a post JFK-assassination world.This show has gone on to become an out and out classic in its own right, being assessed, loved and critically revered as other British classics like Fawlty Towers, Monty Python's Flying Circus, 'I, Claudius', The Avengers, Thunderbirds and so on; all for very good reasons. Doctor Who's brought along with it SO many classic stories comparable to the best episodes of Star Trek, like 'Genesis of the Daleks', 'Inferno', 'Earthshock', 'The Ark in Space', 'The Web of Fear', 'The Caves of Androzani', 'The Talons of Weng Chiang', 'Pyramids of Mars' and MANY more! These stories never needed high-budgets to execute their high-concept stories: just fleshed-out scripts that were complimented with great actors. Sure the show sometimes succumbs to corny acting from its extras and some of the stories do seem derivative, but overall Doctor Who still makes for some great television watching.What makes Doctor Who so great anyway? Well, I think it all comes down to the elasticity of its creativity and using the sci-fi genre as a backdrop to ground as many of the series' stories and rules as possible. Sure it bends those rules sometimes, but does that make it boring in the slightest? Hell no. Its non-linear approach to sci-fi world-building is also part of what makes it great: each story can be seen in a non-specific manner if you like. You can essentially mix-and-match whatever Doctor Who stories you'd like to sit through as long as you see all the episodes of that given story. It's like a storybook but in episodic television form. Some franchises can be described as having that very same non-binary appeal to other fandoms like those into Star Trek and Star Wars (which Disney should understand and respect fans' desire to have non-binding canon or orders for how to appreciate their things). Everyone (who's a Whovian) has their favourite Doctor, and mine is The Fourth Doctor because of his beaming smile, his jelly babies and all-round good-guy vibe that adds to his already heroic and fearless demeanor. He's the ultimate Time Lord and many people's childhood icon! Need I really say anymore as to why Doctor Who's great?Doctor Who gets 5/5 stars. It's more than a show; it's a goddamn legacy in and of itself. One of the very best there is.


                
This series is frankly incredible. It ran for 26 years and was truly excellent. Sure, it was on an awful budget, but no one can deny the love that went into making the programme and the fact that the characters and writing were excellent, so the wobbly sets are easy to overlook. The first doctor William Hartnell was marvellous. His portrayal of an irritable grandfather like figure was superb, and as fans he must be respected. Without his performance the show might have not necessarily got of the ground. Then we had Patrick Troughton, described as a 'cosmic hobo' he brought more humour into the series, and made it different enough and yet the same enough to work, following on from his predecessor William Hartnell. The Jon Pertwee era was excellent, and was the time when the show's popularity increased even further. Then came the longest running Doctor ever, the fourth Doctor Tom Baker, whose wit and humour entertained audiences across the globe for 7 years. Then came Peter Davison, a fan favourite because he was alway's superb. He guided the show for a very successful 2 years and was in three seasons as the Doctor. Then came Colin Baker, a underrated Doctor, who was treated like total crap by the BBC and Michael Grade a cigar chomping, interfering idiot who then was important for some reason, within the BBC. The show was given an 18 month hiatus abruptly after Season 22. This decision was from Michael Grade who amongst a couple of rubbish excuses came up with 'I've never liked Doctor Who anyway'. This decision was generally abhorred by the series fan's anyway but more irritatingly he made the decision with poor excuses and provided no help to the production team on how he thought they could make the programme better. Granted the programme had some problems, (the new 45 minute runtime, to name one) but this action was miscalculated and stupid. However the show did return 18 month's later with 'Trial of a Timelord' which is generally regarded as one of Colin Baker's best stories alongside 'Revelation of the Daleks'. Certainly 'Mindwarp'is regarded as a classic. Then the bad news came for Colin Baker, Michael Grade told him that he would not have his contract renewed as the Doctor and he would have to find other work. His second excuse was 'I like Colin, but I've decided that every Doctor should only have 3 seasons in the part', although I have always felt that he did this to try and shake up the programme. This thankfully didn't happen and Sylvester McCoy stepped in the role in 1987 starting with 'Time and the Rani'. Season 24 was excellent and full of humour which provided fresh air to the series. 'Ace' the Doctor's new companion came along at Season 24's finale 'Dragonfire', and I regard Ace as the finest Doctor Who companion, wonderfully played by Sophie Aldred. Sylvester McCoy's unfairly under-appreciated tenure as the Doctor came to an end in 1989 when the show was cancelled, a reasonable excuse has never been given and the decision has always eluded me. Doctor who returned in the disappointing 1996 movie, starring Paul McGann who was an excellent Doctor, but the movie was hindered by unnecessary romantic scenes between the Doctor and Grace Holloway. That isn't what Doctor Who's about! Confined to video and DVD releases, the original series continues to prosper with new fans joining what is the Doctor Who phenomenon every year. In 2005, Doctor Who returned in a new series with the greatly overrated Russell T. Davies producing. Christopher Eccleston stuck in CBBC mode gave a lacklustre performance as the Doctor (a great actor he is, but the characterisation forced upon him didn't work, in my view, there are those that will disagree, which is fair enough!) Admittedly Billie Piper excelled. The plots go nowhere and by the end of the episode the writer gives in and includes an easy to get out of situation in the script, such as the first episode of the new series, the Doctor's in trouble the Auton's have got him!, So he gets a test tube of anti - plastic, and throws it at them!!, well done Russell T. Davies! The rest of the episodes are either over romantic, juvenile or really boring. I don't wish to offend anyone, but I was deeply disappointed with the new series, as I thought it was going to be somewhat better. But, each to their own, if you like the new series, fair enough! I know that some fans of the series will agree with me. Getting back to the old series, it is undoubtedly a science fiction classic, which has enjoyed intense popularity over the years, and I think the original series, is one of those programmes, which will stay in people's mind's forever.


                
I always used to debate my friends who played a better Dr. Who, they always chose Tom Baker, I was in camp Pertwee though :) It seems like the new post 89 Dr. Who(2005+) is more focused on effects than developing a solid storyline.I used to look forward to after school on Friday nights & Sunday after church when this show came on, good days indeed ! They don't make them like this anymore sadly, long live the original Dr Who.


                
Dr. Who is Brilliant, I've been watching the series since i was 5 years old. As a kid i loved getting scared by the monsters, the monsters that scared me the most were the Autons.The two most memorable scenes which scared me the most where: the start of the invasion, when the Autons start coming to life and massacring people (from Spearhead From Space Episode 4 and The Autons Massacring people in Rose (Series 27 Episode 1).If you love science fiction, action, historical and mysterious movies your love Doctor Who.If you decide to watch Doctor Who i recommend starting of at the very begging.there are 96 episodes currently missing from the BBC archives, however some of the missing episodes have been brilliantly animated using the original soundtracks.
To my great delight Dr Who is back! This series has been restarted in 2005 in the US taking off from were the original left off. I think it is wonderful that someone appreciates how wonderful this series was and is again.Now starting into it's second season it has been really fun to see how they have interlaced the episodes and developed the characters. If you haven't seen this new run you really really need to look it up. I know at the time of this posting they are selling both season 1 and doing pre-sales on season 2 over at Amazon.comXLF


                
I bet that If you asked anyone who has never heard of Dr. Who to tell you what genre of television the longest running once weakly prime time television show was hardly anyone would say science fiction. Well its true the huge fan base it built in the early 70's and the shows amazing ability to reinvent itself catapulted to an astounding 26 years in original run. What started out as a kids educational show in late 1963 evolved into a gripping and suspenseful Sci Fi Drama that young an old alike loved to watch. From the beginning, though the historical episodes where not really all that bad, it was the purely science fiction episodes that made the show truly popular. It went on for 3 successful years but then the great doom of many a TV show occurred, the leading actor in failing health wished to leave, but the producers and the BBC made an astounding decision and recast the lead finally confirming the alien origins of the mysterious Doctor. This ability of reinvention was what pushed the show to it amazing 26 years. Granted this how did have low points and at its worst the show was as cheesy, corny, and badly made as any other Sci Fi show ever created, but at it's best, it was truly incredible. For any of you who have not heard of the show and would like to see it at its best, in my opinion Tom Baker, the 4th Doctor, is the best of the 7 and specifically the first three of his seven seasons are the best the show ever did. Keep in mind those are only opinions.5/5, Excellent


                
