I think it's hard to even glance at the science fiction television scene without knowing about Doctor Who. There are many people I've come across who are fans and almost all of them have a different answer to the question (the question I always ask when I find this out) "Who's your favourite Doctor?" Everyone has a different opinion and the reason for that is something I'll get into later, either way each has it's own era which I'll get into. Either way, the plot is simple, an alien takes his granddaughter and 2 schoolteachers inside a telephone box that's bigger on the inside and is convinced to use the ability to travel anywhere in the universe at any time to save lives, the people he travels with changes and every time he dies he gets a new body.The First Doctor is one that I'm sorry to say does not age well. His granddaughter is easily one of the most useless companions the show's ever had. I'd say his stories are slow and sometimes due to William Hartnell's decaying health that he seemed like a background character in his own show. I don't blame anyone for that, really. That and the show doesn't have it's comedic charm that it'll later have. With that said there are some endearing moments from these years and some of them hold up better then others.The Second Doctor is where the show hit it's stride with bar none the one with the most influence on how future incarnations are to be played. Usually the most distinctive thing he's done that will sometimes get used by other incarnations is that he would usually fool his enemies into thinking he's an idiot or not as smart.The Third Doctor's era is probably the most distinctive out of all of them because it changes it's premise and easily has the biggest change in the history of the show since the jump between this show and the newer one. I'd say some of his later ones are worth watching first just to get a gist of him actually doing what the show is about but I'd also say that if you want a kind of pre-cursor to shows like The X Files (except with the tone of Doctor Who) then I'd suggest stories like The Silurians. With all that said I do like Pertwee as The Doctor, kind of reminds me of what I thought when I thought of Sherlock Holmes before I saw any adaptation as a kid.The Fourth Doctor is my favourite with my second favourite being... The second. His time on the show was so long that if you see a story from 1975, 1977, 1979 and 1981 then you'll see how different his era can be. I discovered the show through arguably one of the best stories of the entire 52 year run and Tom Baker can do effective build-up and also is by far the strangest and most unpredictable incarnation of the character.The Fifth Doctor is where things got a little shaky... I mean, the most iconic incarnation of the character just left, how can they top that? Well, they went the route of making him the most human incarnation of the character. I do really like his performance and there are some things that still hold up, so even though it's after Baker, it's not an act of just "Go up until this point - then stop".The Sixth... despite his reputation is not that bad. The writing here is where the show becomes the shadow of what it once was and never goes back on track. I'm not apt to blame Colin Baker for this, he seriously is trying but the problem is that despite some okay story-lines, those "Okay" ones were the best of them, like the BBC was just making more of the show out of obligation.Finally the seventh... His just seems like they wanted one thing and after a year just threw up their arms and just asked for something else instead. His era started out like a bad remake of Troughton's era without using his being goofy to make his enemies underestimate him. This is where I think the show just gave up... Until his second and third year. He was changed from the goofy one nobody takes seriously because he's the goofy one nobody takes seriously to by far the most meticulous planner out of all the incarnations. Revelation Of The Daleks is a story where all he had to do was (using a chess metaphor) move the pieces around so he can do his final move which he made before the episode even started. Unfortunately though, instead of opening a new era, the BBC decided to cancel the show because... Well, nothing competes with 4... Except 2.In conclusion, I know this isn't a linear review but I don't think I can talk about the show without splitting it up into these eras. I can't list all my pros and cons because this is the show that what one era does right, another era does wrong or vise versa. I could have gone into a lot more detail about things like why Colin Baker is not to blame for his era even going as far to say that he had very little control in anything, asking to dress in all black so The Doctor can blend into the night and instead greeted with... Well if you've seen his costume, you'll know why he hates it. There are so many different retrospectives and opinions if you want to start with something I'd suggest watching them. This show is something that lasts a lifetime.


                
"Doctor Who" is simply one of the greatest works of science fiction ever to appear on television. The only thing holding it short of absolute, unmitigated greatness is its amazing longevity (26 seasons) which ensured that there would be a good number of lousy episodes.The American version of this show is "Star Trek", of which I'm also a fan. The differences between the two series might be used as a basis of contrasting the two nations, but I'll only contrast the shows because it's much simpler: 1) "Star Trek" has an ensemble cast, each of whom are designed to appeal to different demographics. "Doctor Who" has one regular character, the Doctor. To be fair, the Doctor has been played by ten different actors so far, each to a different effect.2) The heroes of "Star Trek" -- and while we're at it, the average US sf series -- represent a quasi-military organization tasked with keeping the peace throughout the galaxy, exploring, and righting wrongs. The Doctor doesn't follow anyone's orders, and largely makes it up as he goes along. To be honest, he's a bit of an anarchist at times, and at the very least usually totally anti-authoritarian.c) The Enterprise is a huge starship with a crew of hundreds, equipped with futuristic technology and run sometimes like a battleship, sometimes like a hot rod. The TARDIS is an antique time machine/spaceship in the shape of an antique British police telephone box.5) The Federation are the good guys. We like the Federation; they represent everything that is good and worth preserving about humanity. On the other hand: the Time Lords. Corrupt, petty, self-serving, bureaucratic. The Doctor ran off with the TARDIS to get away from them.Which is not to say that one show is inherently superior to the other. I like them both. But, as an American, "Doctor Who" is a refreshing change of pace from the standard formula of American television. The hero questions authority at every turn; he doesn't need a badge or a gun to back up his sense of morality; he is usually neither handsome nor physically strong, and there's barely a hint of sexuality. He's a champion of the oppressed and the underdog, totally free of political or nationalistic concerns.He may have had a good understanding of Right and Wrong, but what he lacked was a budget. Luckily, the BBC of old did not care, and they continued to produce the series so long as it had excellent writing and acting, which it did for the majority of its run. Each of the actors playing the Doctor has his strengths: my favorites are Patrick Troughton and Sylvester McCoy. Lack of funds ironically meant that there was no limit to what they could do: they knew it would look silly regardless, so they said to hell with it and threw everything they had up onto the screen. The result is colorful and imaginative and often very exciting. Say what you will about the show, it was never drab.


                
After watching David Tennant wrap his seasons Stateside it occurred to me I'd seen ALL the Doctors at work and play over decades. Herewith my thumbnail review of their portrayals...Doctor One: William Hartnell. See him in any other movie and you see his Doctor. A nearly imperceptible comedic touch. And given the present state of FX it's an occasionally surprising treat to view some of his serials. My first and still-favorite involves not the Daleks but the Aztecs.Doctor Two: Patrick Troughton. If you don't think a dramatic actor can handle comedy, he will prove you wrong whilst giving 110 per cent. More's the pity that his work is the least preserved...Doctor Three: Jon Pertwee. If you don't think a music-hall performer and all-around cut-up can handle drama, HE will prove you wrong. If you want to know where his heart lies seek and find on-line Worzel Gummidge...Doctor Four: Tom Baker. There's an awful lot going on behind those eyes and for his longevity he has more than his share of Companions, which is very likely why we wind up with...Doctor Five: Peter Davison, novel in his youthfulness as he gets the job done but rightfully better known for his other television roles.Doctor Six: Colin Baker, a solicitor-turned-actor and veritable splash of color of whom I would say the same as Davison if I wasn't persistently distracted by a Companion...Doctor Seven: Sylvester McCoy. Doubtless talent but there's unquestionably someplace he'd rather be, and with truly rare exceptions the scripts don't help.Doctor Eight: Paul McGann. Didn't see enough of him to truly judge though the made-for-television attempt by Fox was at the least a sincere effort. By rights Peter Cushing should count as well...Doctor Nine: Christopher Eccleston. A Manc with a mad on but the heart of the franchise's revival. I'd like to see more of his work.Doctor Ten: David Tennant. A superbly talented Scot whose departure I can well understand. He's surrounded by the best supporting ensemble that get plenty to chew on.Doctor...say, I thought there were supposed to be ten. And they're getting younger. Matt Smith has both a legacy to uphold and big shoes to fill. He frankly appears the young actor who wishes to direct NOW and doubtless can. I wish him well.Don't avoid watching and comparing the past Doctors at work and play. You also get that opportunity with the three multi-Doctor specials, "The Two" in my view the best. But they're not the only ones who need regenerate. This long-running series is arguably the best example of change that isn't always successful but always leaves you wanting more...or sometimes less. It's a soap opera with changing leads and all of Time and Space on the palette, but its ultimate irony is having begun essentially as children's entertainment. If you haven't noticed, kids of all ages have grown...Along these lines: Kirk or Picard? James T is by far the better character while Jean-Luc is Roald Amundsen. William Shatner is as good as what he's handed (find The Andersonville Trial) but Sir Patrick Stewart need only read a book aloud to get my attention.


                
