DC has always been well known for making fantastic children's cartoons that can be aimed for the hardcore adult fans as-well, bringing nothing but top-notch shows. However, in recent years, it seems that the quality of DC cartoons have dropped. The two main shows that come to mind are "The Batman", a terrible show which is clearly aimed at the younger audience, and "Batman: The brave and bold", A decent cartoon that isn't on par with classic DC cartoons. However, this cartoon has brought back the best parts of the best DC cartoons and combined them into one. The "Justice League" series was fantastic, but as the series went on it was clear that each episode focused on the development of particular characters (Especially in JL: Unlimited) which did not have an ultimate affect in the series. episode was a one-off that usually didn't require viewing of the previous or next episode. Young Justice saw this, and tried to do something new. Firstly, it made sure that the team stays small, like the early days of the Justice League, so that it could make these characters actually important to the plot lines. Secondly, it made each episode a one-off adventure that tied to a single string plot that brought each episode together. JL and JL:U did this a few times, but Young Justice has a clear sense of what's happening in the plot, and what the characters are going through. THIS is why I love Young Justice: it knows what it is trying to do, and it makes you constantly want more.The cartoon style is an updated version of the Justice League's animation style, which shows both seriousness in the tone of the storyline, and the professionalism of the series as a whole. Teen Titans was a 'fun' series, but it was difficult sometimes to accept the serious moments amidst the childish artwork. That's not so much a complaint of Teen Titans, but I appreciate what Young Justice is doing and I prefer it.Voice work is fine, and the music works. Both are easily above par. I actually think EVERY voice is great, even Batman's (even though I am a die-hard Conroy fan, Bruce Greenwood gives a voice I would definitely expect from Batman). There is one exception, though: I was not impressed by the Joker's voice, or his character. I could see they were trying to make him more "Sane", but that doesn't work, as the character should be the definition of insanity. However, he only appears once, and the other actors are really good.If you look at my other reviews, you can see that I often give good scores in my reviews. Let me clarify that I am not always giving full marks to what I like, but I prefer to review great shows/movies which I think deserve to be praised. This is definitely a show that deserves to be praised, and I hope the show goes on to be very successful. Bottom line: Fantastic. I would recommend to anyone, not just DC fans.


                
Young Justice is way better than Justice League, Justice League Unlimited, Teen Titans and the rest. Why? Loads of reasons. To start off the animation for YJ is much higher quality than those other shows not to mention far more detailed. The action sequences are also undeniably more realistic. The show is also better scripted than past DC shows and much more mature in themes as well as dialogue. The thing I really love about YJ is you can't just watch one episode and know what's going on, the long story arcs make it more consistent as well as entertaining. The show also focuses on the main characters which gives it more intensity and depth. You may not relate to all the characters but you do connect with them as the voice actors are the best you can get. All in all this show will not disappoint and will definitely keep you hooked till the end. Glad the show was popular enough for the creators to bring it back and make a third season which shows promise as well.


                
Everything fits perfectly in this magical series. These days, if a series shows quality, it is because it was taken seriously by high- ranked people. I love the tone, the characters, the plot-line, the themes, the secrets, the chemistry between many characters, the relationship between Justice League (mentors) and Young Justice (sidekicks), the way they make superheroes used to be forgettable now memorable, etc. I absolutely didn't care about Superboy, Speedy, Blue Beetle, etc., but now I really am interested and I think that is the strength of this show.The only tiny, small and little complaint I have concerns the music. Actually, I love how it is played throughout each episode, but to make it truly epic, it needs a better introduction or a standout song just like ''The Batman'' (90s, ''Superman'' (90s) and both ''Justice League'' and ''Justice League Unlimited'' : Tananan! Tananan! Tananananan! ... Of course, it is only a personal opinion and it certainly does not diminish the quality of this show.I have watched the entire ''Young Justice'' season 1 and everything that has aired of season 2 in the last four days and whaouh! I want more and more and more. Whe I started watching season 2, I was utterly surprised to see a 5 years jump from where season 1 left and CHUCK NORRIS or GOD was I pleased! It truly is an intelligent move because it allows to bring new young superheroes like Blue Beetle or Impulse, etc. I am 20 years old and this show certainly is for young teenagers and young adults and even adults. Many theme are for mature people, with life and death decisions.I can't believe how great the animation is, almost as great as every single DC animated movie they release each year, last one being ''The Dark Knight Returns, Part 1''. I truly hope they'll continue this series for many years to come because it is AMAZINGLY AWESOME! This series take risks and it works just fine in my book. That is what keeps it fresh. However, I hope they stay focus on the main characters they developed in the first season, not making the same mistake of some episodes of ''Justice League Unlimited''.I can only give it a minimum of 9.5/10, but IMDb approximates, so to me, it is a 10/10! If any of the designers see this review, I encourage your awesome work and make you know that you have my total admiration. I was searching for a good show and I found yours by total luck. I am not very lucky in my life, but I think, that day, I totally was!THANK YOU ;)


                
DC Universe finally got it right with this series; this is one animated series that I look forward to seeing the next episode. This is a more advanced and updated version of the comic book which I like a lot, and allowing the youngsters to go on covert missions learning how to be a team as they stumble through how to be heroes is a real watchable and enjoyable delight. Hopefully they won't stray too far from the storyline that they've set and allow us to see the progression of the cloned Super-Man Connor as well as Speedy or the Red Arrow, which will make this one of the best superhero action series since Super-Man and Batman. I think this will give other animators something to think about and will definitely put DC in the upper echelon rivaling the new Marvel series (TAWMH), keep up the good work.


                
This series has most of my favorite DC Comics characters whether it be from Young Justice or the Justice League. The show unlike Teen Titans' TV-Y7 rating is rated TV-PG which promises more mature themes and better action sequences. My favorite Young Justice member is Robin followed By Speedy. Robin is my favorite member because I'm a huge fan of the superheroes that Batman regularly teams up with and the super villains that he regularly fights. Not just the storyline is better than Teen Titans, so is the animation. The animation reminds me of the straight to DVD PG-13 movie Justice League: Crisis On Two Earths. The action, the comedy, the characters, and the animation are all top-notch.


                
I watch the show without any spoilers believe me you will not waste time watching this great new show. I watch the Justice League and Teen Titans. It seem to have the best of both worlds. My kids and I did not take our eyes off in till it was over and even then we saw it again. If every episode is a least half as good as the first one, this is going to turn out to be new best cartoon on Cartoon Network. There was great graphic, good voices and great story telling. So even you don't have kids check out this new cartoon it is more then worth your time. Well they telling me I have to type more lines. I already told you what I thought about this great new show. So there not really much else to say.


                
This is the best animated series. I just miss it. Make a new season as soon as possible. Best graphics best story best action best execution. I just love this show. Making a logical and good story with so many super heroes is really difficult and they did it so nicely. Its amazing, really great. Only one character is somehow not fitted for long run (for me) that's "Impulse." He came from future to change it, he succeed but did not succeed and stayed in present. That's not working for me. He should not be stayed more than 2 or 3 episodes. Other than that show is awesome. Must watch the show. It keeps telling me to write more and more lines but i have said enough. If it insists i say it again, This is the best animated series. I just miss it. Waiting for the new season sooo badly.


                
"Young Justice" is simply one of the best animated shows from the recent years.At first I thought it was going to be another anime-influenced series like "Teen Titans". Fortunately, it surpassed all my expectations, following the same tradition of other mature and well made animations inspired in DC comics, like the "Batman", "Superman" and "Justice League" series from the nineties."Young Justice" had a great script in every episode, is funny to watch, has likable and interesting characters, and also has a great animation with pretty cool designs, which combine modern and classic elements, with excellent results.In my opinion, this is a flawless series which I would recommend to anyone.10/10 (And I would give this 11 stars if I could)
Best super hero series I ever watched. After DC failure in movies, I lost interest in DC characters. But after this series I understand , DC got lot more potential. I love the young justice team, looking forward to see the team in live action movie. DC got their own style , I would like if they don't change their style like marvel comics, it don't suit for DC for some hero's like batman ( best super hero of all time ), suicide squad .


                
An epic tale that includes a huge portion of the D.C Universe, Young Justice is must see for any fan of comic books. I haven't seen a quality show like this since the original batman cartoons. Season 1 began and ended exceptionally well, and despite the five year time Skip, Season 2 is just as good. While some fans criticize the five year time skip i believe it was necessary. Robin's transference to Nightwing, Zatanna, and Rocket coming in the league Kaldur going undercover in black manta's organization. All these changes are keeping the plot exciting , and interesting to watch. The show is currently on hiatus, but i cant wait till it comes back again in September. It left so many questions unanswered. What happen to L'gann? How is Artemis going to work for Kaldur? Hopefully these questions will be answered soon. Young Justice has accomplished something few shows have been able to do: Incorporate several genres into it. Action,Adventure,Tragedy, Romance, and Mystery. A great show, and highly entertaining
I must say I am very impressed by this series it almost made me forget about Teen Titans. The episodes are all well written, the stories are amazing, the voice acting and character development is awesome and the animation is top notch. I am very happy this is coming back for a season 3 which I have been wanting for the last two years and unlike some people I actually patiently waited for season 3 and didn't watch the show a billion until I lost interest. (not going to mention who) Instead I got into other shows which I had never seen before like the rest of the DCAU, Green Lantern the animated series, Beware the Batman, the Star Wars franchise, some marvel shows and Yo Kai Watch (which kept my mind off the show for a bit)Okay at first when discovered this show I thought what the hell am I watch but when I watched it from start to finish the show grew on me alongside the characters within this show. However it did take time for me to get used to Superboy getting angry a lot, Miss Martian saying "Hello Meagan" every two minutes and Kid Flash being annoying. But this wasn't always the case because I got used to it after 5 episodes. This show even showed me never to judge someone by there appearance (Image and Episode 25) and not to hide secrets behind your close friends (The Fix). Spoiler alert: Kid Flash dies but lets hope that is not true. Even though there was one thing I didn't like about Miss Martian as I stated above call me crazy but I actually had a crush on her in the first season her cute looks, human form, and outfits she wore won me over. I also had a crush on other women on the show which includes Zatanna, Bette Kane and Batgirl/ Barbra Gordan. I would defiantly recommend this show to any DC fan.Avoid shows like Teen Titans Go!, Justice League Action and DC Super Hero Girls and watch shows like Justice League, Teen Titans, and this shows. I just hope season 3 can save DC because at the moment DC in terms of animation isn't doing very well.Trust me once when you get into young justice you will enjoy it. For people who hate it or just aren't interested, I can respect that but you don't know what you are missing. The whole series is a blast after episode 5 and more fun stuff will be coming your way when season 3 gets made and if that is successful then Greg Wiseman and Brandon might be generous enough to give us season 4 and 5.
Young Justice from the get go grabs you and reels you in. The characters all have the right amount of screen time and story behind them. The show makes you not only enjoy them but actually get behind them all. From Miss Martians identity issues and Superboys need for acceptance from his mentor to the relationship between Zatanna and her father. And that is just season one! Season two brings a host of cool ideas and relationships as well. The interaction between the characters and the stories are all a breath of fresh air. Especially for a show really for kids. However, it came out when I was in my late 20's. And growing up with Batman the Animated series and Superman the Animated series I was no stranger to good animation and cool story lines. And Young Justice does not disappoint in the slightest way. Every aspect of the show gets a 10/10. The stories, the characters, the action, the animation... all top notch. The only disappointing thing about the show is that it got cancelled. One of Warner Bros hugest mistake since they let someone make that Catwoman film.


                
Best DC animation because of a lot of reasons. Great story, great animations and great themes.


                
After years of waiting, DC's Young Justice animated series is back for a third season. Picking up the story not long after the events of Season 2, the third season expands the team further by introducing the Outsiders. An epidemic of metahuman trafficking has the world on edge, and tensions within the Justice League are at an all-time high. With the League compromised, it's up to Dick Grayson, M'gann M'orzz and the young heroes of the YJ Team to pick up the slack and get to the bottom of the criminal activity before more kids fall victim. The season starts off with great energy and it's good to see our favourite DC characters back in action. The tone is somewhat more serious than previous seasons, but interspersed with genuine humour, charming scenes, and exciting action. Any fan of the DC Universe will love this series.


                
Thanks GOD they were able to bring back new episodes of probably the greatest superhero tv show ever (next to the animated series of course). DC kills it with this show and all the animated movies they're able to put out. I hope this show keeps going for a long time.


                
This is a great show when we needed a real super hero show but unfortunately it was cut after 2 seasons. It was the only good super hero show when it came out and really after it was canceled after 2 seasons fans really want to see it come back on Netflix is the word and with Netflix bringing back shows and making them and movies they need to get this show back up and running so a season 3 and more can happen. So the shows plot is about the sidekicks of the main heroes of the DC comics like Batman, Flash and Green Arrow. It's a interesting look at superhero shows and is well acted and interesting and a shame it was cut short so if you want to see it come back ask Netflix and DC comics and watch on Netflix and buy it as well so they know we want more.


                
Simply amazing wish there were more episodes :)Just 2 seasons didn't did justice to this show. Perfect characters. After watching justice league and justice league unlimited this finally was of comparison. Specially the mix and merge of different characters from different series. Teen titans, static perfect mix. Now i know beast boy story too .Though i missed Raven and star fire :DThe death of wally was really the sad part as his couple was the best and well it ended really awfully. I mean why why why him( really not fair).I hope to see more shows like this one
To the writers/directors/artists/actors: You are truly incredible. The quality of DC Comics with the Justice League series is unparalleled. Never stop.To the producers: Give this talent room to breathe. I know they're pitching to the right side of the bell curve, but it inspires all of us to be better. This series didn't need to fast forward 5 years...I would gladly have waited 5 more seasons to see the continuation from Season 1.To anyone who is unfamiliar with DC Comics: watch Justice League and Justice League Unlimited. This caliber of writing has a precedent.


                
This is one of my favorite show growing up it helped me get through some dark times. One of the things I enjoyed about this show is that it contained a rich story line that sometimes left me saying the word "woah". I really do hope they bring back the series. The other things I enjoyed about the show was how they constructed the characters which helped me relate with them. I also admired how they expanded the team. What I mean by that is how they added more characters from season 1 to 2. I loved how the characters evolved from season 1 to 2. For example take Artemis and Kid Flash they used to hate each other in the beginning but they started to tolerate each other then love each other. Lets hope that season 3 draws near.
This is THE best animated show out there for DC.IT IS NOT ONLY FOR CHILDREN!!! I loved Teen Titans, Justice League, all the Batman shows, and JLU, but this beats them all. This has amazing characters, plots, and is just so well written. There is action and some light-hearted themes, but you also have serious/dark themes that just make you love it. You fall in love with both seasons of characters, the animation is really nice, and all around, it is amazing. Would highly recommend this show to ANYONE. This story starts with a team of superheroes, proving their worth to the Justice League. Through out the series, you see character development and complex story-lines, great for anyone. I really want to emphasize how this is not just for children. It is for adults and teenagers, and it is a really gorgeous show.


                
This is quite simply put, one of the best animated series of all time. The animation is gorgeously done, and the writers do an amazing job with the wide range of DC superheroes and villains. Instead of focusing the attention of this show on the A list superheroes in the DC universe, the creators chooses to explore and delve into the life of the sidekicks, which is done masterfully. The character's story arcs are interesting, the story is gripping and immensely satisfying especially Aqualad's arc in season 2, accompanied by a talented cast of voice actors including Nolan North and Yuri Lowenthal. If you have not seen this show, i highly recommend you try it out. You will not regret watching it.


                
I looooooooooooovvvvvvvvvvveeeeeeeee Young Justice soooooooooo muuuuuuuuccccuchhhh.It is truly a great show.It is also fun and interesting. The story telling is wonderful and the graphics and voices are amazing. The show shows a lot of the characters from the do comics. Too bad the stopped making it for some reason I don't know. Please bring the show back it is my favorite show to watch. I watch it everyday on Netflix you should too it is not a waist of time. The show is very detailing about the characters. Also the action sequences are very good. My favorite young justice character is robin because I am a big fan of batman and how they don't have any superpowers.


                
Deep characters, intense writing and heart filled episodes


                
I didn't expect the new season of young justice outsiders to be so great, love the new costumes plus the new additional hero's and the young hero's now grown up amazing


                
Awesome show from DC. Big thing after Justice league the animated series. <f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+0098>


                
