Young Justice was a show that I was keeping up with for a long time, but have recently stopped. Keeping up with the show was tough, because it wasn't broadcast on Teletoon where I live, it went on numerous hiatuses, but I found a way. And I always found a way, because I loved the show.The first season, that is.Young Justice in its first season was amazing. The tone of it, the way it was set up, the character development, the relationships between characters (yes, they were a little cheesy, but so be it) would all make for a normally good show. But what propelled Young Justice into the realm of greatness was the tone of it and how it handled the source material it drew from. The show was mature, but not dreadfully dark like a lot of 'mature' works are nowadays. It felt very modern, in a word, because it 'updated' all its characters.Which is why the second season has been so infinitely disappointing for me. Season 2 introduced heaps of new characters, such as Batgirl, Wonder Girl, Blue Beetle, and Lagoon Boy. And it also skipped 5 years forward in time, ageing up the entire Young Justice team into the 18-21 years old range. This is where the show went downhill, and fast. With so many characters suddenly introduced, as well as the 'alien invasion' plot it's attempting to carry out, the maturity and modernism of the season past has been lost. The show has waded into, dare I say it, 'dark' territory. By skipping 5 years, I've lost touch with the original team. I have no idea what they've been doing, how they've changed - and so I can't care about them anymore. The new characters introduced feel shallow and underdeveloped, and the writers have failed in juggling them equally. The second season has dropped the ball so much. So, so much.I was so disappointed by the second season, because I was so emotionally involved with the first one. I felt for the entire team, and now, in season 2, I end each episode with a sense of hollow disappointment. I personally will not return to watching it once the current hiatus ends, and I predict many other people will drop it as well.And that is why, with sadness, I cannot recommend Young Justice to anybody. Nor can I recommend the first season alone, because it will leave you wanting more. And, sadly, the second season does not provide what you would want.


                
The concept is pretty simple, take a bunch of sidekicks, and stick them on one team. Young Justice was almost identical to Teen Titans, in its general format. Young Justice falls into a few huge pitfalls, though. The first is a lot of lazy arc writing. Almost every single episode ends with the evil league of evil saying "exactly as planned". Many of the characters are extremely one dimensional. Season Two sees some alleviation of this, but it's definitely still present.The other major problem is in art quality. As the series went on, eye direction became a major problem. Almost every single episode had a scene where a character whose eyes were not in sync.The series so far is good enough that I'd like to see a 3rd season, with more of the improvements season 2 had, but if this is it, it isn't much.
Young Justice has a whole lot going for it. The art style and animation would seem to push the boundaries of what's possible on a television budget. The action is highly involving and effectively conveys a sense of movement and impact. The acting, while not of icon-in-the-making status is still commendable. Through all of this is some pretty tight direction to tie everything together into a neat, easy on the eyes package. Unfortunately, there's one major flaw which outshines all of this. It can be found at the beginning of most episodes.Here's why I didn't praise the writing. We'll see various members of the League during the last leg of a major battle or randomly rescuing civilians. When it's over, they'll give Young Justice a small detail to manage. At first this seems to be secondary or tertiary in nature. Of course, it turns out Young Justice's role is far more vital than anyone thought. Then, at the end, the League comments on the actions taken by Young Justice (despite knowing a million and one languages, Batman doesn't know how to say "thanks, good job" in any of them). By this point, the damage is done. In their few minutes of screen time, the Leaguer's have effortlessly upstaged their protégé's.When it comes down to it, the members of Young Justice aren't as interesting as the members of the Justice League. Robin (the Dick Grayson version) can't compete with Batman. Superboy doesn't hold a candle to Superman. Artemis and Red Arrow, even if combined, come up short against Green Arrow. Don't even get me started on how poorly the others hold up against their mentors. This is only compounded by the way this show is handled.While each episode is good on its own, as a whole they fall apart. For one, they've been aired out of order, which can be confusing. Secondly, for some reason, Young Justice was pulled off the air for a few months—leading to even more confusion. Lastly, each episode hints at there being a larger picture, an all-encompassing storyline to tie everything together. Well, ten episodes in, this mystery plot line has yet to be revealed. To me, it seems producers Weisman and Vieti don't really know what to do with this property.Young Justice could be cancelled. Keeping Weisman and Vieti onboard, a new Justice League series could be produced. The big guns of the DCU are more recognizable and marketable than their kid counterparts. Also, with this new animation style, it would definitely stand apart from the previous Justice League series. And then there's door number two.Young Justice could be refined. If so, the Justice League should be written out of the series entirely, allowing this team to stand on its own. Instead of being made to do damage control for the big guys, Young Justice should have their own identity. They should have their own enemies, their own resources and be fully independent. In other words, Superman's acceptance shouldn't weigh so heavily on Superboy's mind. Red Arrow and Artemis shouldn't care much about who's endorsed by Green Arrow. Robin should be allowed to step it up as the mini-Batman he is. As for Kid Flash and Miss Martian, their concern over getting the job done should outweigh their adolescent pining for their teammates. It really says something when the only character who truly feels like his own person is Aqua-Lad<U+0085>AQUA-FREAKING-LAD!!! The idea of an overreaching plot should be abandoned, because it takes too much time (time you may not have) to establish. Instead, each storyline should stretch over two to three episodes. This gives the antagonist enough time to establish themselves as a viable threat. It also provides the heroes enough time to shine as individuals and as a team. While I'm at it, episodes should be aired in order and there shouldn't be any breaks in production except for between seasons. Doing otherwise has only served to rob Young Justice of its momentum.Young Justice has a lot going for it. However, it also has a few items to be tallied against it as well. I'll keep on watching, because the animation is superb and the action delivers. However, I can't help but feel, as with the Spectacular Spider-Man, I won't have the chance to watch this for much longer before these sidekicks are (***bad pun alert***) kicked to the side.
I've been looking for a fresh TV series for my children. Like most parents, I've grown tired of the media's war against boys. Why ridicule them in TV shows, who benefits? And if a show skips the sexism on rare occasion, the stories are lacking in cleverness.Young justice league mostly sails around the sexism (in one episode, there's a how dare you save me, I'm a woman trope, but the other writers have mostly avoided pushing this style of sexist manipulation). They even have a feminine character who is not afraid to be feminine (M'Gann). It shows the show's directors think outside of the box as every other show says it's different when it's not. We need more shows like the 70s Scooby Doo where female characters "just are". We've lost that simple fact, even in Young Justice League.There's good character development. The characters all have flaws and they also compliment one another. That realism is the strongest part of the series. The conflict between the kids and adults isn't played as well, both sides lack the fire in their convictions.The most annoying aspect of the show is the violence. Guns, guns, guns. When to mix it up they add laser blasts and bombs too. It wears thin. With cutdown violence and a little more thinking and balanced sexist politics (or preferably no sexist politics), this show would be superb. However, the TV benchmark has slipped drastically since the 70s, allowing this show to stand out when there's no competition for quality. Sexism-avoidance:8/10, characters:8/10, stories:8/10, violence-avoidance:5/10


                
Young Justice is about teenage sidekicks of DC Superheroes and to proved their mentor that they not just anybody sidekick.The writing is good. There are funny part in it, because they are still teenagers. I think Miss Martian is cute (also in her human form) in first season while she was still long hair. Cartoon Network should not take it off (and Beware the Batman), If Netflix bring the show back in Season Three I hope who will be in the team will be Stephanie Brown (Spoiler/Batgirl III), Cyborg and other Teen Titans.
