There has been no lack of series about the young, troubled, and super-powered set. Arguably, the very concept of the super-hero genre has been called a teen power fantasy. The hero IS the teenager, striking out at the world, righting wrongs in a way a kid never could.And I can see that. I can also see the implications of that notion. Because teens are sometimes scared of themselves. Scared of the new thoughts and feelings they have, the older they get. Scared of the changes in how they perceive themselves and how they see the world.Why, even Robin has days when Batman seems like a weird control freak rather than the beloved mentor who keeps Gotham City safe! There comes a time when a young super-hero wants to venture out with his peers.This is the core premise behind Young Justice, the latest series based on DC Comics' vast and rich mythos of super-heroes. Heading the series is Greg Weisman, perhaps best known for his work on the cult classic Disney series "Gargoyles" and the highly popular "Spectacular Spider-Man" animated series.His strengths are character development, intelligent and complex villains, and world-building. We get quite a lot of each in the first episode.The partners (do NOT call them "sidekicks") of the sixteen-member strong Justice League are getting ready to take their first step into, well, the Big League. Access to the Hall of Justice. Participation in the missions that save the World, the Universe, All of Reality, etc.But when the League does get an alert, they're left to pose for tourists and stay put. How infuriating.Why, it's almost enough to make them want to sneak out and investigate a mysterious fire at a top secret genetic research facility! Which they do<U+0085>only to find that someone's after-school science project involves cloning the most powerful hero on Earth, and transforming him into a loyal, brainwashed slave. My, my, my<U+0085> The banter is crisp and funny, ranging from Robin's pondering on why people are always being over or underwhelmed, yet one never hears about someone just being "whelmed", to the classic bit about confusing codenames: Bystander #1: "Hey, look. It's Speedy!" Bystander #2: "Oh. Is he the Flash's sidekick?" Bystander #1: "No, he's Green Arrow's." Bystander #2: "<U+0085>*<U+0085>well, that makes NO sense at ALL." Most of the episode sets up the cast dynamic. Speedy is the hot-headed rebel. So rebellious, in fact, that he storms off in a rage a mere eight minutes into the episode. Robin is the tech geek. Kid Flash is the plucky comedy relief <U+0099>. Aqualad is the calm, natural leader who always finds his center, despite increasing misgivings about the world and his place in it. And Superboy is the freshly-minted son Superman never knew he had<U+0085>much to each other's mutual confusion and anger.I loved the usage of obscure characters from the DC mythos, such as Blockbuster, the Golden Guardian and Dubbilex the DNAlien. I loved the twist about the true goals of the eerie creatures being created by the Big Bads.The Big Bads themselves, an ominous unseen council of ominous known as "The Light" managed to seem creepy and smart rather than cliché and trite. Always a plus.If I have a complaint about the pilot, it's that the female members of them team were either absent entirely (Artemis won't join until episode six) or only made a cameo in the coda (Miss Martian, the sweet-natured niece of J'Onn J'Onzz, Manhunter From Mars). Hopefully they'll be given a prominent role in the actual series.All in all an exciting, witty, satisfying pilot. The scope of the series looks ambitious, the animation budget seems to be sky high, and the young heroes are now basically the Black Ops branch of the Justice League! That's a notion as disturbing as it is awesome. I'm sure the moral ambiguity will be addressed.Count me in for the regular series, coming out January of next year.(Originally appeared at http://fourthdayuniverse.com/reports/ )


                
WARNING FOR SPOILERS!!Just watched this show from episodes 1-18 and can I just say that I loved it! As a kid I would have watched Batman, Batman Beyond, Justice League, Justice League Unlimited, Teen Titans and can I just say that this show beats something like Teen Titans hands down.The animation and art style is similar to Justice League: Crisis on Two Earths. The series focuses on the sidekicks of comic book legends like Superman, Batman, The Flash and many others.For the beginning of the series we are introduced to four characters of the soon to be arranged team, Robin, Superboy, Kid Flash and Aqualad, Speedy does make an appearance in the first episode for only a short time. I was actually surprised with some of the character changes, like Drake Grayson replacing Tim Drake and Wally replacing Bart and some of the other changes. What gives this show a plus is that it focuses on each member, including future members like Artemis and Miss Martian and how they work on becoming a team, it also shows that even though your a hero's side kick or in Superboy's case, clone, that they, themselves are developing and trying to get through some personal things as well as learning how to work together and on who to trust.there are also some relationships and turmoil within the group, Aqualad the leader, is sometimes unsure on whether he should be leader or not and waits for Robin to mature so that he could handover command, Superboy at first seems to be going through some issues with his "father", he and Miss Martian start forming a relationship and like every couple go through some bumps on the road as well as maintaining their work. KidFlash is comic relief although he shows to not be totally useless since he has a good amount of scientific knowledge and seems to have a soft spot for Artemis while the latter seems to have a secret that she does not want everyone else knowing and the only ones that seem to know are the older members, Speedy (Now known as Red Arrow) and Robin seems to know.There are Cameo appearances by the senior members of the Justice League, as well as Barbra Gordan, Zatanna, Garth, Tula, etc.However I have only watched up to episode 18 but so far I am enjoying it and would recommend anyone who has seen previous DC Television shows or read the comics to give this show a go.
I had heard great things about this series, about its depth, its characterization, its humor and even its standing as one of the highest-rated animated series on IMDb, up there with masterpieces like "Avatar: The Legend of Aang". So, when I saw it available for streaming, even if it was just its first season, I decided I needed to check it out. The experience watching that first season... wasn't so good. I liked the way the characters were introduced and their general group dynamic, but things like Ms. Martian's grating catchphrase and overall too-childish humor, the lack of development to get to know some of the least-popular Justice League heroes (me not being an avid comic reader, I spent a few episodes wondering "just who/what IS Red Tornado, and why should we care?" before caving in to just googling him) and the arbitrary way of keeping some of The Team's members (usually the more useful ones for the specific mission) out of certain episodes all dampened my enjoyment.Then I had a chance to watch the second season and boy did my opinion change. The time leap had helped mature the original team members into much more capable, likable and interesting characters. The dynamic between the new members had become more solid than with the ones before, and the decision to put the bulk of the humor on a single character with better delivery than any other funnyman before him was the right one. The increased focus on the over-arching, season-long story and its fewer antagonists than on "mission of the week"-type narratives with too many villains. The brilliant way this narrative's many twists were handled (even if they weren't particularly difficult to guess beforehand). The events during the time gap, only mentioned in passing, as well as the JL's even more sparse appearances all help create an air of mythological mystery around these characters, an improvement over the simple question marks many of them were during the first season. These and other decisions made for a far more enjoyable and interesting story to watch than the first season had (though not without its weaknesses, some of the new Team members introduced in the second season do get badly shortchanged in regards to their on-screen origins, as do some of the older ones in regards to what they've been up to during the time-gap).I have decided to rate this series with an 8 as an average of my grades for both season. The first one seemed to me like a solid 7, a good introduction to an interesting world, with a lot of untapped potential and room for improvement. The second one, a definite 9, lots of improvement over the first, an imperfect but still wildly enjoyable story that really grabs you and keeps you watching. Considering the threads that were left hanging at the season/series end and how much it improved from one season to the next, I can't help but wonder what would have been if a third and maybe further seasons had been green-lighted. Maybe the third season would have been a perfect 10, but as it currently stands, it's no more than yet another of the great "what if"s of DC's history with adaptations, up there with George Miller's "Justice League: Mortal", Tim Burton's "Superman Lives" and others. However, unlike those, I still hold the tiniest bit of hope that we might yet see the return of "Young Justice". Fingers crossed.


                
Season 1The first season attract you and all the episodes attract you . some characters are really fascinating and art about the character as mean drawing and action scenes are really better. And the storyline is also good. All the character like Superboy, Robin, Aqualad, and others are put so nicely.All the story about the Superboy like he was the clone of the SUPERMAN. But he doesn't have any kind of power of SUPERMAN he was just stronger and powerful like superman but he cannot fly and can not do the lesser thing like Superman do.But he was good And the other characters are just trained by the original heroes. So they are good for that reason. after the all heroes meet up then decide to make one team for helping people and Justice Language gave them also some short and little cases.Which are not troublesome.
Now the story begging. Now in this part, The Light is Coming. they are just like Justice League and the Made of all Villains Who want to destroy the justice league. mainly the Superman and Batman. They think If they kill the Superman and Batman they Destroy the Justice League. But The Young Justice came on there way and they destroy the all the Lights plans. and Lights First Mission is to kill and destroy the Young Justice and after that the can back to there main plan. Young Justice makes disable and fails all their plans. The story run in One structure.
villans came they kill him or arrest him. And the Story runs in one solo. After Some episodes Lights starting to destroy Young Justice. And in the last episodes, they finally find out the whole truth. season 2When I started to watch the season 2 in that everything changed. Lots of new characters come and joint the young justice league. and some of them die. But the stories go the story reveals whats going on in the new season. Now Fast Forward....
Megan the Martian Girl and superboy breakup and she with Logan some kind of fish. Aqualand is now with villans and he helps them to destroy the Justice League cause they kill Aqualand's Girlfriend. They make the plan to destroy The Lights to put one character inside Light. So they made fack death of Lady Green Arrow and make him Tigeress and put her in Lights. Where in there Aqualand Already his side And helping her For Destroying Lights in roots. By the way, he is the son of the Black Waterman(By the Way I don't know his name). And they are really good at to work hard and make fool all of them. Now the new character comes to Young Justice The Green Bittle. He Helping them to destroy The LIGHT and the new villain The RICHI. Richi is alien who came on the different planet to earth. They want control of The Earth. But our Heroes think the sound doesn't good. the fail his all plans and start to destroy RICHI. On the other side, The Aqualand And Lady Green Arrow doing there work in Lights for destroying them. Now the Story goes faster. Other Teammate does know about the Aqualand And he does kill the Lady Green Arrow. So all the other Teammates want to kill Aqualand and destroy the Lights. But After some Episodes (2 or 3) They knew about the Aqualand and Lady Green Arrow Is alive so every buddy knew they are just doing their job for saving the world. At last, the make one secret mission and capture the all the bed villans some of them just vanish or disappear there and Young Justice kills some of them.In my opinion, this s the best cartoon tv series I had ever seen. But some os causes they just stop making the new episodes and stop working on that. But after this series, they make some new tv series. Which is better in graphically and animation all. Ater this series they decided to make the new one add they also published the new comics. In 2016 Netflix buy all the Young Justice episodes and I think the made some new ones.
Watched Young Justice amazing voice Performances from Jesse McCartney(All My Children) as Dick Grayson/Robin, Khary Payton(Teen Titans) as Kaldur'ahm/Aqualad also starring Jason Spisak(Green Lantern:The Animated Series) as Kid Flash, Nolan North(Wolverine And The X- Men) as Superboy , Danica McKellar(How I Met Your Mother) as Megan Morse/Miss Martian, Stephanie Lemelin(Rules Of Engagment) as Artemis ,Lacey Chabert(The Spectacular Spider- Man) as Zatanna,Eric Lopez as Jamie Reyes/Blue Beetle,Jason Marsden(General Hospital) as Bart Allen/Impulse ,Alyson Stoner(Step Up) as Barbra Gordon/Batgirl, Mae Whitman(Independence Day) as Wonder Girl also Featuring Vanessa Marshall(Justice League:Crisis On Two Earths) as Black Canary Phil LaMarr(Justice League Unlimited) as Aquaman ,Bruce Greenwood(Star Trek) as Batman, Maggie Q(Mission:Impossible III) as Wonder Woman While Im Not a huge Teen Titans I really enjoyed enjoyed seeing these Sidekicks have there own missions aside from The League also the characters were well developed also amazing twists as well I can't wait for season 3 . Amazing score by Michael McCuistio and Amazing Showrunners Brandon Vietti(Batman:Under The Red Hood) & Greg Weisman(Max Steel) Amazing Show featuring the second Tier of DC Heroes 8/10


                
I really enjoy this show and look forward to watching it. I don't like it that you killed off Kid Flash, and was hoping you would bring him back. To me it was an unsatisfying way for him to die. His life was going very well and then you just killed him off! This may discourage me from watching the show anymore since this was my favorite character. The way he left the show did not make sense to me and made me wonder if he was really gone. I hope there may be a possibility that he will be able to come back to the show. It seems that all the other characters have accepted his death and another person is now taking on the Kid Flash character, so it doesn't seem like he will be coming back. I just really want the character Kid Flash to come back.
I watched the first two seasons back when they aired. Beautiful animation, convoluted story and great voice cast made the show what it is.Now, we winally got the third season and it made me realize how much I missed serious, adult oriented and serious DC shows. Characters are well developed, their motivation is explained and most of all it doesn't rely on punches and kicks and cheap humor. The story keeps getting more and more serious and it also includes the suspense of detective work.I truly hope DC continues this show after season 3 and maybe its success encourages them to create another show in the Batman The Animated Series aka Timm-verse.DC needs to continue in this serious and adult tone because this is what makes them great. Remember BTAS, Batman Beyond, SubZero, Mask of the Phantasm, Young Justice and you realize that only adult-oriented movies and series were the thing people remember, not that awful Teen Titans Go.


                
