It should be widely known that Kubrick movies are not to be enjoyed, but endured. As a "cinephile" my choice was to endure them only once, just to know what one of the most overrated directors in the history of cinema was up to. I duly watched FMJ at the time of its original release and did not enjoy it. Back then it felt like a late arrival, saying nothing new after Apocalypse Now and Platoon. Devoid of the emotional impact of those two other movies, dry, slow-paced and boring.Last night, I stumbled upon it on TV and out of curiosity I decided to give it another try, should my previous impression been marred by youthful ignorance. Alas not... In fact, years of movie-watching just enhanced my dislike for what looks more than ever like an half-baked, over simplistic war movie.As everybody knows, FMJ is basically two movies stuck together, with little relation to each other. The first half takes place during a brutal boot camp, with lots of shouting and humiliation from a sadist drill sergeant, leading to "tragic events" of some sort. The second half takes place in Great Britain, standing for Vietnam and failing miserably at the task.In no way the cold, gray UK could be mistaken for a sub-tropical country. In FMJ the actors keep their long sleeves down, no sticky heat, profuse sweating or ventilators flapping. Besides being infamous for its fake, chilling location, the second part is almost ludicrous in every other aspect. From the dialogs, which sound like a parody of macho war movies, but are in no way funny, to character non-development, to sexist use of local prostitutes - not once, but twice.We are shown twice what is basically the same scene (and the only female presence in the movie): a young Viet prostitute soliciting Joker and friends. Same scene some 15 minutes later, only this time the prostitute is pimped out by a local guy.I could ask many questions about this movie<U+0085> For instance if Kubrick was supposed to be over-meticulous and detail crazy how did he missed the fact that the UK does not look like Vietnam? How did he missed the fact that he had the same scene twice? etc...In the poster's photo we have a helmet with "Born to kill" scribbled next to a peace sign, signifying the duplicity of human nature. This convey the full message you should get at the end of the movie, so you can spare yourself some time just taking a good look at the poster. If you want to add an additional layer of "meaning", perhaps you can infer that mankind (in the shape of main character Joker) is "naturally" good but can be trained to become "bad". Hardly a brand-new, mind-blowing concept.


                
When I first saw this film at the time it came out, I thought it was very good. But now that liberal H-wood has steeped me in its BS for all the years I had subscribed, I now see that the BS theme associated with "Gomer Pyle" is that growing into an instrument of war is insanity causing to some. That the "hero", "Joker", drops his gun when shot at, then mercy kills the sniper that someone else protected him from. And that war is a waste for liberal reasons, not realistic ones. I very much doubt that any actual war movie has ever been made, and certainly not this as one. Saving Private R may be as close as it comes for action and the sense of "being there", but the schmaltzy political backdrop takes something from it. Maybe one of these days .


                
Full Metal JacketJust like The Clockwork Orange, it takes too much time to prove a point and even though it is finely detailed and explicitly executed the journey for around 2 hours just doesn't seem worthy at the end. Stanley Kubrick's smart adaptation and perfect execution works on its level and won't disappoint the fans but fails to deliver anything beyond that as the mere far fetched idea fades off slowly before one's eyes where even lousy editing too, becomes responsible. Matthew Modine at the centre of it pulls it off swiftly and smoothly but is overpowered by a stunning performance by Vincent D'Onofrio despite of just being a supportive character. Full Metal Jacket resonates too much with The Clockwork Orange as it raises similar questions, offers enough doubts and thrills which becomes redundant at a certain point and as always lacks better editing.


                
I have redone the beginning of this review just to make one point clear, so Sorry if it looks truncated:That this is a great movie for U.S. viewers, specially in the military, DOESN'T MEAN IT'S A GREAT MOVIE FOR EVERYBODY, as its value for foreign audiences is next to nil. As every country in the world has its own stories on abuse in military schools, this movie doesn't bring us foreigns ANYTHING. The Godfather, Apocalypses Now, The Exorcist, those are great American movies, artworks with universal value, not this. BTW, the 2010 Nobel Prize of Literature, Vargas Llosa wrote his masterpiece novel precisely about abuse in military schools en Peru. Now to my original review:...the film looks cheap from beginning to end, as if SK had been perennially short of funds (BTW: is Hartman the only military man in that barracks? Couldn't they afford a single Capt. besides him?) And things become worse when they move to Vietnam. That editorial war council is one of the lamest I have ever seen--equal only to that inquiry in Aliens and capable of making one similar of the Franklin at Chilton's--Gilmore Girls--a masterpiece in psychological tension; even more so, considering than we are here at the eve of the greatest story of the whole war, the Tet offensive. Yet you don't feel any of that in the air, far from that. That S & S editor looks more like just coming out of modelling tennis shoes for a men's magazine than a newspaper boss in the thick of the action and the reporters more like kids preparing for a camping trip. The later sorties, encounters, look contrived, prepared and what is said there is cliché ridden--especially that dialogue between Joker and that Col., in which every cliché seems to have come up. Not to mention that ridiculous stand off with Animal Mother that some call a classic but which looks more like your usual schoolyard "I-piss-farther-than-you" piece of bravado. Then, the Hue battle, which is one of the worst war sequences I have ever seen, and I have seen a lot. Mediocre acting, cheap scenery, complete lack of atmosphere. Now I could appreciate the genius of Coppola--I'm thinking about that night battle. Those guys look truly battle weary, exhausted, pushed to the limit, that's the mood every soldier who was in Hue talks about. Instead, these Animal Mothers and Cowboys look more like street urchins playing war in an empty city lot while keeping an eye for the police. Phony, that's the second word that comes to mind. Then, third....how about racist? Or misogynistic, maybe? Because once again Kubrick shows his complete inability to portrait women in roles other than in subservient, even humiliating ones. At best as victims. When not absent or doing obscure jobs--as in 2001 or Dr Strangelove--they are cold, castrating--as Alex's mom in C.O. (or even rotting corpses!) And don't get me started with his treatment of racial minorities. The action unfolds in Vietnam and what women we have here? Two whores and one sniper (i.e. one who kills treacherously.) Also two males, one pimp and a thief. Once again, only demeaning stereotypes. The truth is, SK is incapable of giving human faces to his characters of ANY race. Just remember the astronauts in 2001, besides which HAL was a portent in humanity. And which other filmmaker is so incapable of giving a human face to an African American; who's so out of touch with the realities of the 60s, that the only way he can do that is by recurring to the old stereotype of the big black d**k'?. And the same thing for the Vietnamese. Coppola didn't know a thing about them either, but he didn't have any problem humanizing them: the mother who runs to Kilgore with her wounded baby, the girl who tries to retrieve her dog and so on. Instead, what we see here, in the boys' faces when they confront the locals, dead or alive, is just what Kubrick himself is capable of saying, doing, i.e. nothing. He is even incapable of giving a human face to a dying girl, FHS! When a simple picture of a baby, a boy, falling from her lap would have sufficed--as in a similar scene in Bridge over R.K., with a Japanese soldier. Had it been a dog dying there, it would have made no difference at all. At the end he simply pulls just another cliché: the girl prays and then asks to be shot. And this is the movie maker that some hail as the greatest one in modern times and they even call this film a masterpiece! This is a bad film that has been set on a pedestal by the artsy crowd and there worshipped for all the wrong reasons. And while I agree it adequately portraits the dehumanizing effect of training in a boot camp on people and the futility of war, it still remains a clunker; and that because it got nothing going that may be construed as fruit of imaginative, creative work. The cinematography is ordinary, the atmosphere nonexistent, the acting mediocre and the characters stereotypical; dialogues are cliché ridden and, most of all, it all looks incredible cheap. So, no matter if I'm in agreement with its point of view, it's still a turkey. Kubrick offers nothing new, groundbreaking, here--he just reminds us once more of his own pathological misogyny and of his complete ignorance, or contempt, of racial minorities. All the rest has already been done, and better, in other movies. In all, 2 pts. for the effort and the time and 2 for the good intentions.
Since i am quite young, and consequently new to the domain of movies pre-1990 era, IMDb serves as my catalogue for catching up on all the masterpieces. so it was with quite a lot of expectation that i watched FMJ, in-spite of being shockingly disappointed earlier with A clockwork orange and 2001. Kubrick's work to me is...dysfunctional.I am a real admirer of artistic direction and deep, intriguing story lines with philosophical connotations, but i also firmly believe that every movie should be entertaining, be it at a superficial, sensual, intellectual or emotional level. Sadly, FMJ is none; just a collection of distraught, disturbing scenes that display a reptilian, hollow way of movie direction.the first half of the movie, that primarily focuses on the android-like training of the marines, would have been effective had it been juxtaposed with the usual camaraderie and banter of the trainees (like in Band of Brothers). it was creepily unnerving to see and hear joker, pyle and company talk to each other like they were from different solar systems. i've never been to military training camps, but surely soldiers everywhere develop affectionate rapports with their colleagues, right? then we switch over to a make-do Vietnam where the movie gets even shabbier. the fighting scenes look like enacted in a theater (slow motions groans and blood spill), the dialogs seem to have been scripted by arnold, stallone and vin diesel and the storyline seems like a headless chicken, going nowhere and painfully bleeding to death. What kind of a person in his senses would walk onto the war-front, with a peace symbol and a gory message printed on his helmet at the same time, and then expect to justify himself by explaining Jungian philosophy to ticked off soldiers? enough said. time to put a FMJ in the original reels of this nonsense.


                
If Kubrick has done only masterpieces then this one fails. Here there is no magic touch, no vivid colors, no famous music score, no fancy camera movements in his style. Very little cinema. And the format 1.33:1 doesn't help.The first part is OK with the training camp. Good psychology. Well done. But that is it. The movie ends. It isn't even spectacular. I don't know what message Kubrick wanted to portray but I think Francis Ford Coppola did a far better job with APOCALYPSE NOW. There is no comparison. Coppola really showed us and gave us an idea of the horrors of war.Unlike all war movies where the action takes place on a vast territory, here all the war scenes wheel around a small abandoned manufacture. Besides a couple of gun shooting scenes there is nothing spectacular with the soldiers always talking supposedly saying so many profound things but I don't get their point. During the film did Kubrick run out of money?


                
Kubrick must rank with Hitchcock as the most overrated director of our time. Full Metal Jacket is one of his pretentious half-failures. The first part of the movie is quite compelling. The real-life drill sargeant is so good that we overlook the fact that the other characters might as well be carrying cardboard sandwiches with what symbol they are supposed to represent. The second part of the film is supposed to, I think, contrast the chaos and reality of the battlefield to the order and artificiality of the parade ground. This was done beautifully in Kurosawa's two masterful scenes in Ran. Needless to say, Kubrick is no Kurosawa, and is not up to the task. The man has no understanding of how to shoot an action sequence, or how real people, not symbols interact. This artificiality, which was tolerable in the first part makes the second part completely laughable. I once saw a very good snippet of Godard (himself vastly overrated..), comparing shot by shot, the sniper scene with real footage from Vietnam and lamenting upon how static, sterile, and lacking in excitement the Kubrick version is. I think all the weaknesses are summarized in the "surprise" climax of the film which I found to be completely out of place and as dated as the film and its director. The years have been much kinder to Platoon, or even Apocalypse Now.


                
Full Metal Jacket is a leftist oriented movie about a fictional group of Marines as they go through training and to Vietnam. It portrays Marines as "killers" who glorify killing, except for a few in whom the training doesn't take hold; these are depicted as generally decent, smartass, sarcastic, skeptical, opponents of the war. That is the general division of Marines in this movie: 1-men who have been brainwashed to love killing on the one hand, and 2- decent men with a few faults on the other hand. The drill instructor tells the men in boot camp that Lee Harvey Oswald and Charles Witman are examples of the kind of Marines he wants them to become, because they knew how to shoot straight and to kill. There is an implication that the training in boot camp drives one trainee crazy enough to murder the DI and them himself. There is plenty of stuff like this in the movie. The 1st type of Marine in the film goes overboard in acting boorish and stupid. It is overdone to the point that you notice how bad the acting is done. The idea is to create caricatures, making a distinction between the men Kubrick shows as having accepted the Marine training and those he shows as not having taken the training or the mission to heart. The second type of Marine as depicted by Kubrick is often smartass to a great degree, almost to the point of openly ridiculing a general to his face. This Marine is given a hero status. The 1st type of Kubrick's Marines are depicted as dunderheaded morons, on whom the sarcastic wit of the smartass Marines is lost. There are no people in Kubrick's film who are representative of real life Marines: intelligent, good, decent men and women who fight when called upon to do so, but with no bloodlust or desire to kill anyone. The Hollywood stereotypes are so stark in this film that it really is no surprise that it won so many awards.
I did not like this film compared to the other Nam films, its quite borrish.  The training camp segment is to long.  I did not care for the characters, and it took too long for the arrival of the combat part of the film.  The only redeeming aspect of this film is the sniper scene.  So much potential and so little done for this film.


                
This is another movie about the Vietnam War. Directed by Stanley Kubrick, its full of violence and shocking scenes, as the director likes. However, in this particular case, violence is welcome, showing us the inhumanity of war, very clear and explicit, from the brutal recruiting of the Marines to the crudeness of the battlefield. It's hard to watch this movie, but this, combined with raw and intense realism, makes the film truly unforgettable. However, this movie is too much like "Apocalypse Now". Coppola's film has the same message, the same environment, the same violence and event a very close soundtrack. It's impossible not to observe this similarities without consider how much this film could be more original and is not. Okay, the early scenes, in the military recruit, are a good addition to the film and a good differential, but it's not enough. It even seems that Kubrick simply wanted to do a remake of "Apocalypse Now"...


                
I found the equipment, men and locations etc to be to clean which did not reflect the reality. Our guys over there believed in the cause in the beginning. Incrementally feelings changed to less and less. Then came Tet, not long after frag incidents really kicked off. Short timers just counted days and tried to steer clear of engagements. The men still fought for each other it's just short timers were really careful. Overall not a bad movie maybe the youth of our country will learn it's not always wise to volunteer. For it's time the movie does an OK job telling a story and the dialog is not that bad. For all those who fought were injured or killed they did the best they could, thank you.


                
This review includes our thoughts about the Mise en Scene used in the movie, for which this movie has become famous and we will also give you our collective opinion on the movie at the end of the review.Props and clothing: Props don't seem to have a significant role throughout the movie, and that is exactly why they are so effective. One of the props that stands out most is the rifle. Some props also have a symbolic meaning. The peace badge and the helmet with "born to kill" may seem like some joke, but they can also symbolize that the soldiers are fighting for peace.Since the movie isn't actually shot at a training facility, all of the obstacles are props. They are, however replicas of real versions. Because none of the movie is shot on location, even the helicopter scenes are made with scale models. This is done quite nicely, since it took some research to discover this.The clothing also plays a significant role throughout the movie. All soldiers are shaved bald and wear the same clothes. This stands in sharp contrast to the drill sergeant, who wears much neater clothes. Because all soldiers wear identical clothes, and are we are forced to look for physical differences. For example this makes private Pyle (the chubby guy), stand out even more. Later on however, during the fighting scenes in Vietnam, the soldiers are much more recognisable. This is because they have hair again and personalised their uniforms. Also, throughout the entire second half of the movie, there is very little change in uniform. The clothing also includes some special effects. Blood bags, for example, are used to fake death, because there was no CGI when the movie was made. We can see this in an earlier scene where the drill instructor gets shot. Background: In addition to this we will now talk about the use of background in Full Metal Jacket. In Full Metal Jacket there aren't any animated background pictures, because the film was shot in 1987. At that time they didn't have the techniques that could do this. However a lot of the movie has been shot inside of a studio. Because of this the movie directors had to use pictures as background. Watching the movie the viewer will not notice the fake background. However if you pay close attention to the background, you will notice that the backgrounds are mostly fake.There is one scene in which private Pyle is out of bed by night in the toilet room. The whole scene is dark and a lot of dark colours are used in this scene. In this scene Pyle is talking with private Joker holding a gun. Pyle blames him of his failure. From all the noises they make, they wake up the sergeant. He then goes to the toilet room to take a look. He finds Pyle with Joker in the toilet room. He tries talking Pyle out of shooting. When he realises he fails, he starts shouting and yelling towards Pyle. Now Pyle points the gun at the sergeant and shoots him. When watching this scene you feel that the scene is unbalanced. This is because viewers only notice something when it's abnormal. With the unbalanced distribution of light and colour in the scene, the scene looks unbalanced. This already gives a hint towards what is going to happen. Which you can see, is correct, because the sergeant is shot. Nevertheless there is a balance in the objects in the scene. On each side of the room there are an even amount of toilets, symmetrical opposite each other. This is a great example of the use of composition in the movie. Actors: Another significant use of Mise en Scene was their choice for the actors playing the recruits. It was done in such a fashion to make private Pyle stand out due to his weight because all of the other recruits are skinny/decently built, while Pyle is fat, which gives you the impression that Pyle is going to fail at becoming a good recruit.The drill sergeant also played a major role in the movie. He dominated in the first half of the movie, because he was always there to insult the recruits and thus mainly focused the attention on two other characters; private Pyle, who always screws up and private Joker for making remarks all the time. Furthermore, in the beginning of the movie, the recruits are being shaved, in this scene you can see that most of them have long hair. This gave us an idea of what the recruits are like, which made us have some sort of relationship with the actors. Besides this, it also gave us an idea of the time in the movie, the 70s, which was confirmed by the song playing in the background of the scene: 'goodbye sweetheart, hello Vietnam'. By having their hair shaved off, it shows that they are ready to start their new lives as recruits.Our opinion We will now give our opinion, with regard to the movie. We don't like the movie regardless of its humorist parts. This is because the movie actually never begins. It feels like you are watching a 2 hour intro. So when watching the movie you are expecting, scene after scene, the movie to actually start, which we think is very irritating. Further when watching the movie you don't exactly get to know who the main character is. In the first half of the film the film lets you think that private Pyle is the main character. But after he kills himself, it becomes clear that the main character is actually private joker. This is confusing for the viewer. Even tough Full Metal Jacket is considered as a classic war movie. It's just like the bible, just because it's considered a classic, doesn't mean its any good.
