This is the journey undertaken by Private "Joker" J.T. Davis, from brutal training camp to Vietnam itself.As most people know by now, Full Metal Jacket is divided very much into two different halves, halves that to me show the best and worst of the talented director, Stanley Kubrick. For the first part we are subjected to the training regime inflicted on wet behind the ears boys, boys soon to become Marines out in the harshness of the Vietnam War. This is real dehumanising stuff, frighteningly essayed by the brilliance of drill instructor R Lee Ermey's performance. We know, see and feel that the boys are primed to be killing machines, unemotional killing machines at that, with Kubrick astutely weaving the brutality of camp into the moral quandary that was the war itself. One particular recruit, Private Gomer {a heartfelt and unnervingly great Vincent D'Onofrio} is the film, and Gustav Hasford's {writer of the novel and co screenwriter here} point of reference in this incredible first half. It's with this strand that "Jacket" burns itself into the soul of the viewer, to hopefully set us up for what will be Private "Joker's" {Matthew Modine} preparation for the Vietnmam conflict.Then it's that second half........Where do we go from here? We already know that "Joker" and his mentally brutalised colleagues have been stripped of their basic humanity. Soldiers primed to kill, it's harsh, but true. But Kubrick has already chilled our blood and bludgeoned us repeatedly courtesy of the "Boot Camp" set up. Modine's {who isn't strong enough to carry the picture} "Joker" is now the films axis, a clever, most definitely articulate character, who is thrust into the murky and muddled battle of the Tet Offensive, yeah and so? All it amounts to is a prolonged series of rationale and philosophical musings on the false war. Kubrick even shifting to safe mode with a clumsy narration segment spouted by "Joker".Full Metal Jacket is a truly fine film, but it's not the brilliant one it really should have been. If one can take the time to venture deeper with the second half, then it doesn't deliver on the already made point promise of the first part. Technically it's flawless, incredibly designed, with Douglas Milsome's cinematography stunningly effective. But I'll maintain to my dying day that Full Metal Jacket finished up as being bloody and pretty instead of being a poignant and horrifying masterpiece. 7/10


                
I always thought of Kubrick as the poet amongst the proza's in Hollywood. Kubrick always tries to tell a bigger picture than he's putting on the screen. But it requires the viewer to see beyond the images. I had to see this film a second time to fully grasp what Kubrick was trying to show me.The film is divided in two parts: basic training at Parris Island and combat in Vietnam. Both are equally difficult to watch. Kubrick shows us young boys being stripped from every possible individuality, only to be sent into a war that will only damage them and the war-torn country even more.The film has an eery kind of absurdness to it. The tone of the film balances between hard core anti-war and black comedy. Maybe thats because most of the soldiers in Vietnam (or any war) have the same kind of humor: harsh, but funny in a wrong kind of way. Kubrick lets R. Lee Ermey have his way the young recruits and gives him all the best "wrong lines". The rapid fire of slurs and insults is unbelievable for a normal person. Which all the recruits are in the beginning. Ermey glorifies the fact that Oswald killed Kennedy from 250 feet at a moving target. Oswald learned his skills IN THE MARINES. Yes, be proud.Kubrick's Vietnam lies in ruins. The American involvement seems to have only negative results. It's native people are being slaugthered by either the VC or the Americans. Youngs girls prostitute themself to GI's. Once a beautiful country with a rich culture and historic buildings, it's not much to look at with tanks and marines roaming the streets. The scenes in the final act where the platoon is being cut to pieces by a sniper are very powerful. Those scenes make a bigger statement. They define the conflict: With all it's firepower, tactics and technology, the platoon lost three soldiers to one girl with an AK. An unwinnable war. Though and sometimes difficult to watch, this film is not anti-war for pacifists, but anti-war for humanists. Think beyond "oh, war is hell" and you will be satisfied with what Kubrick is telling us.
The unifying theme of Stanley Kubrick's 'Full Metal Jacket' is that Vietnam put American in the toilet; each of the film's three parts, or "Acts", has characters in what is repeatedly described as "a world of s--t." The men are successful trained to kill - but, they do not know when to kill, who to kill, or why anyone should die. Narrator protagonist Matthew Modine (as James "Joker" Davis) not only wears a "Peace" button on his uniform, but also has written "Born To Kill" on his helmet (to illustrate the duality of man). The reason for the war is explained, "We are here to help the Vietnamese because inside every gook there is an American trying to get out." Probably, the film's strongest "story" is told in the first "Act"; it features drill sergeant R. Lee Ermey (as Hartman) belittling overweight Vincent D'Onofrio (as Leonard "Gomer Pyle" Lawrence). This story literally ends in the latrine, where a successfully trained killer demonstrates his ability. Some of the material in the rest of the film becomes very weak, in comparison; especially disappointing are some mid-movie scenes "staged" for the camera of "Stars and Stripes" photographer "Rafterman" (Kevyn Major Howard) - the characters all say silly things for the camera. Still, some near-poetic moments of humor and brutality remain to be seen.******* Full Metal Jacket (6/17/87) Stanley Kubrick ~ Matthew Modine, R. Lee Ermey, Vincent D'Onofrio, Arliss Howard


                
Stanley Kubrick made surprisingly few movies considering that he was credited as a genius film-maker. For example, he allowed seven years to elapse between The Shining and this Vietnam War film. Well-made as it is, Full Metal Jacket is not without certain flaws and is by no means top-drawer Kubrick. However, it is punctuated with incredible moments in spite of its shortcomings, including a gruelling opening-act which details marine training at Parris Island and ends with a hair-raising showdown between a grunt and a gunnery sergeant. Also, the film's bloody climax, with its inconclusive clash between the American forces and an enemy sniper, is simultaneously tense, frightening, ironic and meaningless.The story (taken from Gustav Hasford's novel The Short-Timers) opens with a bunch of green marine recruits undergoing military training at Parris Island. The drill instructor Gunnery Sergeant Hartman (R. Lee Ermey) is a ruthless, motor-mouthed loony who relentlessly humiliates and desensitises his boys, so that when he has finally stripped them of their humanity he can rebuild them as single-minded killing machines. Among the bunch is happy-go-lucky Private Joker (Matthew Modine), and the vaguely ridiculous (and ridiculed) Private Pyle (Vincent D'Onofrio). As the recruits near the end of their gruelling training regime, Pyle finally cracks under the strain and kills the gunnery sergeant, before turning his gun on himself. The action jumps forward to find Joker on a tour of duty in Vietnam. He is by this point a military journalist who has seen some pretty unpleasant sights during his time in 'Nam (and is divided by his experiences - notice his Born To Kill helmet and his Peace buttoned jacket). The platoon he is part of becomes involved in a street battle in the ruins of Hue City near the film's climax, where they find themselves pinned down and picked off by a female Vietcong sniper. Finally, after much panic and bloodshed, darkness falls and the marines retreat into the night singing the Mickey Mouse March.Where Kubrick really hits his target is in his depiction of the emotional change within Modine's character, and in his cold and cynical (and authentic) view of the dehumanisation that results from being subjected to warfare. Women and children become acceptable targets for the gun-toting soldiers; fear of death gives way to callous indifference; violence becomes normal; horrific deaths and injuries become commonplace to the point of disinterest. No-one in the film can remember the cause they're fighting for or, if they can, they never refer to it. It's just one side versus the other, locked in a costly, savage stalemate, as they enter into violent engagements simply because it's expected of them. The lack of real location work is a problem - Kubrick wouldn't film outside England, so the final gun exchange in Hue City was actually shot in a disused London factory yard, complete with imported palm trees. Also, the film is so detached from compassion (intentionally, I know) that it becomes hard to relate to anyone in the film. While we're supposed to be shocked by the utter indifference with which people are killed or injured during warfare, the total refusal to present a glimmer of feeling or sympathy makes the film's second half as icily distant as it is bloodthirsty. Full Metal Jacket is certainly powerful and potent, but its sheer authenticity makes it a pretty hard watch.
I don't think its even the best Vietnam Movie( Platoon is), but nonetheless, its still a good movie. R.Lee Ermey gives an oustanding performance as Gunnery Sergeant Hartman. His performance is what carries the first half of this movie. The boot camp scenes are excellent. The Tet Offensive part is the weakest, but Matthew Modine turns in a good performance. The sniper scene at the end was very good. (SPOILERS) I never would have expected the sniper to be a young girl. Overall a good movie, it just ran kinda slow in some places. 7/10
FULL METAL JACKET has one of the most bizarre structures in film history. The first half of FMJ is rightly regarded as being one of the great segments of cinema . Kubrick/Herr/Hasford`s razor sharp script takes us on a blackly comical tour of the horrors of basic training with Sergeant Hartman , private Joker and Leonard Lawrence being the central characters , but then the film cuts to the battlefields of `Nam with only a couple of characters like Joker and Cowboy linking the two segments . Also disappearing is much of the first half`s wit with only the irony of American firepower bringing down tower blocks in retaliation to a sniper being the only real clever and knowing aspect to the script . It`s confusing too because with the exception of Joker and co. the rest of the film doesn`t really tie in with the basic training segment , perhaps the film would have worked a lot better if the entire film was taken up with the basic training ? And I can`t help noticing that much of the terrain doesn`t really resemble the jungles of South East Asia , as everyone knows FMJ was filmed in and around London and it often shows. Still it`s a film worth watching if only for the basic training scenes which are certainly more convincing than those seen in HEARTBREAK RIDGE . A couple of questions though ...If there`s any former USMC men out there could you write in and tell us how realistic the training scenes are ?I used to be in the army myself ( Royal Engineers ) but we never EVER called instructors " Sir " . In fact if someone in the British army made that mistake they`d receive the reply " Don`t f****** call me sir . I work for a living " along with a few other choice insults .  Is it a common practice for American recruits to call their instructors " Sir " ?


                
"Dr. Strangelove" director Stanley Kubrick's "Full Metal Jacket" qualifies a cynical, blistering, and profane expose of the U.S. Marine Corps, its dehumanizing mentality, and the amoral experience of the Vietnam War. Sadly, despite the talent involved, "Full Metal Jacket" doesn't eviscerate the Vietnam War with either the same intensity or insight as either Francis Ford Coppola's "Apocalypse Now" or Michael Cimino's "The Deer Hunter." The cast consists of unknown newcomers, including Mathew Modine, Adam Baldwin, Vincent D'Onofrio, Dorian Harwood, Arliss Howard, John Terry, and Ed O'Ross. D'Onofrio delivers the best performance as a crazy recruit, while former Drill Sergeant R.L. Emery steals the show. His dialogue and use of rampant profanity will stick in your mind long after this film fades. Kubrick makes good use of the Nancy Sinatra tune "These Boots Were Made for Walking."Taking Gustav Hasford's minor novel "The Short Timers," Kubrick penned the screenplay with Hasford and Michael Herr. The first 45 minutes takes place on Parris Island in a Marine Boot Camp where a Looney tunes drill sergeant subjects his raw recruits to the worst that he can dish and turns into killers. Indeed, the first scene shows the principal actors for the Boot Camp scene getting their heads shaved clean in a barber shop. The second half occurs in Vietnam before the Tet Offensive. Amazingly, Kubrick—because he hated to leave England—lensed the entire film on location in England. Unfortunately, the riveting first half at Parris Island overshadows the second half in Vietnam, and the film concludes rather lamely with a drawn-out sequence involving a female sniper who pins down our heroes in an urban setting. Incidentally, as surprising as it is when she is revealed as the sniper, it is interesting to note that Private Joker (Mathew Modine) foreshadows this revelation as the outset of the Vietnam sequence when he observes that NVA officers are sometimes women. Several memorable scenes occur in the Vietnam sequence, particularly when Private Joker questions the helicopter gunship gunner how he can kill women and children. His response that he leads them more is ghoulish. Private Joker's run in with a high ranking officer about his helmet plastered with stickers is funny, too. The soundtrack boasts several Top 40 hits from the era that fit in with the storyline, especially Nancy Sinatra's "These Boots Are Made For Walking."What a letdown for Kubrick.
The consensus seems to be that this film is two separate dramas, and that is an accurate assessment.  Kubrick, as always, shows the audience events and then allows them their own conclusions (sort of like real life, huh?)I served in the Army and like most veterans, the boot camp sequence (the first film) is funny, scary, informative and exhausting, just like basic training.  When the story shifts to Vietnam, it loses a little of its appeal and originality, but it is effective in showing the utter uselessness of war, especially the disjointed, aimless jaunt that existed in Southeast Asia.I'm not so sure this is the best war film ever made, or even the best film about Vietnam.  The film is thought provoking, though, and very well acted. Why isn't Matthew Modine more highly regarded?  His performance here is very good, and with his roles in Birdy and And The Band Played On, he seems to be one of the best actors in the 25 to 40 range.I do like this film, and I think it is another example of Stanley Kubrick's brilliance, but I can't say that it's great.But, to his credit, a Kubrick film is just like a military experience. You've never seen anything quite like it before, and you'll never come across anything like it again.


                
R. Lee Ermey dominates this Stanley Kubrick directed Vietnam War drama, as he plays profane, no-nonsense, ultra tough Gunnery Sergeant Hartman, who belittles, browbeats, and insults the marine recruits in brutal boot camp training. Vincent D'Onofrio plays a slow-witted recruit who gets it the worst from Hartman, until he finds out that he is quite good at shooting... Mathew Modine plays "Joker", since he has an overt sense of humor that also captures the attention of Hartman, whose relentless, unmerciful verbal attacks take their toll in ways he didn't imagine... Film then picks up later, as Joker is a war correspondent for Stars & Stripes, who witnesses first hand the insanity of Vietnam...R. Lee Ermey so dominates the first half of the film(in an unforgettable, searing portrayal of dehumanization) that, when his part is over, it leaves a looming shadow over the rest of the film that is never lifted, though it is still a well-presented look at the war, though nothing exceptional. Worth watching for Ermey, who should have received an Academy Award!


                
Kubrick may be best known for his visuals, style, and creativity. "Full Metal Jacket" isn't all that great to look at it, and doesn't have any great stylistic flare worth noting, and is the same old recycled and clichéd settings and scenes that we've seen over and over. "Full Metal Jacket" is a kind of disjointed film told through a boot camp setting in the first half and a war setting in second half. The basic training elements of the film have been done numerous times, but nothing like this. This is "Full Metal Jacket'" strongest element as we see some great film-making of things we've seen done numerous times before, but here; Kubrick brings us one of the most memorable characters in film history with Gunnery Sergeant Hartman (R. Lee Ermey). Ermey is fantastic and plays the part as if he's been through it all and seen it all before (That's because he has). The basic training is brutal and if you think the Marine Corps is brutal; "Full Metal Jacket" raises the bar and heightens reality to unprecedented levels. The first half of the film is done to near masterful levels. There were only two real issues: The inconsistent acting from Vincent D'Onofrio who plays Gomer Pyle and the never ending shellacking that Hartman rains down on his young men. D'Onofrio is great in one scene and absolutely over-the-top in the next-- over-the-top in a campy sense. Private Pyle is a "fat-body," and a screw up. He manages to screw everything up to the point were he hides a jelly donut in his footlocker. We see scene after scene of Pyle screwing up as D'Onofrio goes so far over-the-top that at times he puts this look on his face as if he's trying to imitate a person with Down Syndrome- it gets that bad. In most scenes his face works to eerie perfection. Hartman, then tells his men that they need to motive Pyle because he has failed, thus the corps failed him because they have not helped him motivate Pyle. So they beat him one night as he sleeps with bars of soap wrapped in towels and everything changes. Pyle starts talking to his gun. He becomes an excellent shot and a marksman and starts looking more and more like a soldier ready for combat except we get the not-so- subtle feeling that Pyle is going to go AWOL, and, of course, he does. None of the characters seem to know, but we sure do. This will bring us to the best scene in the entire film, which takes place half way through the film. Pyle becomes the second best character, only to Hartman, but once we leave the basic training scenes we're thrown into a war we've seen before and a war we've seen captured on film much better. "Full Metal Jacket" offers a lot of laughs in the first half of the film and actually goes for too many laughs with Hartman in the opening scene as Kubrick and company just go for the next joke about their sexual orientation. It's funny and Hartman has some great one-liners, but for a drill instructor it gets to the point where he becomes the comedian instead of the drill instructor. After so much it got the point where I was thinking, "When is he going to get back to his speech and stop calling these guys fags and queers 15,000 different ways?" "Full Metal Jacket" shows how dehumanizing war can be as we see "born to kill" written on the helmet of Joker (Mathew Modine) with a peace sign on his chest that represent the "duality of man" (as we're told). Basically this is questioning the idea that war will solve the world's issues- killing people will create peace. The problem with the film is that we get all of what Kubrick tries to sell us about the effects of war in the first half of the film, when, interesting enough, doesn't even take place during a war. Maybe that's why it made it so strong, but the final half is the same exact theme and message, but now we're actually in the war and it doesn't have as big an impact. The action sequences and the fight sequences are clichéd and stupid and look amateurish with the slow motion shots of blood spattering everywhere, and echoing cries of pain are heard from afar. This is supposed to strike a cord in you, that's why Kubrick elongates the pain. In "Saving Private Ryan," a film done over ten years later, in a very similar situation, Spielberg doesn't use any camera tricks or slow motion shots to make us feel a certain way. He just shows it as it would happen: Realistically. This creates a much stronger reaction than having a guy slowly fall and flop around as we're being told how to feel. It comes off as an unnatural and unrealistic force feeding because Kubrick is almost afraid his audience won't care for these guys, so he tries to make us care. "Full Metal Jacket," ultimately doesn't have much direction or anything new to say on the subject. It's a film about the soldiers, but the soldiers are all clichés. They're all the same exact people who are represented as nothing but barbaric animals. I don't know if his intention was to glorify veterans and troops, but this film is insulting to the men and woman who protect and serve.


                
Often referred to as one of his lesser great works, Stanley Kubrick's "Full Metal Jacket" is an assortment of various ideas that never really come together in perfect harmony. It's an anti-war film, a war film, a film about Military training, a film about Military combat, and a film about soldiers all packed into one little bundle. It's overstuffed, too full to carry all of its own weight, and it's got nowhere to dump the excess cargo but on its viewers.One of the film's characters, "Joker" (Matthew Modine), wears a peace necklace around his throat and a helmet with the words "Born To Kill" scribbled in the center throughout the film. "Whose side are you on?" someone asks him. He's not sure, and either is the film--which is one of its considerable flaws.The biggest flaw is its cold manner. This isn't a bad film, and far from it, but when compared to a Vietnam film such as "Platoon," it seems rather weak in many comparable ways. But, as I noted in a paragraph above, the worst thing about "Full Metal Jacket" is the humanity of the story. It has virtually none whatsoever.This isn't particularly surprising, since Kubrick has often been famous for his cold style of filmmaking ("2001," "A Clockwork Orange," "Eyes Wide Shut"). Don't misunderstand what I'm saying--Kubrick may very well by an amazing director. But a war film is different from one about art and deep meanings--you have to introduce characters, get the audience to like them, have them suffer personal trials and tribulations, and have some emotional moments in the film. Kubrick fails at this on the same level that Stone succeeded, even though they're both trying to get across the same messages. (It doesn't help that "Full Metal Jacket" was released a year after "Platoon," which makes it look like a pale imitator in comparison.)All of the characters in "Full Metal Jacket" seem very written, which basically just means they're words and motions on paper, acted out by individuals in Army suits. Of course, from a literal viewpoint, this is correct--but it's hard to doubt the realistic nature of a film when we are fully convinced that what we are witnessing is true. These characters in "Full Metal Jacket" seem hardly likable, and they are very rarely put through any type of emotional anguish, which is the key to all great war films--even "Forrest Gump" had some.I enjoyed the first half of the movie, which is basically the training period. We see a group of soldiers being prepared for conflict outside their barracks by a nasty Drill Sergeant (R. Lee Ermy). One of the kids in the group, Lawrence (Vincent D'Onofrio), is a bit of a dummy--and the drill sergeant takes out all his anger and fury upon the kid. After weeks of training, Lawrence finally snaps in half and shoots the drill sergeant, then himself, leaving Joker as the sole witness.This is where the first half of the film essentially ends and the second half begins, which is all boring combat. This is where I started to grow weary of the film's heavy-handed anti-war protest and ineffective characters. There was at least some type of subtle setup for the Lawrence character, but all the other characters are just wandering clichés.This may sound like an ignorant thing to say, but it's not. I enjoyed "Full Metal Jacket" to a certain extent. I just can't find it anywhere within me to call this a great film, nor a perfect one. It has many flaws, most of which result from poorly introduced characters and unattached emotions. There are also flaws from a technical viewpoint, such as the voice-over narrative by Modine. It's like screenwriting guru Brian McKee advises students--don't use voice-over unless it's essential to the story. Any idiot can express characters' emotions with their own words.Voice-over was essential in "Apocalypse Now" and "Platoon," but not here. It only occurs three or four times throughout the film and only halts the progression of the story. It's sloppy, pointless, and Modine's voice provides almost nothing to the story. Some people may disagree with me, but why have a character (in this case Modine) tell us where he's heading to instead of just putting subtitles in grainy Courier font? By introducing the audience to this voice-over, Kubrick does nothing but take the easy route towards scene explanations. Especially considering this voice-over is only used a handful of times for a few seconds each time.Regardless of technical flaws or figurative flaws, "Full Metal Jacket" fails where most war films succeed. Whether you agree with the message or not, Stone knew how to deliver the anti-war message within "Platoon" with deadly accuracy and subtlety. There's no subtlety here--Kubrick makes his echoing statement clear from the beginning on. And whether you personally like him or not, Stone also convincingly portray Vietnam. Even DePalma did a fine job of this in "Casualties of War." "Full Metal Jacket" isn't quite as convincing. Everything's heavy-handed. Everything feels fake. Everything feels contrived. It gets boring very quickly, and feels like an imitator of all the other Vietnam films. And the fact that it was released a year after "Platoon" seems to suggest that Kubrick may have indeed been borrowing a few ideas from Stone.There's a reason the die-hard Kubrick fans consider this one of his lesser works, and there's a reason you don't hear it mentioned very much when war films are discussed. In conclusion, it's just a copycat of many various films, with a dozen or so different ideas that never mix together very successfully.This is a good war film, but I can't say it's anything more than that.4/5.


                
Divided in two parts, this movie first looks like a patchwork of two completely different films. The first part shows young men entering a combat training camp. They do not look like the stereotype of soldiers: some are skinny, others are fat, and they do not master guns as if they were born with. The role of the Sergeant is simple: turn them into killing machines, whatever method it requires: humiliation or violence. (But one appreciates him, or maybe appreciates to hate him.) Their only wife? : Their rifles. Their only enemy? Communism. But despite this tough training, they are still humans, and friendships grow on the battlefield. But one of them, weaker than the others, is totally brainwashed by the doctrine he is taught, beyond the expectations of the Sergeant. Then, one understands that killing machines are dangerous for everyone, including those who created them. The second part occurs in Vietnam, following a former soldier -of the first part's training camp- who has become a war journalist. Though it takes place on battlefield, it seemed to me that the second part was way more relaxed than the first, where tension was omnipresent. Here, brotherhood "hides" slaughters behind jokes, though those slaughters are shown in an explicit way. The second part expresses the duality of these men, who are ready to give their lives, but less for patriotic reasons, than to save and protect their companions, because they kept their humanity. And that is what, in my opinion, links the two parts: once at war, they apply what they learnt in the training camp: killing, dealing with horror, but keeping in mind they are common humans.
First of all I love Kubrick's work, so I came into this with a bias. However I have seen a lot of action and war films, and this one, to an individual who never went to war, seems the most true-to-life, taken as a whole. This IS how you have to look at this film, incidentally; trying to break it down into two or three parts and say which was better is missing the point of the film, I think. In the same way that "Trainspotting" was an anti-drug film that did not gloss over anything, "Full Metal Jacket" is (for me) an anti-war film that stares straight at the ugliness of war and the potential for violence within almost all people, especially those trained, conditioned, even twisted, into military roles, without preaching even a single time. Less allegory and more applicability! Wonderful! The camera work was superb. I felt like I was walking through the movie with the Marines, from the barracks to the battlefield scenes.I have seen others criticize this film for the voice over, but I felt that it was used sparingly, and was helpful, not overdone. The narrator doesn't say anything that seems out-of-place.Others have commented on the music, the acting, and so on, so I won't add my repetitive comments, except that the drill sergeant is perfect!The combination of the demented treatment the recruits receive in boot camp with the combined "hours of boredom, seconds of terror" feel of the Vietnam scenes is intense and not for everyone, but feels REAL.10 out of 10, perfect.


                
"Full Metal Jacket" offers no new insights on the Vietnam war. Stanley Kubrick tells us nothing in this film that Oliver Stone hadn't already told us just a year before, in "Platoon". But it's still a memorable movie experience. The first third is both a clichéd "Marines-in-training" story with an expected tragic ending, and a profanely funny satire on militarism (Lee Ermey as the commanding drill instructor is the life of the movie). The middle section is shapeless and doesn't seem to be going anywhere, but the final segment, about a group of marines ambushed by an unseen sniper, is extremely well done: you feel as if you are there with them. It's an uneven, often obvious, but still powerful film. *** out of 4.
Kubrick's Vietnam War film is a study of the human condition, specifically the soldier's human condition, during basic training and war time. There is not much commentary on the justification of the Vietnam War, only an examination of what war does to the mind. There is a scene where an officer asks Private Joker why he wrote "Born to Kill" on his helmet if he wears a peace sign on his shirt. Joker replies "I don't know. It has something to do with the duality of man," or something to that effect. The whole movie is about the duality of man; everybody wants there to be peace, but when an authority figure tells us to kill, it becomes natural. For this, Full Metal Jacket is a thought provoking experience.The first forty minutes of Full Metal Jacket follows a group of Marine trainees on Paris Island who want to serve in Vietnam. We meet our main character, Private Joker, but the first act is dominated by two performers, R. Lee Ermey as Gunnery Sergeant Hartman, and Private Leonard Lawrence, nicknamed "Gomer Pyle," played by Vincent D'Onofrio. Hartman is the toughest Drill Instructor imaginable; he is on his soldier's butts about something all the time. Pyle, however, is a natural screw-up, it is hard to imagine how he even made it to Paris Island, and Hartman is always the harshest with him, because he has been trained to believe that the louder you bark at a soldier the sooner they will shape up. Instead, it has the opposite effect on Pyle; he becomes mentally disturbed during his training, probably because he was never mentally fit to be a soldier in the first place. This segment typically receives the most praise; it is certainly easier to enjoy, because it progresses toward a natural conclusion, graduation day. Ermey also gives the best performance in the film, mainly because it was not a performance, as Ermey was a real Gunnery Sergeant. Almost all of his lines were ad-libbed. Sgt. Hartman is one of the most memorable characters in all of Kubrick's films.The rest of the movie does not really flow toward a natural ending; it just follows Private Joker on his daily exploits in Vietnam, and ends rather abruptly, making it harder to enjoy. The film's themes are exemplified in every scene, however. As a journalist, Private Joker has not been disturbed by actual combat, but he meets many others who have, particularly a soldier named Animal Mother. He cannot understand how soldiers can kill with such ease, but but he comes to understand in the final combat experience of the movie.Like all Kubrick movies, there is some good camera work here. I swear when people got shot in this movie I thought I had been shot too, especially during the sniper sequence. The only problem I have with FMJ, besides the disjointed quality of the second half, is that it never really feels like you are in Vietnam. The movie was filmed in England, and even though the sets were great, they still feel like sets. For these reasons, FMJ is the weakest of Kubrick's war movies (excluding Spartacus). It is still an intellectually stimulating experience that should not be missed if you like war films.


                
In Stanley Kubrick's second-to-last film, Full Metal Jacket, Private Joker (Matthew Modine) tells an account of what happened to him in Vietnam. The film starts off in a boot camp. Private Joker, along with many other men are forced to follow extremely strict orders by Gunnery Seargeant Hartman (R. Lee Ermey). We see how the men are brainwashed into making them emotionally ready for battle. They are screamed at by the Seargeant that they are worthless, punished for the most minor mistake, etc. We meet one of the men, Private Pyle (Vincent D'Onofrio), who is the less physically active man who just can't get anything right. He is continuously harassed by the Seargeant, being completely humiliated all the time by the Seargeant and the other men.In the boot camp, we mostly see the mentality that the army wanted the soldiers to have. The yelling of "I am a killer." shows how these normal men have become something completely different than when they first came in.After the first half in the boot camp, Private Joker is assigned to be a journalist. For me, that was the point where everything turned into an average film. Many soldiers tell their views about the war, they are now desensitized to the killing of Viatmese soldiers, sometimes even civilians. The conclusion of the movie is quite surprising but they should have added more in my opinion.For the technical aspects, the direction was fine. Just fine, not excellent, extraordinary or great, I found it just a bit above average. Don't get me wrong, I have a lot of respect for Kubrick, I have A Clockwork Orange and 2001 : A Space Odyssey in my top 20 but I didn't feel any genius or brilliance in Full Metal Jacket unlike the movies that I just named. The acting was decent but Vincent D'Onofrio played his character quite well, a very memorable and creepy performance.In the first half of the movie, I really enjoyed the character development of all the men in the boot camp. It was very good, it really made the viewer think. After we first go to Vietnam, the movie turned into an average war film. To me, nothing really stood out, the quality of the movie suddenly dropped. It wasn't bad, no, it just didn't feel like a Kubrick picture or a "great" film.Overall, I would still recommend this movie. I was disappointed but there is still a lot of good in it. Much more good than bad by far but I just don't see how it became to be considered as one of the best war movies of all-time.My rating : 7.5/10 - almost an 8/10


                
I really like the way that the Late Stanley Kubrick gives us several movies in one. He did it with 2001 and he's done it again with Full metal Jacket. This really is the hallmark of a great Director...Part One runs for the first 40 minutes of the movie and is set in the USMC Recruiting Depot in South Carolina. It deals with basic training, where Gunnery Sargeant Hartman teaches men to love their rifles: to sleep with them and give them a girl's name. The whole training routine is dehumanising, and Private Pyle cracks under the pressure. This was the most interesting part of the movie for me, focusing on the psychology of war.Part Two is set in Vietnam and deals with the politics of war, the nightmare of combat in the field, and the impact on the local people.The dialogue is spiked with scathing humour, but this is a dark movie which doesn't avoid harsh realities, and it seems appropriate when the end credits roll over a black screen and The Stones sing 'Paint it Black'.


                
Do yourself a favor, after they leave boot camp turn the movie off.  The actual battle scenes cover territory that is much more effectively covered elsewhere (e.g., "All Quiet on the Western Front").  The first half of the movie, however, ranks up there with the best of them.  The drill sergeant in this movie puts Louis Gossett, Jr.'s character in "An Officer and a Gentleman" to shame.


                
This is actually not so much one movie as two short movies which happen to share a protagonist.  The first part, showing "Private Joker" in boot camp, is excellent.  The second part is Just Another Angst-Ridden Vietnam War Movie and is not really worth watching unless you feel some neurotic compulsion to see every ARVWM ever made.10 for the first segment, 4 for the second.


                
As a SK movie I thought it would be better then this one but its nice . good like it . but boring.


                
I've read that Lee Ermy's sergeant in this movie is not an exaggeration from how many sergeants have acted towards their recruits during basic training, the only difference is now sergeants are no longer allowed to put their hands on the trainees. However, all the verbal action and style in how they push them through training is spot on.Ermy, as Sergeant Gunnery, has the hapless Private Pyle as his favorite target due to his overweight, lazy, slacker yet smug attitude he had, well he started out smug before Gunnery broke his spirit. And he made sure to keep any of Pyle's laziness, his wiseacre tendencies, and his spirit away for good if he could help it. Much of the first half of the film is centered around the basic training and Ermy's constant belittling and bullying Pyle.In the real life military basic training, most trainees like Pyle would've been discharged or dropped out before Pyle went anywhere. Ermy seemed to have had a special need for keeping him there as his punching bag. However, it could also be argued that maybe also he felt underneath that through enough pushing, he could eventually have made a real soldier out of Pyle. He was wrong about that, with the top climatic showdown of the movie (which was not near the end like in most movies) between Gunnery and Pyle, along with his famous "what's yer major malfunction!!!?", and the surprise (well, the surprise for someone not like me who seen this movie many times).Other great moments during training including Pyle's reprocussions for sneaking in a donut (and the other recruits with the socks full of metal locks), the obstacle courses (particularly with Pyle's struggling through them), and the always tense introduction of the recruits with the Sergeant when standing down (along with the line copied from "Officer and a gentleman", "Only steers and q****s come from Texas!! I don't see no horns!!").All above being the first half of the movie which was much better than the second. The second part took place in Vietnam, minus the two biggest characters from the first half, and was basically just another cutout copy of films on troops in Vietnam. And, there have really been better movies about troops fighting in Vietnam such as "Platoon", and even "Good morning Vietnam".Arlis Howard was one of the main characters in the Vietnam section, who I remember from "Plain clothes" where he played an undercover cop posing as a highschool student to help solve a murder of one of the teachers. And there was that talked about prosritute scene in the Vietnam part which I didn't find that great. I honestly have on several occasions only watched this movie to see the basic training half, and have only seen the movie all the way through about half the times I've seen it.


                
It's normal for the first film to be better than the second, but it's unusual for the first part of a single film to be better than the second, and that's down to the epic performance by R. Lee Ermey (who doesn't even survive the first half) and how tense the boot camp is. The second half feels like a standard Vietnam War movie, apart from the fact that the sniper is female. Over all, it's decent, but it's the least Kubrickian of Stanley Kubrick's films, and the first half is what I consider to be worth watching.
This movie consists of two separated movies. First half scene is about marine training and last half is about the actual field in Vietnam.Unlike others, what I really like about this movie is about the half last parts. I have seen lots of people liked the first part which is in marine training. It was actually attractive and unique but it is totally disconnected from last parts like different movie. I liked the personalities of Hartman and others anyway. But top of that, I really liked this last half part which is about the fields in Vietnam didn't hold any stupid meaning. It is just all about how misery the war was plus it made Kubrick's filming skills more fascinating. I was sick of shitty happy end with unreasonable and no sense contexts we usually see in war films.In last half parts, the movement of camera was unique and attractive. It actually made every single scene severer. The way he films was also amazing. Showing each one of character's face nearly was what I liked as well.So in short, I don't think this story itself wasn't really nice but I liked this simple and pure story and top of that, it enabled us to enjoy Kubrick's filming skills.
In my very opinion Full Metal Jacket is the best war-based film.Stanley Kubrick created a movie which represents perfectly the war on Vietnam,from the painfully realistic inhumane military instructions to the battlefield in an unknown region in Vietnam.Full Metal Jacket is filmed perfectly and it literally puts you in the battlefield. To cut the long story short Full Metal Jacket is at some parts very dramatic and sensational with emotions while in some other parts it is very funny with smart sarcastic,anti war quotes.It is an instant classic and not only for Stanley Kubrick's hardcore fans,so whoever you are,i strongly recommend you to watch it,you will not regret it.


                
I had seen parts and heard sound clips over the years in different types of media of some of R. Lee Ermey famous role in Full Metal Jacket, but watching the whole thing go on in on is a totally different experience. I haven't heard one man express so much hate in my entire life, I think every man should be required to watch the scene before the sign up for the Army. He is so intense and crazy that can you really blame Pyle for snapping like he did I know I couldn't. Not only is the dialog in this movie well done the cinematography is breath taking. Even the shots at boot camp are done well, the scene shot is the sunset orange is beautiful. When the actually get to the war its even better. I don't know where they shot but it looks perfectly like the wore torn Vietnam I imagine in my history classes when we learned about the chaos that took place. Not only that but this film is probably the first War film to perfectly capture the feelings soldiers feel while at war since All Quite On The Western Front. Powerful scene of death and people losing control it countiue on throughout the film and they perfect capture the feeling of the soldiers at the time at the Vietnam war ; Shouldn't they fight there own war. The different character the come in and out of the film really captures all the different types of soldiers there are. The first scene of the film is extremely intense and long and it sets the tone for the entire movie. The scene when Joker shoots the girl sniper is so long and played out to really drag out the emotions in you. This is a very powerful and well done film that I would recommend to anyone.


                
