Seriously though. Best show currently on television. 
At first, I thought it was another cartoon for adults only with poor drawings. But it's not. It's different.
For one, the jokes are funnier and the sads are sadder. The first season starts out more of a plain funny show, but beware this show will break your heart if you stick with it. 
It is also a really clever show - I'm sure that I'm not smart enough to catch all the references but sometimes I get the jokes and that feels good. 
Also, this show may be one of the depictions of depression on TV and movies ever.


                
I don't usually write reviews for shows, nor have I ever written about anything on IMDb before, but I felt as if I should after watching this show.It's hard to put into words the way I felt about watching BoJack Horseman. Sure, it starts out as a comedy with seemingly no real plot. Sometimes it just seems stupid, yet still comes off as possibly a new, interesting yet also run-of-the-mill animated series, but it starts to develop into something more. Something that I think a lot of people may or may not fully see to the end of the first season because they decided the show wasn't for them. And that might still be true. But I can't help but feel some form of disappointment. Why? I don't really know. I guess I just foolishly want everyone to get something out of it.I don't think anything, whether it's a book, a movie, a game, or even a show deserves a 10. But sometimes, for just a brief instant, you stop caring about how you want to quantify how much you like something and just want to express how much you enjoyed it. That to me is the only way I can really describe BoJack Horseman. I can't say it's good, or bad, or even average. It's just a show that wants to get its point across, whether it's original or not. And it does it in a way that's hard to look at critically.And at the risk of sounding like I'm contradicting everything I've already tried to say, I almost don't want the show to have a new season. Not because I hate it or think it's "too good" to continue on, but because it already feels complete. I obviously don't feel bad that the series has already been renewed for a second season. And even if it happened to only be a two season series, I'd still be thrilled. It's just that in some way, I hope it doesn't change.So even though most likely no one will be reading this review (which is actually more like a reflection of how I felt about the show rather than a genuine examination), I at least hope that more people will try watching it and get some enjoyment out of it. Even if it's only for one episode. Who knows? I might even look back at it and wonder what I was thinking, or why I wrote a frankly pointless review about it.But that's alright. Because in the moment, it was something memorable.


                
Netflix, in their continuing mission to provide premium content to their subscribers, has another hit on their hands with BoJack Horseman. I had some reservations before watching the first episode, because there hasn't been a great new animated series in several years now. But with such a great cast on board, I figured it was worth a try. So glad I did, because it ended up being the best original comedy I have seen in a while, animated or otherwise. It does not take long at all to get wrapped up in the story of BoJack, a has-been actor known for his role as a single dad in a popular early '90s sitcom. Having not acted in the 18 years since the show was canceled, he agrees to pen a memoir in an effort to relaunch his career. When confronted with the reality of how he is perceived by others, BoJack becomes desperate for acceptance and redemption from both the public and his inner circle. For the most part, people from normal walks of life are portrayed as humans, while the elite class like actors and their agents are portrayed as animals. It's a surprisingly effective method to humanize these characters to whom the common person does not easily relate. Will Arnett, Kristen Schaaf, Aaron Paul, and Amy Sedaris all give their characters a 3-dimensional quality that is difficult to achieve in a 2D platform like animation. It helps that it is wonderfully drawn, with many subtleties that reinforce each character's persona.Instead of a loosely assembled pile of anecdotal stories with characters that are just given a reason to exist, all the events during each episode contribute to the progress of the plot over the course of the first season. With episodes picking up exactly where the last one left off, the show feels more like a 3-act mini series than a TV show. That said, there are plenty of crass jokes and innuendo that will satisfy viewers who are not vested in the overall story. I am delighted that the series has been picked up for a second season and to see in what direction the story of BoJack and his inner circle takes us.


                
Listen here, I am going to be the most straight up and ask myself these questions, and try to answer them: What is Bojack Horseman?What does it mean?What does it try to reflect?Why does it feel so real?I'll tell you in one word: because it is REAL. As real can get..It's every miserable dark corner of everyone's life that all of us is just too upset or tiny to talk about. It is the real real, showing every ugly and every petty, showing that we are just a piece of dust in this universe which is billions of years older than us, that we are meaningless and mostly little nothings, but we all want to be worth something...It is made as an animated 'cartoon' in which animals are like people, dumb jokes top even dumber jokes and it is goofy, but just to get the inner child out of you to keep you hooked, but if you are left believing that its just a goofy dumb show, then it is not for you and please leave it alone..it is life, human nature, a never ending art. And for you others, brothers, we are all Bojack Horseman's and you just need to let it go..try not to think about it. Live your life, be happy with stupid stuff, maybe find the love of your life.. just stay happy and loyal to the most importants. I love you:) And for the creators and masterminds behind the show, thank you so so much, you have my full attention, you answered a lot of questions that I could never find the answers for.. just thank you:)


                
While the first season wasn't fully developed in it's characters and situations, I still enjoyed it very much, and had developed a bit of an emotional attachment during the last 3-4 episodes. But nothing could have ever prepared me for seasons 2 and 3, which offered some of the most poignant insights into celebrity culture and the nature of depression for a multitude of characters, which had by the time become grounded in their own right, I have EVER witnessed. I can't even put my thoughts into words for this review because I love this show so much, which is very surprising, I try to stay as formal as possible. I won't spoil anything, but there was a few different episodes in the past 2 seasons that made me cry, scream, hate, love, everything. This is really one of the few animated shows I can think of that brings on pure, unaltered moments of absolute emotion from the deep dark places of my soul. I connected in ways I never would have thought possible to Bojack, as well as a few other characters in the show. This is a must watch for anybody and everybody, you just have to get past the first half of the first season to truly start to love it.Oh, and the show is also outstandingly funny. Worthwhile as a comedy alone.


                
Five seasons in, "BoJack Horseman" continues to be one of the most complex, thought-provoking and funny animated shows.Season five revolves around BoJack's (Will Arnett) new crime show "Philbert", and blossoming relationship with co-star Gina ("Brooklyn Nine-Nine's" Stephanie Beatriz). Meanwhile, Princess Carolyn (Amy Sedaris) juggles a busy producing career and the prospect of becoming a new mother, there's the fallout from Diane (Alison Brie) and Mr. Peanutbutter's divorce, and Todd (the always amazing Aaron Paul) somehow becomes CEO of a big corporation - before being superseded by his home-made sex robot Henry Fondle (whose pre-programmed phrases provides the answers that his employees want). In an often heavy show, Todd's levity and crazy hijinks provide vital balance as well as the clever sight gags that's become a tradition.The highlight of season five is 'Free Churro'; it's a 25-minute monologue by BoJack at his mother's funeral. In these 25 minutes, BoJack's complex relationship with his mother unravels, from her final words to him and the random act of kindness to BoJack from a fast food employee. Watching one person talk for 25 minutes flies against the short attention span of most viewers, but it works and Arnett should get some sort of award for it.
While season five continues to expose BoJack's many flaws (and constant self-loathing), it ends on an optimistic note, thanks to some help from Diane.A must-watch for BoJack fans.
BoJack Horseman is what modern Family Guy wishes it could be and then some; it's a black-comedy-drama show that looks into the life of a washed up television actor who's struggling to find happiness in his life and ultimately remains unsuccessful in achieving that. Who'd have thought a cartoon about an anthropomorphic horse would end up being one of the deepest things currently on television? I'm genuinely surprised by what this show had to offer for me the first time I watched it. The first season's initial half is a little slow, but from then on BoJack transcends into a wacky comedy-drama that is one of the bravest shows to confront the issues of depression, anxiety, loneliness and nostalgia.I love this show. I can hardly fault it for anything besides the initially-slow premiere episodes, which I still reckon are great entertainment in and of themselves. This is a show that rewards your patience and loyalty to it ten-fold.Netflix's animation achievement gets 5/5 stars.


                
When i first saw this show in the recommended list i tough it was just gonna be a regular comedy, but oh boy i was wrong. This show perfectly combines comedy and drama each of both elements standing out in certain episodes. As the show went on, Bojack the protagonist of this show started to grow on me, i started understanding what was going on trough his head that made him do the things he did in life, i started understanding his struggles, he is not just a meaningless cartoon character, it almost feels like he has a soul just like any real person person. The voice acting is terrific, no complaints there.This is the only review i ever made for any show/movie in my entire life, i'm not good at writing this kinda stuff but i did it just for the sake of this show. It's goddamn brilliant. I wonder how could someone leave this show a 1 star review, i mean you might not like it that much personally but 1 star? wow..


                
I started watching this show with very low expectations, about ten minutes in I was hooked. Will Arnett is hilarious as usual. It reminds me of "Daria" and "ugly Americans", it is grounded and dark but funny nonetheless, I found myself watching the whole season in one day. If you enjoy Seth MacFarlane or south park type shows and expect something similar then this show will completely disappoint you, think more of arrested development meets ugly Americans, it's a grown up show, the writing is smart and may be boring to the simple-minded. But at least in my opinion it is excellent and refreshing, and I hope to see it go on for years.


                
Where do I even begin with this show. Is it as good as everyone else is saying? Yes, yes, yes and yes. As a big fan of animation this show caught my eye my eye but I never got around to watching it because it looked like a generic animated sitcom. Since then I've loved many adult cartoons like Futurama, Rick and Morty, South Park, The Simpsons. But after I heard all the praise BoJack has been getting I decided to check y out. And I couldn't stop watching it. What begins a a typical satirical cartoon sitcom quickly becomes a dark, depressing and raw look at the celebrity business. But it's also a character study about a depressed washed up TV actor who hasn't regained his fame since the sitcom he starred in ended a long time ago. He is a complete asshole. He's the most unrelatable character you can imagine. At least, that's what you think at first. As the show progresses his character is given a lot of depth and relatability. And it hurts. You realize how broken every character is and how broken you might be as well. It's not a pleasant watch, but man is it excellently written. This is easily the best show on Netflix and if you haven't watched it yet do it as soon as possible. 10 /10 (if not a 9/10)


                
On the outside, this show appears to be your typical silly cartoon based on the satire of modern Hollywood, but as you dive deeper, this seemingly hollow show is filled with deep themes based on our basic needs and wants as humans. Through the quick one liners, puns, and thought out jokes, this is a show about the choices we make in life. Shorterm goals vs longterm goals? Is it better to live life dumb and ignorant or aware and sad? The endless themes including family, true love, the definition of real happiness, are all hidden behind what seems to be just an alcoholic washed up celebrity. The show itself is a metaphor that nothing, and nobody, is what they appear to be at first glance. And finally, it poses a question to the audience: is it ever too late to change the path u have chosen to live?


                
It seems funny to be describing a cartoon show where the main character is a horse and in a world where humans and a variety of animals interact as a show that is the most representative of modern society. However, Bojack Horseman provides a glamour free realistic representation that you don't witness in most TV shows.Whilst the show may get off to a shaky start, it really gets up and running halfway through the first season and by Season 2 and Season 3 the show is in its element. Perhaps it is the fact that nothing seems to go right for Bojack or how every relationship ends up in flames that makes the show seem so right.For example most shows would provide consistently unrealistic 'happy endings' but contrasting and more depressing endings are consistently portrayed in the show. This is clearly highlighted in the episode Old Acquaintance where Princess Carolyn completely messes everything up whilst Gekko and Rabitowitz have all their dreams come true because "we're the good guys" or in the episode It's You where Bojack doesn't actually get an Oscar nomination. It seemed all too corny when Bojack received his nomination and most shows would have just left it there but I love the boldness of the creators to suddenly make Bojack's world come crashing down. The epic bender that results highlights Bojack's depressive state and his role in dragging down those around him e.g. Sarah Lynn.Bojack's epiphany at the end of the final episode of Season 3 hints that perhaps he has finally realised that there is more to life than fame and awards - perhaps we will see him make a concerted effort to change.We need more shows like Bojack Horseman that provide us with the comfort that we aren't the only ones who seem to screw up and struggle to keep the world around us from falling apart! Perhaps it is the fact that Bojack offers us this unique perspective that makes it one of the best shows around.
Bojack Horseman is not another family guy or Simpsons because it actually tells a story that feels real. This is a funny and wacky cartoon but is actually has emotion unlike family guy. In family guy you get the same repetitive episodes pumped out with less emotion as the show goes on. Bojack Horseman manages to be really entertaining and funny but also makes you feel for the characters in the show. All the voice acting and animation is really well done and the writing is very clever at times. This is mostly because it finds a way to make fun of modern society and Bojack is the one who points it out to the audience most of the time. This is one of the best cartoon comedies I've seen and I would highly recommend you watch it.


                
I have never been rewarded more for sticking through the early episodes of a show than I have with BoJack.Sometimes it seems premature to call something the best there is if it hasn't been around long enough but after 3 stellar seasons of the Netflix original BoJack Horseman, I can confidently say its not only the best show on Netflix, but arguably the best on TV right now.There are a lot of great shows out there, and to each their own, but I find it hard to believe there is a show that blends humor, heavy topics, controversial topics, tragedy and depression as well as BoJack does.If you are one of the many people that were put off by the first few episodes or your friends said they "couldn't get into it" after the first few episodes, I strongly encourage you to give it a second go.Without going into too much detail or spoilers, the tone of the show changes drastically towards the later half of season one, and it is in season two and three that the show truly comes into its own.I have never written a review on IMDb, but I could not resist doing so for this show. Despite how terrible a person BoJack is, I find myself empathizing and in a way rooting for him. From a first glance, you would laugh yourself silly if someone told you the most relatable character on TV was a talking horse played by Will Arnett, yet he is.You will laugh from start to ending, you will cry and maybe even become a little depressed, question your own morals but throughout all this, you will fall in love with this show.


                
Um, hello, people, this is the most brilliant show available right now in any medium. Are you that blind??? Do you seriously NOT get the JOKE????OK. I'll calm down. I'm getting excited. Bojack is the next generation of storytellling. Its managed to expose every hypocrisy and deception practiced in the Fed up hollywoo industry world. And in the news media world. And in relationships. And keeps peeling down into that infinite onion, extracting tears as it peels and peels and peels away the layers of lies we live in.I live for this show. Every season is better than the one before it. This show is art.


                
If you dislike the show then trust me it's a good thing, it means there is nothing broken inside you, but if you liked it then you know you are thankful, thats it.PS - Do not judge it by it's first season.


                
I really like this show, more than I expected to, tbh. Just be warned that its only mostly comedy, other times it reaches deep with several different characters, and, due to certain similarities in my own life/history, I found myself profoundly sad at times, even in tears, but then was back to chuckling in the next episode. And I personally prefer that type of episodic format over a show that just keeps trying to make you laugh endlessly; those kind get tired quick. So I suggest you check out BoJack Horseman for yourself, because I find it truly entertaining.


                
Not many have heard of this masterpiece. An underappreciated gem of a TV show. Every episode is a film unto itself, with great voice acting and powerful writing. A show I hope more people would watch.


                
Several reviews I've read on BoJack Horseman indicated the show was out of date. The show fits in more with the height of the Adult Swim reign of animation and not the intelligent output of American Dad or Archer.The show's primary problem is that the first two or three episodes were unforgivably substandard and that is generally all the time a critic can give a show in a TVscape as crowded as this one. The pilot episode, heavy with exposition (which is understandable) zeroes in on protagonist BoJack Horseman in his pre-development state and he's as uninteresting as can be. The second episode tries to mine humor out of a taboo topic-- Political correctness and how we regard the military as heroes -- and not only fails, but paints BoJack as somewhat of a buzzkill a la one of the Crane brothers (from the Frasier era) at a tiki bar (or pick whatever non-Aristocratic setting you choose to complete this analogy).The show's primary gimmick-- anthropomorphizing many of the characters in subtly clever ways and mixing those into the human world-- is enough to pique one's interest during the early episodes but if one quits the series early, that's all they'll find: An only occasionally funny Hollywood satire that's been done before."BoJack Horseman" isn't particularly easy to get into, but a few episodes in, the show's pathos and interesting character dynamics shines through. Like Will Arnett's previous work, "Arrested Development," the show features characters who aim to be dynamic and get out of their ruts in life. Unlike "Arrested Development" however, the show dares to give them, and us hope, at actual improvement and toys around with the idea of whether the characters are going anywhere at all. Either way, there's a definite investment to the characters by season's end that gives the show life. The satire also starts getting sharper once the hidden jokes and the parallels to ABC's TGIF line-up of the 1990's start to reveal themselves.


                
Well saying this is the best show I've ever seen, doesn't really leave much to say,
and considering I sleep 3 hours a night and instead watch series, you can say I've seen a lot!
I can go on and on about how deep and dark and meaningful it is, but instead I just say it's perfect and I never expected anything to be this good.
The dialogues always repeat in my mind.In a lot of situations I remember them and it makes me feel less broken or alone.
To me this is more than just a show. it's something I can relate to and see myself in.
It's more real than anything I've seen, heard , or read.Thank you for making shows this good.This is what makes tv worth watching.


                
This show is fckn ART
i watched every single episode and i LOVED it


                
As most reviewers have already said, this show has an unexpected depth in so many issues such as depression, society, happiness, relationships and meaning of life. At first, I thought it was a typical american sitcom with easy jokes and simple storyline because the half of the first season is like that (I think they're just trying to introduce the characters) but as the story unfolds, the viewer is presented with a representation of flaws in every single character. From the low self-esteem of Bojack to Todd's problem of finding himself and ignoring it by doing nonsense and stupid projects. 
Undoubtedly, a very interesting show where several conclusions can be made, I strongly encourage you all to watch it and draw your own conclusions about all these issues the show embrace, because that's the most enjoyable part of Bojack Horseman in my opinion.


                
Really nice! Serie. Great characters original story.


                
Please excuse the tone of this review, which is more of a love-letter rather than a descriptive evaluation, but I believe that "BoJack Horseman" is a high quality, unique, and groundbreaking show. Here's my ten reasons why, having watched up to season 4 at the point of this review:1. "Slapstick subtext" (not my term - look it up to see the original analysis): What this show does is that it gets the characters to casually drop bits of deep and highly conscious self-psychoanalysis in the most low-key/non-dramatic way. What normally remains in the subtext of a typical drama (e.g. viewers can infer deeper conflicts and emotions from subtle cues in the acting) becomes fully disclosed in the most explicit way and in the most unexpected moment (i.e. no drum-roll, no climax). It's slapstick because it's in-your-face, it's funny because it's unexpected, but it's also highly meaningful.2. It digs really deep. This show tackles the most crucial questions about human existence head-on and it unearths the deepest, most difficultly expressed, feelings/hopes and fears of the characters and of the audience.3. Attention to detail (part I). The creators have paid attention to every little bit of the background of each scene. An obvious rewatchability factor, this element is really impressive. There's hidden jokes and references almost in every frame.4. Attention to detail (part II): Continuity. It's just really well- planned and well-executed. In each episode you will find links and references to episodes even a season or two back, and you will struggle to find even the smallest continuity error (I don't think I've ever noticed any, despite multiple rewatches). They even add little bits of retcon to rectify implausibilities of older episodes and make the show's universe even more consistent. 5. The acting. It's top-notch, the main actors are totally nailing it and there's an impressive cast of guest/recurring actors who are doing an equally good job (I suspect more and more big names will guest star as the show's popularity keeps increasing).6. The music. The creators have an excellent taste, each song selection and each original piece is incredibly fitting and meaningful.7. The humour. (The very fact that I got to point 7 listing this show's strengths before getting to what would be the obvious main quality, is telling within itself). This show is hilarious.8. The tongue-twisters. People say this show is "very punny" and it does indeed include a lot of word-play, but its signature move is the Dr. Seuss-like rhyming tongue twisters. They just add to the show's uniqueness and they are funny and fun to try and repeat.9. The anthropomorphic animals. What I thought might be off-putting before I started watching this show (especially since I have a weird fear of horses) is actually incredibly cleverly done and adds a lot both to the characterisation and to the humour. You quickly get over the implausibility of the premise that this world consists of a mix of humans and human-sized/human-like animals when you think that a lot of people that you know - though not everyone, hence the selective animal...isation - actually remind you of animals (right? think of those Benedict Cumberbatch - Otter memes), not just in terms of physicality but also in terms of character/disposition. The added humour comes from the fact that the animal-like characters have real animal properties and reactions mixed in with their otherwise human behaviour.10. Its take on social issues. No matter where you stand on social issues/ politics (and I happen to stand with the creators on most issues, as far as I can tell) you've got to hand it to the show for throwing in references and making a point about a variety of issues in a low-key, non-patronising way that does not interfere with everything else going on in the plot/humour/character development.I could go on but I'll stop here. Just go watch this already!


                
This show is funny, heartbreaking, and endlessly insightful. It is full of silly animal puns and dark, soul crushing looks into the existential nightmare we all collectively share navigating this thing called life. Will Arnett is an unbelievably talented voice actor, bringing the titular character to life and making him endlessly relatable and empathetic even though Bojack could easily be played as a hopeless, narcissistic monster. The rest of the cast is equally fantastic. You love these characters. You want to hold them and protect them from the vapid void of Hollywood but at the same time you realize that even though these stories are set in an atmosphere so removed from your own life, these stories are painfully familiar. You want to help them because they are you. But at the same time, this show never falls into the trap of casting its characters as clear heroes or villains. That determination is left up to the audience. Every character is fully formed. Shown to have good and evil desires, and their choices, and their actions are yours to interpret and judge. The show is rife with puns, visual gags, and layered jokes and it gets funnier on every re-watch (much like Arnett's other vehicle Arrested Development). If anything about this show is turning you off, please ignore that instinct and give this show a chance. I am so annoyed at myself for waiting so long to get into it and so glad I did. It is incredibly entertaining and incredibly thought provoking. You will walk away having experienced something more akin to fine art than a cartoon with anthropomorphic animals.


                
