It's a cartoon series for adults that will make you chuckle, mainly in the first season, then takes a serious dark turn into the mind of a depressed horse.


                
The series is too dark. It gets too existential after the pilot. I much prefer the first couple of episodes which were just about fun and comedy.


                
The first two episodes were laugh-out-loud worthy. It does take an interesting serious tone for a cartoon series with animal heads. Delves into depression and deals with some serious issues concerning relationships. I liked it, but I can see that this may not be everyone's cup of tea, as the humour element does drop off early.


                
Its a great show but after the first two episodes the series took a descent into trying to provoke thought than make us laugh.


                
THIS IS A REVIEW OF SEASON 4 (MOSTLY) CONTAINS VERY MILD SPOILERSExcellent series that I fell in love with. Insightful jokes, dark humour, superb tone and pacing.It all ends with season 3 though.Season 4 is almost completely devoid of any humour. It's full of unnecessary and uninteresting story arcs, and in most of the episodes Bojack is basically a background character.The premise of this season takes a bit to establish, and while the premise itself is fine and could be eventually interesting, it takes too long and is not utilized in any way. Only way it IS utilized is the end its consecutive story arcs.Bojack-centered story arc is short and relatively minor compared to the screen-time given to other characters personal dramas. It feels like a show in Bojack Horseman universe, and not a show about its main character.It wouldn't even be so bad, if not for completely botched ratio of depressive / funny content. The best part of this show was exactly that - when the writers wanted to 'go deep' with Bojack story, they masterfully connected jokes and drama, so after watching an episode, a viewer was left with this 'tears of sadness mixed with laughter' bittersweet kind of emotion. It made the show unique, and true. Not every episode was like that, but the depressing/existential ones usually were.When the first seasons made me feel bad, it was for a reason, or at least it felt that way. Bojack, apart from being self-centered arrogant asshole on daily basis, usually TRIED to do the right thing when it came to deeper moral problems. Obviously he usually failed miserably along the way. It made the character easy to empathize with, and made him feel realistic in his eternal dilemma - do the right thing, or succumb to egotistical self-centered thoughts. A rather universal human predicament.Sure, Bojack struggled and complained a lot in previous seasons, but now? Now there's NO struggle, No dilemma, there's ONLY complaining (and not the comical one). Bojack was always an asshole, but his dilemmas were understandable - at least when they weren't entirely comical or sociopathic. Now, in place of real and universal human (horse?) emotions, we get toxicity and depression. And almost nothing else. Sure, toxicity and depression are common too, but they are certainly less comical than being pathologically self-centered.Bad analogy: You could say that before, it seemed that Bojack needed some serious therapy with a psychologist (like we all do to different degrees, right?) and there was still some space for humour. Now, it looks like he needs hospitalization, psychiatrist, and lifelong drug therapy. It's not funny at all, it's just sad.Watching 'current' Bojack just makes me feel lousy. Awful things are happening to characters for Non-Bojack related reasons (or for no reason at all), and it's a weak thing to do, narratively speaking. Really weak and lazy writing, sorry to say it. Weak, when compared to the quality of previous seasons. Feels like a first draft of a script, and whoever wrote it mistook cheap drama for depth. 'Bojack Horseman' seems like The Simpsons story all over again. After a great beginning with several excellent seasons, the show falls into mediocrity, with each new episode being a weak imitation of what made the show great in the first place. Did the original writing team walk off the show? It certainly feels like that.Sorry for my rant, but i used to LOVE this show up until now. A real pity.
I shouldn't be giving this a positive rating, but the pros have so much potential that I'd be kicking myself if I didn't.When the writers of this show try to establish Bojack as a dramatic setup, it usually works. However, since this is a comedy-drama, comedy being the priority, it fails quite often. The jokes just aren't funny. They do not take advantage of the surreal world effectively that could have made way for more odd humour, nor have the darkness of shows like It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia, in the end, barely outclassing Family Guy in terms of pop culture-based humour. I suspect if there were more examples of adult animated dramas, this show would comfortably write an interesting character study of a terrible person, along the lines of Moral Orel Season 3. However, as it stands, I don't believe it will.Here's to hoping that Season 3 was better than abysmal Season 2.


                
When I watched Bojack Horseman for the first time I thought this TV show was about a great comedy and it really is, but after some episodes I could see the other side of the story. Bojack is a sad man who everyday wakes up waiting for a lot of people's attention. This show isn't about a funny horse, it's about how people are nowadays. Anyway don't create expectations if you are looking for an American comedy, of course you will laugh sometimes but Bojack Horseman is a clever story that walks through of the worst things that people has to offer.


                
This is a very original show, it can also be very funny. Will Arnett plays the main character Bojack, and he is great as always.The character Dianne is condescending and hypocritical. She is just as screwed up as all of the other characters, but she is completely incapable of acknowledging whenever she is in the wrong.My favourite character is Todd, who is played by Aaron Paul. He is very funny and likeable. I like the show.


                
You might be wondering why the main character has the head of a horse. The answer is: I don't really know. But one of the most unique things about this show is that many of the characters in this show are animals, with human characteristics. The main character is BoJack Horseman, who stands on two legs and has a human voice. This is the same for Bojack's agent, who is a cat, and his biggest rival, who is a dog.But whats even stranger, is that the humans in this cartoon are not even slightly phased by how most of the people in their world, are animals. It is completely normal to be friends with a walking/talking chicken, or have a boss who is a gigantic frog.Overall, this is a very entertaining show and I'm looking forward to the second season.
