At a glance, this show looks like your run of the mill wacky, raunchy adult cartoon comedy. And yes, it has plenty of that with the titular character's rude and obscene behavior, and a saturated slew of animal puns. There are wacky characters and absurd plots to be sure, but all of that eventually takes a backseat to the fact that Bojack Horseman is, at heart, a nuanced and overtly depressing show about pain and self-loathing.This season really has more in common with Jody Hill's Eastbound and Down than it does any of the cartoons it's often being compared to, not just in the sense that it's a dark character study but also in the aspect that it's not episodic at all. Continuity plays a huge role in the show, and many of the episodes start exactly where the last one left off (evidence that the writers were catering to the "binging" crowd). A lot of the funniest jokes come from references to past episodes (such as the wonderful moment where Bojack assumes that on his last drinking binge he must have become obsessed with David Boreanaz for some reason.) As depressing and serious as the shows ultimate arc really is, the absurdist icing that comes from immersion in this world where anthropomorphic animals are taken for granted helps make this bitter pill an enjoyable meal. Great comedic performances from Amy Sedaris, Paul F. Tompkins, and Aaron Paul don't hurt either. But overall, Bojack Horseman is a thoughtful, witty feel-bad comedy in the best way.


                
Like the incessant influx of superhero films currently pervading Hollywood, "adult" animation has become a genre that borders upon an overstayed welcome. As a result, my personal expectations for the Netflix original series "BoJack Horseman" were not particularly high, but I do like to keep an open mind. Much to my delight, the series provides humor, drama, well-written and connected story lines as well as solid character development. BoJack is simultaneously a disdainful but overall likable character performed wonderfully by Will Arnett. He is joined by a fabulous cast of characters / voice actors that instantly bring this show to the level of other modern animated successes such as Bob's Burgers. In fact, I could absolutely have pictured H. Jon Benjamin as BoJack, but he already seems to lend his voice talents to so many different areas. The series also provides a fairly original artistic presentation as the characters almost resemble a painted portrayal at times. The show is not only humorous, but also covers subjects such as unrequited love, self-loathing, substance abuse, betrayal, and other more serious concerns that really serve to draw the viewer into the series. Overall, "BoJack Horseman" is an incredibly impressive entry into the burgeoning repertoire of successful Netflix original programming and I hope to see this series continue for years to come.


                
Bojack HorsemanLately, the streaming service Netflix has been putting out some popular original television shows. Netflix's latest original series is BoJack Horseman, a comedic adult cartoon chronicling the life of a horse-man of the same name. Unlike many other adult cartoons, BoJack Horseman has a very complex and clever plot that spans across an entire season.PlotThe main character of the series is a horse-man named, well, Bojack Horseman. Obviously. Bojack is a washed up actor who starred in a popular 90's sitcom called "Horsin' Around." The show takes place in Hollywood twenty years after Horsin' Around's cancellation, when Bojack is both depressed and an alcoholic. The first season is about BoJack trying to publish a memoir.Bojack is not the only animal-man in the show. In fact, the series contains a fair amount of bestiality. There are many human and animal couples in the show. However, Bojack Horseman uses the cross species relationships in interestingly funny ways. Actually, that's how I would describe the entire show: interestingly funny. BoJack Horseman isn't a show for stupid people. That is to say, many of the best jokes are nonchalantly delivered and can be hard to pick up on. Don't get me wrong, there are a fair share of blatantly stupid "jokes" is the show, just like in any adult cartoon. Still, I found myself constantly rewinding to make sure I picked up on every joke. There are a couple of plot devices that I think BoJack Horseman uses very well, such as:The show makes references to real life actors, people, businesses, and cities. Everything that exists in our world exists in their world. Except for the movie Secretariat. All the directors from real life have been turned into animals. Ex: Quentin Tarantualtino. Instead of each episode being its own individual story, every event carries over into future episode, even some incredibly minor details are included in later episodes. Thus, the show is filled with many "running jokes." Sometimes items in the background will randomly change.There are lots of other things that make BoJack Horseman's plot so great, but all you need to know is that the show's story has some of the most depth that I've ever seen in an adult cartoon.Voice ActingAlthough I am not a voice artist expert, I think that every actor connects well with their character. Most voices reflect on the animal's personality. Overall, the voices are good and each voice fits their respective character perfectly.Art StyleThe art style of this cartoon is very similar to Bob's Burgers. Most of the time it doesn't look very pretty, but I think the style is the most effective one for the show's tone and theme.Award Time!Best Overall Character: BoJack HorsemanBest Side Character: TodConclusionBoJack Horsman has something for everyone, whether you're looking for cheap laughs or a funny show that makes you think. Netflix has once again created an award winning series. I give BoJack Horseman a 9/10. I look forward to season two.
Okay, I know there are not much Bojack fans around here. I even tried recommending this show to a lot of my close friends. But they couldn't make it past few episodes. Well the answer to that is, even the actors mentioned during various interviews, that you gotta binge watch this show. I binged it like crazy and I was left with nothing but emotional hollowness all around me. Every ending of an episode led me to contemplate about life. And then there were episodes which made me go all teary eyed. All the people who loved this show is because deep down all of us are Bojack Horseman.. Someone please give this show a Golden GLobe!!


                
If you can get past the first three episodes will be witnessing a hell of a show. As they say with mental issues, "It gets better". And it sure does. This show is funny and emotional. They make you feel bad for characters out of your species, gender, and age range. Watching this made me relatable to characters I'd never expect to relate since they're so grounded. It's a bit over the top at times but it IS an animated show. Watch it and you'll get amazing fleshed out characters and stories that will make you think about life and your choices.


                
The premier of Netflix's Original animated series, "BoJack Horseman", left a considerable impression on me - enough to prompt me to write my first IMDb review. It is a profoundly deep, adult-themed parody noir starring animal characters with a touching sense of humanity and redemption."BoJack Horseman" stars an incredible cast of voices including Will Arnett, Amy Sedaris, Paul F. Tompkins, Patton Oswalt, and even everybody's favorite, Aaron Paul, Breaking Bad's own Jessie Pinkman (as, shall I say, in some regards a strikingly similar character) as a gaggle of offbeat characters with memorable personalities.The series is well produced, with a sort of quirky, funky, "Entourage"-ish type of intro laden with a stylish combo of CGI-charged animation sequences and upbeat electronic music.I can see how it is possible for certain viewers to have discredited the series after the pilot, because on the surface, this show appears to be a collage of clichés that we have seen from other animated comedies. However, the reason I referred to this series as an "animated series", and not "animated comedy series", is because it is not always a comedy. Unlike other animated comedy shows of which I am also fond, (i.e.; American Dad, Family Guy, The Simpsons, Southpark, etc.), "BoJack" struck me on a much deeper and profound level.Once I got past the show's unconventional name (titled after the star character) and even stranger premise, I started to see the show's true angle. Daresay, at first, the premise felt a bit contrived and played out - washed up, middle-aged, two-bit Hollywood actor turned hedonistic glutton tries to find redemption in life -, but the series itself turns out to be one increasingly intelligent parody after the next. The characters are even parodies of themselves and the actors' enthusiasm and role dedication only add to the authenticity of the show.Let me explain by contrast. For instance, take the character Klaus from Seth McFarlane's "American Dad" - a German spy the main character, CIA agent Stan Smith, has transplanted into the body of a goldfish. This character says some of the funniest, most outlandish quotes of the episodes but I never really feel that the character has an authentic relationship to the family, the show, or the overall plot.Most of the characters in "BoJack" have the feeling of a real, authentic connection to the plot and do not feel so contrived for comedy's sake. The show is not loaded with extra characters like Family Guy's Greased-Up Deaf Guy or Southpark's "Midget in a Bikini". Even though we love these characters and they make us laugh, they don't have a real profound meaning to the story or plot. "BoJack" has some repeat appearances of minor characters for continuity's sake, but they are kept to a minimum.Long review short, the reason I didn't give "BoJack Horseman" a 10 out of 10 review is because, frankly, nothing is perfect. At a glance, the "clichés" most viewers will notice will seem contrived or distracting, but these are meant to both serve as foundations for the show's plot, and a means to keep things light even during darker moments (and believe me, this show has plenty). Even if this show uses some clichés, the writers have found ways to spin them into fresh material that seems truer to the real world than the animated world. As I said to a skeptical friend a few episodes into "BoJack Horseman", 'You have to give it a chance, don't lump it in with other mindless animated comedies of the same genre.' Once you do, you will be glad you did.


                
An interesting show. I liked the first few episodes well enough. The main character is kind of intriguing, and the humor, while low-key is good for a few chuckles.Right around episode four, the whole show takes a startling turn. I'm not sure I had a laugh for the rest of the season, but, didn't care. Please, if the first few episodes don't quite grab you, consider sticking with this 'til the end. I was glad I did. Will Arnett does the best work of his career in this slightly strange, primitively animated ditty.The main characters are well-conceived, and they're people you come to care about. The plots are simple, and the story arc predictable, but it's about the journey, or course, you silly fool. Watching this show develop is like watching an ugly weed growing in a pavement crack blossom into something beautiful and cool.I don't know if there will be a second season. I hope so. At the same time, I wouldn't mind remembering these characters as they stand at the end of season one.


                
Just when you thought this show about a depressed, alcoholic horse couldn't get anymore genius, season five proved what amazing writing and hearting stories can do to our main characters.


                
The first couple episodes might seem like nothing that new or special, but directly afterward it completely turns itself around and introduces the deepest, realest and probably most relatable characters I've ever seen in an animated show. A pretty consistent plot is always there too, at times more in the background to focus on the characters, jokes, or to further establish the universe 
In my opinion all this just makes this show shine, and from what I remember there was never an episode that felt poorly paced, I could hardly put it down and finished the 4 seasons available in around one single week


                
I must admit the first time I attempted to watch this show I gave up at episode 1.
Bojack horseman's pilot portrays the character as boring and obnoxious.
But if you get further into the series it shows its true colours.
The character development is some of the best I've seen.
A story of fame, betrayal, depression, loss and acceptance.i look forward to what the new season has to offer.
it is definitely worth a watch and would recommend it to everyone.


                
I understand why BoJack Horseman is the king of the Netflix's animated shows. I really loved the show. Every single episode is very funny but deals with today's society, with a lot of emotions. I kind of felt inside the story, like I was part of it. It made me feel a lot of things and the plot is very taking. I'm really looking forward watching the next seasons.


                
This series took me off guard. At first, I didn't know what to think about the anthropomorphic animals mixed up with humans, but I guess that's judging a book by its cover.As you get to know the main character, you quickly understand that Bojack is an a**-hole. He's the perfect spoiled actor from Hollywood who doesn't care about the few friends he has. That being said, you also learn over time that he has a sweet heart as you follow him through the funny shenanigans he pulls out to impress a girl. All the characters who revolve around him are very well voiced, rich, profound and have a well defined personality so you end up relating to them.On the humor side, there are a lot of dark jokes, visual jokes and many "inside" jokes coming back from episode to episode. I think Netflix played well on that knowing that you're going to end up binge watching everything anyway, so jokes do come back from time to time. But that also means that you kind of end up feeling like a part of their weird family. That's my new awkward family. Satirical humor like Family Guy, but way more thoughtful.Spoiler: shout out to the amazing joke of the D removed from the Hollywood sign... all the characters and TV reporters end up just calling the city Hollywoo after that episode without ever referring to the accident as if it was all normal ah ah
The humour in Bojack Horseman is beyond your typical animation adult humour. This is mellow comedy. Almost black comedy. Bojack is one of those series that you may not get on your first viewing, but if you persist, you may very well find gold at the end of he rainbow. Every character is likable to some extent and every character is relatable, whether to you or people you know. Bojack Horseman takes this humorous approach into an actors life which is very much like a normal persons life. It's raw, intense and well beyond expectation. I haven't seen an animation, let alone a show, that represents what Bojack Horseman represents in such detail and in such a surreal approach. Fantastic!


                
When I first started watching Bojack, I had no idea what I was getting into. I heard Will Arnett and Aaron Paul were in it, and that got me into checking it out. It begins with an undefined personality, like it's looking for the Family Guy's fans (with the between skits, which I don't like most of the time in Family Guy), also plays with the text humor ("An hour later", "After a boring conversation...") this last one worked most of the time for me. But after each episode, the show just gets better, it let's itself go and begins creating and developing its unique humor, satire and drama. It also creates some running gags, although they don't keep some of them going through the episodes, it's like they are afraid we'll get bored with them, but if Arrested Development could manage it, so can this one. But what I really like about this show it's its humor (which improves with every episode), and the social critics about media, fame, and society in general. I'm really looking forward to seeing the next season, and I would definitely recommend it, but it may not be a show for everybody.


                
You've probably glossed over this show while browsing Netflix thinking it's just another Family Guy, and that's just what the creators want you to think. I went into this show thinking the same thing and I was blown away. BoJack Horseman is the only show I've ever cried to, the silly cartoon about a horse in Hollywoo(d), which is a huge testament to how well-written it is.


                
I kinda mindlessly watched through the first season and a half or 2, but then wow it started to actually get real funny and surprising. I like it!


                
I mean come on, the writing is fantastic and engaging and frigging hilarious. Stick with it and it gets better and better as you get to know BoJack..you can actually relate if you've lived in SoCal too


                
I love this series. I did not see that coming... It took some time to get into it, and a few attempts. I mistakenly took it for just another dumb cartoony thing. I started watching it even though I felt the market is slightly oversaturated with animated shows... they're all "oh so funny and oh so mad" and quite frankly - many shows bore me nowdays! But suddenly I realised I had binge watched Bojack Horseman on Netflix, and that I COULD NOT WAIT (yup that statement needed caps!) to get started on the next season. Why? I'll tell you why.Bojack is different. Very different. It builds up to things you do not see coming. It is dark. And it gets darker each season. It is anything but PC. But maybe because it comments on real life. Real mistakes. So what Bojack is a washed up celebrity with drug and alcohol problems, I can still relate to some of his madness. The series fixates on anxiety and the ghosts many of us carry within us. It comments on popular culture and crazy obsessions. The characters might be a loopy mixture of animals, but that adds comedy and charm. Stick with it for a few episodes. It is not uplifting or always fun to watch, often it is the opposite. But it is rather brilliant. People should give this a go.
I, like many others on this board, didn't think much of BoJack Horseman at first click. I was instantly hooked. This isn't just another pointless animated show vying for laughs. It's got surprising depth, and points the finger at our narcissistic media culture. You're reeled into the life of this fictional character that could very well be any of your favorite sitcom stars of old. It's funny, in a sarcastic, don't-care-if-you-don't-get-it kind of way. It's unapologetic. It makes its point in an uncomfortable yet necessary way. I love the way they develop BoJack. You hate him. You love him. You're not sure if you want to root for him, but towards the end of the series, I just wanted to give BoJack a hug. He's the asshole you love to hate. I liked it because it's dark and funny and just my cup of tea. Can't wait for season 2!


                
THIS IS A REVIEW FOR SEASON 1 OF THE SHOWFirst of all, the concept for this show is absolutely genius. For the most part of this season, everything is well-executed with entertaining story lines and characters, some humour every now and again, but also has its fair share of dark, emotional moments too which is exactly what I expected from this show.The character of BoJack is possibly one of the best I have seen in any TV show, and everything about him is captured perfectly. Even though he frequently acts rather selfish and sometimes stubborn, you can really relate to his character and also he frequently expresses moments of regret which really do display his humanity and he isn't an idiot we're just automatically supposed to like, but we can also relate to him in a scary amount of ways. Will Arnett is also the perfect voice for him and he perfectly captures the darkness of the character, while also making BoJack someone you can feel sorry for.The show's main side characters include Todd (the guy who sleeps on BoJack's couch), Princess Carolyn (BoJack's agent and former love interest), Mr Peanutbutter (BoJack's rival who has a huge heart but also has some other sides to him too) and Diane (BoJack's ghost writer for his new book and also Mr Peanutbutter's girlfriend). Each of these characters are given development and story arcs like BoJack himself has, and the first few episodes of the show dedicate some time to set up these characters. To begin with it did feel like they were slightly rushing with setting up these characters but over the course of the season they have continued to become more and more interesting. The character who stands out most to me is Mr Peanutbutter, who is a character who frequently appears happy and joyful but also has a few moments of darkness and to see the convincing switch between these two personas is a great achievement.To begin with, the show takes its time at the start of the season to set up the characters and as I said earlier, there are a few episodes which are dedicated to setting up each singular character. However, the second half of the season begins to take the story into darker territory and became a gripping narrative after that point. This half of the season focused on BoJack's dark inner desires and also his past regrets which was executed fantastically. The episode that stood out to me the most was the 11th episode 'Downer Ending' which was not only a visual delight, it excellently portrayed the realm of BoJack's mind by showing his dark past and also how he wishes things could've turned out in his life which was truly heart-breaking to see. Episodes like these allow us to understand the dark character who BoJack can be at times and we can relate to him on a personal level.Another thing I want to mention is how the show also pokes at ridiculous things about modern society too, the prime example episode being the 2nd episode 'BoJack Hates the Troops' in which BoJack states publicly how just because someone is a troop, it doesn't mean they're a hero unless they've actually done something to be a hero. The media then goes crazy after BoJack states that he hates some of the troops which is exactly how things play out in modern society, and it's not safe to have an opinion anymore. This second episode was the one that got me truly invested in the show so it has lots of significance to me.Overall, BoJack Horseman Season 1 is a great start to an animated show, with a brilliant portrayal of its main character along with many great side-characters, as well as some very creatively-made and entertaining episodes. The season does get off with a slow and slightly confused start, but the second half of the season becomes very investing.8/10


                
I am not sentimental but Bojack is series that is able to deliver laughs but also get extremely heavy.This show is not for stupid people.While the central whirligig is an anthropomorphic horse, this is not Family Guy or American Dad, this is an absurdist comedy with more in common with Louis, Archer or Rick and Morty. Forget cartoons, this show is as heavy as any drama out there. It has a boatload of sardonic jokes and self deprecating meta gags, but it'll also turn on a dime and get extremely heavy extremely quickly. I'm not ashamed to say that at certain points the show was actually able to bring me to tears for brief moments as it descends from comedy into serious topics such as depression, self loathing, terminal illness and horrifying childhoods.The main character, Bojack Horseman, comes off as an unlikeable and deplorable rake, the show then reveals a flashback to his childhood that immediately brings one to tears. The show will cast you from his heyday (no pun intended) in the 1990s as a good hearted and jovial star of a stereotypical 90s sitcom into the present day maelstrom of alcoholism and depression, beaten down by cynicism, betrayal, circumstance and inadvertent self destruction. I haven't seen anything like this in a long time. I dare you to watch this.


                
Delivering a message is not an easy thing when the premise of your own work is a talking anthropomorphic horse that is an actor. But the twelve episodes delivered by this series actually convey a message that is shown in the whole conjecture of the show. No one is perfect. In fact, we are all far from being so. So far in fact, that what this flick has done at it's core: It is not a perfect series, and it's characters are not perfect. The whole set-up is flawed to hell. But no one will ever question it, because it's it's way. There is a special phrase that I will always cherish, for more cynical it can be, being "I got hurt because I thought you could become good, instead of remembering that you are bad, and not get hurt when you do this things." And that touches. It's a simple line that hurts bad, and can trigger an emotional cry. The ending is a masterpiece, something that I love in any ending. Showing a real life scenario with animal headed humans that actually depicts our reality at it's core. I love this show, and I don't care if they plan another season, cause I know I won't be disappointed.


                
A lot of people said this show got dark, But watching the first few episodes I couldn't have imagined where it would go. It's definitely dark, But also kinda beautiful and perfect. I laughed, I cried, I contemplated my mortality and the meaninglessness of life.This show has everything, And it's execution is just right. It felt complete, And I'm somewhat nervous about the next season. Rarely does quality like that stay consistent.This is one of those shows that you have to watch at least once in your life, It's not a masterpiece but I swear it's a hell of a lot better than most things out there, And maybe you might just walk away with a different perspective or at the very least, Some self-reflection.


                
Delivers some great humor and amazing emotional depth and character development that will make you invested in every single character.


                
In it's fifth season BoJack Horseman remains one of the best shows on TV, and arguably Netflix best show. It arguably doesn't quite hit the highest heights of season four but the "show about a talking horse" yet again delivers real drama and character development amongst all the jokes.


                
