If you like seeing the same thing over and over again, you will LOVE this movie. For me it was about as tedious and boring of a movie as you can get. I like Bill Murray but I could not stand this movie as the synopsis states it repeated Groundhog Day over and over again. I am not sure what the people that gave this 10 stars or near 10 stars were watching but next to Ishtar this move really sucked. The same thing happens, the same thing happens, the same thing happens, the same thing happens, get the point? Till basically the end. I was ready to shoot myself but then it did finally end. I just remember thinking it would be the last time they would repeat Groundhog day but it kept going till I finally made it through the movie. If I would have known how many times they were going to repeat it I would have turned it off after the second time. Well, I think you get the point I am starting to sound like the movie.


                
This is one of the worst films I've ever seen. It's slow, dull, miserable and repetitive. None of the characters are likable. I have no idea why thousands of people claim that this is the best comedy film ever made. It's bad enough that there's this ridiculous myth that whether or not a rodent turns around can predict the length of the winter. To make a film based on such a thing is idiocy.


                
This movie is not funny. It is kind of boring. It had some good actors in it. But the story line was pretty bad. Don't wast time and money. Don't see this movie. It has a lot of slap stick I do not care mush for slap stick. I think it is simple and not that funny. It is kind of a good concept. But not a very good movie. Don't see it don't see it don't see it don't see it don't see it. Not funny not funny not funny not funny. Pooh pooh, pooh pooh, pooh pooh, pooh pooh, and pee pee to. I need more line and I don't know what less to say. This and an awful movie. Awful movie awful movie awful movie awful movie. Bill Murray clowns around to try and make better. But the script is so week it still is a very bad movie.


                
This movie has been televised here so many times that I am sick of the sight of it. Just like Groundhog Day playing out over and over again, the network thinks it is amusing to put it on about twice every year. Like an old joke, it was funny the first time, but now it is just plain boring and stupid, and has become tiresome. I am determined that I will not watch this movie ever again for as long as I live. GET OVER IT! IT'S NOT FUNNY!


                
Groundhog Day is a movie about a creepy shtbag who relives the same day over and over and uses that inconvenience to gaslight and manipulate women into thinking that he's not a creepy shtbag. In some alternative universe (1993?) this is apparently supposed to be funny or romantic. Imagine how many women viewers have been fed this "your love can change the a**hole"-narrative over the decades. As per usual in this genre, all the women are also portrayed as sex-objects who are either airheads or without much of a personality. Not to mention the illogical time-concept where he bumps into the exact same people in the same place despite having skipped events, unlike the day before. The protagonist clearly isn't the sharpest knife in the box, considering that he never even made a serious effort to leave town and go to bed somewhere else to see if the time loop is bound to the hotel/town where he's visiting. Apart from the rampant sexism and lack of logic, you can also predict the ending about half way into the movie. This movie is hardly alone in pushing the very destructive "it's just part of the romance when a guy is being a dipsht to you"-agenda, and that is exactly what is so terrifying. The frequency with which this agenda is pushed in this genre is partly why so many people can watch a movie like this without recognizing the problem of that this sexist dramaturgy both mirrors and contributes to creating sexist values in our society. Pure Hollywood garbage that should never have made in to the big screen.
This has got to be the worst movie ever! Okay maybe the second worst ever. I like Bill Murray most of they time, Andy McDowell okay, usually too gooey sweet. But this is just stupid. How in the world does this thing get an 8 out of 10? No wonder it took 28 years for to watch and now I want my 1:45 hours back, big time.


                
