Even the funniest movies eventually stop making me laugh after I've watched them enough times that the humor no longer surprises me. A joke never has the same effect when you know the punch line in advance. But every once in a blue moon, a comedy comes along that is so thoughtful and meaningful in addition to being funny that after seeing it a dozen times and laughing less often, I start noticing its depth and insight. For me, no movie has so perfectly united hilarity with profundity as "Groundhog Day," which happens to be my favorite movie of all time.Superficially, this film belongs roughly in the same genre as "All of Me" and "Liar Liar," comedies in which a character becomes the victim of some weird supernatural fate and must adapt to the insane logic of the situation. But Steve Martin and Jim Carrey are geniuses of physical comedy, whereas Bill Murray specializes in understatement. I can't imagine any other approach having worked for this film, where the world is going crazy around Phil the weatherman, Murray's hard-edged character who keeps his emotions bottled up. What makes the initial scenes in which he first discovers his fate so hilarious is the mounting panic in his demeanor even as he tries to act like everything's normal. All he can think of to say is, "I may be having a problem." Uh, no kidding. Throughout the rest of the film, he'll deliver similarly muted lines to describe his situation, like "My years are not advancing as fast as you might think." It's striking that a man who has all the time in the world would choose his words so carefully, but it reflects a well-conceived screenplay.In this comedy, the laughs are reinforced by repetition. The absurdity of Phil discovering that he's repeating the same day is funny enough, but every time that alarm clock goes off, and the radio starts playing, "I Got You Babe," and Phil goes through the same motions and meets the same people and then goes out into the street to be accosted by the same annoying high school buddy ("Phiiiil?"), I laugh again because I'm reminded how funny it was the first time around. People who didn't like this film (I've met one or two) emphasize how annoying it is that everything gets repeated. I sort of understand that complaint, since jokes repeated over and over usually fail miserably. "Groundhog Day," however, works uniquely well because the situation gets increasingly absurd and Phil gets increasingly desperate with each day that fails to pass.The film would have fizzled out quickly had it spent the entire hour-and-a-half showing Phil meeting the same people and doing the same things time and again. The fact that "Groundhog Day" avoids this fate is one of its more striking qualities, since most high-concept comedies of this sort fall apart in the third act. "Groundhog Day" is a rare example of one that completely follows through with its premise, leading from the initial situation logically to the ending. Only the Jeopardy scene feels like a skit that could have appeared anywhere. But this scene actually is placed wisely: it occurs when Phil is becoming increasingly bored and lethargic, and it is used to separate two hilarious scenes where he gives nutty television reports.It is in the middle, centering on Phil's attempts to seduce Rita, when the film reveals itself to be more than just a comedy. The underlying implication of these scenes is that Phil's powers are less important than he thinks they are. He probably could have done the same things (such as his exploits with Nancy) under ordinary circumstances, without the hocus pocus. In the end, his powers don't matter, because Rita is too smart and sees right through him. She may not understand the full supernatural implications of what he's doing, but she senses that he's somehow manipulating the situation. Phil may think he's a god, but he isn't all-powerful.Phil's character development is convincing largely because we can so easily believe the situation would force him to look inward. Because he loves such a sincere woman as Rita, the only way he can finally impress her is by genuinely changing himself rather than faking it. The change he undergoes isn't an implausible leap, for he maintains many of the same basic character traits he had at the beginning, even though he becomes kinder and more caring. Earlier, Rita says that egocentrism is Phil's "defining characteristic," and, indeed, he doesn't stop being egocentric at the end; he merely learns to channel the egocentrism in a positive direction.I have trouble imagining any other actor having pulled this off. Murray is not the only comic actor to have proved himself capable of dramatic depth, but he's one of the few who can so seamlessly combine his humorous and serious side into the same character. And he's a master at conveying complex emotions through an apparent deadpan. When his delivery sounds stilted in this film, the effect is intentional, for he's playing a man whose life has become a script.Though this film has a serious message, it is still quintessentially a comedy. But it's a comedy that uses psychological exploration of a fascinating character to make its point. After the laughter has worn down, "Groundhog Day" turns out to be one of the richest and deepest films I've ever seen.


                
I thought the film was terrific when I saw it in theaters twelve years ago. Recently in watching it again on cable, I was amazed at the quality of the screenplay. I didn't notice the first time. But on repeated viewings (like reliving Groundhog Day), I was impressed at the story created by the writers. This film is so much more than witty jokes and comic riffs arranged around a gimmick. It has an internal logic and consistency that is very rarely found in screenplays. No joke seemed disposable, and as you laugh your way along, the philosophy underlying the film takes over your imagination.Check the IMDb listings for this film's awards: look at the numerous British awards for writing. And yet this film was not even nominated for an Oscar. It is so rare that a film's jokes seem just as fresh more than a decade later, but I believe that is because the theme underlying the humor will never go out of fashion.The acting was terrific, and I now think this is Bill Murray's best work (though I didn't take it seriously when I first saw the film.) But the screenplay is the one of the finest ever written. I don't know if it's studied in film schools, but it ought to be.* * * * *ON HAROLD RAMIS' DEATH: Ramis told The Associated Press in a 2009 story about the 50th anniversary of Second City. "When you hit it right, those things last."I found that quote in a story on Ramis' death. The story curiously did not mention "Groundhog Day." If there is any film to serve as a fitting memorial for Harold Ramis, it must be "Groundhog Day." A totally perfect script, perfectly executed. He hit it right, and when will he get the recognition he deserved decades ago?


                
* May contain spoilers *Let's face it: everyone's a sucker for romantic comedies, but this one is something special. This movie has as much charm as it has bite, thanks to a fantastic script and Murray's excellent performance. Never dull or cheesy, this wonderful fantasy tale just hits all the right notes, and if anyone knows a better rom-com, please name it. I mean: what other romantic comedies are there where the protagonist commits suicide and you just have to laugh?I've watched 'Groundhog Day' countless times and, without a doubt, I will watch it again and again (or for as long as I keep waking up to that nerve-wrecking song by Sonny & Cher). Priceless. My vote: 10 out of 10.Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-Movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/


                
Often you hear the adage, "It is just a film". Well, for most times it is true. But on rarest of rare occasions, it isn't. This was one of them. Like a great piece literature, painting, poetry, speech it has the capacity to change the way you feel and think. It is the biggest compliment I can pay to a film. I rank Groundhog Day with Seventh Seal, Wild Strawberries, Waking Life, Synecdoche New York, Tokyo Story, Ikiru as one of the moves that has the capacity to change.It is anything but a preachy film as the "intro" to the review might suggest. In fact it an extremely entertaining and funny film with one of the best performances ever by Bill Murray. The plot revolves around a weather man (Bill Murray) is reluctantly sent to cover a story about a weather forecasting "rat" (as he calls it). This is his fourth year on the story, and he makes no effort to hide his frustration. On awaking the 'following' day he discovers that it's Groundhog Day again, and again, and again. First he uses this to his advantage, then comes the realization that he is doomed to spend the rest of eternity in the same place, seeing the same people do the same thing every day.The challenge here for the makers was in terms of screenplay, editing and performances. Bear in mind that, the "loops" Bill Murray's character goes through, might become redundant for the audience after a while. This is where the genius of Harold Ramis and Bill Murray comes into play, who seem to introduce a "novelty" factor with every shot of the same sequence. I couldn't think of any actor other than Murray who could have pulled this one off.It is a movie likely to deceive you in its effortless narrative and casual comic tone. Yes, it is funny, but make no mistake about it, it is a film with a strong philosophical undertone. This is a quality that separates Groundhog from rest of the movies with similar intent. It tells you what it intends to on your terms. It deals with the questions that bother us for a better part of our lives i.e. meaning of life, purpose of life, existentialism, death, god but never preaches, nor propels any propaganda. But by the end of it, you know that something has changed, something you didn't see coming has happened. And then you watch it again only to realize the moment of Epiphany that eluded you the first time.Every time I am down or losing perspective this is the movie that eases everything and makes me ask a simple question, "What is important?". One of the absolute great films of the 90s, but more than just a film for me.


                
Two clues to tell if a movie is great is how often it is copied and how it has become a part of American slang. Groundhog Day has had both happen to it. Warning: POSSIBLE SPOILERS. Bill Murray played Phil Connors, a egocentric and grumpy weatherman in Pennsylvania who goes to Punxsutawny, Pa every year to see if the groundhog sees his shadow for the local television station with his producer, played by the wonderful Andie MacDowell, and his cameraman, played by a low keyed Chris Elliot.Everything goes as Phil expects on the first day, except he is caught in a blizzard and has to stay the night. The next morning he awakes and it's Groundhog Day again! This pattern happens over and over again until he realizes he cannot escape Groundhog Day. In time Phil realizes the advantages of knowing what's going to happen before it happens and Murray takes full comic advantage of it. However if this film was just that, it would be just a normal run of the mill comedy. Murray's character Phil learns and grows and becomes a better person during the course of the film and learns to love the town in which he felt he was trapped in. The chemistry with MacDowell's character of Rita is wonderful. It's a great film and to my mind the best comedy, no perhaps the best movie I have ever seen.
Bill Murray plays Phil Connors, a weatherman for a local news station. Every year he goes to Puxatawney, Pennsylvania for the Puxatawney Phil event: commonly recognized as Groundhog Day. You know how it goes. The groundhog comes out. If it sees its shadow, it's six more weeks of winter. If it doesn't, it's spring.Well, the only problem about going to this event every year for Phil is that he hates it. He hates the cheery people. The little town. The weather. The event. The story. Everything. He hates it. He is a lonely, desolate, forsaken soul. With a great cynical side.Andie McDowell plays a new manager--err, womanager :)--who goes with Phil to the event, along with Chris Elliot, the cameraman. Phil reports, they tape it, it's a done deal. The end. Phil goes back home. Only one problem. Due to severe weather, the roads have all been closed, leaving only one option: Stay in Puxatawney until the storm blows over. So, Phil heads back to his cheery hotel, and tucks in for a dreaded nap. But when he wakes the next morning, something odd happens. The day is the exact same day as before. It is Groundhog Day. Again. Phil panics as he finds everything exactly the same as it was the day before. He knows everything that is going to happen. He shrugs it off as a weird case of deja-vu and heads back to sleep. But when he wakes up, alas! The day is...yesterday. Again. Technically.So Phil comes to terms with the fact that there is now way out of this small little town. He tries everything. He steps in front of a moving car. He electrocutes himself. He jumps off a building. All to no avail. Oh, he dies, all right. But the next day he's back and it's Groundhog Day again.Part of what makes "Groundhog Day" so excellent is the story. The characters and actors alone are great enough to recommend this movie, but the truth is, I cannot think of a better story to throw someone like Bill Murray into. He uses his smart-alecky ways to a new extreme. His character is a bit like Scrooge from the tale "A Christmas Story," which is ironic, because Murray was in a parody on Scrooge's tale called "Scrooged." Anyway. Bill Murray is perfect as the irreverent and cynical Phil. Everything he does he carries out with a dumb, "I'm-smarter-than-you" face. He thinks himself better than everyone else. He thinks he is smart by skipping the big Holiday ordeal. It is all so stupid to him. But, as this story teaches us, having an attitude like that can get you in big trouble.Harold Ramis, director of "Analyze This," star of "Stripes," directed "Groundhog Day." Bill and he are old pals, and it sure shows. I bet they had a great time making this movie. But what is good about it is that while making a fun movie they didn't forget to come up with an interesting and audience-catching tale.Another thing that is great about "Groundhog Day" is that Phil Connors does what we would do. For example: When he finds out he has this ability to repeat the same day over and over, he does things the average person would do. The human weakness. Too many comedies with the same formula don't try to exploit this human weakness, but "Groundhog Day" does. We see Phil memorize the steps to successfully robbing an armored truck filled with cash. But the reason he can go to bed with a clear conscience is because he knows the next day that everything will be back to normal again. He will never have robbed the truck, never have bought a Ferarri, etc. Phil does what WE would do, and that is one importance aspect of "Groundhog Day." I would never rob an armored truck, but if I was stuck living the same day over and over, it would do no harm to take the cash - it would be back in the truck in the morning! So, I might do that. (although my conscience would still get in the way.) There was a little comedy with John Candy named "Delirious." It was about a soap opera writer getting trapped in his own world. And everything he writes on his typewriter comes true. While the movie was good, and pretty interesting, there were so many things Candy could have done with the ability to create and control any - and every- thing, and he didn't do them. I think that's where "Groundhog Day" steps in, filling in the blanks. There's nothing I love more than watching a comedy where the main character divulges into the human nature - in other words, I love watching the character do something the average human would do when given the power(s). And that's exactly what Phil does in "Groundhog Day." And that is why, among other things, it is one of my favorites.5/5 stars


                
Groundhog Day was a Harold Ramis-Danny Green script that Ramis ingeniously shot in a freezing Woodstock, IL for a 1993 release. All the film critics at the time noted it as a cute romantic comedy with no particular accomplishment. Everyone I know who has seen it, myself included, liked it and smiled on their way out of the theater. Groundhog Day is on the American calendar, and the film is often played on that day in mid-winter where those of us in colder climates are dreaming of Spring. Today Groundhog Day is considered one of the great American Films of the late 20th Century. Danny Rubin created the concept while Harold Ramis, co-writer of Animal House and Caddyshack broke away from his previous gross-comedy productions to direct his Opus Maximus. That's how Jonah Goldberg of the National Review described it in the February 2005 issue of the Conservative magazine.I read the 2003 New Yorker piece about Ramis. He's Chicago born Jew with no religious training. He is a Hollywood director, actor, and comedy scriptwriter presently studying Buddhism with his second wife. I don't know anything about Danny Rubin other than his version of the script had Andi MacDowell also reliving Groundhog Day along with Murray's Phil, the slimy weatherman for a Pittsburgh TV station. Ramis made the necessary changes and the rest is possibly the greatest non-secular religious experience in American Cinema. The fact that Rabbi's, Ministers, and Priests are showing this film to their parishioners all over the world is a testament to the film's masterful Aristotelian philosophy of redemption and rebirth.There are so many classic comedy bits, lines to remember, and moments of hilarity for a short review but often overlooked is the theme of rescue through learning. Adults are cursed to make the same mistakes over and over again. Every Freudian shrink has heard his patient's repetition of behavior. Every man is trapped by his wiring. Then, sometimes, maybe because of a catastrophic event, a religious insight, or an intelligent evaluation, there is an epiphany. We can't be sure how the application of intelligence, talent, or luck can establish great work, but we must appreciate it when we see it and be the Groundhog.


                
I thought at first that it was only a concept movie: a "what-if" story; an unbelievable story in reality but a very funny & rich one in the philosophical reflexion, like only arts can offer. Another example of this free creativity would be for me "Back to the future"... You can't go back in your past, but your imagination does! Here's the bottled-up feeling of eternity is excellently considered: the assets (you have time to learn, you know everything & every one...) and the pitfalls (a final boredom, the sadness of losing people without preventing it,...)Then, I realised that this movie is closer to every one's life than many others.... The revelation occurred while the chat between Bill Murray & 2 buddies at the bar:"What would you do if you were stuck in one place, every day was exactly the same, nothing you did mattered ?""That about sums it up for me;"It's my life: I always complain about today is like yesterday & as tomorrow! Getting up tired, taking crowded subways, managing different kind of people with a perverse boss, back to the home to eat nearly the eternal same supper, complicated relationship..... Well, same day over, over & over....That's me, maybe you, and you or you..... This movie appeals to every one: Fantastic! And it offers in addition a solution: being socially generous.... Smile, help as much as you can & you will have the payback: your life will improve!!!! Zen, philosophy, psychology, religion says the same thing but in hundred years, thousand pages of writing..... Here's what a 2 hours movie can do!!!But that's not all: all this would have been impossible without this superb duo of Bill Murray & Andie MacDowell: I am a fan of both and they excel in this movie: I think they never have been closer than their true self: Murray has really two faces: the cynic & the kind... MacDowell: well, she smiles, she laughs, she plays, she is kind, romantic, honorable, trustful... the perfect soulmate for every one...And the final touch: the Director: Harold Ramis.. I was a fan of National lampoon, Ghostbusters and with his DVD commentary, I discover a great man: sympathetic, spiritual. He shares his enthusiasm with success and gives great insights for his movie (the symbolic & funny thanks of all the town as his motivation to direct...)So, if you have infinite time, enjoy this one as much.. And if you don't have time, give yourself a little to view it !!!!!
I just read somewhere that the Internet is full of philosophers and religions that have adopted this movie as their favorite parable. I'm not surprised, but that's not the reason I love it.This movie starts with a premise that could be light, silly, trite, or promising but disappointing. Through deft writing and Murray's amazing comic timing, it manages to be none of those. The movie just keeps getting better the longer you watch it, and every silliness comes with a bit of serious thinking behind it.Take home from this movie: A visceral awareness of what really matters in life, and how your own attitude in it is really everything there is. Not just mostly... entirely everything.This movie threatens at first to go on forever, but after a while I wished it would. It compresses the lesson of "It's a Wonderful Life" into its first act, and then improves continually from there. I honestly can't think of how this movie could be improved.To see how bad this movie *could* have been, watch "Multiplicity" with Michael Keaton. Then watch "Groundhog Day" again and enjoy. I've lost count of the number of times I've seen it.


                
Harold Ramis's 'Groundhog Day' is A Masterpiece! A wonderful, meaningful film, that also offers loads of entertainment. And Bill Murray delivers a yet another Terrific Performance! 'Groundhog Day' Synopsis: A weatherman finds himself living the same day over and over again.'Groundhog Day' is perfection, believe me it is. Here's a comedy, that offers meaning. I was engrossed from start to end. The journey of its protagonist Phil Connors, played by Murray, is so entertaining & meaningful, that I was taken aback. The Screenplay Written by Danny Rubin & Ramis himself, is simply marvelous. Ramis's Direction, on the other-hand, is efficient. Cinematography, Editing & Art Design, are pitch-perfect.Performance-Wise: Murray is Terrific! The legendary actor delivers a yet another performance, that deserves to be respected. Andie MacDowell is fantastic. Chris Elliott does his part well. Stephen Tobolowsky is hilarious. On the whole, 'Groundhog Day' is an unmissable comedy.


                
I wasn't expecting much before I actually saw this movie, but when I did, I was actually amazed and surprised just how good this movie actually was. It was literally: perfect. The plot of this movie was great. What I loved most about Groundhog Day was just how funny it was. This movie not only gets you laughing, but gets you laughing every time - it gets better and better. One of the best comedy movies from the 90s - certainly, one of my favourites. The cast was good, and I don't think anyone else could've played it any better. The setting for this movie was wonderful to say the least. I really like the title of this movie. Not only that, but it's also a movie you could watch all-day too, so it's not just just a Groundhog Day, if you know what I mean. Gets more better the second and third time you watch it too. Very good movie to own on DVD. One of the finest comedy movies out there.


                
It's been 6 or even 7 years since I watched this masterpiece. Possibly, you would argue: 'Hey, if it is a excellent movie, what is Titanic, The Godfather and The Shawshank Redemption?" Well, if you are still not bored after a hundred views, it is perfect movie for you. And it holds for me. Easy, but important idea is the key of everything. This is love we all want in our lives.
And I should note pretty good acting of Bill Murray.


                
"Groundhog Day" is another example of a movie that deserved multiple nominations (and wins) at the Academy Awards. At the time, it was often dismissed as a light fantasy-comedy. But actually Danny Rubin and Harold Ramis wrote an incredibly intelligent, heartwarming, and funny script, and Bill Murray put in the performance of his lifetime.Phil Connors, played by Murray, is having a bad day. A nearly infinite amount of times. I don't believe the story that the movie takes place over 10 years of reliving the same day; it's clearly implied that it's A LOT more than that, and that's what the screenwriter originally had intended anyway. And this is where the brilliance of both the script and Murray's performance lies; we're not watching the same thing over and over again, because we have as a focal point Phil, who's reliving the day and reacting to it differently each time. The stages he goes through until he finally learns to accept it and try to make something of it are interesting. By the end of the movie he's reached something akin to nirvana, where every move he makes is perfect, and thus he's finally allowed to move on.We never get an explanation of why this is happening, which only heightens our fascination of it. It seems implied by the ending that something divine is going on; Phil really seems to reach perfection, a state of being, perhaps, a perfect human being, or as close to it as we can get, and that's where the timescale becomes apparent; think how long it would take to achieve such a thing! And all this is masked at first appearance by all the humor going on. At first glance, it really appears to be a screwball comedy (and even as such, it's laugh-out-loud funny), and you can't see the brilliance behind everything. It's a nearly perfect movie, and it's one of my favorites.


                
For me this is one of the few movies of recent vintage that could be called a writer's story. It's wonderfully thematic! Phil has so much to learn and takes a long time to learn it, but what he learns is so encouraging and humanistic. He learns that by developing his artistic side he will learn to love and be loved. He learns to sculpt and play the piano beautifully. And, it seems to me, finally, that he chooses to do it for the right reasons: the pure joy of expression, the pleasure of bringing beauty and truth to the world. My wife asked me in wonder how I could love this flick so much; it's so unrealistic. But, ah, the theme is so strong that I want to suspend my disbelief. It functions ultimately as an allegory. We must all learn to try to forget ourselves and concentrate on the moment, live each day not as if it will be our last, but as though it will be our only day! When we learn that lesson, then we can begin to live again...


                
"Groundhog Day" is Bill Murray's serious movie. Along with Andie McDowell they make great chemistry. "Phil" is the wise-cracking weatherman who thinks he is too good for everyone else. He is in PUNXSUTAWNEY, Pa to do a newscast, and wishes he were just about anywhere else. They get snowed in, have to spend the night, and the next morning at 6AM the fun begins.It is groundhog day again! He goes out, sees all the same people, doing and saying all the same things. To everyone else, this is the only time they have lived this particular day. But for Phil, it is the second time. In fact, every morning thereafter he awakes at 6AM to exactly the same music, the same day, it looks like it will be for eternity.January 2007: Just watched it yet again, it never gets old. (pun)Feb, 2, 2009 - Groundhog Day - I just watched it again. Never gets old!!Feb 4, 2010 - Two days late. But never better, I even saw some things that escaped me the first several times. CAUTION--SPOILERS--At first, Phil takes the "repeat" days to deal in funny, or cruel, ways with others he knows he will meet. He knows everything will be wiped clean and he can start fresh the next day. No one but he will remember what happened the prior day. After a while, he gets depressed at the thought of being sentenced to an eternity of living the same day, so he tries to kill himself. Jumping off a building, taking a bath with a toaster, driving a car off a cliff, getting into the path of a truck. He succeeds each time, however when 6AM comes the next day, he's back in his bed, Groundhog Day again, and his daily cycle starts again. And eventually he decides to go ahead and try to make good use of his situation.So he takes on new hobbies. He becomes expert at ice sculpture, medicine, piano-playing, poetry, and a number of others. He comes to know all the people in town, not only their names but also intimate details of their lives. The film never hints at how many times he re-lives the same day. However, to gain all the proficiencies he did, it must have been several hundred. Perhaps even in the thousands. But that detail doesn't matter.As he becomes more and more charming, he decides to try and seduce his producer, played by McDowell. Each day he gets a bit farther, only to show off as the real jerk that he is, then is slapped and snubbed. But each day, since he is the only one who remembers, he gets a bit further. However, he is destined to never get the girl, unless he really changes, and he doesn't realize this.In the last 1/4 of the film, he has become a truly changed man. He helps people because it is the right thing to do. He is humble about his successes, and it is this change that ultimately attracts the woman of his dreams, and which gets him out of the seemingly endless cycle of re-playing Groundhog Day.And that, in a nutshell, is what the film is all about. In a unique way - the re-play of a day - it is a commentary on the need to be true and pure in our intentions to be able to get out of our rut and make any meaningful contribution to this world. I rate it "10", and is one of my favorite movies of all time.
I must admit this movie was one of my favorites when I was a teenager. I'm just watching it again, and I felt it necessary to review this film, as the effect has not only not faded away, but actually made the jokes more powerful - as I grasp on them differently, more fully. Bill Murry's jerk character is so hilarious and original, and his lines are so funny that you cannot resist liking him. On the other hand Andy's angelic, curly haired, innocent face opposes this brut.I think one of the smartest ideas is that the setting is pure and simple: it could be anywhere BUT nowhere important. Of course, it is important for our character to get stuck in the middle of nowhere - as of course it wouldn't come as a curse to spend every day on a nice island or a big city. Here monotomy hits us hard. And here comes the maturity: people in their 30s, 40s can easily get the metaphor: that 'every day looks the same'. We work, sleep, eat, .... and what else? Something is missing, right? It takes an eternity to realize that there are more important things, human relations, remembering who we are, what makes us happy - and the full capacity of love. This deeper message is nicely wrapped in a funny storytelling, and even more hilarious actions. I don't think we have to simplify it for a "bad" man becoming "good", more virtous, but rather waking up from his own 'groundhog' sleep, a sleep in which he has been spending most of his life....Have fun, and don't be afraid of your own shadow:)


                
Bill Murray is without a doubt one of my favourite comedians. His deadpan, laid back attitude always makes him a hoot to watch. That was one of the reasons why Ghostbusters was such a success. But Groundhog Day has got to be his best comedy since, because this ingenious Harold Ramis film is tailor made for Bill Murray's talents.Murray plays weatherman Phil Connors. A selfish, cynical and sarcastic man, he is not one of the easiest people in the world to like. Every February 2nd, he travels to Punxsutawney, P.A. to cover the annual Groundhog Day festival. Legend has it if the groundhog (also called Phil) sees a shadow, it won't be an early Spring.This is an event Phil hates, and he can't stand the town. This year, he goes there with his cameraman Larry (Chris Elliot) whom he insults every chance he gets, and his new producer Rita (Andie MacDowell). Phil falls in love with Rita, but can't open up to her in that way, and comes off as arrogant to her.This marks his fourth visit to Punxsatawney, and after Phil (the groundhog) predicts that Winter won't be ending anytime soon this year, Phil can't wait to leave town. But a blizzard unexpectedly strands Phil, Rita and Larry, and they are forced to spend another night in Punxatawney.When Phil wakes up the next morning, he's got a real freaky sense of deja vu. His clock radio is blaring out "I Got You Babe", the DJs are saying the exact same shtick as yesterday, and when he looks out the window, people are getting ready to go out. It's Groundhog Day all over again.Everyone else doesn't seem to notice, and to them everything is perfectly normal. What is wonderful about this film is the way it explores every possible angle to Phil's situation and covers such a wide spectrum of emotion. From being initially baffled, to exploiting it for his own gain, depression, suicide, acceptance, and finally, self-reflection.Despite the repetition of this never-ending day, it surprisingly never becomes boring. Although the situations may be the same, you know Bill Murray is going to do something slightly different with it. His reactions are priceless, and he experiments in a variety of different ways.An example is when he runs into an old high school friend, Ned Ryerson (Stephen Tobolowsky). An insurance salesman who is ingratiating, persistent and extremely annoying. Someone you can't wait to get away from. After a couple of times Phil punches Ned, and then much later, embraces him, to Ned's horror. Stephen Tobolowsky is perfect as Ned, and nobody else could have done the performance as well.I like the part when Phil has different ways of destroying the clock radio, from knocking it off the table, to hurling it to the floor. That's understandable if you had to wake up to "I Got You Babe" every single morning. Harold Ramis clearly wanted to be as inventive as possible with this comedy, to keep the viewers interest, which he certainly did.Phil's various suicide attempts are a highlight in a morbid way, because he goes through every death imaginable to try to break this time warp. Unsuccessfully of course.The main focus of the film is Phil's attempts to get it on with Rita. But she is not the kind of person who just wants to get into bed with someone, unlike Phil. Although he does learn things about Rita, he just can't seem to make it work with her. But eventually, Phil gradually realises his shortcomings, and begins to change things about himself.Phil learns to appreciate life more, and begins to care a great deal for the people of Punxatawney. One of my favourite scenes is when he tries to save a homeless man from dying of old age. But every day, he still dies, no matter what Phil's efforts.The film does have a happy ending, but it doesn't feel contrived the way Scrooged was. You are genuinely happy for Phil when he finally wakes up to a Groundhog Day with Rita who loves him in return. Wisely, we never find out what was causing the time warp. It adds to the charm of this film. Any attempt to explain it would have cheapened the impact.This will always be one of my favourite films, and the wonderful range of quirky characters ensure you will always be entertained. Harold Ramis showed a capacity for storytelling on a par with Frank Capra, giving us a benign story about how you can improve yourself today for a better tomorrow.Groundhog Day is a timeless film.
1993 was a wonderful movie year. 2 movie masterpieces stand out today from it; "Schindler's list" and "Groundhog day". Personally, I always loved the second one more. "Groundhog day" is a perfect example why Bill Murray will always be a superior actor than the Oscar darlings Tom Hanks and Spencer Tracy. He plays Phil whom thanks to a time distortion ( a day repeating itself again and again ) gets away with stealing money, committing suicide 20 times, sleeping with local girls without consequences and finding out everyones deepest secrets. The story is so subtle that you may at first think its just a comedy. But once you think about it, you will realize how almost every problem from life is contained in it. Most noticeable, the one about how people will make the same mistakes again and again, until they change. And that's what's all about: change. Once when Phil changes himself, the world changes finally too. He is a grown man, but childish in his persona. That's why thanks to the time distortion he ages psychologically, until he finally becomes a real man, not a spoiled kid. This is an extreme satire about life. Think about it. Its about the imprisoned human spirit crying for a change, a difference. Phil became an individual, the only person on Earth that has self-consciousness. At that moment all other characters just became puppets. You can also regard it as a parody of Totalitarian regimes ( Phil is the only person that does something different than the others, and that's why he is misunderstood ). Plus the explanation for the mysterious time distortion is never given. It's shown more like something as natural as the weather, something that just happened.--------------The only great film the director Harold Ramis ever made, "Groundhog day" was until recently the highest marked Murray film on the site rotten-tomatoes.com with extremely high average grade of 8.1/10. "Lost in translation" beat it, with 8.4/10, but quite frankly, it was overrated. If there was any justice, "Groundhog day" should have won Oscars and Golden Globes for the best picture, script and the main actor. But alas, since Murray was underrated for so long, its finally time he gets overrated for once!You just have to love him when he is in the studio doing a weather forecast: "In California there is going to be a big heat tomorrow, and gang fights and too high real estate prizes too. Oh, what's this? A cold front is coming up! Fuuuu( blows the clouds on the screen)." The only flaw is that some better director could have directed it more radical and extreme than Ramis, but if we love Frank Capra, we must love this symbolic story about the triumph of emotions over cold cynicism.Grade: 10/10


                
Do you know that feeling when a movie connects with you so much that you identify with the characters and your thoughts and feelings are stirred? It might have some continuity or factual errors, it might not deserve an Oscar for lighting, soundtrack and so on, but the magic of cinema really happens here.I got out of the theater going over the movie in my head and wondering what I would do if I lived the same situation. I still do when I watch it on DVD. I find the movie very funny, very intelligent and with a very good and uplifting message.For all that, I consider this movie truly excellent.


                
This is just the greatest movie ever made!!! I think that this movie is just perfect: You have everything in it from Romance to Comedy to sometimes really deep topics. I also like the soundtrack and one very special thing: although the movie was, as far as I now, a hit, they never did a sequel, which is absolutely right, because this movie is one of the rare ones, that are absolutely self-contained. Bill Murray is a great actor and gives his best. You see his perfect play very good in the scene when they build the snowman the second time - the constrained way he acts, when he falls down to the ground and tries to come closer to Rita as naturally as the day before. If you're able to speak or at least understand German, check out the dubbed version with the great Mr Elsholtz (who is also the voice of Tom Hanks and Kevin Kline)!


                
On this movie, Bill Murray ends up stuck in a rather boring day of his life. He's unhappy with his job and is covering by the third time in a row an event that has no meaning to him. At first he's skeptical and shocked with everything that's happening. He just wanted that day to end since the beginning. His plan was to get there on the night before, sleep, do his jog and go back to his city as soon as possible. But a snowstorm closes the road and his group is forced to spend one more night there and this night is the one that starts to repeat the day making Bill's character stuck. When he realizes what's happening and that there's nothing he can do about it he just stop caring. He drinks, smokes, mock the coverage and the city, steal and do everything he wouldn't do if he knew that the time would pass as normal. He tries to learn about things to use this knowledge in his favor. He ends up knowing everything about the city, the schedule, people's life and preferences. With that he's able to make the day go exactly as he wants to. Eventually he grow tired of it all and just want things to be normal again. Sure it was fun to lie and live the life as nothing bad could happen to him but he misses what we all got, the possibility of a future. And the great lesson we can get from the movie is to try. You don't need to live like this day is going to repeat forever but instead of wait and think about the consequences of your acts just do it. If you wanna do something, get out there and do it. If you don't do it you'll be like Bill's character but in a bad way. The days are going to pass but you'll be stuck always doing the same thing.
I have seen this movie at least 4 times from the TV replays and it has given me greater pleasure every time.During the repetitive viewings, I can really chew on it slowly and appreciate every details that the film transpires. The script, the acting, the directing, and even the music are all excellent. I cannot understand why there had been such little attention from audience to this movie and even the number of comments made are small in the IMDb.It is among my top 5 best loving movies I've ever seen and it really deserves an Oscar though it is regrettable that comedies are rarely considered for the award.It deserves a rating of 9.999 and so I gave it 10, just to round up. Afterall, no movie should be considered completely perfect, but it's nearly there!


                
Today is Groundhog Day, so what better film to review than - yep, you guessed it - GROUNDHOG DAY, starring the wonderful Bill Murray in his best role ever. For his character, EVERY day is Groundhog Day. We're lucky we're not him. But hey, it's fun to watch for an hour and a half or so. You may have seen it already. I've seen it many times over the years and it never gets old. It's just so funny and original and the acting is great. Murray is not only very funny but also proves his acting ability here. He's come a long way since his SNL days.Many movies that have come after it have copied the premise to some degree, but none have done it this well. I won't give anything away in case you've not seen it, although knowing the story doesn't really ruin the experience. The talented supporting cast does a great job as well. Highly recommend.


                
Truly a great classic movie. Bill Murray is excellent and the rest of the cast is great as well. A great movie about living life to the fullest and appreciating everything it has to offer. It still moves me and makes me laugh every time. I highly recommend this movie for anyone that hasn't seen it and for anyone that has. Please watch again and again.


                
There's really not a lot you can say about Groundhog Day that hasn't been said before. It's unlikely that anyone remotely interested in Bill Murray would have not seen it by now, and in all likelihood loves it because it's nailed on one of Murray's finest pictures. Of course, as is the case with comedy in general, there are those who don't like it, but in my experience it's the one comedy movie that tickles the funny bones of most the most! Some have seen it just the once and loved it but feel it is a once only movie, others such as myself return to it yearly like an old friend because it's a pick me up, a tonic for the troops, it never fails to deliver the goods.That it has struck such a chord over the years is no surprise, it's a genius premise. Grumpy misanthrope TV weather man Phil Connors (Murray) is once again sent out to Punxsutawney to cover the Groundhog Day festivities. It's a place he considers as dull on earth, the festivities pointless and beneath the broadcasting talent he feels he has. The plan is to get the broadcast done and get out of Punxsutawney as quick as possible. But a snowstorm prevents him leaving and waking up the next day he finds he is stuck in the same Groundhog Day as the day before, and soon he finds that every day is the same day."I was in the Virgin Islands once. I met a girl. We ate lobster, drank piña coladas. At sunset, we made love like sea otters. That was a pretty good day. Why couldn't I get that day over, and over, and over..."The film then follows a trajectory that sees Connors go through a number of psychological transformations. From despair to using the situation for nefarious means, to despair again and onto using his unique situation to do good. It's material tailor made for Murray who excels with a number of running gags that get expanded upon with each day. However, the ace up Harold Ramis' (director) sleeve is that the film is more than a comedy, it is also an intelligent character study, a message movie and it also doesn't lack for dramatic purpose, often proving to be a moving experience once the tickled rib pain begins to subside. It's a picture as deep in human awareness as it is rich with comedy value.Andie MacDowell as Rita, Phil's producer and object of his lust throughout the story, proves to be surprisingly good foil for Murray's comedic ebullience. While elsewhere a number of reoccurring characters are performed memorably by the support cast (Stephen Tobolowsky and Chris Elliott standing out). Ramis keeps it brisk, never allowing the plotting to fold in on itself and the sound tracking is irritatingly catchy. But it's with the screenplay (Ramis and Danny Rubin) where ultimately Groundhog day is judged, be it the comedy or human interest, it's a zinger as written. And thankfully, with Murray at the top of his game, the brainy fun on the page is brought vividly to life on the screen. Groundhog Day, one of the finest comedies of the modern era. 10/10


                
