Some of the more profound implications of the scenario were unfortunately scrapped to play to a mainstream audience. Though in the surface a good vehicle for Bill Murray, the cons outweigh the pros.There is at least one implication of the scenario overlooked by almost everyone: namely if Bill Murray lives the same day over and over then what happens to everyone else in the world? The only possible solution to this, considering no one else is living it over and over (that we know of), is the many worlds theory. So each new twist of the day creates a new scenario that of course gets played out in the universe that the film's Phil doesn't get to see. So when Phil commits suicide, he really DOES die in that alternate world. And each Phil goes onto the next day with everyone else in the world. So what's happening obviously is his MEMORIES of reliving the same day with different scenarios keep building up more and more.So how do these memories get transmuted back to him each 6AM on February 2nd? The original script explained it as a former girlfriend casting a spell on him. In reincarnation theory what dies isn't consciousness, but memory, and some anecdotes exist of those who recall past lives. So what could account for Phil? Somehow the spell would have to stop the death of memory so he not only keeps remembering the future 24 hours, but remembers all the OTHER future 24 hours. The writer estimated 10 years worth, though the original script called for 10,000 years worth of Feb. 2s, which as you can imagine would make this that much more hellish. The fact that Phil starts out each day the same physically shows that the only thing caught in the time loop is his memory.Now, much of the dialogue is strictly cheap laughs ("ever had Deja Vu?" "I'll see if it's on the menu" and such). But as far as any overall message it gets lost in over-sentimentality, especially at the end. The message is suppose to be that we must keep repeating things until we get them right; problem is the way Phil chooses to get things right is to YES, use tricks to get what he wants, which is Rita (Andie MacDowell).The first night he gets her home she is wise to him, but the last he so utilizes the tricks as to impress her beyond belief. Remember that close to t helast night he tells her the truth of how he knows so much, but NOT the last "perfect" day. On THAT day he basically lies to her by impressing her WITHOUT telling her the reason he is able to do so. So actually the film's moral reads: become a master of deceit to get what you want.If the film took the more profound path instead of playing to the mainstream it would have been a great film. As it is it a mediocre comedy with a twist.


                
I knew all about the film, had heard about it, just never actually watched it.The main message of the film? To impress a woman you need to literally move the earth. super. Bill Murray's cool.


                
