Bill Murray can be a very funny guy, especially when given roles where his character has a deliciously cruel edge. He has one of those faces, and a voice to go with it, which can make nastiness and sarcasm funny. Groundhog Day is a highly enjoyable vehicle for Murray's talents. It also has a very clever concept, neatly brought to the screen by actor-turned-director Harold Ramis (who starred alongside Murray in the Ghostbusters films).Pittsburgh weather-man Phil Connors (Bill Murray) is sent on assignment to Punxatawney, where on Groundhog Day each year the locals have a tradition of consulting the groundhog to find out if spring is imminent or if they should prepare for 6 more weeks of winter. Phil despises the job and the town, and can't wait to get it over with.... even though he has a soft spot for Rita (Andie MacDowell), the producer overseeing his broadcast. Phil's dislike of Punxatawney, its people and its traditions is set to get a hell of a lot worse though.... as when he awakens the next morning he finds himself reliving the same day. And so it goes - every time Phil gets up, it's still February 2nd and he seems destined to be stuck in the same day for the rest of eternity.It seems early on in the proceedings that the film might run out of steam and inspiration. After all, how can a film about a day which repeats itself be anything but repetitive? Thankfully, Groundhog Day is full of ingenious ideas, and it successfully throws up new developments and delightful twists at every opportunity. The film is laced with memorable dialogue, and Murray gets to play one of the defining roles of his career as a facetious, sharp-tongued misanthrope who ultimately learns the error of his ways. Groundhog Day is a very good film indeed, and restores one's faith in the imagination still lurking beneath the dismayingly shallow surface of Hollywood.


                
Not counting Caddy shack, this is Bill Murray's best performance. While Christmas and Halloween have their annual holiday movies, who would have thought that Groundhog Day would have a movie of its own.A terrific (family) movie, Bill Murray stars as a sullen / sarcastic news reporter who is stuck living the same day over and over again....until he gets it right. This comedy stands alone as one of the funniest and most original movies of the 90's. Not many comedies can be funny and also end with a moral. Groundhog Day has both. Before the Farrelly Brothers or Wes Anderson found an audience, there was Groundhog Day. Pennsylvania never looked better or funnier.


                
My brother told me that some people say "ground hog" day is one of the most spiritual movies ever made. First times I watched the movie ( I already have seen it a dozen times) I just laughed about it. But after some times watching I saw what the director wanted to say with it.In my own life the same thing happened but not as heavy as in the movie. I mean, in my life the day just become another day. ( really I ask myself, the only thing that was different that was the date) I think a lot of people live in groundhog day, doing the same thing again and again, not taking the best out of life. Just living without any consciousness. Not having enough time by their own fault, because time is a thing you can offer yourself by making other choices.Groundhog day....I personally am getting rid of that day more and more fortunately and finally too. More and more I am trying to make best of life and using every day in another way. I am not crazy. No, I just watch movies with some kind of view lately. In every movie there is a hidden message told.Enough about Ground Hog day....I gave the movie an 8 because the number 8 is the number of eternity. And that's also a thing the movie is about. About eternity and not about the bad and boring repeating of the stupid livings.Danny


                
It's not common that a film involving the surreal or supernatural - especially time travel - is so successful.  I think the reason for this is that once you enter that realm, literally anything goes.  That concept may seem exciting at first, but in practice it can become so illogical and have so little basis in reality that ultimately we can't relate to it.  Consider how silly time travel can become.  For example, in "Back to the Future", looking at a photograph and seeing the people in it start to fade?? C'mon. Or dealing with "paradoxes" such as going back in time and killing your grandfather.  What now?Not trying to explain how time travel occurs, this movie skirts those issues by simply backing up and reliving a day (there is no chance to "travel back to the future" - you must "live through it".)  One of the reasons it is so successful is that while ultimately a happy movie, the truly horrible feelings that would inevitably arise in this situation are also explored. Finally living through his day to the next day is a metaphor in this case for the maturing of the main character.  He does not know what is happening to him, but in the end he has been allowed a period of experimentation and growth.  Haven't we all fantasised about that?  For example, having 10 fresh chances to approach a person of the opposite sex we want to meet and seeing which works best?  In the meantime the film explores this journey with both humour and sorrow.  Having 10 fresh chances to try something sounds great if it's your *choice* - but not so great if you never get to stop the carousel and say "That's a keeper - let's get on with my life now!"  Few actors other than Murray could play this role so well - he seems perfectly cast. Enjoy!


                
I don't think anyone else could play Phil as well as Bill Murray. His dry sense of humor goes perfect with the character. I have seen him in many films, but this one has to be one of his best.Groundhog Day is a modern day classic. It is original and creative. The more times I see it, the more layers I discover in it. It is the type of film you can watch over and over. A definite highlight in Bill Murray's career.


                
** O'boy here be spoilers ** Phil (Murray) is a meteorologist in Pittsburg. He is totally egocentric and does not like at all that he has been assigned to go to Punxsutawney and cover Groundhog day. Along with him goes sweet Rita (MacDowell) and cameraman Larry (Elliott). Phil, just wants to do the work and leave as quick as possible ( or before that if he gets his say). Well, unfortunately for Phil, a snowstorm (that he himself predicted would miss them) makes leaving town impossible and when Phil wakes up it's Groundhog day all over again. Phil is stuck. Stuck in Punxsutawney and stuck on Groundhog day. What to do? Well, you could perfect the arts or study. You could get dates with attractive women just by trial and error. You could be the biggest jerk in the world or an angel sent from above. You could rob a bank or kidnap a famous woodchuck. Or you could get depressed and kill yourself in a lot of different (more or less creative) ways. And always wake up to the same day all over again. Phil does all that. But how to solve this mysterious riddle so that poor Phil can go on with his life?A funny and interesting movie, with funny little quirks. The story is great, and the concept of it brings a _lot_ of unique possibilities, most of them followed through in the movie. Good work Ramis and Rubin! Murray is great as the sarcastic Phil. He is asked to act out in a lot of different moods and situations and pull all of them off brilliantly. MacDowell is good as well, even if her character is given a secondary role to that of Murray. Elliot's character is even more in the perimeter but he is good and occasionally chips in with a funny tidbit. But mostly, the movie is funny because of a great story, Murray's acting and a nice directing and editing. There is a romantic bit in the movie as well, but in my opinion that is well integrated in the comedic part, which is the one emphasized.8/10
One of the most well-known Bill Murray films, a movie that defined a whole subgenre of time travel fiction – the so called "Groundhog Day Loop" – while also being a sweet love story in its own right. Nowadays it's a loved classic, and for a good reason. Its premise is really rather simple, a man is forced to live out the exact day over and over again, but the film makers explore its possibilities to their fullest, giving us a tale about the meaning of human interaction, loneliness and the depths we can either sink or rise when there's no one to witness us.This is Bill Murray's film, through and through. His performance was the one that would either make or break the film, and he pulls it off magnificently. He gives us everything. The initial confusion, the horror of realization, the rage against the heavens, the joy of possibilities, the descend into monotony, the despair that comes with time, the strength to still move forwards. All this given with just the right amount of snark to keep the tone comedic, while also selling the depth of the story. I've never seen him show us more range and scale than in this movie.Andie MacDowell also shines as the female lead, and the various other actors give us a nice setting in the sleepy town of Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania. I don't think this film would have worked as well as it does now if the setting had been a larger city. Now you get to know the locale, the various inhabitants, which makes the humour and drama that much more poignant.Groundhog Day is a fantastic film. Its premise and idea are pure fantasy comedy, but it rounds it up with heavy doses of emotion and drama, while still keeping it lighthearted enough to entertain. And it's those few darker moments that make the overall film shine all that much brighter.


                
Perhaps the closest thing to a modern Frank Capra movie, Harold Ramis' "Groundhog Day" sees actor Bill Murray playing Phil Connors, an egocentric Pittsburgh TV weatherman who finds himself trapped in the small town of Punxsutawney, repeating the same day over and over again. Why Connors is forced to relive the same day isn't explained, but it is made clear that Connors was trapped in a cycle of repetition even before his never-ending day began. Projecting nothing but facile sarcasm, ironic self-awareness and aloof detachment, Connors is a thoroughly postmodern man, his life long filled with what he perceives to be pointless and mindless routine. But Connors is not a pessimist or self-centred, so much as he is super-aware, perpetually dejected and world-weary. For Connors, every day offers only what philosopher Francois Cusset called the "dead end of postmodernity". Enchantment is thoroughly dead and everything that will happen has already happened.When Connors wakes up to find that today is, and always will be, yesterday, he is forced into violently confronting the fact that postmodernism conceives of contemporary life as a spectacle before which the individual always sits powerless, and within which questions of the real are always problematized. To the postmodern subject, there is nowhere else, no other time or place, the subject a ghost-viewer in a movie that plays regardless of his volition.At first Connors uses this opportunity to engage in pranks, hedonism and deceit, concocting schemes to amass money and bed a beautiful woman, played by Andie McDowell, but gradually these games start to lose their appeal. After learning that all the material and sexual gratifications in the world are not spiritually sustaining, Connors grows suicidal. He takes his life several times, but still the curse continues. From here on the plot becomes a mixture of the myth of Sisyphus and Dickens' "A Christmas Carol" (Bill Murray is essentially Ebenezer Scrooge), with a little Camus and Nietczhe thrown in. The film's existential avenues are best hinted at by a poem (The Lay of the Last Minstrel) by Sir Walter Scott, an excerpt of which Andie McDowell recites to Connors in a diner: "Despite those titles, power, and pelf, The wretch, concentrated all in self, Living shall forfeit fair renown, And doubly dying, shall go down, To the vile dust from whence he sprung, Unwept, unhonoured, and unsung."And so gradually Connors relinquishes the Self. Of course contemporary neuroscience has now thoroughly undermined the notion of a Sovereign Self, but director Harold Ramis is a Buddhist, and Buddhism has long denied the existence of a metaphysical self. Buddhist's call this "Anatta", or "not self", in which it is taught that all things perceived by the senses are not really "I" or "mine", and in which a line is drawn from the problem of personal identity to moral responsibility.A thoroughly changed man, Connors thus now begins to live each day to the fullest. No longer obsessed with "moving on" or possessing Andie McDowell, he instead helps everyone, acts selflessly, without ego (paradoxically an egotistical, if not impossible act) and uses whatever spare time he has to engage in various artistic and intellectual refinements (piano, ice sculpting, poetry etc). To his co-workers, Connors now seems like a radically different person. He seems reborn. Unsurprisingly, at this moment of transformation, the temporal curse is broken and tomorrow finally comes, though Connors now refuses to move on and instead opts to stay in Punxsutawney."Connors's transformation (which resembles the Buddhist Samsara cycle) goes against almost everything postmodernity teaches," author Jonah Goldberg says. Connors doesn't find paradise or liberation by becoming more "authentic" or "individual", but by doing exactly the opposite. "He learns to appreciate the crowd," Goldberg says, "the community, even the bourgeois hicks and their values<U+0085>[<U+0085>]<U+0085>and most of all by shedding his ironic detachment from the world." Unsurprisingly radical economists view the film in different lights - man trapped in an sociocultural dead end unless he relinquishes greed, profit and egomania - but such readings are byproducts, rather than intended.The film is regarded as a family classic in the US, Canada and UK, and is routinely played around Christmas time, embraced by middle-class folk the same way Frank Capra's sentimental morality tales gradually became inextricable from the whole codified "spirit of Christmas" and "national image and values". The film has a spiritual resonance, all denominations able to read what they wish into it, but its actor Bill Murray's trademark humour – aloof, sarcastic and detached – that really sells things. Audiences today don't buy the aww shucks performances of Capra's everyman (often Jimmy Stewart) heroes. Bill Murray's meta-detachment, however, they relate to in spades. 8.9/10 – While some may have liked a darker, creepier take on the story (Ramis and Murray had a falling out because the star wanted to take the story into darker territory - think about it, what would you get up to if there were no consequences to your actions?), "Groundhog Day" is nevertheless a charming family film, and there aren't many of those.
This romcom is a very original and imaginative piece of work. It is an excruciatingly tense viewing in which Bill Murray is stuck in the same day (Groundhog Day), and is reliving it over and over and over. The performances are good, and the fact Bill manipulates his producer to fall in love with him by acting in a way which would please her, after secretly finding out her preferences and charms from a previous Groundhog Day. Confused yet?If not you should be, the film is very confusing, and after a bit you think the day will never end, it is an astounding culmination of hilarious comedy, touching romance and outstanding acting that hits you with great effect.Its got action, romance, comedy and drama its funny, yet can still be saddening, so many emotions packed into one film make this a classic. Don't read this review, just get the film and watch it.


                
Groundhog day may seem tame by today's standards- but remember this was the film that started the whole time relapse continuum in the first place. However, just a concept cannot carry a film and this is where Groundhog succeeded and many others failed- It had a heart and a good story. Bill murray plays a weather reporter who must relive the same day- groundhog day every day. Featuring great performances from Murray and Mcdonald, and fantastic direction from Harold Ramis Groundhog Day is a movie that will still be watched a hundred years from now.


                
Groundhog day may seem tame by today's standards- but remember this was the film that started the whole time relapse continuum in the first place. However, just a concept cannot carry a film and this is where Groundhog succeeded and many others failed- It had a heart and a good story. Bill murray plays a weather reporter who must relive the same day- groundhog day every day. Featuring great performances from Murray and Mcdonald, and fantastic direction from Harold Ramis Groundhog Day is a movie that will still be watched a hundred years from now. (Great comedy-philosophical drama).


                
It's just charming how Harold Ramis directed this comedy which shows the real comedic talent of Bill Murray. He is not just delivering some funny script lines, he's performing with his full body. It's funny when he looks, when he reacts, when he wakes up (every morning). That's something which is missing from comedies nowadays. And Groundhog Day doesn't need to explain everything to us. Murrays weatherman ist reliving the same day again and again. Why? We don't know. But it's not relevant for the story. Reitman focuses on Murray and on the recurring events that vary from time to time. This is definitely one of Murrays classics (along with Scrooged).


                
Punxsutawney Phil driving the stolen truck with Phil is one of the most classic funny scenes I've ever seen. I would say this is Bill Murray's best work, but you've seen What About Bob, haven't you? Yes, you have. Bill's the best, the sweetest, he's really pretty funny. This is Harold Ramis' best screenplay, enough about Bill and Harold, you've seen Andie MacDowell, haven't you? Andie's so gorgeous, so sweet. It'd be pretty nice to spend an eternity with Andie reliving February 2 over and over again in Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania. Not as nice as a lifetime though. Phil Connors wakes up at 6:00 AM to Sonny and Cher 'I Got You Babe' every morning in the same bed and breakfast in the same small town in the same Groundhog Day dream until he learns to love right consequently discovering the real beauty of life thus moving onward to a new day, or Phil has to go from a glass is half empty kind of guy to a glass is half full kind of guy, that about sums it up for me. Does he, you've seen Groundhog Day, haven't you? I have, I love Chris Elliott, an 8 out of 10!
Groundhog Day stars many great actors, the most notable of them being Bill Murray. Playing Phil, a sarcastic and selfish weatherman, Murray brings multiple elements of humor to the movie. Phil finds himself stuck in the same day, Groundhog Day, and he has to relive it until he 'gets it right'. The setting is in Punxsutawney, a small town in Pennsylvania. The movie itself is a clever rom-com with a moral, and I applaud Harold Ramis along with the writers. The dialogue was hilarious, and the story was able to keep its more meaningful elements while still being funny. I'd love to watch it again, and I think it's better then most modern romantic comedies. 8/10


                
Groundhog DayEven though the premise had the potential and sometimes it does wander off on dark tracks the maker picks the smart approach on narrowing down the complexity to light and breezy tone that is mildly soothing and satisfying. Harold Ramis could have done some better work in it along with editing the screenplay a bit tighter too; around 90 minutes would have been adequate. Bill Murray is excellent as the protagonist in this fantasy and he pulls it off all alone in his shoulder with head held high and doing some of his career's finest work. Groundhog Day is a beautiful feature that explores the innocence and priorities of human nature by projecting some dark and practical work on screen that is supported by stellar performances.


                
I usually like to write a review straight after a movie (within a day) and post it, and sometimes I look back and think I should have waited longer. Thankfully for this one I didn't post straight away, as this film is one that when it sinks over the coming days really revels itself to be something so special. Groundhog Day is one that needs little introduction, and I only finally watched it recently on the Feb 2nd anniversary, with the retro showings meaning that it was finally time to catch up with this old classic. We see our lead in a timeless loop, and as this is the deadpan Bill Murray, he is funny and heart breakingly emotive. What we see is our hero stuck in this loop over time (long time) go through the motions and find his true character. Partnered by Andie McDowall, he is in love with her, but his awkwardness makes it difficult to create a connection with her. He loves her but can he make her love him?This film is funny, it's beautiful and it's touching. The idea is a comedy & romance version of those old Twilight Zone episodes, and it could easily have gone so horribly wrong. But it didn't, and that is testament to the genius writing, directing and acting of all involved.A true comedy classic, that I will watch again and again and again, and should have watched long before I just did.


                
One of the most layered, genuinely feel-good and emotionally powerful comedies of all time, this fantastic film belongs in any conversation that considers the classics. 'Groundhog Day (1993)' is a truly phenomenal piece of film-making by all accounts, a picture which is at once funny, endearing, touching, saddening, inspiring, enlightening, thought-provoking and an all-around amazing experience that's ironically endlessly re-watchable. There's a whole following surrounding this film and it's Buddhistic approach to spiritualism and self-improvement, which just goes to show how much the filmmakers were able to intelligently 'milk' this 'what-if' idea for all it was worth in an incredibly artistically rich way that's as inspired as it is entertaining or hilarious, and it is indeed both, something that raises this above almost all others in the genre and even medium. Everyone should watch this one, over and over again. 8/10


                
The day depends on how you look at it. This truth really sinks in for celebrity weather reporter Phil Connors in returning to Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania, to cover Groundhog Day. Oddly enough, he wakes each morning at the same time and place as the morning before and, unlike everyone else, retains memories from the proceeding day. At first Phil, selfish and shallow, utilizes the new-found knowledge to take advantage of others; stealing the hearts of beautiful women and bags of money. Telling people what they want to hear, of which he has uncanny knowledge, works like a charm. This is until he attempts to woo Rita, the network producer. Phil works relentlessly to get into her head and appear to like everything she likes; French poetry, the piano, acting spontaneously, ice cream and kids, yet Rita is not so easily deceived. No matter what he does, she sees right through him. To win Rita's heart, Phil must change his own.In the 25 years since this film was released it has found a place in the American psyche. This feel good combination of comedy, fantasy and romance currently ranks #233, five places ahead of Jaws, on the widely used film database IMDb. This popularity has much to do with the film's valuable lessons regarding self-awareness and sincerity, and with the appealing star power of Bill Murray and Andie MacDowell (both are excellent here). Despite its simplicity and awful B-movie quality beginning, the film attains unexpected heights in spite of itself. This mirrors the path taken by the main character as well as the film's 25 year rise in cultural esteem. This was the first time I watched the film. Michael Shannon makes a surprising appearance.


                
Groundhog Day is a glorious film that gives a hilarious and sometimes bleak view of what would happen if you had to live one day over and over. It's funny and enjoyable, and while it's greatness is different to, say, Citizen Kane or star Wars, it remains the best temporal displacement comedy (if not movie), and is one of the best romantic comedies. Murray is excellent as Phil, the disenfranchised, broken down, sarcastic weather man who finds himself going over groundhog day eternally. He is perfectly cast, and proves once again why he is one of the best comics who has ever lived. His deadpan face and sarcastic nature are used to full fury, and he is aided by a great supporting cast, including Andie McDowell in one of her not crap roles, and Steven Tobolowsky, who plays the hilariously annoying Ned Ryerson. This is a must see comedy for anyone who loves Murray, time altering or whatever. Brilliant.


                
No in between, no take it or leave it. Everyone has an opinion, and surprisingly they all appear to be valid. I fall on the "love it" side of the equation, but I am a huge Bill Murray fan. Everyone knows a Bill Murray, the guy who wants to do something just wrong enough to get him fired and just right enough to be fun. Bill's character in this film is at the stage in his life where he is totally focused on advancing his career, regardless of what happens to those around him, which is why he cannot advance his career. Chris Elliot as Larry the cameraman is resolved to his role in life, observing the lives of others and getting his paycheck at the end of the day. Maybe Chris wanted to try a straight role for once, maybe there was only room for one comedian in the film, but Chris actually contributes little to the film. Andie MacDowell is the naive, wide eyed beginning producer who really doesn't care about her job as much as she cares about her own agenda. Only in her case, she isn't willing to step over or on people to get where she needs to be in life. Personally I like this film because it is an exhaustive study on the transition of a man through circumstance from an ass to a man. Rated PG for a couple of sexual situations and some violence, I'd say the teens would not be offended, but I doubt they will get it. Collectible if you like Murray, or just like an interesting play on Karma.


                
When you ask someone to think of a Bill Murray movie, Groundhog Day is usually the answer they give. The other half will say Ghostbusters. This is the kind of a role that one is born to play. Murray plays the character of Phil Conners and does it better than a real Phil Conners would have. His comedic talents are highly honed in this performance and he is working near the top of his game. It is so important to be inside a Phil Conner's head in this movie due to the repetitive nature of the movie. Murray is consistent, funny and just melds with the story line.The story line is pretty basic. Phil Conners is a weatherman on assignment to cover Groundhog Day. He doesn't seem to be a nice man nor does he like his job very much. He mis-predicts the weather and end up getting stuck in Puncsutawney, PA where an annual Groundhog Day event is held putting the whole town on hold. Upon awakening the next morning in Puncsutawney the following day he discovers that it is Groundhog Day all over again. There is a great scene when Murray dresses as a cowboy with a date that is classic; and the way he is able to handle the Brink's guards is also very humorous.Also fun to watch in the movie is the talented Andie MacDowell whose character of Rita is completely unaware that it is the same day for Phil. She tries to understand. Less understanding is Phil's cameraman played by David Letterman funny man Chris Elliot who gives his usual spot on dufus performance. The man who will always be synonymous with the film is Stephen Tobolowsky who plays the knee-slapping funny Ned Ryerson. The scenes, few as they are, with Bill Murray are comedy at its finest and also very Bill Murray. Written by Danny Rubin and directed by Harold Ramis (Murray's co-star in Ghostbusters), this film was almost an experiment to see if Hollywood would let them make a movie in which the characters relive the same day over and over again. There have even been analysis papers written about time travel and how Phill Conners reacts in his environment so as to allow the same actions to take place again the next day. The film really found a cult like following when the replay rights were purchased by Turner Broadcasting and the movie received so much repeat airplay on TBS that some viewers thought they were in the actual movie. Ramis is to be commended for keeping all the scenes and continuity straight even with so many Hollywood tricks he could have chosen to use. This movie has turned out to be an important film of the 1990s. 8/10** The poster for the film is a little too cutesy and I never thought of this film as cutesy or talking down to the audience. Of course what does it is the addition of MacDowell on the poster. It must have been in her contract.


                
I didn't really know what to expect out of Groundhog Day, to be honest I'm not really a Bill Murray fan. Him carrying a film is not too promising to me, but I'm starting to doubt that since I've been enjoying his films more and more lately. Groundhog Day is brought up in my film books and my mom said that it was a very cute movie that I might wanna check out. When I saw the excellent rating on IMDb, I got even more excited. So I figured I would rent it and give it a shot, though I got a little scared when I read what the plot was about, it seemed a little silly, but when I watched this film this morning, it surprisingly worked! Phil is a weatherman who is sent to Pennsylvania to cover the story for groundhog day with a beautiful woman, Rita who he's had a crush on for a long time. But he's always been too cocky and self centered in her opinion. When the groundhog's shadow shows, there are going to be six more weeks of winter and Phil then experiences something strange. He is reliving February 2 over and over again, but he can remember what happened the day before, so he uses it to his advantage at first. But he starts to realize maybe he could do some good in the world before worrying about getting Rita.Groundhog Day is one of those films that is very charming and the story is really cute. I loved Phil's character, how he changed and transformed himself throughout the film. He went from being a conceited jerk to a lovable guy that wins the audience. It's cheesy, I know, but it's always a plot that wins my heart. The ending was perfect, this movie was just a lot of fun to watch and I would highly recommend it.8/10


                
I wonder what Bill Murray made of this script when it landed on his doorstep. Surely it was going to be a winner as the Murray/Ramis partnership had been one that had bared fruit on a number of occasions already with titles such as Caddyshack, stripes and Ghostbusters all lodged firmly in the minds of movie goers as classic Murray fests. However, I sincerely doubt that he could have ever envisioned the success and popularity that this tale of a local weatherman reliving the same day over and over would go on to achieve at the box office and with fans alike. Murray is the best in the business at world weary cynicism and Phil Connors trial by time is at heart a simple story of a man forced to realise that in a place where nothing changes but himself that this is the only difference that truly matters. The Director Ramis claims to have received letters from people of all religions who have seen this movie and understand the message as one of their own following. In essence this is much more than a simple comedy and as Connors himself reminds us not to underestimate the significance of Groundhog Day.However I would never like to deter anyone from seeing this film on the basis that it may be too convoluted in its message. Every scene is packed with hilarious antics and typically astute Murray one liners. The film is brilliantly cast and Andie Macdowells's innocence and integrity provide a useful contrast to Murray's downbeat yet brilliant humour. She represents the ultimate female companion for Connors and gives the film its real heart as she is the person to which he attains to. There's something quite tragic about reaching out to someone and never being able to have that affection returned. The idea of human loneliness was dealt with great elegance in arguably Murray's finest work 'Lost in Translation' but the comic element of Groundhog Day does not detract from the similar pathos we feel for his isolation in a world where he can touch but never change. This movie has something for everyone. If you're after a deep message, a great love story or are just looking to laugh your ass off then this will be a winner on all fronts.


                
Seeing how today is Feb 2, a.k.a. the actual in-real-life Groundhog Day holiday. It's the right time to watch this science fiction comedy, written by Danny Rubin and directed by Harold Ramis. After all, this movie has one of the most fascinating, existentialist premise, ever given for a film; in which, asked, 'What would you do if you were stuck, reliving one day, for the rest of your existence"? This is what happens to cranky, yet smarmy, Pittsburgh weather forecaster Phil Connors (Bill Murray), whom awakened, everyday knowing that he has lived the same day, millions of times. Without spoiling the movie, too much, while 'Groundhog Day' isn't the first movie to use the time loop trope, as that would be 1945's British horror movie, 'Dead of the Night', it did massively popularized the time loop trope to the point, that other films like 2011's 'Source Code' & 2014's 'Edge of Tomorrow', were greenlit to bring their own spin to the genre. However, none of those films were comedies. So, in the end, "Groundhog Day' is in a league of its own. It's uniquely funny, well-written and with Bill Murray at his deadpan best. You really get to see Phil's character arch at work, here as he tries to both adjust to and escape from his bizarre dilemma. I like how the movie works from irresponsible, self-centered hedonism to suicidal despair to an insane number of time-consuming distractions, to finally, finding his own unexpected potential for self-growth and redemption, leading to a possibility arises that tomorrow might come for Phil after all. Bill Murray was amazing in the way, he was able to show, all of those range of emotions. Even the supporting cast was, fun to be, with. Andie MacDowell was great as the kind-hearted TV producer, Rita Hanson, while Chris Elliot was hilarious, as the cameraman, Larry. While, Stephen Tobolowsky as Ned Ryerson was a bit annoying and hammy. He was alright for the short period of time, his character was used. It's was also nice to see future-famous actor, Michael Shannon in one of first films. Not only was the acting, great; but director Harold Ramis also uses sound and music to great comic effect. One of those was the ironically cheery Sonny and Cher song 'I Got You, Babe', which will clearly get stuck in your head, for better or for worse. Another great thing, Ramis and his crew did well, was use repetition to great effect. In a lesson trained, director, this movie could had easily to be boring, but somehow his crew, were able to make, seeing repetitive scenes, seem worthy rewatchable. They did this, by adding so much detail in the background, while also giving us, something new to look at, while using the same footage, by introducing sub-characters and key items, slowly. Another great thing, they added, was a lot of scenes that foreshadows, future events, yet also leave much to the viewer's interpretation, since many of the visuals can be used as a metaphors such as ice sculptures. One such example is the use of the blue opening where Phil describe his ideal home. While, it looks like vast emptiness, if you look deeply into it, the weather scene really does describe, what Phil wants, from life, as it secretly shows his selfishness and lack of concern for others, while also casting a shadow on him, both physically and mentally. In many ways, the main character is no different than the groundhog in a Plato's 'allegory of cave', kinda of a way. Another thing, worth noting is the use of author Joyce Kilmer's 'tree', poem for its use of personification and anthropomorphic imagery. At first, Phil believes that he is the center of the universe, only to find out after Phil reads this work, that he isn't, and only by better himself and others, can he be happy with his existence. I also glad the movie cut certain scenes, such as the reasons, why the time loop started, as it was originally plan to be started with an ex-girlfriend of Phil's putting a voodoo curse on him in order to get revenge. In my opinion, it could had ruin the film purpose. It's better to leave the reasons, why the time loop, unsolved. In many ways, these examples are why people see the movie as a spiritual transcendence 'Carpe Diem' type of a movie. It's really hard to find any faults of this film's message, because of that. However, after this movie release, several writers emerged, claiming that the story was stolen from their idea such as science fiction authors, Richard Lupoff and Ken Grimwood. In truth, the inspiration for this film was the 1892 story "Christmas Every Day" by William Dean Howells, along with 1905 novel "The Strange Life of Ivan Osokin" by P.D. Ouspensky. Overall: I have to say, this is a great movie, even if certain scenes were a bit unpleasant and somewhat disturbing. I can also overlook a few goofs in the time versions where certain people and events shouldn't had happen, but did, because how well-written, well-acted, and very positive and moving, the rest of the movie, was. Because of this, the film is considered a modern classic. It's just sad that, during filming, Ramis and Murray's longtime collaboration and friendship ended abruptly, without public explanation, due to Murray undergoing a divorce at the time of filming. At least, it's good to say, they reconciliation, before Ramis death in 2014. In the end, I'm glad, they did, because along with 1984's 'Ghostbusters', this movie is one of the best works, they ever did well with each other. So, thank you, Harold Ramis and Bill Murray for all the laughs. You two, really do deserve the praise on how good this movie was.
This film was one of my most favorite films as a kid because it always made me smile and really got me thinking. The movie is interesting because it explores the ability to figuratively restart a day and live the same day over and over again. With a comedian like Bill Murray the film is for sure a funny one and will get plenty of laughs from any age audience. The filming is excellent so is the editing especially because they had to recreate the same scene over and over and over with slightly changed characteristics. Overall I rated the film an 8 out of 10 because it's a great film and what's really nice is that it's most certainly one that you can watch with your whole family and everyone will find it funny!
