In Harold Ramis's "Groundhog Day" (1993), an intriguing comedy about repeating the past, Bill Murray is Phil Connors, an arrogantly self-centered and cynical TV weatherman, sent for the fifth time to the small town of Punxsutawney, PA to cover the Groundhog ceremony held every February 2nd. He stumbles into a time warp and winds up repeating the same day over and over again until forced to look at himself from the distance and to examine his attitude. I love this movie <U+0096> not only it is one of the best, most original, clever and funniest comedies I've seen, it also makes you think of the serious questions. For instance, when Gods want to punish a mean, arrogant SOB, they would not take his sanity away <U+0096> they will make the whole world around him mad and let him deal with the situation. Or another question, what would you do if you have eternity on your hands? Is it a curse or blessing? Groundhog Day does not reuse tired and stupid jokes; its humor comes from the situations and characters. Bill Murray was born to play Phil Connors and movie uses his talent as a comedian to the fullest. I think it was the best role Murray ever played. His character has gone through transformation before our eyes, and it was very convincing. 9.5/10


                
SPOILERS It's almost unheard of for a piece of comedy genius to also be so deeply meaningful and philosophical. Yet, in 1993's "Groundhog Day", writer Danny Rubin has created something very special. Hilarious at times and often quite deep, this film is deservedly praised by everyone who sees it.Phil Connors (Bill Murray) is an arrogant news reader. Travelling to Puxatony to witness the world famous Groundhog Day, Connors finds himself repeating this day over and over. With none of his actions affecting his life, Connors firstly experiments with life before realising that he could well be stuck repeating this same day for eternity.This light hearted comedy is perhaps Bill Murray's finest performance. Going through a renaissance of sorts since the Millennium, Murray has evolved into a much more serious actor. Deservedly Oscar nominated for "Lost In Translation" (2004), Murray is at his funniest all these years back in 1993. Rude and self obsessed to begin with, the transformation of Murray's character is pure genius as he relives the same day continuously until he learns the error of his ways and wins the girl (played surprisingly well by Andie MacDowell).The social commentary of this film is absolutely superb. The way Connors is able to often deceive others with prior knowledge is superb. As, most notably, is the way that Andie MacDowell's Rita can so magically change her opinion of Phil the second that she finds out that he plays an instrument. Rita is actually just as superficial as Connors and truthfully it would be brilliant to see how well the two coped over the following few months after the film ended.Personally the finest Philosophical story about this film is the death of the old homeless guy. Irrelevant of how Connors acts, this man always dies at the same point of the day. As the doctor says 'it was just his time'. This quote is brilliant because it suggests that however we live our lives, when we are due to die, we are due to die. This is one of the most important, most powerful, messages of the film, and it is delivered with subtlety and beauty. Full marks to director Harold Ramis for this one five minute period of skill.It's easy to over think the intelligence of "Groundhog Day". Yes first and foremost it is a comedy, but it is also incredibly easy to see more depth in a generally simple comedy. So, as a comedy, let us consider it's main points. Well, firstly it is a hilarious piece of work which is well written and adequately shot. Secondly it is brilliantly acted by everyone involved, including the usually awful Andie MacDowell. Finally, it is a feel good story which leaves you with a smile on your face. So whether you think of the film as being deep or whether you view it as a simple romantic comedy, it is perfect on either level. It is genuinely an excellent film.Brilliant on so many levels, "Groundhog Day" is one of the finest romantic comedies of all time. Daft but entertaining, it features a great performance by Bill Murray as well as a potentially deep message. All in all, it's just a superb entertaining film and it should be watched at all costs.
Although I haven't watched this in awhile, I found it a very nice lighthearted romance/comedy that got better with each of the three times I viewed it. The role is perfect for Bill Murray, who is good at the playing a likable rogue, a guy always full of baloney but you don't seem to mind. The transformation of his personality is fun to watch in this film and gives it a sweet ending that was popular with audiences.You would think a movie with this plot - the same day reoccurring day after day - would grow thin in a hurry but it doesn't. The screenwriters and actors all made it clever and fun to view each "new day." All the characters from Murray to female lead Andie MacDowell to the supporting actors do a great job of keeping the story fresh. Particularly funny was Stephen Tobolowsky, who portrays a nerdy insurance salesman. I liked Marita Geraghty, too, and it was fun to see Rick Ducommun again, my favorite actor from "The 'burbs." For a modern-day comedy, the language in here is very mild. The only drawback was seeing MacDowell's character compromise her wholesome values at the end.


                
Imagine you can't be killed, you can't get in trouble, your actions lead to no consequence; and you begin to know everything about everything. Are you really a God? No your Bill Murray in Groundhog Day one of the finest comedy films to ever grace the screen. He wakes every morning in the same place at the same time on the same day.This movie will have you laughing, crying and going out of your mind, thanks to brilliant performances from Andie MacDowell and Bill Murray.This movie simply has to be seen by everyone. Again and again and again................9/10 Class


                
This is one of the best movies ever made. 1-unique: you do not see such themes in the new comedy movies, there is no such creative and thoughtful situational comedy. It is a very nice concept with a smooth build up2- the message: a deep message you get from this movie. There is a meaning for what is done and how its done in life, but you don't realize in the everyday activities; and this movie will help you see it.3- the actors:simply saying greatA great choice and a great entertainment, you should see this movie and you will be referring to it every now and thenAnd the music selection is very amusing.


                
I only have enough time at the end of the day, to post my review at the end of the day. It was a great movie, the acting was flawless, and anything with Bill Murray starts with a plus in my book. I think That, oh wow it's almost 12...I only have enough time at the end of the day, to post my review at the end of the day. It was a great movie, the acting was flawless, and anything with Bill Murray starts with a plus in my book. I think That, oh wow it's almost 12...I only have enough time at the end of the day, to post my review at the end of the day. It was a great movie, the acting was flawless, and anything with Bill Murray starts with a plus in my book. I think That, oh wow it's almost 12...I only have enough time at the end of the day, to post my review at the end of the day. It was a great movie, the acting was flawless, and anything with Bill Murray starts with a plus in my book. I think That, oh wow it's almost 12...I only have enough time at the end of the day, to post my review at the end of the day. It was a great movie, the acting was flawless, and anything with Bill Murray starts with a plus in my book. I think That, oh wow it's almost 12...


                
GROUNDHOG DAY (1993) continues the tradition of 80's-style comedies such as THE BLUES BROTHERS (1980), GHOSTBUSTERS (1984) and SCROOGED (1988), although there is a major difference. This one is based on an amazing concept, and has much more ambitious, existentialistic themes, almost in the vein of art-house movies, yet without ever feeling pretentious. It manages to be as thought-provoking and clever as movies by Stanley Kubrick, Michael Haneke or Lars von Trier, but it's told in such a light manner that it's much easier to grasp for mainstream audiences. Therefore it's able to almost sneak its themes in on those, who perhaps aren't normally used to thinking about the movies they watch. To me that's a great accomplishment in itself. GROUNDHOG DAY shows how we shouldn't take the important things for granted, that we should make the most of the time we are given on Earth, and that if the world feels like a terrible place, the changes must come from within yourself.It's a movie which different people will interpret different meanings from. It tells the story of Phil Connors (Bill Murray), an arrogant and egocentric TV weatherman, who goes on an assignment in Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania, where he mysteriously gets forced to live through the same day over and over, apparently with no possibility to break the loop. This gives him the opportunity to explore life without consequences. At first he takes advantage of his situation by stealing money, becoming a drunk, and even committing suicide. Yet Phil soon realizes that his hostility towards the world isn't really because of the world, it's because of himself. The lesson is that he must change within to get together with his dream-woman and live happily ever after. Phil is not supposed to make her like him, he's supposed to make himself a likable guy. If you are constantly angry at the world then search within yourself, because that's most likely where the problem exists.GROUNDHOG DAY is Harold Ramis's greatest movie yet. It far exceeds his other comedies, which are funny movies, but without the grandiosity of this one, in terms of the unique idea and themes. Of course Danny Rubin's ingenious manuscript has to receive credits as well, as it is basically the premise of the whole movie. Bill Murray, who is one of my favorite actors, is perfect as the Phil Corners character. Murray is able to express more than thousands of words with his eyes, and his sense of irony is fully exploited. The cameo-roles are full of comedic character-actors such as Chris Elliott, Harold Ramis (the director) and Stephen Tobolowsky. Pure genius! 10/10


                
This is easily the best movie Bill Murray has ever graved. From the tongue in cheek mannerisms of his character to the hilarious story. But this film also brings up a situation which some may not wish to have. How does one seek to change their ways in a world devoid of such commonalities? Quite a head trip when one really looks deeply into the concept. Murray fully delved into the horrendous nature of self gratification. Once Murray turned into a man who could be a caring an warm individual, his world finally changed. Makes you wish such a predicament could fall on other individuals in need of an attitude adjustment.


                
A philosophical parable, a sarcastic metaphor, or just a sheer superb Hollywood-molded comedy, are the titles marked by different spectators. No body however can deny its greatness, although it did not win any award -even in the Oscar (may be nominated in that year as I remembered).Groundhog Day tells us quite an ordinary story: a cynical weather reporter has to repeat the same day Feb 2 in a little town he hates most, so he becomes a god, becomes immortal and wildered by this eternal and miserable day- and finally a traditional but never cheesy happy-end. What makes this movie far beyond a comedic clich¨¦? In my point of view, it is the outstanding theme that uplifts this movie. This hilarious movie has a serious and profound theme which bases on Dostoevsky's query If God had died, could we do anything as we like? or the equivalent, Pascals famous saying Without a God, humans degradation turns meaningless.Fantastically and dramatically, this poor reporter Phil Connors (Bill Murray) acquires a privilege (or a damn) to repeat the same day. That means everything he does in this day will have no consequences. When he wakes up in tomorrow morning, all the things happened in yesterday become a dream. Then he has to live through today repeatedly. Therefore, with this exciting privilege, Phil naturally begins to carry out all the actions he wants to do but dare not to do: to beat an annoying man, to gluttonize desserts without fearing heart diseases, to break laws and rile policemen, to steal money and luxuriously live for one day, to coax a lady into one night stand, to chase his female colleague Rita (Andie McDowell). However, before long, he gradually finds all these mischievous or wicked deeds to be insignificant and temporary, hence a mood of tiredness and despair fills Phils mind so that he decides to end his one-day-life. But, ending this nightmare seems not to be easier than behaving badly. He tries everything. He has been stabbed, shot, poisoned, frozen, hanged, electrocuted and burned. Nevertheless, the next day is still the same Groundhog Day.In this endless torment, Phil becomes to understand that under that circumstance, fame, vanity, lust, money, happiness, sorrow, even life all really turn ephemeral- lasting only one day long- except his mind and thought. To make his transient and eternal life more meaningful, Phil resorts to some grand things- doing good deeds to others. Henceforward, he begins to observe all the people in need, and help them out of trouble in the future. He catches a boy falling down off a tree in an exact time, helps two old ladies repair their car, saves an old man from being chocked¡­ He reads all kinds of books and learns to play piano in order to spend his eternity. Time goes on and on, everyday he repeats these routines cordially and tirelessly until the miracle happens- he finally makes Groundhog Day an end with embracing his love around arms. Phil Connors transcends, not only this torment, but also his past. That line he says is quite impressive: Today is tomorrow. Actually, almost every ordinary man has ever complained that he has to repeat routines and live through a watery everyday life, but not every one has ever tried to put his soul on it, and reap the fruit of the fair life. With the envy of Phils fabulous story, I cannot help asking myself: If I happen to have this trial, how will I spend my eternity? Moreover, this movie affirms an assertion of mine: A mediocre comedy makes you laugh and forget the sadness temporarily whereas an excellent one makes you laugh and confront the ruthless reality intrepidly.Feeling tired of my didactic analysis? Do not be scared. In fact, this Groundhog Day can be everything but a stern sermon. Except for the theme, the nearly perfect performance of actors (esp. Bill Murray), the elaborate and thought-provoking lines, the adept film editing of the director, all make this movie almost flawless. The shortcomings, if there are any, lie in¡­ well, I have tried to point out some, but I fail, because none of them is conspicuous and impeachable.In a word, never miss this Groundhog Day; it will not disappoint you.


                
One of Bill Murray's best films! In fact, the whole cast is really superlative. But no matter how skillful the cast, however, you're not going to get very far if the screenplay is not absolutely first-rate – and that it is! True, I thought the script's central idea was a bit overdone in places and put too much strain on credulity (e.g. the car plunging off the cliff and bursting into flames), but more than 90% of the time, the narrative does hang together rather well, despite the script's occasional attempts to undermine credulity. Of course it's an idea that Hollywood has used before, but previous versions have not explored its implications as cleverly as this riveting scenario. It's Murray's film. In fact, he is on the screen continually from go to whoa, but he handles the role so cleverly and with such charisma that it's not until is all over that we realize how adept he has been at disguising his continual presence and allowing some of the other actors, like the gifted Andie MacDowell, a few moments center screen. Available on an excellent Columbia DVD.
It is fascinating to watch a film with massive fame running before itself. Usually because you get the sense that your opinion on the film is of great importance, due to how people would view you afterwards. For a critic, this dilemma is routine. With this in mind, I am happy to announce that Groundhog Day somehow managed to not only fulfil my expectations, but also exceed them greatly. It is impressive how far a good script can carry a film. Although it is not the only thing worth crediting, I will not hesitate to say that the screenplay is the strongest asset this film has at its disposal. The film wields its characters and idyllic Pennsylvanian town with great strength and confidence, which it certainly should be. And the central concept of a day forever repeating itself works much better than I could ever have anticipated. It takes a mind to create an idea, but it takes a great mind to carry it to the finish line. 
And that is exactly what Danny Rubin and Harold Ramis did with this film. 
Well deserving of being credited a modern classic.


                
I'm a sucker for romantic comedies. This movie has as much charm as it has bite, thanks to a fantastic script and Murray's excellent performance. Never dull or cheesy, this wonderful fantasy tale just hits all the right notes, and if anyone knows a better rom-com, please name it. I've watched it countless times and, without a doubt, I will watch it again and again (or for as long as I keep waking up to that song by Sonny & Cher).


                
This movie was really good in my opinion. Its hard to make a movie that repeats the same day funny and Bill Murray made it funny his performance was very good. My favorite part is the beginning when he realizes that he is repeating the days he does everything that people would think of doing such as getting chased by the cops or robbing a bank. Also in the movie you see Murray's attitude change as he relives the days and he starts to feel sympathy for himself and others. It also made like the movie a little more and I would watch this movie again.


                
I'll not repeat the others, and instead will be brief.   This movie is well-written, well-acted, and even has great music (everything from Nat King Cole to Ray Charles to Rachmaninoff).   It'll make you think, make you laugh (a lot), and even tug at your heart a bit.   If nothing else, see this movie just to witness Stephen Tobolowsky (as Ned Ryerson) steal scenes from Bill Murray.  Think that's easy??   Great film!


                
The only reason this doesn't get 10 out of 10 is because of one fatal flaw! It ended!! There are so many levels to this movie that you need an organiser to keep track of all the parts you should be admiring. The onion analogy would work well here. I'm not an expert only a 'watcher' so I love all the 'little mistakes' 'cos I suppose they're supposed to be there!! There is no doubt that this is a one character script with everyone else only there as filling so I suppose a question mark over the lead lady being so well known? Definitely not required. A must see and if it won any awards it definitely deserved them. No hesitation in recommending this!
I watch this film every year, on 2nd February if I remember, in homage to the concept of life repeating itself. Others have paid tribute to the wonderful performances of Bill Murray and Andie MacDowell, but everything that happens is worth watching over and over again. It never becomes stale because there is some basic existential truth in Groundhog Day. It's also a puzzle that is never solved.Recently, I heard on a TV documentary (I can't remember what it was about) that 2nd February is Candlemas, an ancient festival linked to folk tradition as well as a religious festival. Traditionally, on this date, animals which hibernate such as bears and wolves will come out and inspect the weather. If they see fine weather, they anticipate that harsh winter weather will continue for another 40 days, and they return to their hibernation. I feel that the choice of Groundhog Day as the day on which Phil experiences being trapped in the winter world of Punxsatawney is meaningful for this reason as well as what happens to the main character.Overall, it's a very hopeful story, with a wonderful ending, and I will never grow tired of watching it every year.For everyone except Phil, that day is a brand new 24 hours, and everything happens once. Phil experiences the day repeatedly, so he can learn something each time. The others meet him anew, or on Rita's case, have only 1 day to get to know him better. Still, by the end he has learnt how to maximise the impact of his interactions because he only has that day in which to do it. Another thing that occurred to me recently is poignant: his Bed and Breakfast establishment is homely but doesn't have hot showers! The day on which Phil is stuck is one on which he must take a cold shower - every day. That's purgatory, by my reckoning.Update: I watch this film every year on 2nd February, or as close as possible. This year I was impressed again by Bill Murray's wonderful performance, the cheerfulness of all the characters and the life-affirming message of the film. I was also surprised when I awoke on 3rd February to see that it had snowed overnight (in London, UK), and therefore I think the weather was telling me that it was indeed the day after Groundhog Day!


                
What happens when one day repeats itself until eternity? When there is no way to escape this vicious circle? Exactly, This is what "Groundhog Day" movie shows, and it shows it in an impeccable manner.Phil Conners(Bill Murray) is a weather reporter, who is being sent for the last 4 years to cover this "Groundhog Day", and Phil doesn't like this. Actually, he is so frustrated with this that he doesn't want to stay even a second longer in that place. But due to Blizzard, he has to stop and stay over night. Next day he wakes up at 6.00 am to find the same thing played in radio again, same things happen what happened yesterday, and today its the same "Groundhog Day". Next day, its again the groundhog day, and again, and again, and again... Initially frustrated, then turning into maniac, then slowly into a charmer, then again into a super duper maniac, then into a great guy, and then falling in love. This is the story of how a man changes in dire circumstances from scumbag into a Champion.This movie is fresh, and funny, and whatever else you want, its in there. Go for it.


                
This (along with Lost in Translation) is my favorite Bill Murray movie. It has everything needed to make it a classic movie. It has a highly innovative story, excellent acting and something else which cannot be described but you feel it.Bill Murray stars in this film which in essence is a film about a man who relives the same day over and over and over. If you can get past the fact that this is impossible you are in for a hell of a movie treat. As I see it the storyline is perfect for character development and great gags. Without saying too much I can say that the main character, who is the only one who can actually remember the day before, plays on this and seduces women. The writer originally wanted the audience to join the main character as he had already been trapped in this time loop for many years (he doesn't age, how can he when the day before never happened?) and he knows everything about everyone. This approach was thankfully abandoned because watching Bill Murray react to his predicament is nothing short of priceless. He is initially intrigued by the concept and abuses his situation but eventually there is a change in the character. What changes I will leave to future viewers to find out for themselves. The film graces a few philosophical questions but nothing more than that because the objective of the film is entertainment and it succeeds brilliantly in its goals.The cast is stellar. Bill Murray, one of our time's greatest actors both comedy wise and dramatically, does an excellent job. His comic timing is flawless and his underplayed and sometimes quite dark humor works brilliantly on screen. Also he portrays the changes in his character with great skill. Pure movie magic. Andie MacDowell, who in my opinion is a very underrated actress, does a great job as well. She is instantly likable and the audience relates to her character immediately because of this. Her reactions are highly believable and this of course adds to the overall credibility of the film. Chris Elliot gracefully underacts his part which is a good thing because the emphasis is on Murray's character but he serves his purpose to great effect. Stephen Tobolowsky steals every scene he is in and contrary to Chris Elliot he overacts every scene he is in but he stays within the confines of believable so his character too works magnificently and creates a lot of laughs. Other than the actors mentioned the supporting cast is excellent. What few scenes Brian Doyle-Murray, Bill Murray's brother, is in he makes his own.Overall the film's cinematography and sets work pretty well but as the emphasis is on the characters its not really worth mentioning aside from what I've just said. The music is another thing which is very good. The score by George Fenton is excellent and fresh. It doesn't sound like something we've heard before and therefore adds to the originality of the film which is already substantial.The whole concept of the film might sound a bit pretentious but it doesn't feel that way. In fact it feels very down to earth because of the characters' believable reactions and seemingly genuine emotions.All in all an excellent, highly original comedy that is definitely worth a look.9/10


                
A wonderful, deceptively smooth blend of contemplative metaphysics and laugh-out-loud comedy, "Groundhog Day" is a defining film for Bill Murray lovers who admire the actor for his touchy-feely side as well as his deadpan wizardry.Murray is Phil Connors, a Pennsylvania TV weatherman who travels to Punxsutawney to cover the annual Groundhog Day celebration. In just the first minutes, his boredom and misery about his situation quickly becomes a drain on everyone around him."Some day, somebody's gonna see me interviewing a groundhog and think I don't have a future," he quips. This proves to be an unfortunately accurate prediction when Phil wakes up every morning thereafter finding himself in the same place, reliving the same day. No future indeed.It's a perfect Murray comedy in many ways, one being how it hearkens back to past glories. Just like in "Caddyshack," his character appears locked in a struggle with a large rodent. The same wake-up line he hears every morning, "Rise and shine, campers," calls us back to Murray's film debut, "Meatballs." But then as the film goes on, you get the depth and tragic sensibilities in tune with later Murray, of quieter art-house comedies like "Lost In Translation" and "The Life Aquatic."Later Murray is a mixed bag for me, but I enjoy this one a lot. He's so terrific playing Phil at various stages in a long path. It is a path, even if it feels more like a treadmill to Phil: "I wake up every day, right here. Right in Punxsutawney. And it's always February 2. And there's nothing I can do about it."The repetitive nature of "Groundhog Day" throws not a few viewers, but I enjoy them the same way I do Murray's early work on "Saturday Night Live." It's like getting a series of short, black-out sketches, with the added benefit of each building to a larger whole.Director Harold Ramis, no stranger to this approach from his own glory days on "SCTV," frames many of these bits in a clever way. We see Phil go through the same motions again and again, like trying to pick up his luminous producer Rita (Andie MacDowell) by repeating the same basic lines with tiny adjustments to allow for her varied reactions. Repetition becomes the joke, and it's a good joke because it feeds the brilliant try-and-try-again story of life lived in microcosm as written by Danny Rubin and Ramis.What is the film's message? It's not easy to explain. Phil alternately becomes opportunistic, despairing, accepting, and ultimately responsible. You can see it as a spiritually focused but devoutly ecumenical sermon for achieving personal growth. Or, like me, you can see a black comedy of a man's miserable inability to achieve perfection, even when he has an eternity to play with. But maybe that's because I'm a "glass-half-empty kind of guy," as one of Phil's new local friends puts it.The negatives here are minor. As a Chris Elliott fan, I wish more had been done with his cameraman character than a few reaction shrugs. Some of the sillier comedy moments, like Phil dressing up as Clint Eastwood, plays like cutting-room fodder to me, as does an extended, maudlin sequence with a homeless man. At least that part ties into the acceptance idea, which is key to Phil's turnabout late in the film.But taken as a whole, which is the only way to take it, this is a classic comedy, worthy of the love it gets. Why don't the Academy Awards people take these films seriously? I guess it doesn't matter when the results shine through the ensuing years as powerfully as "Groundhog Day."


                
I saw this again after 10 years or more had passed since my last viewing, and my appreciation of it--particularly the writing--grew enormously. I had given it 7 stars back then, but I've upped it to 9.This time around, I see the movie as being about two things: 1) how hard it can be to get laid properly; and 2) the eternal recurrence (see Nietzsche--"Thus Spake Zarathustra," and elsewhere). The idea is, we should live our life as though it will be repeated, again and again, forever. If that were true, and we knew it, we would strive to make the day perfect in every way. Then, how much better all our lives would be!Why not 10 of 10, then? What the movie lacks is any self-reflection at all. The ideas are there, but because they are presented in the context of a silly idea, and because Bill Murray's excellent performance--the very essence of character development--proceeds only through crude trial, error, and more trial and error, then it takes us repeated viewings to get the point. Another qualm, somewhat minor, is that the piano teacher whom Bill Murray takes on late in the story somehow takes credit for his miraculous development as a jazz pianist: if she is like all the other characters in the story (except Murray), she has only known him for one day and could hardly think that she had taken him from rank beginner to polished professional performer in a single day. I think that by this point in the story, the writers and audience were both getting a bit weary of painstaking plot and character development and were asked to take on sudden change without question.


                
Such a great movie. I'm generally weary of 'high concept' movies because they tend to exhaust their creativity in whatever gimmick gave birth to them in the first place but GHD is truly something special. Eat your heart out Jim Carrey. It has a gimmick so simple and brilliant in its conception it makes you wonder why no one had thought of it before, yet Ramis and Rubin milk it for all its worth and in so many different ways, none of them any less successful than the others. We get comedy, we get poignant drama, we get romance, we get a philosophical angle - a slight turn of the screw and the same situation turns from one to the next, all seamlessly blending together. I still think one of the most poignant dramatic realizations is when Murray's character realizes in the hospital that the old man he ignores in the street every morning dies every night. One could fill a diatribe on the philosophic readings GHD lends itself to, but in the end, like Murray's character finally understands, all we can hope from life are the small moments of happiness. And GHD is filled with 'em.I think GHD is another case of It's a Wonderful Life. Like Capra's movie went on to become a tremendous classic and the better known of the two despite losing several Oscars to Wyler's The Best Years of Our Lives when it came out, so GHD seems to be climbing in status and fans as the years pass despite being received initially at face value as yet another Ramis-Murray comedy. A modern classic no doubt about it. And the connections with It's a Wonderful Life extend beyond critical praise - sentimentality done the right way, seamless combination of drama and comedy and both of the same great quality, a narrative gimmick, a great performance by a charismatic protagonist etc.


                
Much has been said by other reviewers about the metaphorical aspects of this well written and acted film, so I won't waste time rehashing all that. Basically Bill Muray's character is forced into introspection and growth because the only element of his existence he is able to permanently change is himself. Murray is pretty good at this type of metamorphosis (see "Scrooged"). While placing characters in situations that encourage or stimulate personal growth is common movie fare, the way it is accomplished here is really unique. In a world of so many copy-cat stories and variations on a theme this movie is brilliantly original. Oh yeah, the "I got you, babe" every morning as an indication we're still on groundhog day is priceless.
There's an old Doors song that has the chorus line "break on through to the other side", and it comes to mind as I write. There are many movies now that begin by showing us an everyday, mundane, version of our world and then have the central character "breaking through" to something much more meaningful and significant.Probably The Matrix (1999) is the best example of such a movie, where a computer message implores Neo to "Wake Up!" and begin a journey that has him uncovering an alternate reality. And then there is The Truman Show (1998), where Truman (True Man) Burbank begins to suspect that his routine everyday existence in the town of Seahaven has another side to it. Even Star Wars (1977) has a dual reality theme, with a deeper reality being evident in scenes with The Force; the light sabre scenes with Darth Vader, in particular, are fights between spiritual warriors, not ordinary beings.And then we come to Groundhog Day where a nice cosy small town visit leads Phil Connors (Bill Murray) to move beyond the selfishness that has trapped him, towards being a more expansive and loving human being. He realises his limits and becomes a better person. This implies that our lives have a higher purpose and the movie is elevated from simply being a small town comedy.Groundhog Day is yet another example of a movie that can be enjoyed at two levels: as an entertaining and popular box office hit as well as a thought-provoking movie that raises questions about life, the universe and everything. What could have been an ordinary comedy is lifted up by an intelligent script as well as good acting and directing. It's a movie that is well worth seeing over and over!Trivia: Groundhog Day is #34 on the AFI's list of funniest American movies.


                
Doesn't everybody know this one? Bill Murray plays a generally bitter, unpleasant weatherman who turns on the charm while the cameras roll but tumbles backward into mean, icy sarcasm just as soon as he's out of the frame. Forced to relive the same day on an endless loop, a much-loathed Groundhog's Day on-location report, he slowly works through his issues, loses the chip on his shoulder, finds personal fulfillment and learns how to share a meaningful moment. It's a simple idea, thoughtfully explored, that doesn't run short on heart, ideas or surprises.Murray is perfect in the role, able to convincingly evolve from contemptible jerk to charismatic goofball, but it's the in-between steps that really make his journey remarkable. His growth doesn't come without pains and struggles, missteps and setbacks, and we share his agony over those tough lessons and bitter disappointments. By the time his sentence in that circular purgatory is at an end, he's hit rock bottom, explored his darkest impulses, reached out for salvation, failed, improved and found peace within himself.Andie MacDowell is adorable as Murray's co-star, the ever-optimistic, spritely target of our affections, while director Harold Ramis gives the whole package a warm, friendly sensibility that keeps things on the up-and-up and still allows some wickedly dark material to sneak through. A fantastic, character-driven comedy with laughs to spare and sweet, enduring lessons to teach. Worthy of annual viewings.


                
Phil (Bill Murray) is a weatherman in Pittsburgh who has been sent four years in a row to cover the event known as Groundhog's Day in Puxatawney Penn. To say the least, Phil is VERY UNHAPPY and his giant ego makes him approach the project with scorn. True, this year he has a new producer, the very beautiful Rita (Andie McDowell), but even she doesn't lift the burden of boredom off his shoulders. While the rest of the crew makes due in a local hotel, Phil actually gets digs in a lovely bed and breakfast. In any case, Phil does his duty, very begrudgingly, putting up with the constant music of the Pennsylvania Polka and the ceremony of the "little rat". Then, a blizzard arrives. Everyone is stuck and Phil is unhappy. But, there's more. The next morning, Phil awakes to the same song as the day before, Sonny and Cher's I've Got You Babe, and finds he has to live the whole Groundhog Day experience AGAIN, even though everyone else is in happy oblivion that this is anything but the day itself. This means more polka, more little rat, more pushy insurance man trying to sell him a policy since he and Phil "went to school together", more plain coffee at the B and B. Making it through the second reliving, Phil wakes to a THIRD GROUNDHOG DAY, again. And again and again. Will Phil come to realize that HE HAS BEEN GIVEN A CHANCE to become a better man and win the girl of his dreams? This very funny film has the greatest idea at its base. If you were given the chance to relive a fateful day, would you change your behavior for the good? In Phil's case, it takes more than one day, of course. As the into-himself-weatherman, Murray is priceless and the cast surrounding him is wonderful, too. Add on the great scenery, costumes, timeless script and sure direction and you have a movie experience that will never grow old, even with repeated viewings!


                
