Right when the opening credits start and you hear that morbidly beautiful song 'Far From Any Road' by 'The Handsome Family', you know that this isn't going to be your usual cop show. Now, if you're more into action films, avoid this at all costs - but if you like amazing performances and dark, brooding cinema peppered with some black humour and a slight psychedelic touch, you're going to love this. The atmosphere and the southern ambiance of this show are so rich and the cinematography is so beautiful, I can hardly think of anything in recent TV-history that compares to this. To make a musical analogy: if the crazy, creative energy of 'Breaking Bad' felt like 'Led Zeppelin', this feels more like 'The Doors'. The slow, bluesy, hypnotic pulse of this show draws you in and hooks you - and then it doesn't let go. By the way, the original music is also excellent (T-Bone Burnett) and fits the mood perfectly. As far as the actors are concerned, there's nothing but great performances. Even the smaller parts are perfectly cast and the two leads: wow, just - wow! Harrelson (freshly returned from 'The Hunger Games'), plays the "normal", more down to earth character, while McConaughey (still marked by his own personal hunger games) nails the part of his slightly mad, highly intelligent but nihilistic and severely depressed partner. Watching them play off each other (again, after 'Edtv' and 'Surfer, Dude') while their conflicted - and conflicting - characters try to solve a ritual murder is so captivating (and so much fun) I honestly don't care that much if they are ever going to solve that crime.So for the moment, I'm giving this 10 stars (I can still take back a few if it all goes downhill from here), because in my opinion, there wasn't a single note out of key so far. The writing is top notch, and if the creative team behind this can keep it up, this could turn out to be HBO's next 'Wire' in terms of quality. Cary Fukunaga ('Sin Nombre','Jane Eyre'), who will hopefully one day adapt Stephen King's 'It', proves once more that he's a very accomplished director and a talent to look out for in the future. My verdict: if you like a well told, character driven story (that might lead you to some very dark places) and if you're not put off by a rather considerate pace, I can't recommend this show enough - this is some great television.Favorite films: IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-Known Masterpieces: imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-Movies: imdb.com/list/ls054808375/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: imdb.com/list/ls075552387/


                
When i first heard about the show , i thought to myself that with a premise and cast like that , what could go wrong with this show? Well there could have been a lot of things. For example the plot may have been overdone or under thought , direction may have been all over the place , but the first episode proved that it was not to be so.The plot looks delicious...yes it does and the neat direction just purely compliments the smooth design of the show. Even though story telling is non linear at times , but it has been managed very well with subtle dialogue and the growing suspense. It does get dark at times but handles all its complications with ease.The casting is clever...very clever. Both Matthew McConaughey and Woody Harrelson are brilliant actors and at the same time have a certain mystery about them that is Perfect for the show. They have a firm grip of their respective characters and seem dissolved in them.This show is NOT just a regular cop drama or a clichéd murder mystery. It is much much more and has already proved so in the first episode. Much is expected from it and the future looks bright for True Detective.UPDATE ( Episode 2-6 ) - Now 6 episodes have gone by and i believe my views have changed a little. The richness of the show in the first couple of episodes completely PALES in comparison to the speed, smoothness and uniqueness in the latter episodes. From the 4th episode is when the show actually picked even more momentum and proved its worth as possibly the greatest thing on television at the moment. McConaughey is truly having the golden period of his career. The future (probable) Academy Award winner (For DBC) is at his freaking best as Rust Cohle. Harrelson is brilliant as the angry and flawed Marty Hart. I liked this show. But now i am addicted to it.With 2 more episodes of the season to go , one can only expect the best from this fast-paced , beautifully crafted show.So far, an obvious 10/10.Final update: ( Episode 7 & 8 )-- Well the series ended last night on a very thoughtful note. Up until the 7th episode, the show had picked up so much speed and given us so much to think about that i was expecting a little too much from the last couple of episodes. Who wasn't.*********** If you haven't seen the series , please Don't read on*********The 7th episode was truly amazing as it set the stage for Rust and Marty's final adventure of the series. There was too much anticipation for the final episode, but did it deliver. Yes and No, depending entirely on how you look at it. There were no unusual shocking twists and there were no unrealistic happenings. It was quiet a daring and a brilliant end to a show that explored beyond any other show's reach. But to be very honest, as a single episode , the finale wont stand out. But as an entire series , i believe we have been treated to one of the best television series ever made. The writing and direction have been top notch. Acting has been flawless. Am gonna miss it.10/10


                
This show is fantastic. Both Woody Harrelson and Matthew McConaughey are stellar and the rest of the cast are amazing. Every person gives meaning to there character. The story is dark but it never gets to dark. It adds some humor every now and then which is done well. Also there is not a lot of Action so if your looking for a Action filled series this is not for you. Dialogue is well written you can tell that a lot of time was put into the shows script. Cinematography is absolutely jaw dropping they have some beautiful shots in the first 3 episodes. There is 0 shaky cam for those that hate it. I hope this show has a long run because it's fantastic and it really stands out from the rest of the crime shows out right now. Overall I recommend this show to people that are looking for a stellar story. Absolutely brilliant 10/10*Edit* 2/24/14: Just finished episode 6 and I like how this is all playing out. I am really looking forward to watching the rest of the season.*Edit* 3/10/14: Now that True Detectives first season is over. I have to say that this season will go down as one of the best achievements in Television history. The amount of emotions this season had was unbelievable. Truly some of the best Television I have watched.


                
If you want to skip this review just jump to the IMDb list of awards and nominations, and you're done.If you want the skinny, let me say this is one of the most perfect dramas ever to grace your flat screen.Harrelson, you need to understand, is no slouch. He does crazy better than crazy people. And he usually steals any scene not nailed down.But Matthew McConaughey operates at such a level here -- not to mention the astonishing makeup which makes him appear to be playing his own father -- that he walks off with this production. Mesmerizing.Everyone is pitch perfect, which I believe explains the casting awards. Even Michelle Monaghan, usually known for getting by on her amazing looks, does more acting her than anytime in her career


                
Don't let anyone tell you otherwise. This is one of the finest debuts after the end of the behemoth that was Breaking Bad. It is, however, darker, sinister and more tense than BB's first season, boasting the same level of uncanny actor performance... Mcconaughey's character is a multi layered, conflict ridden pessimistic, walking black whole with a uniform and a brilliant mind, Harrelson plays the family man cop with a bigger heart and a down to earth perspective - the clashes of both ways of life are amazing and when both actors discuss deep topics, each with his own take on life, it's as good as anything they've ever played. The story is shocking and still simple so far (only first episode has aired at the time of this review) which it makes up for in the awesomeness of the pagan thematic, it leaves plenty of hints and cliff hangers at the end of the first episode so there may still be very interesting twists to it. Directing is exemplar in shots, pace, dialogue and I even enjoy the color balance. Editing is phenomenal too. Very highly recommended!


                
Of course, I knew that HBO was putting this out there. What I didn't expect was to be hooked from the opening titles. Atmospheric, moody, moving at the laconic pace of South (not to be confused with slow). We, as viewers, are watching the story unfold just as the characters do. Harrelson and McConaughey are simply and elegantly perfect, playing off of each other to the perfect degree. The cinematography is stellar, as is the story as it begins to unfold. I had no idea what I was in for when I turned it on, but I'm hooked, and can't wait for the next and the next and the next...secrets abound, tantalizing clues are everywhere, but where do they lead. I'm can't wait to find out.


                
After just watching tonight's series premiere episode of "True Detective" on HBO, I can already tell this is going to be a fantastic show. It kept me interested and almost forced my attention the entire hour. It is already beginning to build a complex plot so make sure to pay attention to the details. All the elements of a brilliant show are at hand here. The writing, the acting, the scenery, the plot. Everything, from what I have seen so far, is amazing. The show has this dark, eerie feel to it which I love. McConaughey and Harrelson deliver great performances. Do not watch if you aren't into complex plots. But otherwise, I strongly suggest giving this one a go.


                
Wow. That is seriously all I can say after watching the first episode. The episode is amazing. Will definitely be tuning in again and so will you. Woody Harrelson and Matthew McConaughey do a great job. The script is very well written and drives the story hard. This show is all about the story. It has the feel of a mini series not a TV show so it will be interesting to see where it goes. But it is one powerful script that is acted out great. This is the first 10/10 I think I have given on IMDb. Once you watch it you will know why. I will be shocked it this show does not win awards. It may be the best show on HBO now and I would say it's up there with orphan black with it's ability to grab your attention and keep you glued.


                
Season one is a beautiful thing.Then Vince Vaughan happened and the less said about that the better.


                
It's very rare that I tell a friend that a TV show blew me away, but that's exactly what I said when discussing the 3rd episode with a friend. I've been watching the show from the first episode and after each one I sit back and think how special this show is. I watched 'The Wire' and 'Breaking Bad' in their entirety, but 'True Detective' surpasses them both. The performances of the lead actors, Matthew McConaughey and Woody Harrelson is masterful. The personal failings of their characters is brilliantly portrayed as is the interaction between the pair. The plot is very interesting, but what really makes the show is the lead actors. Matthew McConaughey especially gives the performance of his life to date. I'd never considered him a great actor prior to this, but he holds the screen and enthralls the. viewer with his broken, but intelligent and dogged character I get board by long reviews, so I'll end, but if you like character studies, a good plot and great direction, then give 'True Detective' a try. You will not be disappointed.


                
A truly remarkable visceral experience that captured my attention from the very beginning. Through the tumultuous adventures of Hart and Cohle I was finally able to appreciate what is my favourite television series to date. I was riveted and thoroughly invested in the series until the very end and several sequences in the finale episode left me shuddering with emotions that I haven't experienced before. It would be a sin not to watch this show. The thematic vision behind this body of work is a masterpiece in itself but to translate such ideas so thoroughly and seamlessly to actual film is bewildering to say the least. To Nic Pizzolatto, the cast and the crew I am indebted to you for bringing this to the world, thank you.


                
First of all, I don't write many reviews on IMDb, in fact this is my first one while visiting the site for the past 5/6 years.The reason I write one for this particular series after only 3 episodes is unclear even for me but I felt the need to write.Let me start by re-iterating what some might have already said about this show. It is not a fast paced action packed 24-type of show. So if you want to see a show where you can just turn off your brain and watch some mind-numbing entertainment, this one is not it.So far in my life I have only seen one series that I can honestly say satisfied me to my core. And that is The Wire. It is up there on a pedestal for me all on it's own. And below that is everything else. Well now, maybe the reason I'm writing this is because I have this feeling I may have found another one! Granted it is early to say, only 3 episodes in but for the first time in a long time I was watching and while being dragged into the story more and more, I was dreading that it was only one episode and then I had to stop watching and wait another week. I wanted to know more about those characters and how they look at the world, especially Rusty. That hasn't happened to me in a long time. It felt so human, so real.The first two episodes didn't really point me in any direction as to what my opinion of this show would be and I didn't think much of it honestly. Just enough to give it a chance and see where it goes. Unlike many other crap shows that after 5 minutes you know are a total waste of time, this one didn't come across as crap. But it didn't really put any big plot in front to wounder about (whodunnit?), as most shows do in their pilot, to essentially set up the format for the next how ever many seasons the studio bosses decide to air it. This one just left me wondering, are they going somewhere with this or? Which is a sign that it's either gonna be a total failure by trying too hard to be different, or it is gonna be something really special and actually tell a story.Granted, I should trust HBO that they wouldn't make something like that with Woody and Matt without some story to tell. Well now, after this third episode I am becoming convinced. This is a very deep series. It will not be for everyone I reckon, because it is quite intellectual at times and requires a decent amount of thinking capacity to appreciate the depth (10$ words as Woody Harrelson's character puts it :)) but if you can I strongly urge you to give it a chance. If you liked The Wire for the same reasons I did (intelligence, depth of characters, ...), my guess is you will like this as well. I for one am sold. Thank you once again HBO!


                
These reviewers who give this show poor rating and calling it boring and so on, probably have CSI as their favorite TV show and Fast and Furious as their favorite movie. Of course this would be "boring"and "slow paced" show for them. Leave this show to people who love great atmosphere, cinematography,acting and plot and everyone will be happy. Give this one a pass fellas, not for ya'.Back to the review witch will be brief (I just got sick of all of these "critics", so I had to say something). After watching first two episodes I can say I am officially hooked. I can't wait for the next episodes. I love the atmosphere, it reminds me of one of my all time favorite movies, Seven, so that is a plus in my book. The acting is superb. I was not fan of MMcC because of his "chick flicks", but he blew me away in this role. I must say I am more interested in what happened to both of these detectives and their characters during and after the murder, then to find the actual killer. Anyway, this is probably the best start of a TV show in the past couple of years. The only downfall is the length of this first season. Other than that 10 stars from me.


                
The crime-drama to completely redeem the television genre and set the bar for future series.True Detective centers around the lives of two homicide detectives, Rustin Cohle and Martin Hart, in rural Louisiana as they hunt for a serial killer.Rustin (Rust) Cohle, Matthew McConaughey, is newly transferred from a narcotics division in Texas and is partnered with Martin Hart, Woody Harrelson, for their first big case together. The homicide detectives are called onto a particularly grisly and bizarre murder scene with an occult undertone unlike anything their southern Louisiana parish has witnessed. Told in equal parts past, the early 1990's while investigating the case, and present, Rust and Martin being interviewed about the case, viewers are brought along to follow the case, how it transgresses and how the dynamic of Rust and Martin change as a partnership.Short for a television series, containing only eight one-hour episodes, True Detective is nothing like you've seen before on television that is billed as a 'crime drama.' There is a cinematic quality to the show and its creator Nic Pizzolatto relies upon extraordinary storytelling, intelligent dialogue, a wholly cohesive vision, and incredibly engaging and complex characters. Director Cary Fukunaga is an integral part of creating the foreboding backwoods setting and suspenseful tone with one compelling action scene in particular, lasting six minutes and technically sensational (honorable mention to all crew associated with orchestrating this scene in episode four, especially camera operator Chris TJ Mcguire) shot entirely in one continuous uncut shot marveling any acclaimed film.I am so incredibly thankful for this collaboration and brain child of the writer, director and stars – who all also executive produce the series. It is cerebral, philosophical, and the crime is hauntingly sinister. The main characters are complex, far beyond the good cop/bad cop dichotomy, each with different convictions and demons. The supporting roles are equally rich in their character development.In the end you will not know the resolution until the end of the very last episode.True Detective will be marked as a particular moment in television where a show chose to move past being an episodic series that is deemed successful and straight to film-making legend. I dare you to watch the first episode and not be compelled by curiosity to close the intricate case.Find more television reviews by season, series and episode at our website!


                
To start with, i didn't find it slow at all. It was really intense and interesting, it keeps you off the edge of your seat. As to who is the murderer is an interesting question, it makes the show more mysterious therefore it makes it much more interesting. After monitoring this show for a while it was definitely worth the wait and this is just the beginning. For those who are hesitant to watch it, give it a go because its definitely worth it! The scenario is great and the acting is probably its most noticeable aspect as the acting is just genuinely amazing. It is a bit dark which makes it bad-ass, also it kind of reminds me of Se7en. Ps, Rust is an insane bad-ass.


                
"I wasn't blown away" and "I'll consider it" are the responses I got from fellow TV amateurs like myself when I asked them what they thought about True Detective's pilot, which was what led me to watch it without high expectations. I was wrong. I could tell from the opening that this show was going to be enjoyable. You can tell a lot about a show from its composers' choice of music.A mixture of strong performances, a gloomy setting, and a mysterious opening scene is exactly what I needed. Harrelson and McConaughey's performance is just top notch, you couldn't ask for more. I was disappointed to know this is an anthology series for I wished to see more of these two in future seasons, but eight episodes are more than enough for me. We've been blown away by modern shows like Breaking Bad, shows which were really on-par with the standards set by The Sopranos and The Wire, and I think True Detective is a show that is going to repeat the cycle. I truly hope this show only gets better.


                
I'm a big fan of the first season. Everything about it was magnificent. Charming South, darkest and horrible deeds of the people, wrong choices. The creator really got to his title and actually created the warm, slow yet very violent atmosphere. So I expected the second season to see, how the crew could succeed in a tough business of leveling to the stuff they put so high in the first season.I was actually scared by the reviews like "it's awful while the first one was perfect". Thank God I gave it a try.Slow pace - definitely. The whole first episode introduces the area of play. Nothing is really happening. Yet the music fills the picture and you see the characters unroll. You see the depth and you get prepared for what's gonna come and blow you away.The story feels very realistic. Nic Pizolatto didn't lose the grip on the paintbrush and delivers a very true performance revealing the motives and consequences of someone deeds.The second season is another example of very high standard television. Thanks to everyone involved. Actors, composers, directors were all fantastic. Hope there's something else left for a third turn.


                
I've just finished watching the 3rd episode and holy cow! The only word fit to describe this show is 'perfect'. The writing is brilliant, one of the best I've ever seen; the characters are complex and really well developed; the directing is just outstanding, such beautiful camera angles, such immersive atmosphere, such great suspense. I just gotta warn you though, if you want an action packet investigation show, this is not your thing. And if you like common, super moral and one-dimensional main characters, this is also not your thing. Now, if you want a show with complex characters, deep philosophical reflections, great suspense, brilliant directing and a narrative that takes it's time, this is definitely your thing. In my opinion this is the greatest show airing on TV right now. A soon to become another HBO classic!


                
After finishing the 4th episode now i can't but congratulate on everybody involved in this. Pulling off a such tight drama can break so easily as it depends so much on subtlety. And yet this one is done brilliantly.The cast is just pure excellency. McConaughey is stunning as the broken, disillusioned pragmatist with a loose mouth. Harrelson compliments him perfectly as the good-willed but utterly dysfunctional family man, who doesn't questions his values even if he breaks them himself. And the "seven"-esque odyssey of these two challenged men to find the killer of a girl leads past all kinds of bizarre characters, each of them appropriately well performed by (did i mention?) a great cast.All this is set against an amazingly shot south states scenery, in which the moral of the people sometimes seems to be as empty and unstable as the landscape. The soundtrack finally wraps it up beautifully. It maintains a macabre yet captivating and gritty atmosphere of self-deception, self-serving hedonism and questionable morals while never playing itself into the front. So yea, i've hardly ever seen the saying "perfection is met when you can't take anything away" carried out better than in this series. I can't even describe how much i'm sitting on nails here waiting for the next episode to come out.


                
If you like Dark, if you like Noir, this is kind of a modern Noir.With a twist of crazy. Is Matthew McConoughey's character Rust Cohle, homicide detective and former undercover Narc,crazy? Or is his intelligence, probably off the charts, just what seems crazy? Whatever, he says some really cool things. Things that make you think. Maybe he's representative of an alienated spirit that resides, a little bit at least, in all of us. He is definitely disappointed by life and has rationalized his way out of the human race. Who hasn't felt that way? The difference is Rust Cohle feels that way ALL the time.His senior partner, Martin Hart, played by Woody Harrelson, is the "sane" side of the partnership. He has a streak of kindness and believes in the world he sees.Like most of us do. He is a family man and tries to live up to what is expected of him. Cohle doesn't live by what anyone expects of him. He probably has no idea of what he expects of himself either. I don't want to minimize Harrelson's part. He has his own deepness within that All-American Dream of being somebody who did right. Who raised his kids right, treated his wife right, has a sense of moral duty, earns enough for a middle class life. In other words, wife,family,house,and picket fence. Only he is a homicide cop and he CAN'T QUITE pull it off.Michelle Monaghan is beautiful. She is Maggie, Martin's wife. Martin has a knockout wife, and yet things are not always so good. I hope they expand her role, who, at present, is a ticked-off wife of a cop, Marty, who cares about his job, and can't stand his in-laws.Oh My God, is Alexandra Dadario a knockout. One punch, you're out. Check out the second episode.There is actually humor in this dark show. How could there not be some, when Marty and his partner, Rust, are exact opposites, or Marty thinks they are. The question is what will happen next in their attempt to solve the bizarre murder they are presented with in the First Episode.This is an anthology series which means the characters and actors will change from season to season. The writer and creator, Nick Pizzolatto, has created and written a great show here.


                
HBO has done it again. Although this show will not be for everyone, i believe it has real potential to be something special. It has absolutely incredible writing, acting and character development. Some viewers will be annoyed or disappointed in the pace of the show but thats where some of the real beauty and art resides. Real police cases aren't solved overnight nor are they continual gun fights like so many viewers crave. The story is filled with ominous tones and feels like real police case playing out before us. we get a glimpse inside the lives of the so- called "good-guys" if only to find out its sometimes just as dark and disturbing as the monsters they hunt. The characters are deep and complex, Mcconaughey and harrelson are magnificent in reminding us that Nobody is ever purely good or evil, we all reside in some sort of indescribable Grey area. Its gritty, its dark, its disturbing. Its Human Nature written and acted to perfection.


                
Season 1 was the best dark criminale in tv for years. It was like 7even and Crimson rivers. Dark. Intensive. Great acting and cops who gave their lives in fight with great evil. Season 3 is back in these tracks. With dark and sad atmosphere. Great acting again. 10/10.


                
This show is a big hitter, i don't think i have been hit this hard by dialog before, maybe it has more to do with where i am in my life than its genuine mass appeal, but this thing has been well thought through regardless. This show actually means something on many levels, they have tapped into a vein of contemporary existential dread and complexity immediate to everyone's lives, so much so that the actual murder investigation becomes a subplot in my eyes.Anyone who has ever tried to understand their life outside of the constraints that society presents to them(that's practically all of us), will empathize with the struggle of Matthew McConaughey's character, and that's where i believe the show will gather most of its appeal from. I just hope they don't disappoint me with where they take him...maybe the proverbial question has been answered many times before (reason vs instinct) and i hope it's different this time, but i fear it wont be. More to the point, it cant be, they can only pose the question, but they're doing a crazy fine job of posing it thus far.10/10


                
I have seen just about every series existing series and I am a huge fan of the great "Breaking Bad". Long was I certain, that no other series ever will reach to that level of BB. Then I saw "True Detectives" - watching it now for the 5th time. The "psycho sphere" is pure and deep art, the dialogues are amazing, the nihilistic-mystical influences awesome - it has influenced me in my art very strongly. True Detectives is a psycho- spheral trip of introspection and confrontation with our "shadows" (C. G. Jung) and it seems to be influence by Kafka and other great masters of the surreal and bizarre. What a grandiose masterpiece of art!!!!!


                
This is one of the best shows I've ever seen. no question about it. The acting, by both lead actors Matthew McConaughey and Woody Harrelson is flawless, awe-inspiring - I really can't complement these actors enough. Actually, I heard McConaughey's speech at the Oscars before watching this show, and I thought to myself that it was one of the most narcissistic and pathetic speeches I've ever heard, and it made me really lose respect for McConaughey as a person. But seeing him in action, bringing to life Cohle's very complex and deep character, really changed my mind. I mean, this is by no means an easy role to play, and he does it brilliantly.The plot is excellent. Everything is minimal, nothing over-played, nothing over-dramatic, everything very very precise. Usually I don't have the patience when things go a little slow (I was very bored with Breaking Bad, for example), but in True Detective, even though things have a pace of their own, you remain in suspense almost every second of it. It's like you can really savor the slowness of it.In short, this show is very highly recommended.


                
