I can't take it anymore. I was patient with Season 3, very, very patient, too patient. That, because: since Season 1, I cannot look at a lawnmower without imagining some creepy murderer driving it - that's how powerfull the cinematic universe was there, like the issue with the shower-curtain in Psycho.I gave Mr Pizzolatto the space to unravel his talent, over 4 episodes, not counting the farse that was unwatchable (Season 2). I complied with and tolerated him doing the pastiche of season 1 in season 3 - the same ritualistic child abductors/creepy manufactured toys similar to the twigs-traps in season 1/tormented detectives. But while watching episode 5 (which was announced as a huge revelation beforehand) I mean WHILE, DURING THE EPISODE- instead of following the darn story, I found myself surfing the net searching for opinions. Because my esteem for the show was fastly dropping under the tolerable line.There are lots of ways of telling the story of two detectives. Even when using a pastiche. I believe that Mr. Pizzolatto exhausted every drop of creativity and this masquerade should end here - no more True detective failed attempts, please.


                
The first season was critically acclaimed, and with good reason... It had great acting, fascinating characters, and an intriguing storyline that drew you in and kept you interested. Admittedly, Season 2 had some big shoes to fill, but instead of continuing with their winning formula, the creators decided to make things exaggerated and overdone. The Season 2 characters are insincere, unlikeable and overdeveloped, with every possible problem, obsession and kink to make them appear edgy and dangerous. Instead they come off as silly and contrived. The acting is also atrocious, which is surprising coming from solid performers like Farrell and McAdams. Vince Vaughn is especially bad, and always appears as though he is doing a parody on SNL and will drop the punch line at any moment. Perhaps some of the bad acting can be blamed on the ridiculous script, particularly evident during the scene between Farrell's character and his attorney ("I welcome judgement."), and the one between McAdams and her father. You almost get the feeling that you are watching a B-movie worthy of Tom Sizemore and Steven Bauer, it's that bad. Even without high expectations, the second season is a big fail on all counts and will disappoint all but the undiscerning viewer.


                
This is even worse than the second season, but HBO at least tried something new back than. Well, what you get here is strictly back to the roots. Because the producers be fooled into believing that the former trick was the kind of narration-style, ...telling the story by those questioners. Therefore the same ingredients, the very similar music, the exact same brand overall - like presenting an old story on a used bowl. (The same mistake that Westworld made)But even if every detail seems to be back on track, nothing matches any more. Particularly the interaction between the new guys in relation to Rust and Marty. They drove a blazing touch of buddymovie despite the tragedy around - that was the truth in that detective-story. Now it goes the wrong way round...tragic of course, kids are missing, but no humor inside.As much as I devoured the first season, I can not swallow this. Yes, good filmed, well plottet and all homework done:Anxious and intense kind of boredom


                
The first couple of episodes were somewhat promising despite the fact I can't understand what Wayne is saying half the time. But then it just drags on through maddening time warps until I don't know if I can get up the energy to suffer through the last episode.
1st season great. 2nd season mediocre. 3rd season abysmal.


                
This was an 8 episode love story with crime interludes. The first episode presented mystery grit and compulsion, but it all went down hill after that. Time jumping lead nowhere, Acting was very one dimensional, Location just copied the first series. No punches, No twists, No suspense. By episode 5 I had no interest I kept watching just in case the writer had an evil super twist for the ending, NO.
The first series was epic, the second watchable, but the third was awful, should have been called True Families not True Detective.


                
It is not the same as the first season.There is long drama scenes, and the storyline is not so exiting... There is to much slow drama stuff in too many different scenes. With all these famous, and high qualified actors, I expected more. I will still watch it. - Just to see if it improves later. Now I give it only two stars...I miss the mystery... and the feeling I had in season 1 I wish the "crew" from the first season came back... and fixed it up...I am disappointed...Carsten - Norway


                
There's a line in 48 HOURS when Nick Nolte points out to Eddie Murphy that, even though Murphy's been given a $500 suit, he's still a piece of pond scum. Eddie responds, "Yeah, but I look GREAT!". With TRUE DETECTIVE, the American movie and TV public serves as the people that Murphy's 48 HOURS character hopes to impress. The work itself is the dazzling $500 suit. Sort of like an inverted Emperor's New Clothes. Hopefully there are a few Noltes' out there that will recognize that T-D is a vapid, glib, superficial and facetious effort designed to package prodigious amounts of style and cool over top of.... well, nothing . I'm not sure if I've ever seen such a straightforward attempt to blind an audience with absolutely nothing other than melodrama, charisma, and glitz. I got a hoot out of reading the "10" Comments here on IMDb. Hypnotized and gushing with plenty of adjectives but conspicuously lacking in any substantive description. Stick a dead fish in a nice vase and from a distance it looks, well .... GREAT. Just don't get too close.PS / Even the title TRUE DETECTIVE is pretentious.PPS / WHEW! I'm gonna get a lot of heat for this COMMENT!
Dont waste your time watching season 3. Or the energy trying to make sense of the confusing ending.
Season 1 was Great. 2 ok at best with a great theme song.


                
I had high expectations only because of the lead actor who I love. But this left me with so many unanswered questions. For instance...what happened to his wife? I need closure and the ending gave me nothing but confusion.
Looked sooo forward to this.. but such a disappointment..
Half of the time couldn't make up what they were saying..
Adored season 1, had to get used to season 2 but turned out fairly good.. but this one is a real miss.
Slow, boring, unsatisfying ending.. was distracted so many times.. checkin email in between watching.. this cant be the goal of a good series..
One plus.. the make up of the old Hays.. very well done!Too bad..


                
I really wanted to love this, as I am a long standing fan of Woody Harrelson and a newer fan of Matthew McConaughey.However, the first 10 minutes lets you know - women are raped and murdered, and of course they show you the visuals because our public likes it so much. Why do we not see visuals of naked, tortured children on television? Because nobody likes that! We see it with women all the time and it's just unoriginal. Victimized woman, hero man. This is the most old, worn out plot there is. Where is the reality there? Where is the complexity of human emotions and actions and roles? As much as I love Woody, I found his acting strained. Very little facial change whether he is talking to a sexual interest, his male partner, his daughters, etc. Matthew's acting was beautiful and showed complexity.Then, there are magically no women in their professional industry past and present - except the de-sexualized black woman who just makes the men coffee and she is actually explicitly called the oh-so-common, and not helpful stereotype of "strong and black." The wife is introduced to the audience with a visual of her butt in panties and of course no man is introduced that way. Here is a sum of the women characters: victims, hookers, nagging wife, young mistress, useless poor, fat women to be questioned, and the de-sexualized black secretary. Women account for 50% of our population and that is all they could come up with? Again, so unoriginal.
Slow and boring , drags on and on and on going nowhere ,nothing happens in majority of each episode , not in the same class as the others in this series


                
I watched the first season from start to finish and thought it was spectacular. So refreshing and different from everything else out right now. But the second season is totally wrong. Everything about it is wrong from the casting to location to script to directing to soundtrack. It's all bad. Just god awful. Poor Rachel McAdams is the only bright light on the whole debacle she really shines as a brooding tough detective surrounded by a bunch of bumbling idiots.Vince Vaughn who is just awful as a shady mob figure completely is completely wrong for his role. I keep waiting for him to be funny and tell a joke. Colin Farrell is s boring and gives a lackluster performance leaving you scratching your head at what the hell he is even doing on the show. I'd rather see him in " Phone Booth " again then in this show. I hope next season redeems itself and saves a great cable show before it's too late.


                
When I heard the title True Detective, I thought it would be inspired by the old pulp magazines. But this is pretty much the opposite in every way of those. Forget quick witted tough guys; this is a show of endless talking between two humorless homicide cops. Every conversation is slow and serious, with long pauses. After 20 minutes I started my video player at double speed, and at that speed people talk about as fast as they do in The Maltese Falcon. Based on the first episode, which is as much as I could take, this is less about crime and more about two guys who don't like each other having long, frustrated conversations. Plus the look at me acting Matthew McConaughey seems to be screaming in every scene. So excruciatingly tedious. The producers have seen the success of the Scandinavian dramas and want a slice. However they've forgotten to have an interesting plot that moves along keeping the viewers interested.


                
I loved season 1 and 2 but I find season 3 episode 1 too talkative and boring, especially that the acting is very composed and artificial. I am not interested to follow it through


                
What the f** did you have in mind writing season 2? There's a saying calling emotional rape. That pretty much wraps ups season 2. Rack up some main characters as being likable and reap 'em in the end. What ???? As if they didn't have any other options? This is just p*** poor writing skills on behalf of the writers behind season 2. A third grade could have made a more interesting plot.


                
I really was looking for to see a good crime series, but after the first episode I decided to stop watching. I did not like the tone of the series, the story was unfolding very, very, very slow, and after the first episode ended I just did not know what the series is about (oviosly about a murder, but otherwise it did not have a clear direction), I did not care about the murders, about the victims or about the detectives. A series must hook you from the pilot episode, True Deetective just did not do that for me. Maybe because I am not from the US, but the whole southern vibe was just too distracting. The actors were good, but if you saw one drama with Matt you know how he is going to play it, so no surprises there. The same I have to say about Woody. Good acting, but no surprises - just like the other dramas they acted before. Maybe i expected too much, and the following episodes are better, but I did not want to invest in a series that bored me from the opening titles.


                
Yes against everybody here this series is awful. I give it 2 star Because of the great cast. woody and matthew are the finest players and their game there amazing and mesmerizing. What do the plot of the series is not interesting and flowing, the story is moving very slowly and at some point it's getting tiresome. This is a very dark series, often you just don't understand what the poet wants to say.Cynical use of nude women unnecessarily. Dialogues are trying to be Tarantino but they really do not even close.In summary anyone looking for an excellent game with very strange plot, this is the right series.For those who like Mainstream TV show and want a bit of interest, this isn't not really the correct series. some people think this is a masterpiece. I think someone is selling us Bullshit wrapped in a beautiful paper.


                
I had high hopes for this. MM and WH starring in an HBO production, how can that not be a hit? Well, if the premiere is any indication this is not only not a hit, but it is painful to watch. An hour later I had no idea of where the plot of this show is going and I had a massive headache. Maybe it will "pick up". I hope so, although it's not as though MM and WH careers hinge on this.The show has a reasonably interesting premise but so far it has been unveiled in a ploddingly slow way. I do find MM interesting in the way that his future character is so different from his 1995 character. The set location of this series is horribly depressing. So the depressing set, plodding storyline and slow pace just don't make me interested in watching it again.


                
Not as fast moving as season1,2. Actually its borring i find the story all over the place.


                
Well everything depends on one's personal taste and mood.
I'll explain what I liked and the parts I didn't appreciate in True Detective Season 1:Positive:
Great acting. Story becomes gripping toward the middle of the season. Nice sceneries. Potential for an awesome mystery. Story draws you in if you're patient. Builds up your expectations at the beginning and in the middle.Negative:
Story too slow even at the start. Too many plot holes and the mediocre ending clashes with the strong beginning. I personally found it too dark. Don't watch during a period of your life when you're down. I'm an agnostic and a pragmatic person myself and so I partly identified with the Rusty character, which is why it was like watching myself talk as he talked about his thoughts. For someone who considers him a crazy man, his character is harmless. As to someone like me, because I believe in most of what he had to say, I don't need reminders of the harsh reality of the world.Why I'm rewatching Dexter:
At this point I'm in a period of my life where I need something uplifting... So I watch and rewatch Dexter. The latter is full of colour, Miami sunshine, Cuban music, dark humour and of course, a human quasi-superhero and unrealistic Bollywood-style coincidences and happy endings! Another plus: watching a show that you've already seen can be relaxing for your mind.Unfortunately for me the negative outweighs the positive, hence the low rating.


                
We enjoyed the first season. But this second season with Vaughn and Farrell was almost unwatchable.
All those disfunctional characters! Too much psycholology, not enough action. Did every character have an unhappy childhood? Did everyone need a shrink? Did everyone need to drink and smoke in every scene? Ugh. There was no clever charm in this story whatsoever, a waste of the viewer's time. We could not finish it.


                
3 sezon really bad,it's so bored and not interesting... it would be better to do nothing new after the first season.


                
