The 3rd season is a true disappointment so far. After 4 episodes I gave up. Nothing is happening. There's very little story line that actually moves the plot forward. There is a lot of extraneous conversations that might be necessary in the first two episodes to build characters. But after 4 episodes and excruciating slow pace, I lost interest in the actual mystery. I really like Mahershala Ali and he did a great job in his role in three different periods. The aging effects are also unbelievably amazing. But those are not enough to hold the viewers interest. This story should have been done in 4 episodes and many scenes should have been cut out. Maybe then, it could have worked.
For those who will continue to watch this season, I wish you luck. I hope the ending wont disappoint


                
This isn't a slow burn, it's just slow, and the pace never picks up. It's a convoluted story and jumps between three different time lines, and none of them are the least bit interesting.


                
Season 3 is where I give up on this show. It's gone downhill gradually since season 1 and now finally 4 episodes into season 3 it's definitely over and out for me. It's not worth my time pure and simple. As a last hurrah I skipped till the end of the episode to see if there was anything exciting going on, as it often is to get the viewer hooked for more episodes, but no. The end was more depressing and slow. Who can give this 10/10? I give 3 for production quality only which is good. But for entertainment which is the whole point it fails entirely and I give 0.


                
Is it a must watch show?
No. It just wasn't interesting. Won't miss a thing if you didn't watch it. Dull, and a little bit of a torture to watch.Was the story good?
Not really. It seems like there wasn't enough content for eight episodes. There seemed to be a lot of filler scenes of characters and their personal lives. It is always nice to see a detective's personal life, but in this case, it was repetitive and dull. When the mystery is finally solved, you will realize that the twist at the end was forced, it wasn't natural. Even if the ending was simpler than expected, it is an ending, except that it was ruined by all the content leading up to it. The truth is that this is not based on true events, and the writers simply created a story for season 3 without spending a lot effort on the story itself. They did however, spend a lot of effort in ways to drag a short story to unnecessary lengths. They should have done with it in 4 episodes and it wouldn't have been such a torture to watch, or they should have better written the filler content. It seemed almost like the writers wanted the viewers to remember the first season, they even showed a newspaper clipping of that case. In the last episode both detectives say that they don't feel like they got closure, it feels more like the writers knew that they didn't have much to offer.How was the acting?
The acting was perfect. The actors were all interesting. There was so much potential story telling with this cast, but the writing let them down. It looked like they could have had amazing chemistry, but I guess writers thought otherwise.How was the musical score?
Not that great, but it did however create mystery to something that, at the end wasn't there. The usage of the score is similar to the usage of jump scares in an uneventful scene by a horror film, just to keep people at the edge of their seats. Even in the last episode, after the mystery was solved, it just wouldn't let go.Reviewers advice:
Avoid it. There are better shows that are worth your valuable time. I did like the first season though, and because of that, felt a need to watch it. Big mistake. Not the kind of review I thought I would be writing, but, it is what it is.


                
After the first two episodes I was excited for a great show. Then it just went on and on without anything happening. Many things went to nothing. Walking around then talking for a bit, driving a little, then something might happen and then the episode is over. You hope the next episode will show something new and interesting, but nope... Nothing happens. Even the final episode was boring. It hinted at new things, but they went nowhere.
So the story is this: A man is haunted his entire life about a girl dissappearing. Haunted for no reason really. Turns out nothing bad really happened. The end.
Do I wanna watch it again like I did with Mindhunter or Manhunt: Unabomber? NO!
Season 1 was stunning, Season 2 was OK but Season 3 was appallingly bad. Most of the time it was impossible to understand what was being said, just incoherent mumbling. The cast was the most boring set characters imaginable. Please, please no Season 4.


                
This season just didn't do it for me. I wish it had. I love the characters.


                
This is wildly overrated. What seemed to start out with promise evaporated along the way and I thought the ending didn't do the setup justice. In fact, the bad guy and his environment weren't compelling or particularly interesting, and was only used to fill up time and resolve the plot, sort of, at the end. He didn't come across as monstrously depraved, as he should have. He came across as merely inbred and seedy. It would have been more interesting and intriguing to unpeel the bible school network and get under the oily skin of the proprietor family and their allusionary attraction to the 'dark side" (That's right – allusion not illusion). I appreciated Woody Harrelson's character's home life. Their realized dynamics came across as too painfully and uncomfortably real and were well written. Matthew McConaghey's character was not entirely believable, even within the Usual Suspects narrative setup. Rather than being swept away with plot developments and transcendent character development, the presentation devolved into annoying "look at me, I'm working hard at acting".


                
For who knows what reason the mobster evil guy in the series is featuring Vince Vaughn. Vaughn is best known as a notable member of the Frat Pack. For crying out loud, he is supposed to make you laugh, NOT SCARED. We are so inculcated with him as a funny character, that his presence in the series really doesn't tie the play together. Not to mention Colin Farrell poor performance. The intro is cool though, Leonard Cohen's Never mind. You have a few flashes of David Lynch along the way.Clearly the director wanted a cool show, but the ingredients are not quality, very much like a pizza.


                
Like most people, I bought into the HBO hype and looked forward to the airing of this show. After one episode, I was telling myself to be patient and it might get better. After the next episode, my wife and I both lost interest. The screenplay was all based on flashbacks, jumped around with muttered dialog that was hard to follow. Evidently the producer/director were aware of this problem. So after each show they spent a few minutes to "explain" to the audience what just happened, what the characters were thinking, etc..We still watch episode 3 on OnDemand, reconfirmed that it didn't get better. Then we stopped. Our daughter later told us that it got better in later episodes, so we went through the remaining 5 hours in one day. Although it got better, it's still not good. By comparison, we had just watched FX's new series Fargo, and the difference is night and day.It's common for HBO series to have 10 episodes in a season. That this slow and wandering series ended in 8 goes to show that there is simply not that much in the plot. The writers were just stretching things out as much as they could. The way they keep the suspense is to have disconnected scenes and dialogs that leave the audience in a fog,The two lead characters, portrayed as flawed heroes do not generate much interest or sympathy. Other characters added little or nothing. I can't help but to think that they're just used to kill time and add some gratuitous sex scenes.In one episode, I actually watched the after-show explanation. It was explained that all the time when Cohle was interviewed and giving flashbacks, he was drinking beer because he was smart enough to know that everything he said would be inadmissible in court. This is just one example of how the writer/director didn't know how to tell a story, and there wasn't that much in the story to begin with.
The review is in the title. Great disappointment series 3. I lost interest from near the beginning.


                
I love how the story is told in all three seasons. It makes you wanna think outside the box, and look at all directions. However it's like Nic gets lazy and just throws the ending together. So much potential but it falls flat on its face season after season......


                
Season 1 and 2 were great,but season 3 unfortunately up to ep 3 real slow and hard to keep your attention, needs to get a move on.


                
Contains spoilers!!I can handle sex and nudity as well as anyone else. But, when it's so blatantly gratuitous, one-sided and dehumanizing...it's insulting to both men and women. I can't believe the viewers and critics that are gushing over this show. I have a hard time being captivated by the actual (thin) plot because I'm slapped in the face with women's backsides everywhere...the wife, the girlfriend, the strip clubs, the young, former prostitute (who begs for anal sex), the victim, the opening credits...(fetish anyone?) The decor of women's backsides in the opening credits, sitting into spikes on her high heels just serves no purpose but to...what? This show uses real world issues (victimization of women, murder, sex crimes, prostitution) to prop up the main characters' machismo. I care more about the victims than the director, writer and producers do. This is irresponsible and indulgent storytelling. And Nic would do better if he just wrote porn, or he just chose not to write female characters at all and stuck with male characterization-which he is good at.
Season 1 was great.
Season 2 was garbage.
Season 3 is just boring.
I can't understand the fantastic ratings here. The first two episodes of series 3 is so boring that my watch stopped. Actors in sleep mode. It's as if everyone was told: "Try to sleep walk through your role, and everyone will love it". Well... I don't.


                
..who thinks this show, or at least the first two episodes, have been quite lame? For all its bluster, the dialogue and plot is predictable, the characters wooden -- Mcconaughey, an oh-so-mysterious man whose backstory is constantly being projectile vomited at the audience, is more effective than Harrelson, a caricature confusingly surrounded by beautiful women. The nude woman in episode 2 is, to understate things, remarkably beautiful. But the scene was unbelievable, gratuitous and unnecessary. It was offensively pandering. I was really hoping to like True Detective, but it stinks so far! Maybe they'll kill off Woody Harrelson's character and add a few clever plot twists.


                
Loved the first season. 10/10
Second season just watchable 3/10
Third season just terrible 0/10If you want something that holds your interest and is also entertaining, skip season 3 entirely. Don't even waste your time watching beyond the first episode. The first episode got me interested but the rest of season 3 = Dark, moody, mumbling, and stagnant, and utterly boring.
Watch season #1, enjoy, and move along. Watching a fly take a nap might be as entertaining. HBO, what went wrong?!


                
This narrative was a total cheat, what a load of who shot John ! Dont waste 8 plus hours of your life on it seriously. Please lets not make any more True Detectives. This confusing red herring mess is deterioration enough already....RIP


                
This would probably have been great if I could have understood half the dialogue. As it was the sound was so muffled and the actors mumbled so much that I gave up after one episode.


                
Season 1 was great. Season 2 was garbage. Season 3 was promising until the finale, which was slow, boring and ruined the season. It's a real shame because I enjoyed the first seven episodes of season 3, but now feel like I just wasted my time watching it.


                
This could be an excellent show. But when HBO signs on for a show, it seems the station's criteria for success requires gratuitous nudity and sex when none is required for the plot. Additionally, if you enjoy seeing a show which depicts a nude woman, slaughtered and hung up crucifixion style, then perhaps you've got a stronger stomach and creepier sense of entertainment than I. On the former note, I don't care for programs that depict women in one role, sexual accessory to the story. On the later, anytime Hollywood successfully produces and earns accolades for shows where women are stripped nude, sexual assaulted, mercilessly slaughtered, and God knows what else, I think we, as a society, might want to reassess what we consider entertainment. It's a shame. The dialog is quite well written. If the writers could have toned down the implied horrific violence towards women and found a more "palatable" crime to base the show around perhaps it would have hooked me. I'm not easily scared away by shocking, gritty, and violent shows. I loved Breaking Bad, Walking Dead, Homeland, etc....but with this one, I didn't get past the second episode. Pffft.


                
