Last spring (2014) while surfing IMDb for a new show to watch I came across True Detective, a show that had received rave reviews across the board. I'm not a particular fan of crime mysteries, but I figured I'd give the show a shot. After all, IMDb ratings had been pretty reliable in giving me an idea of good a show would be. I thoroughly enjoyed Season 1. In fact, I'd say it's one of the best pieces of television I've ever seen. Yes, one of those rare masterpieces that stick out from the usual assembly of cheesy sitcoms and thrillers.Season 1 verdict: If I had to give only season 1 a rating, I would give it a 9/10 with no hesitation, and possibly even a 10/10. The show was everything I had hoped for and more.Needless to say, I was excited for season 2. I waited for the entire show to air so that I could binge watch it without having to wait a week between episodes. I eagerly turned on the first episode of season 2, but as the episode dragged on it became apparent that this episode was a real let down. It was a series of of plots that all seemed to have no relation to each other. It was hard to even follow what was going on. "Hey, that's okay" I said to myself. I figured it was just a necessary lackluster episode that would set the stage for all of the glory of True Detective that I knew and loved. Instead, I continued to be disappointed by episode after episode. Sadly, it became very clear that Season 2 sucks. I don't use that word too often, unless it's warranted, but in this case it surely is. During the middle of episode 4 of Season 2 I just turned it off. It was so poor that I couldn't even watch it anymore. I came back the next morning hoping to try again and got the same result. Season 2 is basically unwatchable.Most of Season 2 involves a few seriously depressed brooding alcoholics staring at each other with sad serious faces uttering dark cheesy lines like "Those moments, they stare back at you, you don't remember them, they remember you". I mean, come on, really? The whole thing is just cheesy and I lost all interest in the problems of these people. I want to give Vince Vaughn some credit here, because he did some fantastic acting, but that couldn't come close to redeeming this season.Season 2 verdict: Don't even bother with season 2 unless you like being disappointed. It sucks, plain and simple.


                
Enjoyed the first 2 episodes but by ep 3 I was getting a headache from the time-line jumping. Why do directors and editors feel this is neccessary to do it to such a degree that it leaves one confused and barely able to follw the story?Hoping the time-line settles for the rest of the series or I'll give up on it, like I did midway through Season 2.The acting from Mahershala Ali is superb nonetheless.


                
I was happy with season 3's Double ep start..After the very disappointing Season 2 it seemed we were getting back on track.Unfortunately ep. 3 is so slow and disjointed I fear it may not recover.The performance of the lead Actor is the only reason I have given it a rating of 7.Mahershala Ali could read his shopping list and be brilliant.I hope it DOES recover but atm nothing surpasses season 1 which I rated 10/10


                
As some other reviewers have noted, the only way I'm enjoying this is by having to use the subtitles to see what's being said. Seems many newer actors are adopting this "speak as low as possible in the most monotonous tone you can come up with" (aka Mumbling) I've noticed this with a few other shows also, but this is one of the worst. Had it not been for being able to turn on subtitles/captions, I would have given up by episode 3. Most of the supporting cast, I had no problems understanding/following. Otherwise, season 3 is pretty engaging with all the talented actors in the cast, several outstanding performances, the various plots and subplots.


                
Absolutely loved the first. It had everything. Perfect story, perfect characters, perfect actors, perfect dialogue, beautiful cinematography, great soundtrack etc. etc. etc.The 2nd season failed at everything that made the first season great. It was unoriginal, boring, pretentious, filled with clichés, contained some awful dialogue and even worse acting. It desperately tried to package this mafioso soap opera into True Detective with a similar-sounding soundtrack and the same kind of look. There is nothing that suggests that this is the same television show aside from the name and the cheap rip off looks and sounds.So, is the writer actually just bad? I mean it's the same guy! Was he found out? Maybe! Was the first season a fluke? In my eyes, it was a true work of art. Not just thrown together to milk the cow. It seemed like Nic Pizzolato took whatever time he needed for the show to become what it became. The second season feels like it was thrown together when the writer/producers realized that the first one was a hit.You can see it on the actors. It went from A-list actors to bottom shelf A-list (maybe even B-list). From McConaughey and Harrelson to Colin Farrell and Vince Vaughn. You can clearly see that the first pair took the risk of going into television for a reason. Television has never been hot for successful actors. I'm not saying that TD were the first to do this, but they sure as hell kicked off the trend. So why did Matthew and Woody take a chance on this show? Cause it had one hell of a f*cking script, story and idea. Why did the second season attract lesser actors? Because why would any good actors be interested in such a poor script? Who were interested? Lesser actors who wanted to ride the wave. What else can I say? I am so deeply disappointed even now, a year on and I'm dreading the fact that there is a third season on it's way. How dreadful is that going to be? Are they going for C-list actors this time around? Maybe Jensen Ackles and LL Cool J? Let's face it. It wasn't meant to be. There should've never been a second season. And there sure as hell shouldn't be a third.I rate the first season a 9/10, the second one a 4/10. So I land on a 7.


                
(Review updated after Season 3).A murder-mystery series with each season set in a different location, with different characters, and independent from the others.Season 1 of True Detective was great. A slow-burning, incredibly intriguing crime-drama. Viewers were fed pieces of information regarding the crime, complete with a few red herrings and sudden bursts of action. All this was interspersed with the private lives and dramas of the two detectives (played superbly by Matthew McConoughey and Woody Harrelson). Plus, the finale was an incredible adrenaline rush of action. This all made for a highly intriguing, engaging and entertaining season.In Season 2 creator Nic Pizzolatto tried the same thing: a slow-burn, with a rush of action towards the end. However, the first half of the season is too unfocused to be engaging. You have whole 50- minute episodes where you feel you really only got maybe 10 minutes of entertainment or information out of it. So many scenes with people staring blankly at each other for minutes on end...I understand what he was trying to do: develop the characters, give us small pieces of information, build the background and intrigue. However, this time the story develops too slowly to maintain, or even develop, any engagement with the characters.By the time you reach the climax of the season, you are so disengaged you hardly care who the characters are. e.g. Someone dies. You're pretty sure you're supposed to know the character and their relevance to the story but you were zoned out whenever their character was mentioned or had screen time. Thus, a piece of the puzzle dissolves.All this leads to a massive dissipation of intrigue, and watching is just a chore - you're in this far, might as well see it through.Add in some terrible miscasting and performances - Vince Vaughan should stick to B-grade comedies and Taylor Kitsch should stick to whatever he does best (this isn't it) - and a damp squib of a finale and Season 2 is very disappointing.Season 3, released 3½ years after Season 2, initially looked very promising and had the potential to see a return to the form of Season 1. Puzzling mystery and a 3-time period storyline made for intriguing and engaging drama.However, the mystery soon dissipated as the 3-time period formula gave away much of where the mystery was heading. Rather than being a murder mystery it became a human/relationship drama, and not a very interesting one. Nic Pizzolatto did his best to recreate the dark, brooding atmosphere that permeated Season 1 but it can't hide the lack of genuine intrigue or of character engagement. Good ending though.Season ratings: S1 - 9/10, S2 - 5/10, S3 - 6/10.


                
To follow third season of True Detective was as thrilling as a piece of dry bread. My girlfriend and I kept saying "Something is bound to happen". Even in the end, when he's sitting in the bar. But yet another out og context relationship-scene pops up. Suddenly they just find the Black dude and he spills his guts with the lamest crime story. And the Girl is Living peacefully showing no Signs of trauma? What is This trash. This could be an okay series, but don't Call it True Detective. Call it True Drama.
My girlfriend and I agreed that we have to have missed something - it couldn't suck that bad. I still hope that's the case, but I'm not giving another shot.Went from 10/10 to 7/10. SEASon 1 is still the Best piece of tv of all time.SEASon 3 2/10 (Only good thing is acting og two Detectives)
Guys really, 9.3 rating for this??? Are you all crazy? Admittedly, this series is well crafted with good actors but overall garrulous and boring, boring boring. Of course the last decade messed us up with action filled movies and series but TRUE DETECTIVE works like an overdose of sleeping pills... In spite of several attempts I could't get thru the whole season, the biggest disappointment in years!Best of all are the opening credits and the soundtrack, but that can't help over the uninspired story...Not far as intense and breathtaking as HANNIBAL with the furious Mads Mikkelsen!


                
How does a show drop off so drastically from the first season to the second? First season was great, I thought, "WOW this is a great series. Finally, something worth watching." The second season left me wondering what happened. The sound and dialogue are awful. Mumbling, no chemistry. It's like they have to try to explain what is happening in every scene because they can't write well enough for the viewer to follow along. It's just really bad.


                
I see that this show has gotten tons of great reviews. I wonder how many of the 9s and 10s were written by people who didn't watch all 8 episodes. If I had reviewed this show after the first two episodes, then I would have given it a 9 or a 10. This show is largely a murder mystery, and lots of mysteries start off as 9s and 10s. That is because it isn't that hard to start a great mystery. It is easy for a writer to dump a bunch of strange clues on the viewer to create the mystery. Finishing it is another thing altogether, and this show starts on a massive downhill slide about halfway through the season before it hits bottom in the very unsatisfying last couple of episodes. At the end, it leaves all kinds of plot holes an unfinished story threads, not because it is leaving them for a future season, but because there was never any substance or depth in the story to begin with. The incredible suspense that the story creates in the first few episodes is a cruel hoax. The story eventually turns into a crushingly clichéd conspiracy tale that never explains in any detail who exactly is in on it, why, and what exactly their motivations are. This problem seems to be getting more and more common nowadays – poor storytelling and plot holes, and then the unsatisfied viewer (like myself) being told that story isn't important because "It's about the characters".I might be willing to buy into the idea that this is a "character study", but the show doesn't succeed in that area either. True Detective spans 17 years, and there is little change or character development that takes place. It also never gives you any background for how they got to be such cold-hearted jerks in the first place. At one point, the two main characters meet, not having seen each other in years. I was really hoping that it would be an opportunity for them to show how much they had grown up, changed, and improved as human beings, but nope. Other than their appearance, they are the same people that they were at the show's start. For all of the insanity that these two guys have experienced, it hardly seems to have affected them much. The only evidence of an arc for one of the characters occurs in the final five minutes of the last episode. The show occasionally sprinkles in some themes like God, timelessness, and life after death, but it does absolutely nothing with them until that final scene. The occasional sprinkling in of these themes feels more like a teaser to make the story look smarter than it is.Another big problem with the "character" portion of this show is that a big chunk of it involves Woody Harrelson's crappy marriage. His wife is a crabby bitch (and a poorly acted one at that) and he is unfaithful. Every scene between the two of them basically sucks, and there wasn't a single family-related scene that I think added value to the series.Make no mistake though, Woody Harrelson (who I have thought for a long time is underrated and under-appreciated) and Matthew McConaughey provide a couple of incredible acting performances. Especially McDonaughey, who is virtually unrecognizable here. I have never seen him in a role like this -- I have only seen him play cheery romantic cowboy types. In this series (which alternates between flashbacks and present day), he is made more unhandsome than I thought was possible. Woody Harrelson is also excellent in this series, although his character horribly annoying and unsympathetic. I still think that each of these characters is good in a vacuum, but unfortunately, they don't work as a "buddy cop" pair. The "buddy cop" thing needs contrasts and opposites – see Benson and Stabler (Law and Order: SVU) or Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker. In True Detective, they occasionally get it right, but more often than not, it's a contest between the two of them to see who can be more of a horrible human being. They are both detestable, with the only difference being that McConaughey is straightforward and honest about who he is.The other highly redeeming quality of this show is its production values – more specifically, the music. The music is highly unsettling and it contributes heavily to the uneasy atmosphere that pervades the entire series. I just wish that the music had been put into a great horror movie instead of having been wasted on the mediocre story in this series. The cinematography is also really good, and the way that almost every scene has an oil refinery in the background is a peculiar (but accurate) twist on the Louisiana visuals. That stuff falls into the "style" category though, and unfortunately, there is not enough substance here. I'm giving this series a 7 because despite its low points and its disappointing resolution though, because it kept me entertained. It is worth watching just to see Matthew McConaughey's occasional dark brooding soliloquys and the puzzled reactions of those around him. It is worth watching to see Woody Harrelson in action and to see the occasional brilliant exchange of dialog between the two actors. I don't agree with the 9s and 10s for this show, but I can understand why some people love it as much as they do. True Detective has redeeming qualities, but if you ask me, it comes up too short in the story department to be one of the all time greats.


                
It was the best decision they could make to create this in the mini- series format where each season is its own story of several hours, it means things are built with an approaching end in sight, limits. I don't like the prevalent series format that drags on for years, the sense that it's just a product and a weekly habit being prolonged and not a narrative.Once inside I find a writer (this is his project) who likes to harp on about his pessimist view of life as some meaningless void and that keeps me at bay. It's not 'too dark' for me in the sense meant by some, a sign of bravery in facing deep truths. I find 'too dark' as fundamentally untrue as 'too light', an unnecessary distortion of life, only one more veil. The universe neither cares nor doesn't and we either want to see the makings of things clearly or pick from a bag of philosophies that justify the anxiety.But we also see a maker (the original writer) who is not content to envision life as a capricious maze full of dead ends, broken marriages and frustrated clarity. There has to be a lurid monster on the other end of that maze, a conspiracy for evil. The Louisiana story with the ritualistic murder of girls is reported as more exciting; but that's an admission that we want to be secretly titillated by an inane evil to keep our interest, Silence of the Lambs territory.I prefer the LA story in terms of world it creates. It does take place in much the same world as Ellroy writes about, another one who titillates, it does also begin with a violated corpse, ends with conspiracy that goes all the way up. But we lose the sophomoric rebuttals of the protagonist, we lose the backwoods monster, the riddle solving, and get instead the big city and weary burnouts clutching at last hope. The first one still has better actors, structure and sense of place and of course titillates more.The relationship between the Vaughn gangster and his spirited woman is the most profound thing I saw in the whole thing so far.So this is held up as great television, I see it as fine, some things I care to see, others not. I'll come back to it at some point. When it comes to making choices of what to carry going forward, I'll still gravitate back to The Long Goodbye and Killing of a Chinese Bookie.


                
First of all, I loved Season 1. Season 2 starts off slow, but lays a necessary foundation for the events ahead. You need the background of characters and past events in order to comprehend the future episodes. A lot of the other reviews for this season are negative, but I don't think those individuals kept watching the show. I've watched it week-to-week, but it might be better for some to watch back-to-back, since most of the episodes have aired. Any show with sex parties, pills, and violence is a hit in my book! I rarely get out my laptop to review anything, but I was so stunned by this past week's episode that I felt compelled to write something. Ignore the negative reviews and WATCH THIS SHOW.
Decent albeit very slow beginning to S3. The atmosphere is dense (similar to S1) and after E4 I'm still hooked, if also for the hope that the pace will eventually pick up.Extremely annoying: the mumbling of the lead actor. Seriously, it sounds at times like he's recovering from tongue surgery.


                
What a conundrum: True Detective showed TV crime drama at its superlative best and then, within two episodes, reverted to the kind of conventional happy ending dreck we all thought had been given the boot when HBO and other subscription – and ad-free channels – saw off the that kind of rubbish. Why, why, why?The first six episodes are quite simple excellent. Character came to the fore, the dialogue sounded like the way real people speak to each other. Then, God knows why – was it some HBO executive who felt it had all got too dark and weighed in to dictate the usual 'let's all tie this up nicely so folks can sleep at night ending'? – the final two episodes reduced the whole series to just another feelgood piece of cr*p. Lord, what a disappointment.It was, perhaps, all summed up with the appearance from nowhere of a platoon of cops cars and ambulances when Woody Harrelson and his sidekick rescue one dead boy and another almost dead girl from the hideout of crystal meth producer. This was topped – though topped is really not the right word – by another such deus ex machine arrival of the cops, who had no idea what was going on because mobile/cells couldn't get a signal and the landline was apparently not connected, just in time to whisk our two heroes, both it would seem mortally wounded, to hospital. To be frank the whole conclusion and the disappointment of it all precludes even bothering to discuss the very real dilemma faced by 'our two heroes', viz an apparent network of corruption extending to the very top.By all mean give this a whirl if you are reading this review before watching the series, but be full prepared for punches – inexplicably it has to be said – to be pulled for no good reason I can think of. What deserves an 8/9 is thus reduced to a 6/7.
This is definitely one of the better TV shows I've seen in a while, but it's not perfect. Basically, it's about two deeply flawed detectives trying to solve a murder. It also deals with their personal lives. This is not an action-based police procedural like CSI or Criminal Minds. It's more like an Agatha Christie novel--slow and talky. Fortunately, that's a style I enjoy greatly.The show peels away the layers of the mystery slowly. Details that seem unimportant at the beginning become crucial later on. There are hints at a conspiracy of "rich people" who engage in devil worship. Some questions are left unanswered and that's how it should be.The show has high production values. The photography is beautiful, cinematic in quality. Harrelson and McConaughey both give excellent performances.At times, though, it seems a little pretentious. Cohle gives a few too many philosophical lectures. In the end, under the shiny exterior, it's your typical dedicated-detectives-solve-a-murder-everyone-else-missed plot. We've seen this before on other shows, but the way it's presented here was refreshing.Personally, I felt the last episode was a letdown. First, they pretty obviously teased the identity of the killer at the end of the seventh episode. Second, the confrontation with said killer was a little cliché, with the typical searching through dark corridors while being taunted by the villain. Third, the climax was badly misplaced; the killer is caught about halfway through and the rest of the episode consists mainly of Cohle bitching and complaining about how much life sucks.
I'd give season 1 8.5/10 and season 2 6/10, while most people are saying 10/10 and 1/10.Season 1 was very good, but despite everything, despite all its depth, long conversations, existential angst and philosophy, it ends up with a shootout with some kind of inbred weirdo who lives in a cabin (in the South, obviously). The final piece of the puzzle was the equivalent of a chainsaw-wielding hillbilly.Having said that, it's still very good. The investigation is not obvious, the clues aren't a convenient trail of breadcrumbs to lead the detectives to the bad guy, the sub-plots are very interesting, the relationship between the detectives and others (wife, other cops, etc). The music and score are very good, as is the cinematography, casting, acting, dialogues and action.Season 2 attempts to do the same, but it goes from "rich tapestry" to outright confusing, with so many sub-plots, so many characters introduced in a very short period of time and not enough time for all the information to sink in. It still has a lot of the things that made season 1 so good - casting, acting, complexity, music, locations, cinematography, but is let down by weaker screenplays: weaker overall story and weak episodes.The first season felt like the result of years of work, research, editing (the screenplay), refinement, distillation and perfection. Season 2 felt like all that done over a period of a few months or so.Had season 2 been aired before season 1, people would have liked it and been wowed by the next season. Instead people are feeling disappointed, having expected something equal or better.Despite my criticism, they're both good, with season 1 much better than the second, but far from perfect.
Review of Season 2: If you watched S1 and expected something similar, you'll likely be disappointed with S2. Starting with the intro credits song which can't hold a candle to the fantastic "Far From Any Road."While S1 offered a stellar cast, S2's cast is questionable. Colin Farrell can act but so can lots of other people. Vince Vaughn has been known so far as being an annoying guy in lame comedies. Rachel McAdams is gorgeous but here she's made to look far less attractive. And she wasn't even the producers's first, second, third, or fifth choice. S1 was an authentic tour de force in television. But soon enough media inquisitors and race-and-gender-baiters appeared accusing the show of being inadequate to Hollywood's political goals. Surprisingly the show creator and HBO, thus far a rebel network, caved in to political pressure with an enthusiasm worthy of the worst of networks, ABC. As a result, in S2 the story matters far less then the urge to advance a pathetic sociopolitical agenda. From the start, McAdams character is presented as the alpha girl who treats her male lover like garbage while he, a cop no less, just takes it. Kitsch's CHP officer Paul is a closet homosexual who needs to take erectile dysfunction medication when he wants to be intimate with his girlfriend. Vaughn's mobster Frank is sterile and sometimes impotent as well and can't give his wife Jordan a child. Ferrell's Ray is a mess of drugs and alcohol. And so it goes with all male characters. In case you weren't clear about the order of things, on their way to a raid, Ani leads followed obediently by dozens of male cops, officers, and agents. But the biggest change is the uninspired story told in a roundabout way. A Vinci city manager is killed in a strange way and his body placed somewhere. Paul finds the body on his way to committing suicide. Ray is a corrupt cop of the corrupt industrial city Vinci. Ani is assigned to the case by the state to uncover corruption in Vinci. As a result all three end up in the murder task force, all pulled by different strings. Ray is beholden to Frank and is getting divorced. His wife is contesting paternity of their son as well, a son who couldn't look more different from his two parents. Frank has to deal with his lovely and loyal wife demanding children at a time when the death of the city manager meant a loss of millions for Frank. In his time of weakness all sorts of mobsters (Armenians, Mexicans, Russians) show up devour what's left of his wealth. He wants Ray to track his money lost by the dead guy. Ani is dealing with the needy cop boyfriend and is being pressured by the state to get Ray on corruption. She has a traumatic past of abuse at the hands of her dad's spiritual cult. Paul has to deal with his girlfriend who is demanding more, a mother who stole his money, and a former male lover who shows up to blackmail him. The city itself has its own agenda. For several episodes the investigation doesn't go anywhere. All they have to go on is the name of a high class prostitute. At least mid-season we get a cool shootout that comes out of nowhere and establishes Paul as a bona fide bad ass. Near the end we get a decent orgy-party. Following the shootout we meet our cast after several months--Paul a decorated agent, Ray out of the force and working for Frank, Ani can't let the case go since they didn't discover any answers. She's then asked by the state to keep working on the case and re-recruits Ray and Paul.Through this messy story that advances in a crawl, it's Frank that turns out the most interesting character and surprisingly Vaughn's performance also a high point as a honorable, fair, and loyal criminal. Although it's trough Frank that the writer engages in strange writing excesses. Frank's relationship with his wife is the only reasonable relationship here, in fact, one of the best husband-wife portrayals on television. They are there for each other, they support each other. Jordan knew what she was getting into with Frank, she is there for him when he needs her and retreats when things get ugly. It's not a co-dependent relationship nor a transactional relationship among two super independent individuals. But rather they function as a unit, a couple. The "us" comes always first. Of course they have to remind each other of that, but it's something they work on. They have goals, a plan, and both of them work toward it in their own way. If we set aside the superficial politics, the second main theme here is loyalty and fairness. Loyalty between members of a couple (Frank and Jordan), loyalty among members of a crime syndicate (Frank and Nails, Frank and Ray). Frank's word counts. Frank does his best to negotiate things with the various functions out to ruin him but when he's left with no other choice he resorts to violence and it's in the final episodes that we get some more great action thanks to Frank and Ray. In the final episode all questions are answered and the pessimistic and depressing end leaves the viewer mightily unsatisfied. Nevertheless, even this season of True Detective manages to create an intimacy between the show and the audience that makes you care, even after one disappointing episode after another. Unlike season 1, there's not much to learn here. In the whole season there must be only a handful of good lines. There won't be a quotable S2 despite Frank's verbose introspections as there are sites of Rust quotations from S1. Even as a standalone series, Season 2 of True Detective doesn't convince and is only marginally above average.


                
Great show masterful performances by the two leads and great chemistry some genuinely funny moments in a fully convincing crime thriller. Cinematography is fantastic, dialog is engaging.And I'm picky my type of films are films like Heat, The Departed, The Dark Knight, Seven..and this is right up there with them.Matthew M has completely regained the respect from me that he originally had from me for films like A Time to Kill and Amistad and then lost with everything since. But then Mud, Dallas Buyers and now this? Well done sir I hope you win the Oscar. (And that's saying a lot because Leo is also nominated and he's been my favorite actor for years)Can't wait for next Sunday!


                
It is the story of two detectives investigating a murder which it leads them to more complicated case of Missing Persons specially children. from the start the crime scene is full of Demonic Symbols and Detectives conversation full of Philosophic ideas . I (as a person who studied Math and Philosophy in University ) found it very Cool and Smart Story until the Final Episode which Ruin the whole series for me ! Rust (detective with a lot of smart and very Deep philosophical ideas) has a very scientific idea of living and always is saying fear of death is the reason people have faith in God ... in final episode Rust has a near death experience but after surgery he comes back to life and then claims he just felt Love in that moment he was near death and his daughter (who died years ago) was waiting for him and then starts crying and u will see the smart guy who always mocking Religious persons has changed !!! and the End !!! BTW good story and good details but the ending ... No , it really doesn't suit !
/refers to Season 1/I tend to like gloomy crime series, where felonies are not glamorized and detectives do not look wealthy fashion models, but as for the plot, there are 2 options for me: either the evildoer is latent to the very end, or he/she is known from the beginning and one can follow his/her actions and law enforcement efforts to catch and punish. Here, the content is focused on detectives only - in past and present, the pace is protracted, and the essence of the crime and the offender's person were evident too soon. Thus, both the pre-ending and ending are rather trivial as well.True, Matthew McConaughey as Detective "Rust" Cohle and Woody Harrelson as Detective "Marty" Hart are splendid, there is a good chemistry between them regardless how they get along, but the rest are just good (perhaps due to non-elaborated characters), and there is no fitting antagonist present who could provide intensity and witty nuances to potential cat-and-mouse play. And last but not least: the almost 8 hours is too much, it could have been easily shorter twice, or a 2-3 hours TV-movie.


                
Review Season one: 9 stars.pros: excellent acting, excellent charterers, excellent story line, good production values, good music.cons: some mumbling by the actors (can be fixed with switching English subtitles on), some slow moments (cannot be avoided and usually helped with story/plot).Review season two: 3 stars pros: same gritty feel of season one, story provides some good scenes, music is good, good production values.cons: not so well developed characters, overacting by almost everyone especially Vince Vaughn, at the same time most actors feel as if they are always distracted and just reading a script they were just given. Story and plot is so distracting (you don't know who did what to whom and what does this or that person have to do with anything) and the actors do not grab you enough to watch and re-watch to get a clue on what's going on. Also, lots of mumbling by Vaughn but this time English subtitles does not help because he is almost always irrelevant.
Written and directed by young people, this show features the best and worst aspects of student work. What made the first season so brilliant is that the writer hadn't been around the industry long enough to need to "unlearn" the habits of TV writers, because he never learned them in the first place.Instead of drawing on TV clichés or on life experience, writer Nic Pizzolatto worked from the fiction and philosophy he liked. The result was philosophical dialogue which most TV writers would have edited right out, but HBO was wise enough not to try to clean it up, and this made the show wonderfully unrealistic and refreshing. The best part is the way all of this rich literary and philosophical material plays against the stunning cinematic imagery.The second season exposed the writer for what he is: a writer who can craft wonderful sentences but can't tell a story or fashion credible dialogue. The plot of season two is far more complicated, and therefore also full of more holes as Pizzolatto tried to make the story cohere, which it really didn't.I think it's a strong compliment to say that the first season can be seen as among the best student films ever made. It'll be interesting to see Pizzolatto evolve as a writer.


                
Let me just start by saying True Detective season 1 is a masterpiece and my initial rating of the show after watching it was a 10. It was one the best seasons of TV ever made,but I had to lower my rating to a 7 because of the mediocre mess that was the second season,but I wanted to give this show a chance with season 3 and after watching it I still felt it was quite unsatisfactory. It is an improvement from season 2 but the entire season was just slightly above average and definitely nowhere near as good as season 1. I'm leaving the show as a 7/10 out of my sheer love of season 1. Honestly the first season might have just been a fluke.


                
First off the cast is top notch. This use of big time movie stars to do TV series really raises the standard. Matthew is becoming a great actor not afraid of looking terrible. Woody is intense and just as good at drama as comedy. Oh dear Alexandra, don't think I can see you in Percy Jackson stuff anymore! Michelle Monaghan is pretty here and a bit too pretty for a small town cop's wife but never mind.The two time frames are quite well differentiated they are aged appropriately with effective hair and makeup so it's not confusing.The thick drawls can be a bit hard to understand. The main problem is that the plot is revealed through some of these mumblings and it makes it easy to miss plot elements. Should not have to concentrate so hard to decipher the plot.So far the crimes aren't that interesting but it's early days after only 3 episodes. Hopefully it picks up.


                
True Detective. Is it any good? That is the question.TV shows are a gamble, they require you to commit a substantial amount of time, and often, they give nothing of substance in return for that irreplaceable time.True Detective isn't your typical show, its a seasonal anthology, each instalment built with a fresh cast, fresh location, and fresh mystery. Running though the show, is an aesthetic palette. Dark and foreboding, complimented by saturated whites and bleak open landscapes. The show values actors and rewards patience.Nevertheless, even with such a concrete philosophical foundation, the show is made by humans, and so frequently disappoints.The show is much talked about, principally, on the back of its debut season, which may well be one of the best in TV history. Woody Harrelson and Matthew McConaughey are perfectly cast, the mystery perfectly opaque, and the setting perfectly wild. Disparate elements of filmmaking come together to form an aether of fear and wonder. A modern noir masterpiece.After season 1 however, the show fails to surpass expectations. Season 2 is completely forgettable. Don't bother.Worst of all? Season 3 is an overcompensation from the producers to rescue the show. Hours are wasted on character actor Mahershalla Ali, to the point where one feels it should be called "The Mahershalla Ali TV Detective Show", with Stephen Dorff underused, or miscast, it is hard to tell which. Poor dialogue, and the equally poor use of flashbacks and/or flashforwards are muddled with a lack of focus on the actual detective work. Ali's bland character seems to be the focus ultimately, leaving us wondering, is this show any good? Or is it just bad?


                
