Ever since the Sopranos raised the bar, we have been treated to some great TV shows this past 10-15 years, & with True Detective, the latest offering from HBO, i think we might just have another beauty. When you have Matthew McConaughey and Woody Harrelson playing the leads, the hope & expectation rises & judging by first viewing, they look like they wont disappoint. They are both very different characters, we get to know how they were in the 90s, and how they have changed into the present day, and how they both have individual issues. The overall feel of the show is a little dark, but the mood seems perfect for the show & the cast compliment this brilliantly so far. The bar as been set by a number of shows in recent times, but initial impressions, and with this duo leading the line, True Detective could well be right up there in the future.


                
Slow paced but well acted, True Detective season 3 returns to its roots. Incorporating a plot point touched on in season 1, the series becomes familiar in its surroundings as two back country detectives attempt to locate missing children in a town where truth lies below the surface. The Cinematography and Score are fantastic, making for and eagerly anticipated re-do that erases the inadequacy of season 2.


                
To be honnest, I was slightly afraid to watch the season 2 of this show after the dreadful reviews I read almost everywhere. I liked season 1, very solid TV show and entertaining. Very solid mistery too. Season 2 though is a true delight if you enjoy Noir novels set in corrupt LA, and James Mc Elroy is a clear and obvious influence to be honnest, where the end game is not really to solve the mystery but to show how broken and hopeless the system is. Even though I quite understand why some/many would rate season 2 much lower, I like it more than season 1 for the gritty, dark and desperate situation the protagonists are slowly drown into.


                
I watch series and movies without captions. This show is great, but also this season we have a mumbler. Mahershala Ali is a great actor but I do not understand 50% when he speaks.


                
As a separate series, Season 2 is a good series. Having to follow the masterpiece which was Season 1, Season 2 is beyond a reasonable doubt the lesser of the two seasons. Here are the five reasons why. 1. The Cast. Matthew McConaughey and Woody Harrelson both gave brilliant performances. They alone carried the series without having to rely on a good story. With Season 2, Colin Farrell and Vince Vaughn fall short in comparison. Sadly, Colin Farrell gives one of the better performances in his career, but still can't compete in the same category as McConaughey and Harrelson. Vince Vaughn has typed cast himself too many times in goof ball comedies to be easily accepted in any dramatic role. Rachel McAdams is a good supporting actress but can not lead the cast in order to make it a success. Unlike Michelle Monaghan, McAdams brings secy back, but is an empty character even with all the back story the series tries to give to the audience. 2. The Location. The Louisiana backdrop is more exciting, more real and more intriguing that La La land. California may enjoy the backdrop of LA as a unique setting, but not for the rest of the country. The attempt to make the city a character as much as they made Louisiana fell short half way through the first episode. 3. The Music. Although good, the soundtrack of season 2 is a far cry from season 1. The opening credits was something that audiences had never seen or heard before. Season 2 was a recycle creation from the first and not as good. The soundtrack is also a reflection of the show's characters and setting as it speaks for itself. 4. Flash backs and Time period. Season 1 showcased the story line in the mid to late 90's and the present day. With the wardrobe, props and hair styles, it was a fantastic depiction of the two decades. Season 2 has minimal flash backs and has none of the impact that Season 1 gives. 5. The Crime. Audiences were hooked after the first scene in Season 1. The stage had been set as the Viewer was on board with the investigation and the mystery that surrounded it. Season 2 lacked this. In fact, it took a few episodes to entrench it's audience to stick around for all eight episodes. Overall, both seasons has its merit. Then again, Season 2 is a different show entirely when comparing it to Season 1.


                
First two seasons had more pop than the last one, but overall the series remains engrossing, meticulous, well-acted, and expertly paced.


                
I watched this in one sitting on DVD. The two main characters turned in flawless performances. The complexity and depth of plot and characterization kept me engrossed and riveted right up until the last few minutes whereby it suddenly took a nose-dive into the shallows of mediocrity. There was a moment when it could have ended more powerfully, when the two men are left and awaiting help. (Are they found in time? Do both live? Only one? etc, etc). But OH NO! The final couple of scenes slip into formulaic "happy-ending" mode with Marty having his "Happy Family-moment", and the otherwise intelligent, and philosophical Cohle having his "God-moment". Oh Pu-lease!!!
Matthew McConaughey and Woody Harrelson simply make this show absolutely magnificent. These two detectives are solving a mysterious murder over a long 17 year case. The way the show captures the dark country side makes it believable that they are in hell. A hell full of nasty fellows that dread across their paths. Matthew McConaughey... wow, I find his role in this series is better than anything he's ever done. He is incredible nailing everything in his path. He's really outdone himself providing one of the best characters to date.Woody Harrelson also doing a very fine job himself giving off a tough cop who's out to do his job. Both of them work really fine together, terrific chemistry. Only 8 episodes that feels like you're watching an entire movie. Even the intro of True Detective is a work of art. Although this show mainly heavily focuses on drama and not to much action. But its okay because Matthew and Woody keep you on your seat. True Detective is definitely worth watching if you're into Crime/Drama. You won't be disappointed.


                
I'm not normally a fan of procedural cop drama but there was so much buzz around this one I had to take a look. The first episode took a bit of effort for me and it was episode two that really pulled me in. Episode 2 to 5 are for me, the best TV I have ever seen. Maybe my expectations were riding too high after the stunning climax of episode four, where Rusty takes part in the stash house robbery. It was just an absolutely amazing, riveting, thrilling drama of the highest caliber. Episodes 6,7 and 8. I don't know, it was still great, kept me interested, and had a few really special moments but it just wasn't quite as powerful.I've given it an eight for the stunning early episodes but I have to be honest and say the conclusion was a bit of a let down.
True Detectives choreography is different than most traditional television shows. To be honest we need this kind of creativity in the television department, television is getting WAY too cliché these days. So here, we have true detective. A mix of a narrative and a period drama. So far its been alright, to say the most episode one did not have me yet. I enjoyed episode two knowing the characters and their lives, made me more interested. We need more this creative TV and I'm glad to see it here, especially with Woody and Matthew. There's some hope for the television drama and this is a sign. Disappointed its a 8 episode series, but I think it will be worth our time watching in the long run.


                
Feels different each season. Talking about season 3. It lacks the mysticism and mystery and progression of season 1. Plot is moving forward very slowly. Season 1 had those focal points - like a new body here, a new clue here. Theres only one body in season 3. The only clue that got my attention so far was the letter. Apart from that they start the investigative line and then drop it for no reason. Still good though, could be better.


                
The show explains itself!! Absolutely amazing everyone should have this in their watch list!!


                
True Detective is masterfully made. While the detectives first set out to solve a murder it is really issues in their backgrounds and history that they strive to overcome. The intermingling of people's lives and situations overlaps more and more as the story continues. Its fascinating for the most part. I do like that they introduced a female detective this year. Haunted by her own past and trying to do the right thing, she is a welcome relief from all of the male posturing. Rachel McAdams does a great being badass. Its a good story but a bit difficult to follow at times. It does leave one wondering, however, if all real life detectives are tortured souls looking for some sort of redemption.


                
Last year it was Breaking Bad, although it was the year it ended. But True Detective will be remembered for when it started rather than when it ends, if more seasons are produced, that is.Matthew McConaughey & Woody Harrelson's characters are so deep, it would take a person days to jump and then die in their depth. Their lives interfere with each other's as they try to solve a crime story. But, there are twists. Yes, not singular, but plural' twists at every node of the series. 8 episodes of pure crime that deals from voodoo to child abuse to sex to death to life.I was gob-smacked to find such a beautiful writing. Cinematography is another thing. Hands down, music is what will also be remembered of True Detective and T Bone Burnett is again on my top ten lists of all time great music directors. The two leads have given breakthrough performances and I am glad I checked this show out.But, then again the first five episodes are mind-boggling and it fades. Not to fret about how the finale was not up to the mark, True Detective, at the end of pondering, lies in the same old bench of indifference. If you look closely, Nic Pizzolato has tweaked the whole crime scene her, playing with emotions and relationships. But he wins, however with character building.BOTTOM LINE: Recommended because it is more likely that you may have a different perspective for the show than your neighbor. It asks its viewers's absolute discretion. And that is why it is different.


                
With the third season of True Detective coming very soon, I have decided to watch the previous seasons starting with the first season of the show. I have finished the first season and I was gripped by it and intrigued the majority of the way. The premise of the season sess two former detectives being interviewed about a case from 1995 as they retrace the story through flashbacks. Matthew Mcconaughey is absolutely amazing in this show, he is just oozing charisma and the intrigue to make you want to find out more about this fascinating character. He has some really interesting views and it really helps flesh out this show and the amazing characters this show has. Woody Harrelson plays his partner in the show and this may be his best work to date, he is also really interesting to watch as he goes through a slightly different story but is equally as captivating. The relationship between these two characters really drives this show and is easily so entertaining to watch. Michelle Monaghan plays Harrelson's wife on the show and she does a great job aswell, she isn't your average female character, she is strong willed and a powerful female character that really adds something to the dynamic between the main characters. Pretty much everyone does a good job with the their roles, unfortunatley, I didn't like the villain's performance on the show, when it is revealed who the villain was I was underwhelmed especially by the character. The story is so compelling in the past as you go on a journey and investigation with these two guys, you are with these guys on the mission and you are really rooting for them. Though I will admit I wasn't particularly satisfied by the conclusion of the season as I felt like it was the weakest part of the story. The script is excellent with twists and turns at any moment, the dialogue works for the two characters and makes you question beliefs that these characters have. The style of the show is great, it is very vibrant and clear, it shows everything and doesn't hold anything back which allows you to become even more invested in the story. Overall this is a great season of tv that should be watched if you are a fan of gripping television.


                
The otherwise excellent third series of this slow-moving, gradually unfolding blend of police thriller and psychological investigation of memory itself is marred only by some of the worst dialogue audio clarity in the history of TV. Whole scenes are almost incoherent, with down-speaking actors recorded by someone who doesn't know the first thing about audio clarity, eq'ing or mixing. It was bad in the first two series, this time it's pathetic. I can't think of a single tv show, from anywhere or any time, that was so poorly served by its audio technicians. Which is a real pity as the story is very good and the performances, when you can hear them, mostly top class


                
I cannot understand how this show is up there with Breaking Bad, The Wire and Game of Thrones.The acting is awesome, the setting is awesome, the acting is awesome, the characters are awesome, the opening credits are awesome... The storyline is not awesome.It kind of reminds me of the rave about Gravity, it looks good, but the story was poor. I've watched many detective programmes, okay this one was different, but it is not as good as Luther for instance which also follows a dark path. The acting is better, but that doesn't recover the storyline. They chase up a lead for a whole hour that would usually get a 10 minute time slow.This is the only review I have ever wrote, but I just felt I had to due to the massive overrating of this show. I didn't really care who the serial killer was, it was just a random guy at the end if it, you didn't even fully discover his family connections. The worst thing is that he was a deranged psychopath why makes me think he couldn't have been at large for so long? Surely serial killers exist because they fit in and don't draw attention to themselves? If you want a great serial killer show I'd definitely recommend Dexter over this. 9.5 really is a laughable score for this, there's just no story. It's got all the ingredients except that, but it can look and sound as good as it wants, but without an amazing story to back it up it's not that great.


                
Season three in short:
Fine story build up, Disappointing end


                
I've watched all three seasons of True Detective. The first one was indeed a masterpiece, season two was good; still better than a lot of other more average shows; and season three was more similar to season one in many ways than season two; if I'm honest the ending could be seen as an anticlimax, but then again, not really; it's actually realistic in that often in real life, the line between good and bad or right and wrong is not clearly delineated, as seen by the two detectives' reaction to Mr Julius's 'confession'. What I really appreciated, and thought was a great device, was the intersplicing of past, present and future often in ostensibly the same shot as an almost continuous scene that alternated between the same situation but at different times, with the two detectives. Also, when Wayne is being observed by his younger self as an older man or vice versa; this is extremely innovative and adds greatly to the plot and connects all the diverse strands. I suppose when you think about it, there really is no such thing as future or past, and we really do live in the eternal present. Nor do I think the past is a fixed thing, if that was the case, then there could be no future; as the future is simply the past that hasn't happened yet, from our perspective. But of course from other perspectives, or namely one other perspective, that being the divine, then past, present and future are indistinguishable. This series does throw up a lot of philosophical questions; I honestly think the end of season one was very dramatic, but also quite disturbing; the end of season two was perhaps disappointing; but the ending of this latest season is the most satisfying, if perhaps a bit frustrating while being true to life, in that there were no real 'baddies', and clear 'justice' as such, just a lot of damaged and fallible people who did the best they could given the circumstances.


                
This is a review of the third season only.
The show started really well. The idea of splitting the story along three different periods of time (1980, 1990 and current) was very well done, acting and make up is superb. However as the episodes went along the show started to be too slow. No discovery was made in the investigation and the show focused on the bureaucracy of the police department in 1980 and 1990 at both times trying desperately to close the case and the corruption of the powerful Hoyt family, which for some reason in US TV series is ever present, meaning powerful families are somewhat immune to police investigations and are always able to distract police, bribe police, FBI and any government officials, and kill at will at anyone who is coming anywhere close to the truth.I would have liked to see more details on the investigation and not just leave everything for the final chapter.


                
Just finished watching season 3 and another disappointment.season 1 gets 10 stars from seAson 2&3 get 5 stars


                
All three seasons are absolutely fantastic. Acting is perfect. Characters developed. Interesting storylines. Mood and setting are intriguing.


                
This is a pretty good show, although I wouldn't say it was quite worthy of a 9, but I'll give it an 8. This is not an action series, but it's strangely enthralling even if the plot is somewhat complicated and difficult to follow, as is the deep southern US accent. The cinematography and acting is at the top of its game. The dialogue is very good and sometimes amusing, although it is a tad confusing at times. Can't really say much more without a spoiler, I almost didn't watch all of this, since the first two episodes are a bit slow, but it's worth sticking at, it does get better. Not the greatest telly drama as some reviews on here have suggested, but it's still worth watching if you can keep up with the somewhat overcomplicated plot.


                
This is the best series i've ever seen. A Mc Conaughey in state of grace. I already loved him in his recent movies and in this series, in my opinion, he finds a way to summarize his previous roles. Woody Harrelson? i loved him in NBK but that role was very simple in confront to this one. It's very difficult to be next a character like Detective Rust Cohle. His capacity of being a sort of "stupid" or superficial man is not easy to mix with an other aspect: the capacity of being a good detective that can have commitment and intuitions. In fact: surely not a stereotype! Obviously every possibility for this actors is given by a script very well written with the right mix of action, drama and philosophy. A mention for Alexandra Daddario: best body ever seen.


                
This can only be described as a masterpiece, a gem amongst detective TV shows, already competing with "The Wire".. and to think it is only now getting into its second season.I feel like a lot of people might not appreciate it at first, as is always the case with media. How many times has this happened?.. A picture comes out, receives average reviews, and only within a decade (sometimes two) is it recognised as the brilliant work of art that it is.Just when I had given up hope on HBO, it raises the bar yet again, with a fantastically haunting, beautiful, genre defining piece of art.. bravo.


                
