I didn't watch season 1 or 2. This season looked intriguing so I gave it a go. I was pleased that it delivered. I rarely get into shows and when I do I find most of them not great and I stop watching. I was riveted to this one. Yes Mahershala Ali mumbles to the point of distraction but don't watch it for him...the true star of this is Stephen Dorff. He is so amazing in this that it's gonna be a MAJOR disappointment to not see him recognized for his brilliant acting in this role. No doubt he will be overlooked because of Mahershala which is a shame. Yes MA is good in this but Stephen runs away with the show.Stephen if you are reading this - you know how Hollywood works. I'd love to say that you will be a shoo-in for an award but I fear you will be overshadowed because of the current hype around MA. Just know that you were brilliant and you should be very proud of the work you did here. If I was in charge you'd get all the awards for this one hands down. I'm rooting for you buddy. Fingers crossed you get the recognition you deserve.


                
I believe that they should have given the leading role to steven dorff he's amazing in the show.Alis performance in my opinion is really overrated and overacted.His character and his wife are completely uninteresting and their conversations are really long and boring.Also the childrens murder mystery so far isnt as intriguing as whe have hoped for after waiting 4 years.A return to form for true detective season 3 but keep your expectations low and don't compare it to the excellent first season.


                
I have to admit, I was one of the skeptics when i saw the Season 2 line up. I flat out don't (didn't) like Vince Vaughn, Farrel was your go to anti-hero guy, McAdams just didn't feel like having the "rough" in her for the dark in the series and Kitsch seemed the only one that could be molded into something fitting in. Pretty uninspiring to say the least.First couple of episodes proved me dead wrong. Despite everyone being underwhelmed by the start (and i think the first seasons ending was so capturing everyone forgot how it started out), i just loved it. Interconnecting, many will say overwhelming plot lines that give you a hint of how they will unfold but still leave you unsure, flirting that thin line between a cliché and a potential for something more.Vince was incredible, a mob guy with a soul played to perfection, possibly boosted by my low expectations. Farrel, having a pretty stereotype role made the most out of it. McAdams made me buy just how screwed up she was, tho i felt she was a bit our of her comfort zone. You can't find anything wrong about Kitsch's performance but it just isn't something you will remember, probably not his fault.So, after this enormous introduction i will go straight to the point. I loved the story, the idea behind the story, the interconnecting plot lines that managed to seamlessly incorporate side stories that didn't feel pushed in. Although most of it unraveled with little surprise it still felt tense enough to expect a sharp plot twist at any moment. And then came the ending.Going into the lats episode i wasn't really surprised. It pretty much went as i had expected but the most important thing is i didn't mind at all. That is how good i thought it was, a totally predictable last show and you still think it will come good. But, for the love of God... I can't speak for everyone but i for one am sick of Breaking Bad's and Game of Thrones. I don't want the entire cast, the characters i bonded with to just perish. Watching the last episode and enjoying the entire series i was sure this would break the norm. They were gonna pop the bubble and leave our hero/anti-hero/good-bad guy to live for a change. We were gonna leave with a satisfying feeling that our protagonists are making it and the bad guys are done. Something we very much enjoyed in the past but seemed to have died down in modern times. But no, lets just kill everyone you care about in the series because that's the hot thing in Hollywood now.A bitter taste in the end to something that i felt was gonna break the stale norm we are having.
"You're not gonna win the Oscar, no matter how hard you try."8 episodes. 2 Hollywood actors. 1 director. 1 writer. 1 extraordinary show.From the mind of Nic Pizzolatto comes True Detective, a dark, profound and masterful crime thriller set in the bayous of Louisiana. Written with a philosophical and sharp acuity, True Detective tells the story of two detectives (Matthew McConaughey and Woody Harrelson) and their 17- year manhunt for a deranged serial killer. This is not an ordinary cop show. It isn't about tidy cases, chasing perps or trailing leads. There isn't red tape, standard procedures or closure at the end of the day. What you will find is broken marriages, darkness inherit in the human soul, and philosophical notions on the meaning (or lack thereof) of life. McConaughey and Harrelson as Rust Cohle and Martin Hart make an unlikely and surprisingly fascinating duo. Cohle is a dark, abstract individual, living alone, full of loss and discontentment with life. He has visions and hallucinations from his 4 years undercover in narcotics. However he is also very smart, rational and lucid, understanding who he is as a human being and his place in the universe. Hart is a seemingly responsible, everyday family man that takes his job seriously. He has a good heart, but through his need for control, manipulates people to his own selfish and destructive ends. They are both dark, bad men. But as Cohle says, "The world needs bad men. They keep the other bad men from the door." There is a yin/yang, religious/atheist, rational/irrational relationship that is both thoughtful and humorous to watch.True Detective is a self-contained 8 episode anthology series. Each season will feature a new cast and story, completely unrelated to the previous one. This is the future of the story-telling medium. 8 episodes allows Hollywood actors to commit to the show without a huge time commitment. 1 writer keeps the story uniform as there's no writer's room or a panel of writers changing each season. 1 director and cinematographer keeps the vision clear and consistent. Director Cary Fukunaga does a remarkable, Oscar-worthy job. The realism, tone and pacing are on par with anything I've seen on screen. The 6- minute tracking shot at the end of episode 4 is one of the best single shots in television history. This is as good as it gets for modern television. After Breaking Bad I wasn't sure how long I'd have to wait for something this good. I didn't expect something this masterful to come along so fast. If you're an action fan, don't like to think too much, or want closure each episode, this show is not for you. But if you want to be challenged, to watch a show that makes you think, doesn't give you all the answers, and keeps you up at night, then you're in for a thrill ride.
Five episodes in, HBO's True Detective is a mesmerizing glimpse into two disparate but equally haunted detectives so busy fighting their own personal demons it's no small wonder they have time to track down a serial killer. MM & WH head an outstanding cast in this very dark and brooding series that runs on three separate tracks, a 17 year old case the detectives 'solved' together, their eventual breakup as partners 10 years later,and an apparently new case involving a murder (or murders) with the same MO as the one they worked on and 'solved' together long ago. As with the outstanding BBC series Luther,this is a cerebral drama in which it's often hard to tell the difference between the good guys and the bad guys. Action junkies stay away, but anyone fond of taking your dark side out for a walk now and again will absolutely love this series.


                
Not sure why some people rate it low. I guess each to his own. I liked it. Well done. A bit slow but that is the way the show goes.


                
Season 1 - amazing.
Season 2 - pretty good, but the plot line was a bit convoluted.


                
A lot of dialog plus micro expressions plus you need to know a bit about southern culture a bit. But it is realistic southern culture not stereotype. Matthew is not as over bearing like George Clooney doing voice overs. It is more liquid. Woody is one of my favorite actors and really a good complement to Matthew's brooding and darkness. Michelle is great here too and I am wondering what she will bring. Maybe an affair with Matthew's character.This is going to be a good series. I really like how they use the color too. And the dialog is so infectious that you really have to tune into it. A DVR is a must. So many clues and back-story.I know that IMDb has these robots that will invalidate 10 out of 10 reviews , so I am giving it a nine so my vote counts. That's how good this one is.


                
Yes! There was a lot going on. That seems to be the biggest complaint people have about Season 2 of True Detective. Yes, there are a lot of people involved. Yes, you have to THINK to keep up with the twisted plot. When did that become a negative? My only complaint about the series is that my favorite people didn't make it out alive, and that they died because they cared about someone other than themselves. But that isn't a negative for the show either. Not everything needs a happy ending. None of us make it out alive, and few of us do as much to try to make the world better, or care as much about the world as the characters of this show. I'm hoping for a season 3, and I'm hoping it's not made simple for the critics.


                
Check out my blog- http://televisionreligion.blogspot.com/ HBO's latest series, True Detectives, slips comfortably into the network's reputation for quality. This is going to be an anthology series where each season is a self-contained story, with different actors, which frees up movie stars like Matthew McConaughey and Woody Harrelson to show their talents in a different medium other than the big screen while not committing to a time consuming series. Within the first three minutes the chemistry between them becomes infectious, or perhaps I should say addictive, and their charisma allows some of the faults in the show to be smoothed over. As soon as you see them together, you wonder how the hell this pairing hasn't come about before. McConaughey as the ubiquitous genius Rust Cohle who has the ability to empathize with serial killers because of how close his thought process mirrors his prey is supremely effective. Harrelson has the harder role in Martin Hart, as the straight man always does, as the good old boy self-described "regular type dude". The plot is terribly familiar territory, a ritualistic serial killer stalking young women and the flawed men investigating the murders while going about their flawed lives. There's some Fargo, some Seven, some Hannibal, some of The Killing (which the writer/creator penned a few episodes of)- it seems a bit of every sort of procedural cop story, and just because you have all the ingredients of a cheesecake doesn't mean you have a good one once it comes out of the oven. Yet as more is revealed as to why these very human men are angst ridden and dialogue that borders on philosophy comes to the forefront it becomes less formulaic. The main story is told in flashbacks by the characters while being interviewed, or perhaps interrogated, by fellow law enforcement. The non-linear story line is not just a gimmick, what we get to see in the present day interview rooms is the toll the last 18 years have taken on these men, which whets our appetite to find out why. The cinematography is moody, but never suffocating. Like a lot of great series, the sense of place in the stifled economy and heat of Louisiana isn't just a setting, it becomes a character in and of itself, although the desolation is sometimes a little hit you over the head. The editing is scrumptious, there's none of that crappy quick jump shots to build suspense, and the camera lingers on the actors after the dialogue is over so that we can drink in the reactions, not just get to the next plot point. I sense a light touch in the direction, mostly allowing for a scene to unfold with real feeling instead of force feeding our sense of these characters, which lets us draw our own conclusions while working things out for ourselves. And that's what I'm liking most about this series so far. Like Breaking Bad the writers are respecting me, not expecting me to only be able to comprehend at a 6th grade level. This is a series that your mind has to actually participate in. With a bit of drug-fueled surrealism and some Cormac McCarthy like dialogue (mostly from McConaughey) on how the human race is a natural mistake or tapping into universal truths that doesn't actually come out of people's mouths in real life but none the less trips on the ear and tickles your brain pan this isn't going to be up everybody's alley. I've only spent a few hours with these characters and I am feeling a bit emotionally unvested, but I am going to continue to watch.
I am a big fan of drama movie,especially detective.However,the only detective serial movie that impressed me the most is Sherlock Holmes.I mean I have seen a lot of "chasing murder" movies but none of them can gave me strong feeling like Sherlock Holmes serial.Until I saw True Detective,I must say it just completely breathtaking.I feel like this is the way a detective is suppose to chasing a dangerous murder,I do not say Sherlock Holmes method catching criminal is unrealistic but I don't think there are not many people can have a brilliant mind like Sherlock.In addition,I feel that the movie purpose are not only want to entertain the audience,they also want people to have a closer look at a detective life,what they have to sacrifice for their career which is the job that protect civilian from some psycho killers.In conclude,I strongly recommend if someone have not seen it,just wait until it broadcasts the whole season 1 cause waiting is sick and I hate it.


                
I just watched S3 Ep1 and.....it is spellbinding.
Finally a worthy successor to season one's magnificence.


                
True Detective is not your usual detective series at all. It's a much more mature subject and serious theme. It's about human nature, corruption, violence, love and a lot more. The whole series is very dark and well made.Season 1:The plot is wonderful and although it can be very slow for some people when it comes it hits your right into the heart. The theme is very dark, the darkest theme you could ever make a series about. The acting is brilliant with no contest at all, it's not just Woody and Matthew but Michelle Monagham who give us a perfect performance. A real joy to watch. The soundtracks are incredible good and the way all this is filmed is just a great achievement of this great director (Nic Pizzolatto).Season 2: For some reason, people in general didn't liked this season. I REALLY don't know why. First of all, the plot is really good, and if you pay enough attention you can follow it very well. I wanna talk about this girl....Lera Lynn.....it's the girl who sings the entire soundtrack, she is the girl in the bar, with her sad and softly voice, a real joy to listen to, just incredible work with the soundtrack and an amazing choice. The director still the same (Nic Pizzolatto) and you can fell at every take of this series, still the same geniality, the same quality, a real great work. About the acting....dear lord....Colin Farrel and Vince Vaughn they really delivered the performances of their carriers. And you have together with this Rachel MacAdams and Kelly Reilly. Just incredible cast, if you compare to the first season you lose nothing in terms of quality of cast. The enjoyment was amazing in both seasons, the performances, soundtracks (better in the second), plots, themes, development of character and story, direction, and dialogs....everything you have in both seasons. The only thing I give for those who love the first season and hate the second is that the theme of the first is really heavy compared to the second. But please, think for a second... This is all about human nature....human behavior and with that Pizzolatto made a master piece of art, a beautiful work, something to be really proud of. My first review...sorry if it's bad.
When I first sat down to watch this series, I was surprised with the way it was building itself, and the way the plot was layed out. It was a bit more complicated than others, and it demanded a lot from its viewers, but once you surrendered to it, you couldn't look away. Already by the second episode I was pretty much hooked to this show, and the two main characters' story was just so mysteriously interesting that I couldn't stop watching. I loved how the show chose to focus on the characters and their story, and then use a secondary 'detective plot' as the driven force. It worked seemingly. Because that is what may confuse some - The 'main story' really isn't the main story - it is the story about the characters and the themes that are. Overall it is easy to see and enjoy all the amazing talent behind and in front of the camera. It really is a pleasure to enjoy this series, right from the very beginning to the end. I pray for a 2nd season already.


                
Each Season should have it's own page for review.
S01: 9.5
S02: 9.0
S03: 10True Detective is one of the greatest series ever made in the history of movie making. S03 was the best of the three, and did not disappoint from beginning to the very end. There was no PC, political agenda, academic pandering, or social themes forced into these series. As a generation X-er, I appreciate this masterpiece that was honest with the characters, no embellishment, or forced narrative to appease certain groups. The script was carefully done not to give anything away, or foreshadow the plot. It was very exciting that the series was not predictable, or that the script gave anything away.These series are an example of how the movie industry should make movies. This series nailed every emotional complexity about life, our families, our jobs, our relationships, and our decisions in life. These series are for a well seasoned, intelligent, and mature audience, who can appreciate real life and the struggles that follows. It is extremely rare these days to find such quality.I wish all shows or series was half as good as these are. S03 is the first time I have ever given a show or a series a 10 in all my 50 years of watching movies and TV shows. This masterpiece exemplifies the nature and understanding of true race relations and cultural differences in the workforce and in society. It wasn't contrived, or over done. It offers a rare and honest approach that isn't shown anymore, and is about as real as it gets. I look forward to a S04 with great excitement and enthusiasm. I thank the makers of these series who did not sacrifice their talents for the sake of appeasing the mainstream agenda. True Detective is a brilliant masterpiece!


                
(Three episodes into season 2)I've read a number of reviews from both professional critics and regular everyday people, I think it's pretty unfair the amount of hate the second season is getting, people tend to forget that season 1 was a slow starter then it all kicked off after a memorable episode just before the midway point.My point is that people should give this second season time before fully judging it, it's a very complex storyline but if you take the time to fully understand everything, the characters, the setting, what's going on, then I truly believe we're going to be in for a treat in the remaining the five episodes.As for the characters and acting, I don't think anyone will be able to touch the performance from Matthew McConaughey in the first season, that was acting at its finest. The acting through season 2 has been very impressive in my personal opinion, with all of the cast being superb for setting the mood so far. I feel some of the people watching this second series are being to quick to judge, particularly with Vince Vaughan, as he seems to be getting the majority of the hate. I believe Vince is merely setting up what will be a number of different moods/layers to his character and by the end of the series his performance will turn out to be one of the best.Remember this is just my personal opinion and everyone has a right to their own, but I think this follow-up season will end up surprising a lot. If the sheer complexity of everything is done right it could potentially be up there with season 1.


                
Gripping, thought provoking, suspenseful and incredibly done are words that come to mind. The first two or three episodes are somewhat slow and I almost gave up on it. Now it wasn't a bad show just taking to long for me to warm up to the rhythm which was a little meandering for me. It's bloomed like a good cigar into rich story telling and wonderful in depth character development.It even carries a bit of an evil mystical effect with eerie moody visuals and "bad" people left unmolested for decades, who appear to have ingrained into their surroundings a weird kind of acceptance.I'm almost through the first season and I find myself refraining from chain watching the episodes in one sitting so I've limited myself to one episode per night. Sort of what I did with Lost until Comcast pulled it as I entered the 5th season.Sit back and enjoy the first few episodes and watch it open up into a gem.


                
True Detective is sublime television programming. If you are at all entertained by crime drama, murder mystery, film noir or Southern Gothic, you will likely be mesmerized by this show. Matthew McConaughey and Woody Harrelson just slam-dunk their roles as reluctant partners on an increasingly winding case in Louisiana. The crime aspects are as disturbing as the real-life atrocities they mirror. And homicide investigations can only ever tear open whatever wounds their pursuers are nursing. You get to follow their home lives, hear personal histories, witness the social underbelly they trudge through and the office politics they have to maneuver. There's comic relief in their banter, deep philosophical introspection and plenty of suspense and action as they risk their lives to get the bad guy. It's content that's familiar to the fan viewer but delivered with powerhouse acting, vivid local color and stirring music that pulls the viewer all the way in. I post few rave reviews because the professionals do it better, but I just had to help spread the word on this one. It's a single-season case so there's no reason to miss out this year or any other. The writer and director might be new to television but what amazing talents; I sincerely hope to see more from them. I rooted for the true detectives with every precarious step, and did not walk away emotionally unaffected. This one stayed with me.


                
First off, I don't traditionally like MM, but hands down he is the superstar of this show. Sure, WH does an excellent role as well, but he always does.It is quite a feat for them both to make the viewer, at least partially, sympathize with such broken characters. They philander, do drugs and drink.Technically, the show is stunning. It seem a bit unsaturated - gorgeous. And some scenes are so amazing that I suspect each take took several tries.For me, this being so stunning visually and acting-wise, is what makes a given 10 a 9. See, the story has us following one case (ish) and although it has begun well, there is no way it matches the other parts. There better be some massive twists and turns to even come close to what MM is doing here.
If you take the time to soak in the characters and pay attention to the dialogue, you will appreciate it for the beautiful masterpiece that it is. Very well written and acted. Cinematography was top notch. Very eerie at times. Makeup fantastic as well. Mahersha and Dorf has amazing chemistry. Acting all around was on point. Only gripe I had is it can get a little confusing keeping track of the three different timelines, but once you get it down and all know all the characters by name, you will love it. No clue why the bad reviews. Perhaps people grew impatient. It took me a few episodes as well and several sittings to even get through the first three, but after episode 4 I was glued. Enjoy!


                
"Once there was only dark, seems to me light is winning."One hell of a bang!! Nerve-racking, mesmerizing, and addictive from the get go!! The entire cast did a fine job. Woddy and Mathew blew my mind with their performance. I don't know many fancy words, else would have used the entire dictionary of phrases corresponding to awesomeness to describe this series. Watched the last five episodes in one go.. Music scores, locales everything else, perfect. Got high just watching this. LOL. Hope season 2 is as good.I would still give it a 9 cos I believe nothing is perfect and there is always room for improvement.I strongly recommend this.


                
If you are looking for a series which includes outstanding performances by two professional actors , wonderful dialog's and mysterious screenplay that's what exactly you are looking for . At first I thought it's another piece of s<U+25CB><U+25CB>t because I don't enjoy something like law and order or even dexter but this piece of art made my head explode . I think this series is more than a thriller ; it has too much to say , and it makes you compare two different type of personalities . On the other hand you can hate this series if you don't accept detective Rust and his comments , me myself don't accept all of his opinions but If well came it with open mind and it makes you enjoy !
Despite its atheist, nihilistic undertones and a dark brooding atmosphere, True Detective is as intriguing as it gets!Although one of the two main protagonists is your average cop (Woody Harrelson) but the other one (Matthew McCounaghy) is way too complex, nihilistic and disturbing to be efficiently developed, yet Nic Pizzolatto the show's creator does a phenomenal job in developing his character without getting too philosophical.The same is the case with pretty much every character, Pizzolatto is far from shy to keep them gray and that said they appear splendidly real.Although the plot is yet another serial killer hunt but it is dense than anything you have ever seen, in fact the depth is so spell-binding that the series makes successful serial killer efforts on the big screen i.e. Se7en etc. look mediocre! and in that regard a big part of the credit goes to the series director Cary Fukunga who has directed all the eight episodes from the first season.However, despite the Fukunga and Pizzolatto partnership being the show's bedrock it is McCounaghy who is the true star of the first season. Although it is arguable that he got the best role as well but McCounaghy gives a career best here; even better than his Oscar winning performance in Dallas Buyers Club!Nonetheless, True Detective's first season is a game-changer in every word with popular movie stars like Emma Stone already showing an interest to work in the second season. Television is certainly on its way to outperform the Box Office if not financially then critically with TD set to lead it from the front!for more reviews, follow: http://mightywingback.wordpress.com/
I can't help having the feeling that in the third season they just tried to repeat the formula from the first season, because I think (maybe all of us) it was better than the second one. They repeat the formula, but like three times. The jumps in time, but not just in two years, but THREE. And the story, I dont know, too much effort, too much mistery but in the end it was all for nothing, the characters just ruined their life for a pointless case. I love True Detective vibe, but I dont get it, dude. Quoting John Mayer's Gravity: Twice as much, aint twice as good. Can't sustain like one half could"
