Brilliantly conceived to allow its writers to comment on 20th-21st Century society and culture in hindsight, "Futurama" earns a special spot in the history of television, that spot being from behind a "Fifth wall," (time, if you will). "Futurama" satirized and parodied its ancestors from its hypothetical viewpoint of the 31st Century. Unfortunately, it (the show) was often too much an inside joke. A great example is the mini-series compiled as "Bender's Game" which required a participant's understanding of the culture of "Dungeons and Dragons" to be appreciated.But when it turns its eye (Inside "Leela" joke) on broader, better know aspects of turn-of-the- Century culture, "Futurama" is brilliantly perceptive and earns worthy laughs from the barbecue of any sacred cow.


                
'Futurama' is a great TV show by creator/animator Matt Groening. The show was originally released in 1999, and was discontinued in 2003. The main characters are Fry (a sloppy delivery boy who couldn't care less), Leela (a one-eyed alien woman), Bender (an obnoxious robot who steals things), and Professor Hubert J. Farnsworth (an old man who is Fry's great, great, great, great etc. nephew). The plot revolves around Fry, a 25-year-old delivery boy who is frozen... and thawed out 1000 years later. New York City in the year 3000 is much, much different, and Fry soon befriends a robot named Bender, and a one-eyed alien named Leela. And so their four-season-long adventures begin.Rating: TV-PG/TV-14, PG (CAN)


                
This show, well lets say it's probably one of the most original shows since "The Simpsons". OK people might argue that it is a rip-off of "The Jetsons" but come on "The Jetsons" was about a "family" in the future. Its like saying "South park" is a rip off of "The Simpsons". Just because "Futurama" is set in the future the same as "The Jetsons" doesn't mean its a rip-off. "South Park" is set around at the same time as "The Simpsons" it must be a rip off then. This show is great, characters are wonderful the setting, animation, the 3D animation without going too far, it still looks like a classic cartoon, if you know what I mean. Well Done Fox. Now bring it back Please.


                
The first Futurama episode was must-see for anyone who was already well affiliated with the world Matt Groening already established with the Simpsons. It was new and strange, as Fry (voiced by the great Billy West) gets frozen, and awakes a thousand years later to find all these crazy things (hey, it IS the future after all) start to happen right off the bat. And then it gets stranger and crazier as the episodes go on- and with some depth, surprisingly, between the principle three characters: Fry, Turanga Leela, with her one eye and powerful presence as a woman of action with her tender moments, and Bender, a robot version of the kind of dude you'd find at the racetrack, crude mouth, powered by booze and cigarettes, cynical but as robots like these can get quite likable. The adventures the characters get it, as I've noticed when watching the show, have that loose structure from episode to episode like something out of Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, however with a sharper wit than Groening even gets on with the Simpsons. If it isn't as consistent with being uproarious or engaging, there's more than enough sight gags and in-jokes for connoisseurs of sci-fi lore to make up for it in usually big denominations (albeit, like Simpsons, pop culture references are galore throughout the series, which is coming back I might add). It's fun stuff.


                
From the same guys that created The Simpson, Futurama is the cartoon created more of adult and teenager rather than kids. (As compare to the Simpson). Somehow the series aren't that famous, but one thing for sure this is one very funny series.In the year 2000 Fly, the delivery guy accidentally has frozen himself in the science lab. A thousand years later, they defrost him and find out he is still alive. There he befriends with ppl in the future where they hired him to be a delivery boy to deliver goods around the universe. The problem was the stuff he delivered always end up on strange planet.What I like about the show was its humor and also a bright new idea and a fresh look make this more or less very flawless storyline with no chance of prediction of what going to happen next. You'll be surprise all the time. The characters are well developed and are very individual and the situations are so damn funny. This is a well plan series and the art work is wonderfully done.Recommendation: Worth Your Money To Buy Its DVD.Rating: 8.5/10 (Grade: A-)


                
"Futurama" may not have everything it's sister show "The Simpsons" has, but it is definately a good show.  It shows humor and wit just as "The Simpsons" does.While "The Simpsons" has not faltered in the 13 years it has been on the air, I have found that some of the recent episodes of "Futurama" have lacked the character and the overall goodness that makes it a great show.  However, I still think "Futurama" is a good show to watch and I reccomend it to all fans of TV, especcially of "The Simpsons".


                
Great cartoon series far exceeding modern ones like family guy which are more about the crude factor. Bring it back!


                
Concluded binge-watching "Futurama", by "The Simpsons" creator Matt Groening, which has a strange production history. 140 episodes were made between 1999-2013; it's first 4 seasons from 1999-2003 were with FOX who gradually lost interest. After a long hiatus, Comedy Central (home of "South Park") bought the rights in 2006. Four direct-to-DVD films were released in 2008-09 (later split into 16 episodes to create season 5 for TV runs) and two 26-episode seasons, both split over two years in 2010-13, concluded the show's 7 season run over a 14-year span.When it first aired, I only saw a few early episodes and, for reasons I can't recall (possibly my initial dislike of the theme music), I didn't really take to it. Having ploughed through "The Simpsons", "South Park" and "King of the Hill" this year, I decided to give "Futurama" another shot, and did enjoy it a lot more, and was even surprised by many of the clever twists that carried through the series. The show can't decide whether it wants to follow a serialised or episodic format, and certainly isn't the first show to switch format between seasons, yet due to its frequent callbacks to previous events "Futurama" has a definite semi-serialised feel; though episodes can be watched independently, many require knowledge of earlier episodes to understand some references, especially time-travel themed episodes. I quite like that, however, as it provides greater continuity and background, instead of just chucking poorly-developed throwaway episodes at us just to pad out the seasons, like "The Simpsons" ended up doing... 29 years on... that horse may not be considered dead, but it on life support."Futurama" has the same animation style as "The Simpsons", being both colourful and energetic, with well-written and superbly voiced characters. Much of its comedy style is similar too, but its futuristic sci-fi setting gives it a different feel and less room for social commentary, therefore "Futuramara" often tends to be surreal rather than preachy. Whilst "Futurama" doesn't directly parody any mainstream sci-fi series as a whole, it frequently spoofs memorable scenes from popular shows such as "Star Trek", "Star Wars", and many classic sci-fi B-movies, and these make for some very amusing moments. Very much like "The Simpsons" annual Halloween special parodies a selection of horror stories and films, "Futurama" does the same with many sci-fi films. I also love how they constantly mimic various original "Star Trek" sound effects throughout the series, such as whooshing doors and chirping computers - it's subtle, but a nice touch for fans. Better still, Shatner, Nimoy, Takei, Koenig and Nichols actually voiced themselves for one whole episode, which provides some great self-deprecating dialogue.In conclusion: I think that "Futurama" had a fair run. Seven years may not seem like a lot, but it's fair to say that it did not overstay its welcome, unlike "The Simpsons", which has been dragging its heels for several years and has lost most of its original appeal. "Futurama" often crosses the line when it comes to "political correctness" and risqué humour, though it still veers closer to "The Simpsons" more subtle handling of material than the, uh... less family-friendly expressions used in many "South Park" episodes. Why did I enjoy it more now than 18 years ago? I think, because in 1999 "The Simpsons" was still a classic (just) and "Futurama" just couldn't equal it. But, once "The Simpsons" began to grow stale, "Futurama" picked up the baton and became a classic in its own right. With the entire universe to play with, the writers produced many extremely good episodes, resulting in more than just another animated comedy, but a clever sci-fi, that has proved itself to be amusing, emotional and mature.


                
I love this show. It's so funny and very different from anything else on TV. Sadly it got cancelled twice, and is definitely not coming back, but it had a great seven season run, and will always be enjoyed by its fans.This show is about a young man named Fry, being cryogenically frozen on New Year's Eve, 1999. He then wakes up, a thousand years later, in the year 2999. He sees how much the world has changed. It now has flying cars, robots, people flying in space, aliens, etc. He finds his distant relative, Professor Farnsworth. Fry is his great, great, great, about ten more greats, grandfather. Fry gets a job with his "grandson" being a space delivery boy. Leela, a one-eyed alien, and Bender, a suicidal robot, also join the team. They spend their days traveling the universe delivering packages.Overall, I give this TV show an 8 out of 10.
Comparison between "The Simpsons" and "Futurama"Having been created by the same man who gave us The Simpsons, this show would undoubtedly be destined for a billion comparisons with The Simpsons. I think its fairly hard to say which is better. The Simpsons came first, and in its brilliance captured the loyalty of millions upon millions of fans.Futurama somewhat faltered there. I'm not quite sure what caused it to get cancelled over in the US of A, but I'm sure if it had been handled as well as it could've, it would've been a huge success.In The Simpsons, you get a strong sense of reoccuring characters. Matt Groaning and co have created a whole towns worth of people for their show, that we continually see throughout different episodes, which gives the viewer a bigger sense of being 'in' on the deal. We can connect with characters and decide favourites among them, even if they're only sometimes on the show. We don't get that so much on Futurama. Sure you get characters which you see over and over (other than the main crew), but few are characterised so well. With the exception of Zap Brannagan, and perhaps the robot mafia, the regulars are generally fairly void of character; they definitely have quirks, but deeper character is lacking.A great thing about Futurama is it can go some places where The Simpsons could never touch, seeing as the writers have the whole universe at their disposal, for example we see in the first episode as Fry familiarizes himself with the future. The Simpsons is set in reality, albeit a slightly distorted one, and is restricted by that, whereas Futurama can fly the writers' more wild ideas.I think that each deserves to be viewed in its own light. It may not necessarily be as good as The Simpsons, but it is definitely high above your average comedy material, and is great to watch on repeat viewings.


                
NYC pizza delivery boy Phillip J. Fry is sent to a cryo-lab on New Year's Eve 1999. It's a prank and the lab is empty. He falls into a cryo-tube and gets frozen for 1000 year. He wakes up and finds work at Planet Express delivering packages to every corner of the universe. It is owned by Prof. Farnsworth who is actually his distant relative. Leela is the one-eyed pilot and romantic partner. Bender is his heavy-drinking irreverent robotic best friend. Dr. Zoidberg is the weird incompetent crab-like lobster. Amy Wong is the flighty intern from a rich Martian family. Hermes Conrad is the Jamaican accountant. In addition, there is an universe of fun outrageous lovable characters.This show comes from some of the Simpsons family of creative minds. It is imaginative and fun. It is most compelling making fun of the present day but it has also created a wide encompassing unique universe. The writing is superior and not just for an animated series. The crew is a fun wacky family and the extended universe is a thing of joy.


                
I don't think Futurama will ever go down in history as a landmark series, but the same thing can be said of other strong TV shows like the somewhat similar 3rd Rock from the Sun. Both shows feature premises that are outlandish, and sometimes alienating, but their content is nonetheless funny and entertaining. At its worst, the show is somewhat amusing, and at its best, it is nothing short of brilliant. It takes an open mind and a suspension of belief in order to like this show, but all throughout the series, the characters are fully realized, their actions are consistent, and the Universe is never dull.What this show has working against it is that from the very first episode, audiences are bereft not to draw comparisons to The SImpsons; after all, the show features similar character designs (Bender=Robot Homer), the same creator, and in ways the same sense of humour. What this show has working for it, however, as is the same case as 3rd Rock from the Sun, is that it has infinite story possibilities. Were a show like Seinfeld, or The Simpsons (with the exception of Halloween specials) to include episodes involving time travel, alien invaders, or dimensional jumping, one would classify that episode as having certifiably "jumped the shark." However, the nature of the show is such that practically anything goes. What this allows for are remarkably complex, thought-provoking, and occasionally heartrending episodes with laughs to boot. One could call it a deliberately funny, and animated version of Star Trek.Overall, this show comes up on the positive side of things. Of particular note are the episodes involving Bender's stint as the God of a micro-colony growing on his backside, a parody of Willy Wonka, and all the episodes featuring giant brains or insane inventions by professor Farnsworth.


                
I base this review upon the five or so seasons that aired before this was cancelled, not on anything that may have come later, including the feature-length releases, which I have no intention of watching. It has been said about this that whether you love or hate sci-fi, you'll enjoy it, because you'll either get a kick out of the absolutely countless nods to, and parodies of, classics in the field, or laugh at all the jokes made at the genre's expense. This is immensely clever, and mostly intense in pacing, at times it gets to be excessive, and you won't be able to get everything. They tend to cram everything they can into the 22 minutes, and, honestly, nearly all of it is unbelievably funny. The episodes are usually hilarious, with a couple of exceptions, typically from them focusing on something or someone that just isn't strong enough to carry the main storyline on their own. There's satire, silly humor, social commentary and gross-out comedy. Some of the material was clearly put there merely to be controversial, to tick off the censors and/or otherwise provoke, and while there are points where you can definitely tell that PhD's wrote this, there certainly are also ones where it doesn't feel like that at all. This is almost always smart and well-done. There are a lot of references the 80's, as well as Star Trek, pretty much exclusively The Original Series. They took everything they learned when working on The Simpsons and applied it, though overall I do prefer that to this. Both have heart, in with the jokes. This was evidently very well planned out, and a lot of it has a genuine arc to it. It is imaginative and has a grand scope, cool creatures and intricate, interesting designs, if not all of the concepts hold up. The voice acting is just about invariably spot-on, and not only the regular cast. Every frame of animation of this is beyond reproach, and the masterfully done 3D is seamlessly integrated. The characters are well-thought out and memorable. Quite a bit of the dialog is quotable and excellent. The DVD extras on the volume sets are magnificent. I recommend this to any fan of Matt Groening creations. 8/10


                
A 9.3 average on IMDb? Back when this show was first on the air there seemed to be a split between those who thought it was funny and well-animated and those who thought it was silly with bad voice work. I was always on the pro-Futurama side, but now it seems like everyone's calling it Matt Groening's masterpiece, as though The Simpsons was just a warm-up. The people giving this a 10 are 15% off in my opinion.It is funny, and the animation is well done, but Futurama also has a far-fetched storyline and feel that makes it more like a nice distraction than the ultimate series. Fry, a guy from 1999 who finds himself in the year 3000 after being frozen, is a funny character. A great storyline in which Fry became his own grandfather won the show an Emmy, but it was also carried too far in that Fry became a superhuman hero. This was in my mind uninteresting; Fry worked better as an ordinary guy in an extraordinary world, while the alien Nibbler worked better as a speechless, strange pet than a talking, wise hero. The Professor is another great character, with the age jokes around him often being funny. But Bender, while funny as a thief, is not as lovable as Groening wants him to be. Altogether, this is a very good show, but with the exception of a few excellent episodes (The Sting, Roswell That Ends Well, Godfellas) it falls just short of greatness; it's missing something special. 8.4/10
I just finished watching the last FUTURAMA-season today and what can I say: I'm really going to miss it! It was so refreshing to see that a funny TV-show can be so intelligent, creative and just so special in its style. There are lots of pop-cultural references in it, especially to the SF-Genre, of course, but even if FUTURAMA makes fun of other movies or shows sometimes it never gets beyond the point where you feel embarrassed. It's much more fun for adults, I think, who have a certain knowledge of pieces of pop-culture, but it's still full of warmth and heart, unlike southpark, for example. The characters are unique and the actors/ speakers do a very very great job to entertain and touch you. It's amazing how an animated show for adults can be so funny, entertaining and still touching at the same time! And you can really watch the episodes more than just one time, because they're so full of creative details, things that just appear at the edge of the frame and stay unnoticed at first. You just feel the heart and devotion of the creators inside it! It gets the bridge of making you gasp for breath because of laughing so hard and make you fall silent again (sometimes) one moment later, like in the episode JURASSIC BARK from the 5th (4th) season. The Simpsons are cool, but FUTURAMA is fantastic. Such a shame I've already seen it all once. Take the chance to get really great entertainment on your TVs, funny and very unique!


                
