Hopeless.If you can endure Charlton Heston's painful attempts at "serious" acting for nearly four(!) hours, you will ultimately be done in anyway by the film's sheer unwieldy clunkiness. It lumbers along under William Wyler's direction like a crippled elephant, coming alive in only a couple of places (the lauded chariot race scene, the sea battle sequence), only to ultimately collapse under its own self-important piety.I'm sure the creators of this film thought they were doing their audiences all sorts of favors by dazzling them with gigantic sets and crowd scenes. But really, their efforts backfire, because they make it futile for the actors to try and compete with the film's sheer physical size. Who can give a compelling performance when he/she's never filmed in anything more than medium close up? Watching this film is like watching a stage production from the eighteenth row.Movies like "Ben-Hur" are the reason why people roll their eyes at the thought of watching a biblical epic. I'm not religious, but it's not the religious subject matter that turns me off from this film -- it's the way it's presented, the way it's performed and virtually everything else about it.Grade: D


                
The first time I saw this film was when it originally came out. God knows why on earth my parents dragged a five of six year old boy to a thing like this, but I can tell you, in between boring me stiff it scared me absolutely sh*tless. I didn't understand the first thing about it, of course, but the Messala death scene and that stuff about the lepers caused me nightmares for years afterwards! So now I saw it again, on DVD, for the second time in my life. And boy, what an experience it was. This time it didn't scare me, no, it didn't, but it still bored me alright. Made me laugh, too, with the cheesy Jesus cameo's, the over the top music, the ridiculous acting, the whole pretentiousness of it all. Just the beginning alone with the cheap Christmas card effects is hilarious. How can anyone take stuff like this seriously?? Of course the chariot race is cool, nothing wrong there. Messalas death scene the second time round isn't so much scary as it is annoying, I was trying to see if the doctor is indeed John le Mesurier or not but I couldn't get a clear shot of him. On the other hand, the sea battle was obviously filmed in Wyler's bath tub and should be cut from the movie for sheer embarrassment. The guy on the drums has trouble keeping the beat as well, and Jack Hawkins is simply very confusing indeed.The lepers scenes go on and on until it all becomes a blur, and the effects are nothing to write home about. Having seen my share of gory movies in the meantime, not to mention The Elephant Man, may I be excused for being underwhelmed by a few blisters and sores?And then there is goold ole' Charlton Heston. What to make of him? Well, I've got to give it to him that he's a better actor than John Wayne (now there's a compliment!) but after 4 hours of him I just wish he would stop showing his teeth for a change. So what did I like? I liked the little old guy playing Emperor Tiberius, you can see he enjoyed himself. I love the horses, of course, truly magnificent. And I definitely loved the ending, not particularly for its undiluted overdose of 'edelkitsch', but because the job was finally, finally done. Ben Hur, an all time hit in the Lourdes municipal theatre, undoubtedly. But a masterpiece? As the Christ said, forgive them, Lord, for they don't know what they are doing.
This film, like all other versions of Gen. Lew Wallace's novel, has a very negative vibration.  Literal treatments of scripture and similarly fictional adaptations of same result in crimes against humanity. 
Under the guise of self-righteous ("God-is-on-our-side") beliefs, fellow beings are forever becoming snarled in combative modes of behavior.Despite humongous cast, hoards of extras, and eye-popping production values, including "inspirational" score replete with heavenly voices, contradictions prevail.   The screen unfolds with truths, partial truths and fallacies all mixed together as to confuse and distract.  As if this weren't enough, the narrative has very little to do with "a tale of the Christ."
Drama had better leave metaphysical and allegorical texts alone and concentrate more on pure fantasy.


                
Letterbox format on 21 inch TV is probably not the best format for viewing this, but with the exception of one sea battle and one chariot race this is a lushly costumed, monotonously paced waste of celluloid. Nobody speaks rapidly. Few talk loudly or softly. From the five minute overture to the five minute background set up before the opening credits, everything reeks of "importance" without relief.But, that chariot race was something. Most impressive is that it was done before the arrival of computer effects, which makes it that much more realistic. It also pretty much summed up the main plot driver. If only the movie ended with it, instead of continuing for another hour.
