Even if "Ben Hur" of 1959 isn't a bad movie, it's an unnecessary one. In my opinion, the first "Ben Hur" with Novarro is far better than this remake, which shares the fate of many remakes: you go and see it, perhaps you like it, but at the same time you are tempted to frown and ask: so what? It was all done already!


                
Uh. Sorry, folks.I know that Ben-Hur is considered by many to be an all-time classic, and everything, but, hey, aside from the chariot race (which was magnificently done), this dry-as-dust picture pushed the boundaries of monotony just a little too far for this reviewer with its 3.5 hour running time.... Yeah. It sure did.And, believe it or not, I actually sat through Ben-Hur's 3.5 hours of one over-long, dragged out scene after another and waited, and waited, and waited (ho-hum!) for something, anything worthwhile to take place, but it just didn't happen.... Nope. It didn't. (except, of course, for the chariot race) Ben-Hur was a literal biblical soap opera of epic proportions that seriously cried out for some major editing. At least a good hour could have easily been cut out of its story and I'm sure that no one would have ever noticed the diff, one way or the other.Maybe back in 1959 this film's fabricated magic might have worked on its audience like a mesmerizing spell, but that isn't the case today. No way.Considering that this film's tag-line is "A Tale of the Christ", Ben-Hur has got to be one of the most hollow and cheesy biblical stories ever captured on film. About the only memorable scene that the Christ character happened to appear in was when he was carrying his cross (or trying to) on his way to his own crucifixion - And he kept falling down - So someone had to give him a hand with carrying the thing. ( No. Not very impressive, if you ask me) Personally, I think that Ben-Hur was completely unworthy of winning a total of 11 Oscars. Particularly for its win for "Best Picture" (it was up against Anatomy For A Murder and The Diary Of Anne Frank) - And, especially, for "Best Actor", which went to that big phony-baloney with the whitest teeth, and brightest smile, Charlton Heston (who was up against James Stewart and Jack Lemmon).Yep. It was quite plain to see that everything about Ben-Hur said "expensive" (its budget was $16 million), but nothing about it was in the least bit inspirational.In spite of its big-name cast, and hordes-upon-hordes of extras, and all of its eye-popping sets and big-dollar production values, Ben-Hur was a small and petty and frivolous motion picture in so many, many ways.


                
To start Charlton Heston isn't that great of an actor. He is just like the Arnold of his time without one liners. His acting is just not convincing he feels and looks insincere the whole time. The only movie where i felt anything from him was 'a touch of evil'. For the other actors well, few others are featured enough to make much of a difference and the script's shallowness except for a few lines leave the whole experience really empty of empathy from the audience. Now in terms of the actual movie it has aged terribly where other films from the era have shined. The shots are bland and require the background to hold the audience's attention. There was no directorial imagination in the picture. One of the biggest problems with this movie is that it just wasn't edited. Nearly all the scenes drag and drag which is probably one reason that the acting feels forced because people are holding this faces forever. Even the famous chariot race takes forever to get to and it even drags. Another area where it has aged is the costumes which look tacky and fake along with indoor sets that look like sets. really the only real great scene is the chariot race which deserves the title epic while the rest deserves the title biography. and one of the few interesting this is the way Jesus is portrayed, but it was so back grounded and unfocused from the central story that it was almost no worth putting in. The entire Christ bit even felt tacked on and wasn't at all backed up by Heston.


                
This movie picture, awarded with eleven Oscar, is not worth much. It is a low example of Roman pictures at Hollywood worse way. It means that they spend a lot of money but there are not talent at all inside the product. The responsible was a man like once solid and talented William Wyler, an film-maker with a long and proven experience. American cinema must be grateful to him (The Westerner, Mrs. Miniver, The Best Years of Our Lives, The Collector), but not for this picture. This Ben-Hur is a very long subject index of Roman cinema common places (sometimes even becomes involuntarily hilarious and childish). The best sequence -the chariots race- could be made by any craftsman less prestigious than Wyler. Of course I do prefer Quo Vadis (1951) or Italian Roman movies like Teodora Slave Empress (1953). Less money, more interesting result. Everything is colossal at this Ben-Hur (there are another one dumb) including the story written by Gore Vidal and some more people. A conscious Vidal prefer stay uncredited.


                
I don't even know what to say about this movie. I'll try to capture my thoughts about it and put it down on this comment. First of all, this has to be one of the cheesiest movies ever made. I mean, seriously. It's about a guy who wants to kill his friend, but can't, because he's Charles Heston and that grin can convince anyone he wouldn't hurt a fly. Then, he gets sold to a slave, and is offered a job by a man, which he angrily turns away. Then, in the midst of battle, he realizes he should help this man instead of his shipmates, which are dying around him. And then at the end of the movie, his sick mother and sister are healed by the blood of Jesus Christ. What.The.Hell. Secondly, the acting is terrible. Charles Heston and Jack Hawkins look extremely out of place during all their scenes together. Charles Heston looks like the frickin guy from the Orbit commercials, and Jack Hawkins looks like the frickin guy from the Gatorade commercials. They are terribly directed, and we have to trust in the screenplay (which is, by the way, horrible) that they are (were) best friends! The whole movie is just Charles Heston going around, flashing his smiles here and there, growing a beard, and trying to act but looking more like the guy who provides comic-relief in any movie about making a play. You know, how they always throw in the guy who can't act, but looks really handsome and picks up all the babes. I think this movie is grossly overrated. And cheesy. And horribly directed. And horribly written. And horribly acted. Sorry.
I don't get why this is such a highly esteemed film. It's not even one of Charlton Heston's best films. It's 3.5 hours with almost no interesting dialog, characters, or plot. There's 1 good scene in the entire movie, the chariot race. Anti-climactic ending. I'm guessing it's just enjoyed by Christians who love anything with a Christian theme in it.There are far better movies for every facet of this movie. If you want a good Charlton Heston film -> Planet of the Apes If you want a good Roman-era action movie -> Gladiator If you want a good revenge story -> The Count of Monte Cristo If you want a story line adjacent to Jesus' -> The Life of Brian


                
This film is a remake of an earlier film based on a 19th century novel by Lew Wallace.It tells the story of a Judean prince, Judah Ben-Hur, who is condemned into slavery for a crime he did not commit by the man who was his best friend as a child, Messala. Ben-Hur is driven to return to Jerusalem to exact revenge against Messala.There are many good things about this film - the sets, the cinematography, the costumes and the supporting cast. However, the major flaws of the film are the script and the lead actors: these are terrible.The script is very cheesy, making as many biblical references as possible. It also attempts to give the impression of being historically accurate, which is bizarre. The inaccuracies are almost as long the book.The Romans and the Jews were allies, and had fought together. Jew legions supported Caesar Augustus to defeat Marc Antony in North Africa. Consequently, Jerusalem was exempted from the erection idols. Also, the Jewish religious leaders at the time were collaborating with their Roman overlords and making the governor rich. So rebellion was far from the mind of the Jewish leaders.Also the reference to "patriots" is simply anachronistic. I could go on with this, but it would not be useful.The two lead actors - Charlton Heston and Haya Harareet - neither are convincing and they are both very wooden and completely out of their depth. The support actors carry them - showing much more skill and conveying much more of the story and the emotional impact.The plot is also rather meandering, and has many rather confusing jumps. Why would Messala start asking Ben-Hur to inform at their first meeting? Why would he not then use the leverage of tile against him to inform, instead of sending him away? Why would he consent to the marriage of the slave girl he loves to a man she doesn't care for? Then comes the most confusing part, on the galleys, Ben-Hur is unchained. when the galley is rammed, he is able to escape, freeing the other slaves. When he comes above, instead of joining the pirates and therefore freedom to escape back to Jerusalem and revenge, he fights for his Roman captors. Why? The famous chariot race is staged like a NASCAR race - together with the pace cars, I mean pace horses. This is a spectacular sequence - but it is made absurd by the 20th century sensibilities: of the Boadicea blades on Messala's chariot, the stretcher bearers running out comically to collect the battered bodies, Pilate announcing the drivers &c.Another problem is that Ben-Hur's mother and sister were locked away in solitary confinement for years while he was away. Somehow they contracted leprosy without contact with anyone - this is never explained.Despite the wonderful sets, costumes, pageantry and support cast, this film falls down on the basics - the plot and the lead actors failed to deliver.


                
I understand that the film is primarily about the life of Ben Hur but think I'll focus my observations on the Hur-and-Jesus dynamic. In this mode, one can see in the tale a Christian's dream: to convert a Jew! Some reviews write of Jesus and capitalize the pronoun "he" as if this Jew from Nazareth was divine. Such is the Christian myth. Many conservative Christians continue the slander that the Jews failed to understand their own scriptures and failed to recognize their own messiah (another word that needn't be capitalized except when used in a title as "president" is in "President Donald Trump"). Forgive me for reviewing not just the movie but an aspect also of some reviews. But our reactions to a film can be as interesting as the film itself. Films play roles in our lives and so an epic film in which a Jew recognizes the "Messiah" is partly propaganda that might reinforce a bias or movie a viewer toward a bias. Next year a book (The Folly of Fundamentalism) will be available on Amazon that explains all this in greater detail..


                
