It's hard to deny that William Wyler's lavish version of "Ben-Hur" is sometimes a bit overdone, but it nevertheless remains an entertaining and worthwhile classic. The material does justify the big-budget approach, since the story contains several interesting themes as well as plenty of action sequences. While some parts could have been stream-lined with little loss, in order to make the movie as a whole flow more smoothly, in general the film as it is keeps a good balance between action and substance. There are some very good dramatic moments in addition to the action highlights.Charlton Heston is well-cast as Ben-Hur, a role that plays right to his strengths. The strained relations between Ben-Hur and Messala provide one set of themes for the story, as well as driving much of the action. Heston handles his end of it pretty well, although Stephen Boyd could have been a little less static in his portrayal of Messala. Jack Hawkins works very well as Quintus Arrius, and his scenes with Heston are used well in establishing some of the inner workings of Heston's character. Hugh Griffith also has a couple of good scenes as Sheik Ilderim.The chariot race and other action sequences usually get most of the attention, but there are also some worthwhile ideas in the story (which are really the focus of the original novel) that are developed well enough. There is also a very good silent movie version of "Ben-Hur" from 1925, which at times takes a different approach from this version, and which is well worth seeing in itself for those who like the story.


                
Ben-Hur (Charlton Heston) a Jew, and Massala (Stephen Boyd) a Roman, once boyhood friends clash as adults in Biblical times. Big, lumbering epic--way too long (3 1/2 hours). It does have two spectacular action sequences--the sea battle and the chariot race.The sea battle has some very obvious, sometimes laughable special effects--for instance, it's VERY obvious that they're using toy boats in the long shots! Still. it is exciting and well-done.The chariot race is just great. A must see in wide-screen ONLY--it's long, violent and fascinating. It still stands up after over 40 years.The rest of the film is rather slow. The dialogue is ponderous. The pace is way too slow and none of the performances are that good (how Heston won an Academy Award for this is beyond me). But it looks great in wide screen and color and has a rousing music score. I'm giving it an 8, but I really can't recommend it. Give me the 1925 Ramon Novarro one--that was much better.


                
The re-mastered Collector's Series DVD of 'Ben Hur' released last year provides the reason I am adding to the many comments already posted for this film. It is still not widely appreciated that this DVD includes beautifully re-mastered copies of both the 1959 widescreen classic and the 1925 silent version for comparison - a wonderful acquisition for anyone interested in the history of film. This 1925 film was a crowning glory of the silent film era but for a long time was seldom screened, although it now appears on TCM occasionally. Comparing the two versions provides a fascinating insight into the development of the American film industry. The ongoing efforts by Hollywood to produce biblical or religious epics seems difficult to understand. Started pre-WW1, it still continues. (The last was probably Mel Gibson's "The Passion of the Christ" in 2004, but films such as "The DaVinci Code" remain closely related.) These films involve great risks - little could be more quickly fatal to a Studio than a perception that it supports one particular theological viewpoint rather than another. Religious films have to appeal about equally to viewers who are orthodox,, catholic, protestant, agnostic or atheist in their personal beliefs. Today there will also be concerns about offending other religious beliefs. A Director has to be chosen, sensitive to these concerns, and able to produce a film that appeals to all groups. When satisfied that its production will not be repugnant to major groups of viewers, the Studio has to sign up a cast happy with the proposed script, and capable of working together without undue friction. This is true of every film, but religious beliefs are very fundamental. Asking an actor who hates the existence of firearms to take the part of a gunman, is significantly different to asking him to accept a role which conflicts with fundamental personal beliefs. After a film has been made, its success may be seriously prejudiced if a major religious group decides it would be harmful to the convictions of their adherents and should be boycotted. Equally trouble will ensue if a public perception develops that it is deliberately intended to support one religious group at the expense of another. Studio executives must mull over these concerns before any such film is given the green light, and very carefully weigh the expected commercial benefits against the associated risks. Although such films continue to appear, they were most common in the 1950's and 60's and 'Ben Hur' was released right in the middle of this period. It was commissioned when the MGM Studio was in serious financial difficulties and needed to produce a major financial and artistic success to retain its prominence in Hollywood. The Studio decided to re-create their 1925 silent film of Ben Hur with sound and entirely in colour. At this time colour TV was seriously affecting attendances at movie houses, so it decided (in my view unfortunately) to push the anthropomorphic lenses of the time to the limit by using the extreme aspect ratio of 2.76 to 1. They fortunately recognised that technological gimmicks alone would not generate market success, so both the Director and the cast had to be outstanding, and money had to be no object. Ultimately it was William Wyler's selection as Director which probably saved the studio - several other experienced directors could have produced a comparable epic, but Wyler had an almost unique ability both to draw exceptional performances out of all the actors in his cast, and to create exceptionally well rounded characters. The cultural differences between Roman and Hebrew characters was brought out in a subtle way by using British actors for the latter and American actors for the former. Only in retrospect, after watching the film, did I recognise how much this contributed to the viewing experience. The overall high quality of all the acting is a tribute to the Director as much as to the cast, but commentators on this film frequently mention great performances by not only Charlton Heston and Stephen Boyd as the two leads, but also Jack Hawkins, Findlay Currie, Haya Hayareet, Martha Scott, Hugh Griffiths, and others. Although over 3.5 hours long, the film is episodic and features realistic dialogue which ensures that it never seems overlong. The setting, mainly in Judaea, helped avoid any need for Roman Circus sequences which would have been out of place. Films generally accepted as great all feature four well balanced attributes, an excellent script, superb direction, an exceptional cast and masterly camera-work. Other near great films often feature three of these, falling slightly short in one of them. Many critics feel that Ben Hur is exceptional not only because it is strong in all four areas, but because these were kept in balance unusually well throughout the whole production.The silent version 'Ben Hur - A Tale of the Christ' also featured exceptional direction and acting, superlative photography (mostly B&W but with a few Technicolor sequences for dramatic effect) and remarkable special effects. Do not under-rate these - the chariot race for which the re-make is justly famous is not greatly inferior here; and the sea battle is probably better. The acting may appear a little overplayed but this is to be expected in a silent film. The main difference lies in its better aspect ratio. In a large auditorium the 2.76 - 1 ratio screen can be compared to looking at a mural. But few artists achieve fame for painting murals. Go to an art gallery and count how many of even the largest paintings have such an aspect ratio. On the small screen a letter box format is ridiculous, and is tiring to continue watching during any long film. Buy this DVD and watch both versions to see how much better this 1959 film could have been if created with a more modest aspect ratio!


                
Ben-Hur (1959)Often cited as one of the greatest films ever made, and truly it is. Although its not one of my top favorites I do really enjoy it and agree with it being one of the best. It's a film that I think couldn't be as big now days, or at least not as good. They would ruin it with CGI and it wouldn't look as cool. Hollywood wouldn't allow so many extras these days in my opinion. Along with this the a lot of the stunts would be faked. Besides all of the big scenes, like the chariot race, the film is still great. Though the action scenes are probably the most remembered, the drama is what keeps the film together and makes it a classic. Perfectly directed and performed, it will continue to be viewed for years.Not being a religious person at all, I was worried that the biblical aspects of the film were gonna ruin the film, make it too cheesy and what not. However that doesn't happen. The bible, in my opinion, has great stories (if you just take them as stories not truth) so all the parts with Jesus are actually pretty cool, because it gives him that superhero like feel. Ben-Hur is called a story of Christ, which is weird, because it is about Jesus but at the same time it's not about him at all. More of a look at someone who was affected by him. Very interesting. On of Charlton Heston's best performances, and one of William Wyler's best films, it really deserved the Oscar sweep that it did. Winning best picture, actor, supporting actor, cinematography, costume design, art direction, effects, editing, directing, music, sound and of course best picture. I cant see any of these wins going to any other film. Though I personally like Some Like it Hot and Anatomy of a Murder more than Ben- Hur, I feel Ben Hur still deserved the wins. This film should be watched by everyone. I'm assuming a lot of the younger crowds might get bored by it, but anyone that's able to sit through a 3 hour film, mostly dialog driven, then please do yourself a favor and watch it. It's a classic epic for a reason, and will be on the top of most movie lists for a long time. 8/10


                
Civil War General Lew Wallace's unpretentious novel has had a history of being liked for many reasons other than for its questionable Roman history its and unpretentious religious themes. In fact, it is simply a very long story about why honor is important and why revenge is less desirable than is forgiveness. The religious aspect--miraculous intervention by a dying Christ toward the man who tries to offer him water, a man he had once saved--impacts only the second idea, which otherwise would be untenable. So, much of this nearly four-hour-long epic masterpiece of film-making is a rousing drama with elements of adventure, historical bigotries, a surprising love story, a powerfully-filmed chariot race, strong dialogue scenes, a beautiful sea-battle and much, much more. William Wyler was the mastermind who managed to keep this sprawling project together; The performances he elicited set a standard not yet equaled for the historical genre; note that, brilliantly, Brits play the Romans and classically-trained US performers the Jews. British Empire types play the other Middle Eastern races. The story of Ben-Hur need not be retold in any great detail. Messala, now a tribune of the Empire, and Judan Ben-Hur, a rich Jew, had been boyhood friends. When Messala returns as 2nd to the new governor, an accident with falling roof tiles causes the already estranged Messala, who has already tried to get Judah to betray opponents of Rome to him to further his career, to be enabled to send Judah to the galleys. Saving Quintus Arius his commander after a battle, Judah is adopted by the man in place of his lost son, becomes a champion of the chariot races at Rome, but returns home. He finds his mother and sister reported dead, his fortunes wrecked, and the woman he loves waiting for him. It's not enough for him. He declares war on Messala before he discovers his mother and sister have become lepers, defeating and killing Messala in a great chariot race; and then he finds the two restored by a miracle performed by a dying Jesus, who recognizes him as a man whom he once saved by offering him water when he was in a slave column in the desert. The real star of the film other than Wyler's impeccable direction and the spectacular recreations of Jerusalem and Rome are the actors. Splendid work by Charlton Heston, Stephen Boyd as Messala, Hugh Griffith, Frank Thring, Jack Hawkins, Finlay Currie, Martha Scott and others are the norm in this film. And virtually every technical and creative aspect from the costumes to Miklos' Rozsa's magnificent music to the Karl Tunberg dialogue is a memorable and praiseworthy achievement. Among the finest things about "Ben-Gur" are seeing Christ only through Ben-Hur's eyes, the Yakima Canutt-directed chariot race, the galley sequences which updated Michael Curtiz' rowers in "The Sea Hawk", the party and farewell when Judan leaves Rome and the entire early portion set in Jerusalem. One may quarrel as many have done with the "messy death of messala" or the deus-ex- machina miracle that is used as the film's climax, to the detriment of secular justice as a human concern. Bwhat must not be forgotten is how great a movie this is, developed from a slender source. I suggest it is a film worth studying and seeing many times over.


                
They literally do not make films like Ben-Hur anymore. From the elaborate sets to the exquisite costumes, to the deliberate Christianity, to the hordes of extras, this film is epic. The chariot race, in particular, is spectacularly executed. There's a reason Ben-Hur is both the Best Picture of 1959 and the highest-grossing film of that same year - it's simply amazing. It's really long and it's fairly slow at parts, but it's still amazing.


                
The newest iteration of BEN-HUR (2016) made by schlockmeister Timur Bekmambetov crashed and burned in the box-office front, which prompts my belated viewing of this grandiose historical epic under the supervision of William Wyler, the film won him a third Oscar for directing and swept with 11 wins out of its total 12 nominations (only Karl Tunberg lost BEST ADAPTED SCREENPLAY to Jack Clayton's ROOM AT THE TOP).Adapted from Lew Wallace's 1880 novel, BEN-HUR: A TALE OF THE Christ, this Hollywood juggernaut opens with the birth of Jesus Christ, jand condones quite a chunk of time in padding out the Calvary crucification after the iconic chariot racing money shot (which partially explains its drawn-out length, running up to 212 minutes), vehemently gets its feet wet as a Christianity- moralizing tale by casting J.C. as the Messiah who literally saves our hero Judas Ben-Hur (Heston) from perishing during his trials and tribulations, and jumps the shark in its miraculous ending, gratifyingly throws humankind's fate under the omnipresence's whims, which gives a staid aftertaste. The main plot is of course, about Judas, a wealthy Jewish prince in Jerusalem, AD 26, falls foul of his childhood friend, now a Roman tribune, Messala (Boyd), who swears allegiance to the Roman Empire, and fails to rope the freedom-advocating Judas into joining his side. Under Messala's cunning malfeasance out of a mere accident, Judas is sentenced to toil in the galleys whilst his mother Miriam (Scott) and sister Tirzah (O'Connell) are cooped up in prison. Revenge is the mainspring behind Judas' odyssey from a galley slave to an heir of the childless Roman Consul Quintus Arrius (Hawkins), it is hatred that keeps his head above water against adversity, alert to a golden window to enact his exit strategy and he even magnanimously hatches a son-father rapport with the tyrannical Arrius. This is the thorny knot in the otherwise rather Manichaean racial feud depicted in the story, how far one can go to love your enemy? Which remains a quintessential challenge for those who endorse Christianity, and the film could have delved deeper into Judas' psyche on that issue, yet, Arrius wholly disappears from the narrative after the mid-stream, and he merely functions as a springboard to Judas' glorious homecoming with his rehabilitation, reunion and rediscovery. At the end of the day, justice belatedly prevails, but Judas still gets all shaken up in the aftermath, revenge might keep him alive but it is religion that gives him the ultimate peace.For what it's worth, BEN-HUR's visual spectacle still holds water to an awe-inspiring amazement and thrill, it is a historic accomplishment not just because of its cutting-edge technicalities but also for the staggering manpower it strenuously deploys, the film itself is a panegyric of human's creativity, which is something no dissenter can take away. Romans are played by a crop of top-notch British thespians, whilst Jews are mostly impersonated by Americans, although how come Hugh Griffith's ludicrously swarthy portrayal of the Arabic Sheik can walk off with that Oscar statute still eludes me, he is not even the top-pick among the supporting cast in the film, both Hawkins and Boyd can easily upstage him with their more engaging agent and emotive bravura, especially the latter, truly deserves at least an Oscar nomination which usurped by Griffith. That is not to say, Heston wins his Oscar all fair and square, but at least one can understand the logic, Heston has a dominating role whacked by an unimaginable baptism of fire, he is undeniably sympathetic and mostly affective with a very theatrical flair. An unsung heroine, is Israeli beauty Haya Harareet's divine presence as Esther, the daughter of Judah's former slave Simonides (Jaffe), and Judah's sweetheart, who livens up the scenes whenever poignancy comes into play, a classic godsend. When all is said and done, BEN-HUR is the apotheosis of mainstream studio production in Hollywood's Golden Era, its phenomenal scale, its breathtaking grandeur and the imposingly plangent score by Miklós Rózsa can unnerve any redux project even tries to emulate its success, and furthermore, its "revenge is never the cure" message can earnestly transcend any religious persuasions and reach to a broader demography out of its faith-base home-turf.


                
The name Ben-Hur is synonymous with epic historical drama. The original novel by General Lew Wallace was for many years the best-selling American novel of all time. The 1925 silent film was the most expensive motion picture of its time and the 1959 version was the most expensive of its time. The vast amounts of money poured into these adaptations resulted in some of the most impressive productions in movie history.The film, which is subtitled 'A Tale of the Christ', revolves around Jewish prince Judah Ben-Hur during the time of Christ. Betrayed by his boyhood friend, Messala, he is condemned to life as a galley slave. Despite the hopelessness of his situation, he vows to return and exact vengeance on his erstwhile friend. The story of Christ forms a backdrop that recurs from time to time and ties in with Ben-Hur's experiences.The film was nominated for a dozen Oscars and ended up winning 11 of them. These included several wins in technical categories such as costume design, art direction, sound and special effects. Basically, no expense was spared and the results showed on the screen. The film still impresses today as an example of sheer cinematic spectacle.The acting was also honoured, with Charlton Heston taking home a statuette for his performance in the title role and Hugh Griffith nabbing an Oscar in his supporting role as the lusty Sheik Ilderim. Both individuals were deserving of this recognition and they also received admirable support from Stephen Boyd, Jack Hawkins & Haya Harareet. In general, the performances of the large cast leave little cause for complaint.In the director's chair, the great William Wyler steered the film from set-piece to set-piece without overwhelming the intimacy of the story at the film's core. He was rewarded with an Oscar for his efforts, as was Robert Surtees, whose cinematography contributed greatly to the film's visual appeal. Also worth mentioning is Miklós Rózsa, whose Oscar-winning score has since been recognized as one of the best in American cinema.Ultimately, though, some may have reservations about the film's religious slant, even though it's (purposely) not as overt as in the 1925 version. That being said, the story of Ben-Hur, while highly compelling on its own, is undoubtedly enhanced by incorporating elements of the story of Christ. All in all, in my opinion "Ben-Hur" still stands as one of the greatest epics ever to come out of Hollywood.


                
Ben-Hur (1959)Long. Epic. Beautiful.Is it also ponderous? Maybe--especially if you have seen other Biblical era epics ("Greatest Story" or "Spartacus") or if you don't quite click with the material. Is it what you would call a good movie, or a great one? It has the credentials, including Best Picture. But it also is filled with secondary actors to support the dubious leading man, Charlton Heston (who gives one of the performances of his life, for sure, and has openly credited the director for that).The director is none other than the consummate professional, the ever-versatile and polished William Wyler. And he takes a huge story with grandiose necessities and makes it really watchable. And epic. And with cinematographer Robert Surtees (look at that man's film list!) it's certainly an exquisitely beautiful movie, and very very widescreen, shot with double sized 65mm film, the IMAX of its day.The story is of a Jewish man named Ben Hur who survives persecution from the Romans, including his boyhood friend, and becomes a master chariot driver and a believer in the peaceful ways of his contemporary, and upstart Jesus of Nazareth. Yes, the movie is supposedly about Prince Hur but in fact it's all aimed at illuminated Christ, always indirectly, but in the end with surprising power. We only see Jesus from behind, or from a distance, or in small part (his hand is shown nailed to the cross, for example), yet we feel his aura in the few scenes where his is present. His affect on Hur in their brief encounter is touching and pointed.We need to see that Hur himself is a kind of Christ figure, but a flawed one, a secondary man by comparison (which elevated the primary one further). Hur says early on that he rejects violence, which was not an especially contemporary attitude, especially as the Romans are occupying his home town. He then goes on to show mercy to the very people who want to abuse and kill him (that is, he turns the other cheek). He wins in the end not by killing, but by setting a good example, by being deeply good in the face of unfair hardship. It isn't clear he is a believer in particular, other than his deep rooted faith in his people, the Jews.Context matters here, just a decade or so after the defeat of the Nazis. The Romans are presented as the evil colonizing empire, greeting each other by raising their arms in what I grew up calling the "Nazi salute." Their colors and even their symbolism (a big eagle) are Nazi echoes. And the victims of the Nazis and the Romans equally are the Jews. Take this an important step further, and we see that there is a not-so-subtle subtext that the contemporary inhabitants of this area, recently named Israel, belong there. Hur even reminds his Roman friend to remember that the Jews lived there before the Romans ever came along.The movie works best as a story of power, of virtue, of Christian morality, of individual triumph. It also works as a visual and visceral epic. Scene after scene is stunning to just look at, and I'm sure in a big theater (remember going to movies in a full sized theater?) it was a true spectacle movie. We forget how important the venue is in "getting" the movie in spatial, visual terms (that's one reason Westerns survived so well into the 1950s and are not thriving now).The themes of love, romantic as well as family love, are important here but are thin, filled with empty clichés and total lack of chemistry (perhaps on purpose for a movie with religious intentions). The writing is solid but lacks magic. The editing might be faulted for being a bit indulgent at times, letting scenes roll for their pageantry when we might rather get moving. And ultimately the acting is often more functional than inspired. In a way I respect Heston for pulling off a role burdened with stiff archetypes of the wise hero. Many of the actors are doing their level best with a script that has a message, and you can't quite get the drama directly when the message is itching to be heard, too. Some of the acting is actually a hair lame (Cathy O'Donnell, who I adore in other movies like "They Live by Night," is really awful once you notice her, which is really a casting problem more than anything).So I resort to nitpicking because somehow as wonderful and impressive as it all was and is, I wasn't swept away. It's not a completely gripping and moving film.Yes, there are ways of approaching this weighty classic other than saying its a dated religious picture or that it's a profound late-Golden Age masterpiece. It's neither, and both. And it's definitely worth seeing if you have a long long evening for it.


                
And then there was Ben Hur... Everybody must have seen the film tons of times (every Easter telly shows it) and there are some things I don't understand.... Overwhelmed with Oscars, being one of the most expensive productions ever (if it wasn't a success it would have meant the bankrupcy of MGM!) but is it so much different from all those other long big movies...? Is it so much better than Cleopatra, does it differ so much from The Ten Commandments or is it so much more original than Quo Vadis? You know it isn't... The sole thing that made this movie so outstanding is the use of a wide screen and the money that was set free to build up such an unique set. The chariots-scene is of course a classic but I am convinced that it has more to do with the developped technology rather than William Wyler's talent cos after all he was a frequent director but all of them are nothing but nice pictures. The acting isn't great either... Charlton Heston plays his role in a classic way, you can even say nothing bad about it but come on, it's not outstanding, not? The scenes with Jesus...well, we saw them all in those other Biblefilms and also the story of Ben Hur lasts 3 hours and a half but can be told in a few lines, not? But as said this movie is so classic, so important that everyone must have seen it and I even dare to give it an 8 (most of the movies I watch get a 7, mind you) but 42 years later it absolutely doesn't deserve to be titled as best movie ever as so many do.


                
The epic of epics, "Ben-Hur" is quite a treat at the cinema (especially the Astor with its new super-screen and Dolby Digital Sound). In three hours "Ben-Hur" only lapses a couple of times into rather wishy-washy melodrama. Otherwise director William Wyler has presented a forceful, strikingly visual film about a Jewish man's quest for vengeance, and the way in which he gains that recompense."Ben-Hur" opens by telling us it is a "tale of the Christ". Misleading really, considering only a handful of references are made to Jesus. Why the story of our Lord was tied in is a mystery, and seemingly not necessary. Perhaps Karl Turnberg (screenwriter) was trying hard to be true to the original novel. Certainly the focus is not on forgiveness, though love having the power to set you free and love being stronger than hate are central themes.As I have said, the film looks awesome. The enormous sets are lavish, contributing to an overall production design that is second to none. Cinematography goes one better, with several knockout scenes culminating in the legendary chariot race, which lives up to its billing as the most spectacular chase of all time.The cast are strong too, with the forceful presence of Charlton Heston a big factor. Support from Stephen Boyd (as Messala) and Jack Hawkins (as adoptive father Quitus Arrius) is good too. An excitable turn from an Arabian horse owner is a special highlight.Definitely the stuff of which legends are made. Eleven academy awards speak for themselves (a record only equalled thirty-eight years later by "Titanic").Sunday, May 3, 1998 - Astor TheatreBigger than big, "Ben Hur" is the sort of film one must see on the big screen (Melbourne's Astor Theatre comes highly recommended). Viewing this epic on video means losing out on the grand scale of the production. The enormous sets, the costumes, the larger than life characters, and that chariot race. "Ben Hur" may be the greatest film of all time (open to debate), but whatever the case may be, it must be seen at the movies.Thursday, April 29, 1999 - Video
A truly epic film. As is well known, an awful lot of effort and money were spent in making it. Charlton Heston was, well, Charlton Heston. If his acting seems wooden to modern audiences, well, I'm sure that he was giving the director exactly what he asked for. As a previous commentator has mentioned, people in ancient times, at least the aristocrats, spoke, wrote, and behaved much more formally and floridly than people do now. Kudos to the Israeli actress who portrayed Esther. Such raven-haired beauty. There was a great deal of historical inaccuracy, but audiences were not such sticklers for realism in those days. And, oh my God, that chariot race scene! Amazing for its time. It stands up to any modern action scene.I was surprised to realize that I had never actually seen this film until now. I expect that I had seen parts on TV as a child, but never sat through the whole thing. It does drag at times, and the treatment of the religious material is reasonably subject to debate, but it is definitely worth taking the time.


                
There are tons of material out there on Ben-Hur, so I shall keep mine short. There's only one reason I watched this, and that is to watch it in its entirety. Shown on TV countless times, I don't have the patience to watch it with advertisements, so all this while I survived on bits and pieces of the film.Ben-Hur, like all classics, have a single sequence to define it in cinematic history. The much talked about chariot race, still holds till this day, a spectacle to behold, and which Star Wars Episode 1 emulated in its equivalent called the pod-race. It has also won an unprecedented (until recently tied) 11 Academy awards in its time too.Also subtitled as a Tale of the Christ, the story of Jesus bookends this long movie, with the birth at the manger in Bethlehem, to his crucifixion in Jerusalem. In between, there are moments in which Judah Ben-Hur meets Jesus, though we never see the face of the Christ. There are other biblical characters mentioned / seen too, like Pontius Pilate, John the Baptist, and Jesus' parents Joseph and Mary.Charlton Heston plays the title character Judah Ben Hur, an Jew aristocrat in Rome conquered Judea, whose childhood best friend, a Roman called Messala, is now second in command to the Roman governor. Unwilling to become an informer to Messala to name Jews involved in upcoming rebellions, Messala has Judah banished to slavery and his family imprisoned.Swearing revenge, we see how Judah overcome various odds, and incredible luck which sees him through his slavery, his rescue of a Roman general, becoming his adopted son, and returning to Judea to exact vengeance on Messala, hence the grand chariot race.Though I must admit it does get a little draggy, and the dialogue a bit stilted and colourful, but there are enough moments in this plot to keep you riveted in your seat. So if you're game for some serious good old styled story-telling, watch this classic.This Code 1 DVD contains a full length audio commentary by Charlton Heston, and a behind the scenes documentary called Ben-Hur: The Making of an Epic.


                
During the holidays, I get all Biblical, God fearing, and powerfully emotional. There is a lot of Sinclair Lewis' "Elmer Gantry" in my soul. It is my upbringing I guess. The agnostic once attested that his religion is the religion of his parents and no matter what other experiences he has, he must hedge his bets. I was raised as a Christian and so . . Nevertheless, I enjoy the Biblical movies of Hollywood, and Ben-Hur is the greatest religious Hollywood spectacle of them all. Ben-Hur also titled "A Tale of the Christ" penned by Civil War General Lew Wallace, and you are copy-write free to read on the internet, was perhaps the most popular novel of the 19th century that has several times been put on film in the 20th century.But nothing quite like the 1959 film, winner of 11 Oscars, has ever quite existed before or ever will. Star Wars only pretends at such spectacle. Directed by William Wyler, this movie is the last great and fantastic non CGI or special fake effect, it is all real action, and amazing cinema. Seeing this print, digitized from the original 65mm film into a 16x9 anamorphic that is really lost on my little 20 inch Toshiba TV screen is still incredible. I need a bigger TV. But even then in witnessing, I can't imagine any attempt to pan and scan this masterpiece of epic movie making.I will admit this film's plot plods many times but if you cut to the action it never disappoints. Regarding this action there are three scenes that satisfy.The battle of the Roman and Macedonian Trimarine ships in the Mediterranean is mind boggling. Then the resultant triumphant parade in Rome is breathtaking and telling-- the Emperor Augustus Caesar, pay attention to his gestures. Finally the climactic chariot race between Ben-Hur and Masalla, his horses are white, and the bad guy's black, is an absolute high achievement of movie making that tops even the destruction of the Death Star in "Star Wars IV."A thread through this film is Christ's influence on Judah Ben-Hur, although he really never get's it. Effective in this treatment is that Christ's face is never seen by the audience, only by the awe struck actors. I found this taking license with the audience's emotions. I think if I ever looked at Christ's face I would not be awe-struck but instead comforted by His love.Anyway, this awesome cinema spectacle, recently released on DVD with many many extras is recommended. I love this movie and will cherish watching it over and over again.And yes Charlton Heston still looks great in a loin cloth.


                
The film Ben Hur is set in the time of Christ, circa 33 BC. This is the story of two boys, one Roman, one Jewish. It seems from the time the two were children, they were close enough to be brothers. So close in fact an observer might even infer, a closeness of another kind. Still, the story is reminiscence of their childhood when the two boys meet after an absence of some ten years. One portion of the film purports to remind the audience of the heroic actions of the Roman Boy (Stephen Boyd) as Messala and how after a decade, expects that by saving his friend's life, the Jewish boy will feel the importance of honor and friendship for the new position of responsibility of the Roman Tribune. Instead, the Jewish boy (Charlton Heston) as Judah Ben-Hur, who also has grown up, feels the weight of the empire and hopes his friend is there to loosen the Roman grip on the land of Judea. This meeting, begins friendly enough, but soon explodes into bitterness and feeling of betrayal. The Roman boy, feeling Judah owes him his life and loyalty, is rebuffed, by the sense of patriotism felt by the newly acquired faith of the people of Judea. What follows then is a series of tragedies. Judah chooses his self-importance and his people over his friend and allows disaster to place him at his friend's mercy. Having chosen faith instead of friendship, Messala allows his former friend to suffer the punishment of his own folly. Judah cannot understand his friend and sets out on the long road of revenge, killing three men in the process and eventually doing the same to his friend. In all, it's Judah who betrays the man who gave him life and allows him to die in the arena. The story of revenge is complete. Lesson learned. Save your friend and you may live to regret it. The film is spectacular in both breath and scope. Having garnered eleven awards, little more needs to be said. ****


                
If I were ever to teach an editing class for film makers I would give them the following project. Cut Ben Hur down to an 85 Minute movie.Based on a book written by an American Civil War soldier in the 19th century it tells the story of Ben Hur, good guy Jew, slave owner, who becomes a slave when a former childhood Roman friend betrays him, is given freedom and befriended by a roman officer. There are also some scenes involving Jesus and of course the famous horse race.Why I think this movie should be edited down, because for large parts of the movie I was bored witless and for other parts I was fascinated and moved in a way few movies can effect me.Oh, and the chariot race scene is one of the greatest action scenes ever filmed and George Lucas should shot for even thinking of attempting to replicate in "The Phantom Menace". Two recommendations when watching this movie. 1. Go to a cinema that shows it in the original 70mm print, complete with intermission and music played while the theaters are closed (or buy some little curtains for your TV when you watch it at home on DVD). 2. Don't watch Monty Python's the life of Brian before watching this movie or you will laugh during many of the scenes (I recommend getting your brain wiped to be sure).


                
It's a good movie. I like quite a bit but I will admit there are quite a few scenes that could be cut down or cut out completely. If an edited version of this film were made, more people would watch the film more often. The film is way to long for being nothing more than a fictitious story about a fictitious character set in a historical time period with some historical characters. Cut it down to 1 1/2 to 2 hours and the film would be better and easier to watch more often.Lew Wallace wrote his novel in 1880 entitled Ben-Hur: A Tale of the Christ. This film is based on that book. It is not historical as in this is a true story. History films just have some historical places, events and people in a fictional tale.The movie is beautiful - grand, epic without a doubt. And it deserves the awards it has won as well as it's classic status. It just has a bit to many unnecessary scenes or they are just drawn out a bit too long.8/10


                
Ben-Hur is one of the greatest biblical tale ever made in Hollywood. Ben-Hur proved to be an intelligent, exciting, and dramatic piece of film-making unlike so many other vulgar Biblical pageants with Hollywood actors and actresses. It was also one of the most honored, award-winning films of all time. It was nominated for twelve Academy Awards, Best Picture, Best Actor (Charlton Heston - his sole career Oscar), Best Supporting Actor (Hugh Griffith), Best Director (William Wyler), Best Color Cinematography, Best Color Art Direction/Set Decoration, Best Sound, Best Score, Best Film Editing, Best Color Costume Design, Best Special Effects, and Best Screenplay. It was the first film to win eleven Oscars and Ben-hur highly deserved it. I highly recommended it.


                
Ben Hur is still the best of the biblical epics of the 40s and 50s and it still holds up well today. This is one of those movie that you claim "They don't make 'em like this anymore". Large and lavish with 'a cast of thousands', it astounds to this day. 	If you watch this movie for one reason, make it the chariot race which is still one of the best action sequences put on film ever. There aren't many action sequences that get heart racing like this. The rumbles of the horses, the overhead shots, the dust billowing up from the hoofs are simply exhilarating. The chariot race is all 'old-fashioned' film making. There is no computers. Everything you see is happening. There is some magnificent stuntwork (sadly, one stuntman died filming this sequence). 	There are some other strong sequences, like the Galley ship scene, in which director William Wyler (who made one of my other favourite movies "The Collector") builds up some wonderful suspense. 	The acting is strong especially Stephen Boyd as Masella, Ben Hur's sly nemesis. Charlton Heston does a fine job in the title role although I think he could do these biblical roles in his sleep. 	Makes a perfect double bill with "Spartacus" (if you have 7 hours to kill!)


                
One thing that always bothers me about the Oscars ceremony, now about to enter its 71st year, is the necessity for each award on a yearly basis. Take the award for Best Male Actor. What if there were no good actors in a particular year? Should not the Academy say "we'll drop this single award for the year, as no actor met the high standard we require?" Similarly, the need for a "Best Picture" on a yearly basis is something that seriously undermines the credibility of the awards. Okay, Citizen Kane and The Shawshank Redemption were overlooked, but what really detracts is the ones that make it. Is the honour of winning "Best Picture" really as great when you know that means entering the same league of distinction as Titanic and Forrest Gump?And so we come to Ben-Hur, which, before Titanic's equalling pull on the golden statuettes, was the largest recipient of the Oscars. This is something that is oft touted, and of course the main draw to watch the thing. Yet has anyone ever bothered to ask what competition it had? Just as Forrest Gump only had the unsuitable-through-excessive-violence Pulp Fiction to oppose it, 1959 was not a highpoint of cinematic achievement. Revered fare like North By Northwest, Some Like It Hot and The 39 Steps were released, but would ultimately have been too mainstream for the awards at that time. Critically popular foreign films such as Hiroshima Mon Amour and Apur Sansar were also led to the cinemas, but when has a foreign movie picked up "Best Picture"? Room at the Top and The Diary of Anne Frank numbered amongst the token nominations, and so it was that Ben-Hur couldn't do anything BUT pick up 11 of the 29 awards going. (And it was only eligible for 15. Notable losses included no nominations for female cast members, who had little to do anyway, and a nomination but not a win for the writing).It's just as well, then, that this 212 long minutes of MGM pomp and splendour deserved the awards laid at it's feet (Though I might contest the treacly sentimental music as not worthy of the "Best Music, Scoring of a Dramatic or Comedy Picture" Award). A visual feast, if not always an intellectual one, it's epic grandiosity is always present, whether it's in lesser-known scenes like the underground leper colony, or the most famous, the chariot race. For a film that's now over 40 years old, it has aged remarkably well, and if you can spot the odd matte effect in the depiction of coliseums, or the battles at sea, then they have aged far better than early 90s CGI. In fact, probably the only fault you could really level at the film is it's sentimentality which, while not awash with it, does overcome the final reels. Its old-fashioned rigid virtues do tend to drag, but it is, in the main, a constantly pleasing production with minimal ostentation. Take the scene where Hur first meets the horses he is to use in the chariot race. It's a standard scene and far from vital in terms of the narrative, but the fact that the four horses in question enter a tent and interact with the cast is a small delight in the film. A quartet of actor horses who come into a human domain without wrecking the place, and yawn and nod on queue. Yet, delightful as it is, it is stopped before it becomes trite or the training of the animals is overly apparent.Interestingly, it's the characters off-screen that dictate the action. Hur's childhood friend, Messala (Stephen Boyd) is absent for over an hour of the middle section, yet is it Hur's hatred of what he has become that drives him, the desire for revenge against Messala that keep him alive. So too, the story follows the life of Jesus (the film's subtitle is "A Tale of The Christ"), as seen through Ben-Hur's perspective. We never get to see Jesus' face or hear him speak, a factor that adds to his mystique.
While the off-screen presences drive the narrative, the main characters fare perhaps less well. Heston is a strong lead as Hur, though the women are practically non-existent. Instead, what really forms the core of this movie is not the actors or parts, but the sheer spectacle. Films like this were made for the visual medium of cinema, with huge mock-ups of Jerusalem and Rome (cruelly destroyed by MGM after use so no Italian filmmakers could take advantage of them) and hundreds of extras. It's all in the sights, and on this perception alone it shames any latter-day action film for sheer excess. Not the most remarkable of the "classic" films, it must be said, but still an unmissable experience.


                
Like Lawrence of Arabia and other epic mid-20th century film, Ben-Hur is a long watch. Almost 4 hours long with an intermission between the two parts of the film, it does require a lot of patience to get through . It took me more than one sitting to finish the entire movie, but it was worth it in the end. The first part is a little slow to begin with, and yet there's still a lot that isn't shown in the movie and is cut out to save some time. The second half moves along quicker and brings about one of the most climactic chariot racing scenes I have ever seen as well as a crucifixion scene that nearly brought me to tears. Ben-Hur is not necessarily a "Tale of Christ", as the tag-line proclaims. It is a tale of betrayal, revenge, anger and forgiveness set in the backdrop of Christ. The film centres mostly on Judah Ben-Hur's extraordinary tale of his exile from Judea and his eventual return to find and seek revenge for his imprisoned family. In the background, Jesus of Nazareth gains popularity as a speaker promoting love and forgiveness, culminating in his crucifixion which changes Judah's outlook on the world and allows him to open his heart again. A long watch, but definitely worth it in the end. Wonderfully done.


                
The ultimate sword and sandals flick. What could possibly be said that hasn't been said many times before. "You can have my chariot when you pry the reins from my cold dead fingers."11 Academy awards, including Best Picture, for an epic with over 15,000 extras for the chariot race alone. A tale of change and forgiveness. Charlton Heston crying, "May God grant me vengeance!" at one point, and watching the transformation.Of course, this is not just the story of Judah Ben-Hur, but of Jesus. He is ever present, but we never see his face. He walks among us, and changes the heart of Ben-Hur, and many others.The film has many interesting characters apart from the celebrated actors like Heston and Stephen Boyd. Sam Jaffe, Hugh Griffith and his horses, and more.A timeless classic.


                
One of the greatest Hollywood epics of all time, the first film ever to win the record amount of 11 Academy Awards, most of them well deserved. Charlton Heston stars as the Jewish nobleman Judah Ben-Hur, who finds out his once close friendship with the young Roman aristocrat Messala (Stephen Boyd) has succumbed to his strict duties as a Roman officer. This new distrust between them soon turns to hatred when, after an accident that leaves the new Roman governor of Judea wounded, Messala condemns Judah to the galleys as a slave and sends his family to the dungeons. However, Judah survives his ordeal, fueled by his hate, and in a grandiose naval battle between the Roman fleet and pirates, rescues the life of Roman Consul Arrius (Jack Hawkins), after which he is redeemed by the Emperor, adopted by Arrius and embarks on a star career as a charioteer before returning to Judea to seek vengeance on Messala in the sands of the most famous chariot race in film history. However, winning the race and fatally crippling his adversary in the process does not return his family or his happiness, things only Christ can give him on the Cross. For the majority of modern day viewers, the overt Christian overtones in the final third of the movie – the film is subtitled 'a Tale of the Christ after all – are hard to bear in their cheesiness, but this movie remains a solid undying classic in every other respect (with extra credit going to the great CinemaScope cinematography, the wonderful, catchy music and the excellent production design): the fabulous naval battle and the highly exciting chariot race remain unsurpassed.
Magnificent scenes, moving plot and excellent performances,everything is great! I like it!I once chose the film as the reference of thesis for an elective of my college. Because we could learn a lot of knowledge on the arrangement and design from the scenes of the movie. The 80s would not probably accept this film , I heard a lot of friends said: "The movie was okay!" However, I would think though it up to 4 hours, but it gives you a Open-minded feeling of the epic. And it also helped we to understand what was the artistic aesthetic then.Taken in 1959, era without computer special effects, but the picture is definitely a sense of the 21st century. Likewise the Roman theme, four decades later, even "Gladiator" with a lot of computer effects could not be compared to it.


                
