Edmund Blackadder (Rowan "Mr Bean" Atkinson) is now butler to perhaps the most stupidist royal in English history, for this is now 1792, Regency England, King George is a looney in all but name, and his son, the Prince Regent (Hugh Lawrie) is the King-in-waiting and Blackadder is his servant.Not only does Edmund have to look after the welfare of the Prince but also has to tolerate his own servant, the mouse-brained dogs body, Baldrick (Tony Robinson), who hasn't got two brain cells to call his own. Blackadder is not only frustrated with the fact that he, by his own admission, is wasted amongst this pair of backward imbeciles  and tries to trick, threaten, bribe or steal as much money as he can so that he can seek an escape from this lifetime of drudgery.We are treated to six wonderfully scripted episodes from Blackadder's diary and what a pleasure it is too (very mild spoilers):-SENSE & SENSIBILITY.The Prince Regent survives an assassination attempt by an anarchist. Disappointed by this recovery Blackadder suggests the Prince write a speech sympathetic to the poor of his land in order to win popular favour again.To help his cause, Blackadder hires two very amateur but egotistical actors to train the Prince in being stately, civil but also compassionate to his people. However, the Prince is also very irritated with his butler and insults him once to often before Blackadder decides enough is enough and walks out, leaving the dopey Baldrick in charge. Moments later Baldrick learns that the actors are planning to kill the Prince behind his back. Can the dumb servent save the day without Blackadder?INK & INCAPABILITYThe Prince wants to expand his mind and become one of the great intellectuals of the time. However, in order to do this miraculous achievement he decide to invite the great wordsmith, Dr Samuel Johnson around for tea in order for the Prince to review & patronise the Doctor's new book.However, the Prince hasn't quite grasped the fact that the book is in fact an English dictionary. All the Prince is really interested in is if there are any juicy murders in it.The arrival of the great intellectual is also a source of irritation to Blackadder, who has penned his own auto-biography crammed with "sizzling gypsies" and feels his own book is far more worthier than a tiresome dictionary. So the great Blackadder goes out of his way to mock not only the Doctor's book (which took him 10 years to compile) but also the Doctor himself. Irritated & impatient by these two buffoons, the Doctor stomps out in a huff, forgetting to take his dictionary with him.When Blackadder learns that Baldrick has burnt the dictionary and there is no copy he panics and decides to follow one of Baldrick's "cunning plans" and rewrites the entire book. The only trouble is that he has only the weekend to write it before the Doctor returns with some of his most admiring friends all swearing bloody murder if the book is not returned.DISH & DISHONESTYRemarkably the Prince is on the verge of bankruptcy from a hostile Prime Minister, Pitt The Younger. The only way to avoid this embarrassment is to make sure all the serving MPs vote in favour of retaining the Prince and ignoring the PM. To be sure of winning an overall majority Baldrick is made an MP but rather than voting for the Prince the dopey Baldrick votes the other way. Only the House of Lords can save the Prince from ignominy and Blackadder's luxury lifestyle off ripping off the Prince. So Blackadder decides to become a Lord himself and hopefully save the day.AMY & AMIABILITYThe Prince is almost broke thanks to a total misunderstanding in how to play a game of cards for money. As a consequence the only way out is for the Prince to marry a wealthy lady called Amy. Blackadder arranges a blind date but the thickish Prince isn't all that bothered about charming the young girl with sweet nothings, all he wants is to give her some his "German Sausage".Blackadder learns that Amy is a bit of a thicky herself and her father isn't quite so wealthy after all. The plan of marriage goes badly wrong and so Blackadder has no other choice but to turn to crime as a dashing Highway Man, in order to stave off the wolves(and squirrels) from the Prince's door.NOB & NOBILITYMuch to the irritation of Blackadder, there is a new hero in town. The great Scarlet Pimpernel, who is saving the heads of all the French aristocrats from the chop as the peasants have revolted against their king.Denouncing the Pimpernel Blackadder accepts a challenge from some of the Prince's friends. He has to sail to France, rescue an aristocrat and bring him home in order to win the bet.However, Blackadder has other ideas of rescuing a Frenchie, and it doesn't involve sailing to the "hugely dangerous" country of France.DUEL & DUALITYThe Prince really puts his foot in it by spending the night with the nieces of the greatest swordsman England has ever seen, the Duke of Wellington.The Prince thinks the Duke is still at war and will thus never know. But Blackadder reminds him that the war with the French ended six months ago and put it about town that he will duel to the death with anyone who takes advantage of his two nieces.In a panic the Prince offers Blackadder everything he owns if he will only fight the Duke instead of him. After some thought Blackadder agrees but to complete the masquerade they have to swap clothes and jobs in order for the deception to work.Six great episodes, all superbly written and performed. The only slight disappointment is the absence of both Stephen Fry & Tim Macinnery. It is true they appear in an episode each here, but unlike Series 2 & 4 where they were regulars, this series somehow isn't quite so complete and thus the comedic jousting between Blackadder, Baldrick and the Prince is rather restricting and repetitive.Apart from that minor grumble this third series is quality comedy, although I personally rank it third behind series 4 and series 2 respectively.****/*****
BlackAdder is simply comedy at its best it stood out even in the golden age of comedy when so many shows were at there peak BlackAdder was a different show every series and gave you something new and funny to laugh at every episode the cast are perfect and work well together if you watch this and don't laugh I'll send Boldrick round to clip you round the ear good sir.


                
BlackadderCurtis and Atkinson's passionate project of upsetting your expectation on both literature and history, is one of the rare art that inspires us even after decades. The writing still holds for both its maturity and pettiness, never has been before, a sketchy act so witty and truthful to its theme. It starts from the scratch on the infamous royal history of Britain and ends on a dramatic World War note, where both the humor and drama is given sincere respect on writing and performance. Despite of depicting various different stages of history with new characters, the themes often dwells on the chemistry of a master and a squire.And with equations shuffling like cards, where either there is envy, honesty and vacuous-ness between their relationship, the close calls that is the ignition of the chaotic humor is something that stays with us throughout the series. It often tilts towards satirical where politics, democracy, monarchy and even humanity is put to trial and being laughed at. Atkinson, as the soul and the title of the series, challenges himself on all sorts of personas, from gullible to being cunning as a fox, his necessity on greed and humility is the fabrication of the history itself.Robinson is the apt supporter of his, on every literal sense where every now and then brilliant actors like Laurie and Fry invests their talent in, to raise the bar. The world built by Curtis and Atkinson is a mirror to our own only with a slight change of post or title or references, the emotions and circumstances it goes through, still can easily be seen around us and it is that nakedness of the game that we are curious to dazzle with. Blackadder is much more than a mere series or a period sitcom, it has memories of ours and theirs childhood that makes it long last.


                
The third series of Blackadder was even more of an improvement that the last.
Set in the Georgian era during the reign of the Prince Regent (the future George IV). The storyline was excellent and the characters were brilliant.It was the first series not to include Tim McInnerny (which based on his previous performances this is not a bad thing), Hugh Laurie meanwhile was fantastic in his role as the Prince Regent.
Blackadder played the Prince Regent's man-servant, aided by his own servant Baldrick.The last Episode was similar to the previous series, however here only the Prince Regent (disguised as Blackadder) was killed by the Duke of Wellington and the real Blackadder (disguised as the Prince Regent) permanently took the place of the Prince Regent.
After basically trashing Black Adder 1 and nigh on praising Black Adder 2 Obviously there is no other place to move onto then Black Adder 3, my personal favourite.Black Adder has fallen from both the Royal family AND nobility and has become the butler to Prince George, son of George III.As usual the acting is great from cast time regulars Rowan Atkinson, Tony Robinson, Hugh Laurie and Helen Atkinson-Wood, Rowan's Wife.As usual Black Adder insults everyone but instead of how it was in the second one, he'll publicly insult anyone and everyone, even the Prince. The only time I ever saw him being "respectful" is to Dr. Johnson (in the episode he was in - played by Robbie Coltrane) and Amy Hardwood (in the episode she was in - played by Miranda Richardson) and that is only because he would get money out of it.Overall if you've seen Black Adder 2, you know what to expect.


                
There Are So Many Reasons As To Why I Prefer This One But The Obvious One Is That There Are NO Dud Episodes & All The Main Characters Play Their Part As Funny (Darling From The 4th Is The One That Cracked No Jokes He Just Played An "Add-On" To Melchett's Jokes, I Hated...Well Everyone In The 1st One Besides Baldrick & Some Of Edmund & In The Second One I Hated Queenie...Its A Tough Call But Yes Thats It Overall). NOTE: I Will End Off The Short Episode Review With My Favourite Quote Of The Episode.DISH & DISHONESTY 6/10 The First EpisodeOf My Favourite Blackadder Starts Off With A Bit Of A Downer But The Spoof Polotic Reporter Was Funny As Well As That Turnip Thing & That Character Ivor Biggun Of The "Standing At The Back Dressed Stupid & Looking Stupid" Party Because He Looked A lot Like Mozart From Amadeus. Overall This Is The Last Time I'll Double In Politics."Which Pit Would This Be, Pit The Toddler?"INK & INCAPABILITY 6/10 Like Some Of The Episodes In This Series This Gets Another 6. I Like The Joke That Dr. Johnson Was Concerned About The Prince Looking Up Rude Words In The Dictionary & He Remarks "Thats What All The Others Will Be Used For". I Also Love The "Oh Crap" Moment When Baldrick Burnt The Dictionary(Spoilers About That). "The 5 Bony Thing On The End Of My Foot Will Connect With The Loose Bits In Your Trousers"NOB & NOBILITY 6/10 This Is Getting Harder For Me To Convince You That This Is My Favourite When The First Half Has Nothing But A 6 Rating. This Episode Sheds Some Of The Blood From The Revolution & Makes The Black Adde Put His Venom In It. I Was Glad To See Percy Again. The Suicide Pill Thing Was Hysterical, Especially When He Gave It To Lord Smedly By Accident(Say What You Will About When He Gave It To The Scarlett Pimpernell...That Was Funnier)."Are You The Scarlett Pimpernell?" "No, Absolutely Not"SENSE & SENILITY 8/10 For A While I Thought This Was The Funniest. The Entire Episode Is About Acting & How - According To This - Bad It Was Back Then. Overall This Episode Is Worth Anyone To Watch It. "Last Year When Brutas Was About To Murder Julius Ceaser The Prince Yelled Out 'Look Behind You Mister Ceaser'"AMY & AMIABILITY 10/10 This Is Not Just My Favourite Episode Of "Black Adder The Third" This Is The Best Thing That Rowan Atkinson Has Ever Done. The Comedy Mainly Comes From The Prince As Well As That Note He Was Going To Write Her. "Right, Sausage Time"(DON'T ASK PLEASE DON'T ASK)DUEL & DUALITY 6/10 The End To A Fantastic Series. Stephen Fry Comes Back & Black Adder Has A Scottish Cousin Called McAdder. The Episode Is Quite Funny But Unfortunately It Doesn't Live Up To Any Of The Other 5 Episodes. Overall The End To This Series Wasn't Bad But It Could've Been SO MUCH BETTER!OVERALL: As I Said...My Favourite Black Adder Series
Poking fun at politics, royalty, literature, greed, legends and of course history makes this series highly enjoyable. The snappy dialogue and the greater effortlessness with which the cast delivers its dialogues makes this series very funny. I was never a fan of Blackadder but after watching the third series I started to realise that the series really wanted to prove a point rather than being funny, that history was full of mistakes and we never were able to learn anything from it. The clueless Baldrick is the perfect example of the ignorant fool who gets stupider with each generation and Blackadder is the perfect example of the clever fool who manages every generation to make a fat pile of cash but in the end pays for his greed and indifference and never learns what he can do if he puts his brain to good use. A good addition to this series was also Tim McInnerny playing a different character and of course introducing a new Character in the series, the adorable idiot Prince George. He steals the show but Atkinson is still the man of the hour or rather the half hour.
