The story is riveting. Chief Whip of the Conservative Party gets the short stick in the new government (it is the first elections after a decode of Thatcher), and so resolves to destroy his Prime Minister and elect himself in the position. The acting is top notch. Ian Richardson as Francis Urquhart whips up a frenzy of Shakespearian machination: Iago in the scenes where he advises the PM, Macbeth at home with his conspiring wife, Richard III in the halls and secret meetings.It is overall a joy to watch.So, I would recommend it without reservation to anyone interested in a great piece of narrative. The satire is sharp, even though the plot is sometimes too convenient to really buy. But I have to qualify this with a personal observation; I am interested, above all, in films that set aside contemplative space for the viewer. Film is the ideal medium, because the camera can sketch that empty space in the gaps of story, whereas theatre has to rely on the spoken word to sculpt images, at least the British tradition inherited from Shakespeare. And that is what we have here, great theatre that just happened to be filmed.Imagine this: the same story (as a primary text, it is superb), but the narrator is truly untrustworthy and fabricates Nabokov-like parts or all of the environment. In the film, Urquhart as the narrator manipulates everything except our gaze.So we go from one malicious ploy to the next, Urquhart confides in the camera in the first person, winks, hums, invents, seduces, a wry devil, but none of it is abstract enough to allow us to lose control of reality and co-conspire in the fabrication of missing bits.In this mode, we (the viewer) would be Urquhart's nemesis in the hunt for power over the story, a role which in the film is set aside for the young journalist—Urquhart's Lolita Haze. My guess is the writer wanted to write this in the Nabokov vein, but missed the main stratagem.Richardson 'gets' it, having played Lolita on the stage as apparently Nabokov himself.I salivate at the opportunities. In the meantime, you will see this and write one of the best movies ever about political intrigue.


                
I somehow missed this series on its first BBC broadcast well over 20 years ago but went looking for it after seeing the recent David Fincher / Kevin Spacey Americanised remake, which I had much enjoyed. Looked at today, I'd have to say I prefer the remake. In my opinion, the poisonous mix of sex, politics and power plays better against the backdrop of the more open and ruthless brand of politics across the water than staid old Britain. Unlike Spacey, Ian Richardson as the reptilian villain of the piece exudes no sex-appeal whatsoever, so that you get no sense of a physical attraction between him and the young female investigative reporter (Susanne Harker), indeed there are almost no bedroom scenes of the couple to hammer home this point.I also found the plot-lines just too fanciful and unbelievable, Richardson's Francis Urquhart character's stop-at-nothing persona taking the cliché of the utterly selfish and self-deluding politician's ambition a bit too far. Yes, there are identifiable types in the background characters, but that's all they are, ciphers more than characters. As a for instance, the American series builds up the background character of Urquhart's wife more effectively than here, while complicit in her husband's rise up the ranks, she too is a shadowy, unsubstantial figure, another wasted opportunity. The only person we're interested in is Urquhart and besides himself the only people he appears interested in are we the viewer, as he breaks the fourth wall and speaks out directly to his untouchable audience. This first series ends up with a bang, literally, but shockingly spectacular as it is, it's too fantastical and doesn't ring true, like lots of other plot-lines in the show.The acting is very good, despite my observations above, Richardson obviously relishing every line, especially the now familiar tag-line "...I couldn't possibly comment". This was still however racy, entertaining viewing although even knowing it was written by a Westminster insider, I never got the sense that I was close to the realms of truth, but once that point is conceded, this parliamentary pantomime is fun to watch.


                
The UK "House Of Cards" trilogy starring the late Ian Richardson appears to be the basis for the more recent "House Of Cards" (2013 Netflix) USA TV dramatic series starring Kevin Spacey.The "new" "House Of Cards" (2013 NetFlix) is based on a UK mini-series done in the 1990's, starring Ian Richardson.The USA version is set in Washington DC with American characters, and centering on high level USA politicians.The UK show depicted infighting and back-stabbing on the parts of high level politicians trying to get even higher, or trying to keep high places already achieved.The world of behind the scenes politics is nasty at times, and the variety of ways nastiness can happen is what "House Of Cards" (both UK and USA versions) seems to be about.The unsettled, unpleasant, and unstable world of high level politics is not new to the world of movies and dramatic TV shows, and "House Of Cards" (2013) appears to be a recent addition to a long tradition (going back to Shakespeare's "Julius Caesar" play and before) well known to the history of dramatic presentations.That the show will be tawdry and unpleasant seems likely.High level politicians, in addition to being powerful and dramatic, are often well educated, cultured, interesting people with varied interests and interesting personalities.The "House Of Cards" (2013 Netflix) show could be better than the UK show if it depicted some of this along with the same old, same old back stabbing, careerism portraits of egotism amongst the rich, famous, and powerful.Whether it will be (though it could be) charming, intelligent, informed, even erudite remains to be seen. The addition of these qualities would be welcomed, if unexpected.---------------------- Written by Tex Allen, SAG-AFTRA movie/ TV dramatic actor.Email Tex at TexAllen@Rocketmail.Com


                
