(Some spoilers).With many a nod and wink to Shakespeare's MACBETH, we are introduced to the dark manipulations of Francis Urquhart of the British House of Commons. Snubbed by the prime minister leading his party, and urged on by his malevolent wife, Urquhart embarks on a subtle master plan to depose the prime minister and rise to head Britain's government.  So canny and devious is Urquhart's planning that the prime minister never knows what hits him; indeed he clings to his destroyer Urquhart as his only friend in what seems to be a world of traitors.  The queen-pawn of Urquhart's game is an energetic, ambitious young reporter named Mattie Storin.Most movies that have bad guys as protagonists fall flat with me (i.e. PAYBACK, PULP FICTION, THE FRENCH CONNECTION).  To be successful, such movies need to give the villain a generous helping of some redeeming characteristic that makes him or her interesting.  In THE GODFATHER movies, this characteristic is loyalty.  In HOUSE OF CARDS, it is intelligence. Francis Urquhart is not a nice guy, and he eventually shocks both us and himself with how far he is willing to go to obtain his seat of power, but the sheer intelligence and complexity of his schemes compels our admiration. In addition to its direct debts to MACBETH, Andrew Davies' cunning screenplay borrows the Shakespearian device of having our bad guy speak soliloquies to the audience.  This is hard to get away with, but Davies pulls it off with a charm reminiscent of RICHARD III or OTHELLO, and with more than a little help from Ian Richardson's beautifully dry acting.  Not many actors could survive Paul Seed's seemingly insatiable appetite for closeups, but Richardson always leaves us wanting another look at that smug smile.The dry and amused contempt for politics this movie conveys is a timeless but always welcome message.  There is one telling scene where a candidate for prime minister and his wife receive an audio tape of him in a sexual liaison with his mistress.  The wife remarks that she is not shocked; after all, the tape is fairly similar to how she herself met her husband.  HOUSE OF CARDS is superior to its two sequels in that actual political issues play almost no role in the doings of the politicians; it's all about personal reputation and trading of favors and influence, and the two parties appear virtually identical.  In contrast, TO PLAY THE KING and THE FINAL CUT are both savage, and not very effective, attacks on the ideology of Britain's Conservative party, suffering from the same difficulty American Republicans have had in convincing the voters that things are going badly for people under Clinton's administration; thus, unlike HOUSE OF CARDS, both sequels are limited in relevance to a particular time and place.  Also, Seed's penchant for shots of rats, apparently intended to liken them to the characters, is just overdone.  Is there a clause in BBC contracts that movies have to be a minimum of six hours long?But carping aside, the film is wickedly witty and just plain fun.  Not only is Richardson giving the performance of a lifetime, but Susannah Harker does a beautiful job blending innocence and ambition, and Diane Fletcher makes me want to see her play Lady MacBeth someday.  Is this the finest movie of political intrigue ever made for TV?  You may very well think that - I couldn't possibly comment.Rating: ***1/2 out of ****.
This was recently recommended to me as a very good witty British political potboiler, and it was. It's not as long or as good as Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy and not as deep but interesting and intriguing in getting me thinking of past political parallels, or of possible seedy reasons why Patrick McGoohan resigned.A grandfatherly looking member of the government Francis Urquhart who can't help occasionally looking and talking to us also has his eyes fixed firmly on the top of the Greasy Pole and is determined to become the next British Prime Minister by crook or by crook. He pretends, like Claudius, to be guileless and at the mercy of popular forces to ensure his longevity. But it becomes very clear to us over the four episodes that he is a typical capitalist politician: completely ruthless and inhuman to foes, friends and lovers alike. Luckily he's married to a heartless but supportive ally and also going with a young and innocent newspaper reporter Mattie Storrin – who trusts him all the way. Absolutely top-notch was cynical Ian Richardson's relentless polished urbanity in contrast to round-eyed Susannah Harker's faultless eagerness in their almost creepy relationship. It's their story that's so central to the plot but which eventually falls so<U+0085>flat at the end. No twist at the end, I saw it coming from the first episode yet the method was still a shock. And proving he will make but a typical British Prime Minister: they've always got away with murder and always will; but we all know that anyway so where's the moral? And what would Lord Reith have thought!It was made in 1990, in the big scheme of things just a little while ago – yet smartphones have done away with landline phones, cassette tapes, car keys, maps, TV news, for that matter newspapers – that now the series seems from before the dawn of Time and I wondered idly where we used to keep all the abacuses and stones to make fire. I haven't seen the remake but where will all the obligatory cgi cartoonery fit in? It's a totally fascinating series and well worth watching (even if I didn't like the ending), especially now it's set in the past.
It does not often happen that I watch an original creation after adapted/covered one - but such is the case with House of Cards where the Spacey-Wright tandem captivated me soon after the series was released. But I got to the British version only this week... From the start, I tried not to make comparisons with the U.S. series, but sometimes they were unavoidable. Yes, I enjoyed both Francis Urquhart's character and Ian Richardson's performance at once, but the plot had some minor shortages for me - first, Urquhart obtained the highest post of the Prime Minister at the first stage (vs. Vice President and President in the U.S.) and, secondly, the spouse- accomplice did not have her own agenda in the public life. Thus, the plot was only with and around Urquhart, making it more linear and less versatile than in the adapted one. But still, I love the British style and approach, their fineness and witty lines, and frequent surprising moments in the course of events. Moreover, the choice of music and cinematography provided an accentuating atmosphere and mood in the sinister world of politics, full of betrayals and selfish decisions.Notwithstanding with the fact that most of the events depicted are not possible in an EU/NATO country, the series in question is an integral and often realistic depiction what-how many politicians think. A must- see to all fond of British political crime series and a wide and pleasant record of Ian Richardson's (passed away in 2007) talent.


                
I have watched this after watching the American version of House of Cards. The American adaptation is truly exceptional and Kevin Spacey gives on a stellar performance as Francis. I was pointed towards this after being so impressed with the Netflix series. The British House of Cards was a great series. Ian Richardson steals the show as the Chief Whip who has been looked over after years of loyalty. Being so senior and respected it is that much easier to execute his plans to bring his rivals down. Having watched the American series I kind of knew what would follow and what role certain characters would play such as Mati and Roger. Still one cannot appreciate the great story lines and good performances. This was the show that started it all and the iconic monologue from the protagonist. As a series it was well ahead of its time. Perhaps the only criticisms are how easy and convenient everything seems for Francis to rise to power and eliminate his foes. Despite being senior and respected his foes never began to question him and questioned everyone else around including longtime friends. Even after Francis blackmails Roger and forces him to pimp out the girl he loves Roger still calls Francis a good friend and people don't question obvious agendas. The Netflix series was more realistic, despite some moronic claims it wasn't. The Frank there was later questioned and called out on being a liar and having an agenda. The Francis character is truly exceptional and an adaption of him makes for great viewing. It is no wonder the American version has become so popular. Francis and his political aims share similarities to Iago in Shakespeare's Othello. He was driven to bring those down around him including his master, however Francis seems more in control and playing the long game.


                
"House of Cards" (1990) is a TV mini-series directed by Paul Seed. It stars Ian Richardson, who portrays Francis Urquhart, the Tory Chief Whip under Margaret Thatcher. Urquhart has hopes for high office. However, like Shakespeare's Richard III, it suits him to act reluctant to go any further than Chief Whip under the new government.However, like Richard III, he has no hesitation to use blackmail. fraud, and violence to work his way up to the top. (Richardson played Richard III for the Royal Shakespeare Company. He makes direct reference to the play at one point.) Susannah Harker plays Mattie Storin, a young, attractive newspaper reporter. She has a keen mind, and a voracious appetite for knowing what's really happening at the House of Commons. She's OK with "off the record." But she really wants to know. (Some reviewers have likened her to Lady Anne in Richard III, but I don't see it. I think her part was created for this film.)Diane Fletcher plays Urquhart's wife, Elizabeth. It's a small role, but an important one. There's no equivalent role in Richard III. However, Elizabeth Urquhart is a stand-in for Lady MacBeth. She's just as ruthless as Urquhart, and she encourages him at every step.This isn't a perfect film. Like Richard III, Urquhart takes us into his confidence, and expects us to side with him against his opponents. Richardson is very good at that. You can't help but admire the way he moves upward step by step.On the other hand, some of the schemes he uses are patently obvious. This is true of the "Turkish Bank scandal." Anyone with half a brain could tell that this was a setup. Mattie Storin manages to ferret it out, but it was sitting there in the open from the start.People have naturally compared this movie to the U.S. House of Cards TV series. I haven't seen the series, so I can't add my opinion. However, I doubt if any actor could play Urquhart better than Ian Richardson. He dominates the film completely, and he's truly a great actor.This movie was made for the small screen, so I don't think it's necessary to view it in a theater. We saw the original version, released on VHS, where it worked well. It's a fascinating film, and you'll never be bored watching it.


                
