This is one of the best shows; excellent story, good script, exceptional acting by everyone, and good cinematography. The fifth season was a bit slow, but, what's disappointing is Spacey's departure (removal, rather) from the show. No matter how good the others were, Spacey is what made this show perfect. Without him, there is no way the show can survive. The series has ended for me.


                
I firmly believe that one of the major aspects of what makes House of Cards so good is the ability to watch all the episodes back-to-back with no commercials or programming schedules to get in the way. This small but hugely significant idea will be an industry game changer and I am certain that this is just the beginningTo me, the biggest advantage that this idea contributes to House of Cards is that it frees up significant time during episodes because it makes things like flashbacks or repeats of events almost completely redundant. There's simply no need for them because everything is so fresh in your mind, which leaves all that extra time for more story, more action, more conspiracy, more drama, more of the stuff that viewers really want to see. However it must be said that it does take a few episodes to get used to this, and you have to be really switched on and completely focused to ensure you don't miss a beat, because you really will pay a price if you do because what's said is never repeated, only referenced further down the trackAs for the show itself, I can't sum it up any better than by saying it's incredibly good to watch. The one aspect of the show I enjoy the most is the monologue, or removal of the fourth wall, between the viewer and Underwood. It's an incredibly effective method of storytelling as well as the expression of emotion or opinion, and Kevin Spacey does a superb job at pulling it off, along with every other aspect of his complex and intriguing character.The quality of writing, directing, and storytelling is as good as you'll ever see on the best shows in the world right now. Underwood has a massive ship to steer, and it is fascinating watching how he does it, through manipulation, blackmail, greed and determination. Each and every character has a critical role to play - there's no characters you could cast aside as being irrelevant or unnecessary to the story. That is a very difficult feat to achieve, and House of Cards easily passes that testIf you're going to pioneer something, like Netflix have with how viewers can watch House of Cards, you have to do it well. Everything has to be perfect, otherwise it will flop. A top quality show in House of Cards coupled with the worlds best internet streaming service is a very very good place to start. Netflix and the House of Cards team deserve a huge round of applause for daring to go places where no one has gone before. The $100 million gamble has definitely paid off, and I cannot wait for moreNeedless to say, House of Cards earns a 10/10 rating, and an absolute must-watch from me


                
When I thought about Francis Urquhart of the original House of Cards series, I could not help but imagine Kevin Spacey in a way that was similar but a role of his own making. Spacey's role of Francis Underwood, in Netflix's original series, is nothing short of a tour de force. The convenience of being able to watch the whole season right away is also something to mention as a new, fresh and exciting method of television excellence. No longer do we have to wait and be fed slowly the episodes as we wonder what might happen and find ourselves somewhat disappointed -- now we can be swept away. And that's exactly what will happen to you when you sit down to watch this. 13/10.


                
I was so looking forward to this, having been a big fan of the original BBC series, with its masterful central performance by Ian Richardson. In fact when I logged in to Netflix (like a lot of people, this show is my sign-up moment), I realised that my expectation level was really high.Within the first 30 seconds, Kevin Spacey's character Frank Underwood has killed something- in this case dispatching an unfortunate dog which has been hit by a hit and run driver. And as the political intrigue starts to develop around him, Spacey just fills the screen. By the end of the first episode, it isn't so much that you have forgotten Ian Richardson as Urqhuart, Underwood's British cousin, but realised that Spacey is taking us somewhere different. With Francis Urqhuart you got the impression he was always a psychopath, waiting for the trigger to start his Macchiavellian and murderous rise. Underwood seems to be just a more clever, more ruthless and less hypocritical politician than those around him. The fundamentals of the show - the scorned and bitter political back room fixer, the Lady Macbeth figure of Francis' wife, the ambitious young woman journalist, but all updated.Mrs Underwood is no Tory wife, waiting "in the country" while her husband charts his rise to power. She is the one giving him the backbone to do it. And as we see her brutally wielding the axe at the charity in which she works, it becomes clear she is no slouch in the ruthlessness stakes herself.The character of Zoe Barnes, the young reporter, is in a lot of ways more rounded than Matty Storin in the British version. Here she is ballsy, ambitious and a bit ruthless herself. While she retains the innocence of the character, she gives the impression she thinks she knows what she is doing. Which will make later episodes much more juicy as she realises she is way over her head.The show is shot beautifully, as you'd expect from the calibre of the team behind it, and the production values are excellent. Supporting roles are great. It looks like a movie or The West Wing before they ran out of money.But the undisputed joy of this series is Spacey, who is a more world-weary, more cynical Francis, and who is setting about his task of revenge and ambition much like he destroyed the unlucky dog at the start of episode 1: its an unpleasant task but someone has to do it.Spacey is every bit as good as Ian Richardson in this show and Netflix's big gamble deserves to pay off.


                
One of the most formidable political dramas ever created. House of Cards blends cinematic excellence with intelligent narratives and dialogue, but if ever the show begins to falter, its two exceptional lead characters hold it up. Spacey and Wright deliver masterful performances that captivate the audience like no other.However - We live in an unfortunate universe, one where season 6 exists. Simply put, this series will remain one of my favourites for a great deal of time, but season 6 was a disastrous mess.I'd always recommend this series, but I implore you to stave off the last season. I've been tormented through those hours of horrid television so you don't have to.


                
Outstanding! Outstanding!After watching the first episode I had to continue watching all the episodes. It's edgy, sexy and with a bit of dark humor. Francis Underwood is the first democrat I would ever vote for. The characters are well developed and extremely well casted. Robin Wright and Kevin Spacey are phenomenal and the supporting cast keeps the show moving smoothly and with no drop in continuity. With only a minor amount of policy discussed, it is easy to follow for the non political enthusiasts. Congrats Netflix and I hope there's more like this to come.


                
This is an excellent effort by Fincher and Netflix, and helped reestablished some long waning confidence I've been having in the modern movie/TV studios model. They have finally given us what we want, good shows without forcing loud, obnoxious commercials down our throat, and at a reliable price. The real question is, is it sustainable? I think it is, but we'll have to wait and see. I was really excited to find out about this show and yet surprised that I hadn't found out about it sooner. Netflix hardly did any marketing on this series, and as a Netflix subscriber, I never came across it on their site or elsewhere. I only found out about this reading through David Fincher's IMDb page looking to find what his next project would be. Today is the first day the series is available, and there are banner ads on websites like the NY Times, but wow, I can't believe they didn't try to build up more buzz than this. Well, with a new revolutionary series model, I guess Netflix determined they also need a new marketing model as well. I can't wait to see the rest of season 1, but am also looking forward to more offerings from Netflix. Finally, a party just for the viewers and the creators, but without those annoying middle mad men.


                
I've seen only the first season. (DVDs of the second and third are waiting.) The negative reactions come from "the usual types" who object to strong language (grossly exaggerating how often it's used); expect a story to have at least a few "likeable" characters; * and protest good, decent actors playing degenerate characters. Hey, people, "House of Cards" is about politics, where the abuse of power is the raison d'etre and the sine qua non.How you react will probably be influenced by how much of a misanthrope you are. Well, just as Frank Underwood detests children, I detest humanity, and "House of Cards" gives me no reason not to. Indeed, in invites an overwhelming desire to see Washington, DC, destroyed by nuclear weapons.What makes "House of Cards" so remarkable is the writers' seeming knowledge of exactly what goes on behind closed doors. This, more than anything, keeps the story from degenerating into shallow melodrama.I was surprised at the writers' willingness to address what remains a major no-no in television -- male/male sexual relations. One of the few "human" things about Frank Underwood is his lasting friendship with Phil Langdon, a fellow student at The Sentinel. They appear to genuinely care about each other, and neither is guilty or apologetic about a brief sexual relationship thirty years earlier. (Langdon is played by J C MacKenzie, an adorable li'l scudder, probably selected for his resemblance to Shelby Foote.)Anyone who thinks "House of Cards" isn't a reasonably accurate depiction of what goes in the world should take a look at the current insanity in Washington. Swift would have loved it.* I was taught in screen writing class that the viewer must have empathy for the characters. That is, //understand their motivations//, regardless of how repulsive they might be.


                
I paused the first episode of season 6 at Claire's first monologue, and had my doubts. After pushing through the corny music and crappy beginning, the rest of the episode picked up. I'm currently on episode 6 and I'm shocked at how low the ratings are. The rest of the season has fallen back into the typical House of Cards we loved. Although seasons 4/5 got a little haywire, this season follows it but overall, for what they had to work with I feel they did a great job. We all miss Kevin Spacey, but Robin Wright has done a great job and she's just as badass as Francis was. Give it a shot guys, it's not as bad as everyone thinks.
I enjoyed every season of HoC 1-5. The writing, acting, cinematography and direction were faultless. I was riveted.Season 6 is an unmitigated disaster. Dull I'd say being charitable. Then I'd add lifeless if provoked. You can tell the cast are as lost as the viewers.I've never seen such an almighty Jumping of the Shark as the final season of this once stellar show. This was one of the best of the Netflix series ever and they could have honoured their viewers by securing a top notch script.I was completely and utterly bored. And incredulous that this bilge was foisted upon me.For all you fans out there, stick with the first 5 seasons. I wish someone had warned me not to look - as in nothing to see here but bilge water. HoC has ended with a pitiful whimper.
0/10 for Season 6
Is there a series on Netflix which makes you want to kill the main character yourself and still to binge watch it? That is House Of Cards in a nut shell. It makes you feel uncomfortable, it makes you question if you are a good person, or if there is something wrong with you. It makes you care for a killer and a horrible person in general. Frank Underwood is the main character of this cast of horrible people. I really doubt that there is a decent person with dialogue in this hole T.V. series. But is it good or bad? It is one of the best things I've seen on the small screen in a while. It's not easy to follow, it's challenging at time but also rewarding, if you have any inclination towards politics or high quality entertainment in general I strongly recommend it. It keeps you gripped for a long time. It raises moral questions, and it's not afraid to be morally grey at times. It tells a story in the way it wants to tell it.
House of Cards is easily the best show not on TV and steps above every show on TV. It is only rivaled by Game of Thrones and Breaking Bad. Still the writing on the show puts it above those shows. Dialogue is sharp and amazing to listen too. Kevin Spacey's monologues definitely stand out. Periodically Spacey's Underwood will brake the 4th wall and delivers some of the greatest monologues I have ever heard. These work so well in show sometimes I would goosebumps. Kevin Spacey portrays Frank Underwood who over the course of the show becomes one of the greatest Antiheroes in TV and even movie history. This show is reason enough to pay for a Netflix account. No question it's 10/10


                
Political drama are very few now a days. Only movies are there o entice us. In this cheesy time where the TV is filled with mind numbing teen love stories, House of Card promises of fresh air, averted of the pollutants. I never imagined Netflix to come up with a good series and no less than a great one. The story revolves around Frank Underwood, the Major political whip in the US Govt and his political career aspiration and ascension. Kevin Spacey is the narrator himself in the self mode in his character and a brilliant one too. You'll love him for every bit of his plans, ideas, talks and evil-deeds. You'll be glued to your seat to see where he's headed next. He's good, he's bad.This is a masterpiece, a rare jewel by Netflix. Despite being a small broadcaster they have set a rage with this. Kevin Spacey at his epitome. A MUST SEE.


                
I continue to be disgusted with how viewers confound, disgrace, and basically invalidate the imdb rating system. In the reviews, it's stated how amazing the Series is for FIVE seasons, but because the 6th and final season was lacking, they rate HOC a 1 out of 10.I can understand a Hollywood political agenda ruining the show or leading to its demise, but contaminating the rating system out of emotion is tremendously ignorant and immature.I'm shaking my head in disgust as if watching a child throw a temper tantrum. What's worse is that these people praise the show, claiming it was one of the best in all of television, then proceed to rate it 1/10 because of ONE season or because of the Kevin Spacey dismissal. I agree with the "innocent until proven guilty" premise and the disdain for liberal agendas, but it makes absolutely NO sense to soil the rating system out of spite. Human nature never ceases to disappoint and two wrongs never make a right, it's that simple. If a car is dependable to get you to work for 5 years but starts to fail in year 6, do you suddenly discount the 5 years of superiority and publically sully the entire brand ? Of course not, unless you are immature, emotionally infantile, illiterate, or moronic.Please wake up people and get a grip. IMDB ratings are for the viewers, not a means to penalize producers or Hollywood. If you want to cite issues in a written review for clarification then so be it, but PLEASE stop corrupting the rating system with emotional and nonsensical reasoning.--- "The first 5 seasons were amazing but Season 6 and the ending was terrible and ruined it so I post a 2/10" -- "The best show on TV for five years but here's a 1/10 because of how the Spacey issue was dealt with" --- Are you kidding ???


                
What they borrowed from the British original, they improvised. And what a hell of improvisation. Perhaps it is because it does not need any second look to find the same characters in our political arena, local or global. Kevin Spacey is convincing as Frank Underwood and on the same scale Robin Wright as Claire. The characters who have come and gone are also played by fine actors it makes the viewer think and feel that this is most likely what happens beyond the scenes. If you read the biographies of US Presidents and their first ladies, you will find a fraction of them in both Frank and Claire. Also from the key people who are in the White House, past or present. Spare your precious time off your social media account and watch this show, you'll learn a lot and yearn for more.


                
One of my favorite movies,unfortunately Kevin will not play the final chapter.


                
The writers and directors of 'House of Cards' are the behind the scene men and women who produce the show; the people who develop an idea from seedling to plant in the film industry. However, although such personnel are vital for the show, House of Cards wins a ten out of ten rating on my scale for the sheer brilliance of Kevin Spacey as Frank Underwood.The detail in everything he does is astounding. From season one to season four, as per directed, Spacey's soliloquies provide the audience with a wave of detail into his life as both a political pop-star and also a pragmatic man whose ultimate game in life is - whether through politics or various other ways - to gain power whilst exacting snippets of revenge to those who have hurt him in the past. Quotes such as "...There is but one rule: hunt or be hunted" and "I've always loathed the necessity of sleep..." are the backbones of the show. The intricate complexity of each quote offers a sense of realism and also a sense of existentialism; two themes with sincerely further my enjoyment of the show.All in all, House of Cards is the best show I have ever watched due to its accurate detail and wondrous choice of protagonists. 10/10: the most sure opinion I've ever held.
I don't usually write Reviews for programmes even though I watch quite a lot of television, but I felt like I had to write a review for House of Cards simply because I didn't want people making the error I made. Being from the United Kingdom, I was cautious about watching House of Cards for some months thinking that due to the differences in our Political systems I wouldn't understand an awful lot of what was going on, How very wrong I was.Yes, House of cards is a Political Drama but it is so much more than that, it is about Power, Manipulation, Control. Kevin Spacey gives a performance that is second to none, Truly He should be Lining up awards for his Portrayal of Francis Underwood. I am only coming to the end of Season 1 myself but I am already hooked and very impressed by what I have seen so far.Basically to summarise, where ever you are from... You need to watch House of cards.


                
I just finished Season 4 and wow....it was riveting. The writing and acting were top notch. Robin Wright is amazing and really acts her tail off. I can't recommend this show enough and it alone, is worth my Netflix subscription. Can't wait for the next season, but guess I'll have to. Okay, spoiler alert, stop reading here to avoid it: Kevin Spacey's southern accent has improved over time and is much less distracting to real Southerners now. His acting is excellent. The combination of tension and dependency between Claire and Francis is palpable throughout Season 4 and gives them a power that was more inconsistent in previous seasons. The scenes of Claire with her mother (the always great Ellen Burstyn) continue this approach/avoidance theme very effectively. The actions and plans surrounding the middle east conflict in the last two episodes are very believable. Keep up the good work!
When I first heard of "House of Cards" from a friend, I didn't really care. It sounded aloof. Why watch it? But what I found in just the first 5 minutes had me bury my eyes in ice.Because I couldn't stop watching! Personal Rule – whenever someone tells me to watch something really really weird that I immediately say to myself "Ehh<U+0085> nope."? I make it a point to watch at least the first episode – Season 1. Or the first 15 minutes.You never know what's coming for you Did I say 15? I got hooked in 5! The first episode is a BOMB. 5 minutes in and you're hooked.Art of TV, Political Drama, The Soundtracks, and The way Kevin Spacey just removes the fourth wall and speaks directly to you are what keep us binge watching this show. The show has so many great ideas that it adds a whole new dimension to your life. I love this show, and wish more and more people saw it!Rewatchability score : 10/10For more in detail on those points (and best quotes from the show) click to continue : http://oddlypoetic.com/movies-TV/house-of-cards/


                
I have never been a very good fan of political drama. But this series changes everything about that. The performance of Kevin Spacey is absolutely jaw dropping. Not just him but every character in this series has performed flawlessly. This is awesome and i can watch it over and over again without getting tired. To me, the biggest advantage that this idea contributes to House of Cards is that it frees up significant time during episodes because it makes things like flashbacks or repeats of events almost completely redundant. There's simply no need for them because everything is so fresh in your mind, which leaves all that extra time for more story, more action, more conspiracy, more drama, more of the stuff that viewers really want to see. However it must be said that it does take a few episodes to get used to this, and you have to be really switched on and completely focused to ensure you don't miss a beat, because you really will pay a price if you do because what's said is never repeated, only referenced further down the track.


                
House of Cards was so good, that it has encouraged me to write me first ever IMDb Review/Summary.I started this program because of the repeated word of mouth it is generating. All I can say, is that there are few shows in my lifetime that have me salivating for more after I mainlined 13 Episodes in four nights!The story line makes my previous favorite political drama, West Wing, seem like... Disneyland. House Of Cards is a top quality production, with characters you will get to know and love and/or hate intimately. The actors are outright, spot-on stellar. Kevin Spacey and Robin Wright OWN their characters! The supporting cast is as strong as you will see.What I really loved about this program, is that besides one incident, you don't see guns firing. It is smart. It is intense. It is gripping. However, it does not expose you to flagrant violence that you see on 98% of the programs out there.The more I watched this program, the more I realized that netflix has changed the landscape of television viewing. Initially I doubted they could pull off such a fine program. The production, talent and story line meets, if not exceeds anything you have seen on HBO. AND... You can watch it at your pace, which I will forewarn you, will increase after the first episode.I put this program in my Top 3... It belongs with The Sopranos and The Wire. I might even put it in the top position. It is THAT GOOD!


                
I don't understand the monarchy of one man. If he doesn't like anything he plays politics like his pocket knife and turns and twists it as he wishes. Every time he succeeds without a failure. Looks like the whole political system is his slave and always turns in his favor. He's selfish and unrighteous but he can do whatever he wants. I don't know in what world is he living. Maybe its just his dream. I don't think in reality this is possible with anyone. Please show something more realistic and meaningful and not just one selfish supreme arrogant man getting lucky every single time with his dirty politics. Maybe netflix will come up with something that seems more realistic like 24. The reporter part looks interesting. I just don't feel like watching the series knowing whats gona happen next to any person who crosses this prick's way. His wife is even a bigger cliché. No one notices his and her infidelity but he can very well blackmail others for the same thing. This just doesn't sell. Please show something that would make me buy your subscription again.


                
Times changes. Seasons change. Both of those things ring true for real life, your own reality and in a tv show. I see plenty of reviews on here, complaining that Kevin left, it ruined the show. If in reality, this show was based on "true events", than obviously people would leave the office. This show covers pretty much everything. If you want to tell me that there isn't things like drugs and suicide in the American government today, than your dumber than you think. I don't 100% understand everything there is to know about politics. But this show, takes a story and brings it to life. Amazing acting, (even if they remove some actors later on). Sometimes you just have to accept what is. This is ranked under the top 50 best tv shows of all time, in this century we live in. If you can't watch this show because you are so disturbed with the removal of 1 character, than you missed the whole point of the show. 
No tv show is going to be perfect. Just keep that in mind.


                
Slouches towards Washington to be born? Kevin Spacey is brilliant as Francis Underwood, minority whip, who for his services was promised the position of Secretary of State but is passed over by the President-elect who has decided Spacey will serve him better if left in Congress. A bitter Underwood coupled with an equally bitter wife, played well by Robin Wright, soon evolve into a very smart Lord and Lady Macbeth determined to achieve what Underwood was promised and more, perhaps even the Presidency in four years. Kate Mars who plays ambitious reporter Zoe Barnes is great in a supporting role but the entire cast shines here and has the writing to make them shine. But it is Spacey's show and his character is mesmerizing. Breaking proscenium on occasion, Underwood will address the audience directly letting them know exactly how he really feels about the people he is dealing with. I suspect Spacey's Underwood will eventually be destroyed but you really can't break away from watching the inevitable. Netflix scores.
