Claire's character is being portrayed as an important figure from the beginning of the series. But the writers couldn't do it. Claire is the most empty and unthinkable character in the series. After the second season, Kevin Spacey was the only reason I watched it. Now that there's no Kevin Spacey, there's no point in watching it.


                
The House of Cards, a great series, ended when Francis Underwood became president and double-knocked on the Resolute Desk, a few seasons ago. After the junkyard dog caught the car, the rest was just the dog going berserk ripping off parts of the car with his teeth.The first several minutes of episode One of season Six, suddenly sans FU, looked like there was going to be a great ending to the series, but soon enough the whole thing descended into laughable BS. The last couple of episodes especially, were impossible to watch. How did the actors deliver it so well? Could they not see the plot was strangling any sense of plausibility into asphyxia?In the last scene of the last episode, Claire did to Doug what season Six did to the series.A total waste of time, this was.
It's the worst season ever! Such a disappointment and wasted hours of my life. Shame on the producers and scriptwriters for ruining a great project. I was such a devoted fan of the first two seasons. I love the cast so much. And now I feel like I've been cheated.They ruined the characters, the main and the secondary story-lines. They filled the script with lies and speculations about the other countries. It turned out to be the most boring and predictable show ever. I wish I didn't know the season 3 of House of Cards existed.I won't watching a minute of this worthless chewing gum any more!


                
Unexpexted failure all of the 3rd season. Totally based on feelings that never appear before. Surprise how easily one of the best serials become total bullshit. In case of Russian president - OK, no question let him be like this, but sensitivity of main characters and decisions made not based on politics but on human being - its out of question in political world. Very bad, and very upset. Gay scene between president and a writer ?? Oh please. Senator changed mind due to children ? Nightmare. President wife sleeping in a Russian jail(yeah it looks like 3 star hotel) and speaking hours with some delusional idiot who made suicide after ? Looks like an idiot makes scenario. Not sure about waiting for season 4.


                
Every season is the same:Claire gives up her personal projects to support Frank; a new enemy appears, and they are easily defeated by the Underwoods; always have a couple of reporters; Depression problems of new random characters; Underwoods' extramarital relationships.Really? Until the fall of Frank Underwood we'll still be fooled around by the same stories?.


                
First four seasons were amazing! Having said so, am I the only one forcing myself to watch each new episode to the end now? Yes, the acting is impressive, yes it's smart, and sometimes funny, and provoking, and blah-blah-blah... But, despite all its relevant references, it became such a regurgitating bore, I feel like I keep watching it out of complicity. Who ar<U+0435> these Martian characters? All these unbelievable villains straight out of comics? It feels like their target audience is some kind of absurd Zuccotti trailer park / fake news readership ... In the middle of season 7 I deleted it from my queue. Or was is season 6?


                
While I find the acting in the Netflix series House of Cards overall very good, I find the script is lacking in realism. No Vice-President has the power of Frank Underwood to cause the fall of a sitting President through impeachment. Vice-President's are powerless. There is way too much mumbo jumbo and non believable scenes to make this series anything but a low level soap opera. I find it appalling that the majority of the critics are praising such a shallow portrait of Washington politics. If Washington has anything near Frank Underwood the U.S. is in serious trouble. Why not produce a more realistic look at Washington which already has enough intrigue for a compelling series.


                
Three Star Rating for Season 6 Only, as without Kevin Spacey, there was no charisma or life in the show. Even the plot had so many lose ends and story kept jumping from here and there without any proper links or continuation. Only 8 episodes vs. 13 each during previous seasons. Seemed they just wanted to show that they can have a good show who without Kevin Spacey but they failed. I will not go into Kevin Spacey allegations etc. That is out of scope for the review, at least what they could have done is to keep the "Frank" character alive with any new but strong actor e.g. de Niro? As fans equally love de Niro too. Anyway terrible end of the series and Seasons 1 to 5 were great - 10 stars. Thank you.
I have ever watch an awful, terrible, and disapponting series up to now.
But this is one big mess. Season 6 is - despite all Kevin Spacey's flaws, misconduct, errors, flawed behaviour etc. (continue the list) NOT really working out at all. Yes, it has moments where it's fun and semi-interesting, but no. Claire Underwood does not have F.U's charm, level of sarcasm and affinity for being evil - like Frank Underwood had.
I also wanted Doug Stamper to 'get back into his usual game', but that never happened either. Instead we're left with an impotent man mourning his former employer throughout the entire season 6. He never really achieves anything or get anything done, which would get the plot rolling.Season 1 & 2 are / were awesome and amazing. And has more or less been a slow and sometimes steadily decline of awesome until the end in season 5.I admit, I had lots of doubts regarding season 6 - curious to see if Robin Wright could pull it off, but Kevin Spacey's shoes are not easy to fill having been such a dominant character in 5 seasons.I rate this a 3 out of 10 because it's still watchable, it's not good (just bad and ugly).
If you haven't watched season 6 yet, DON'T DO IT. Just pretend season 5 was the end and move on. It is absolutely terrible. The ending? Proof that no matter how bad the season is, Netflix can always make it worse in the final moments. So sad.


                
I was excited to watch this story, after hearing so much acclaim for it, and I talked my gf into watching a few episodes with me, thinking we were about to start a new epic tradition, as we did with Walking Dead, American Horror Story, Law and Order SVU, etc. Well, we are a couple episodes in, finally, and my excitement to binge watch an intriguing new show has greatly diminished. My gf was going to sleep within minutes of each episode. I had to change to something else , and admittedly, my taste in cinema is more refined and expanded than hers, but I had to agree with her. I am hoping this is just a slow burner, that eventually takes off? I know it is mostly an office/political drama, but there is so little action or sex or intrigue in the first few episodes that I find myself bored to death. I get the plot= Frank is betrayed by the administration he helped catapult to the White House, so he sets out to destroy his enemies from within, and do everything to help himself to power. He believes power is greater than just money itself, etc. Spacey has some great monologues while breaking the 4th wall and addressing the audience, and he showcases realities of scumbag politicians and journalists that we should all be aware of. However, with all the awards and hype about this show, and a 9 rating, I was expecting WAY MORE!!!The Intro. is kind of lame(despite all the buzz about it). The wife is not interesting at all! So far, I don't even understand what she is doing or her motivations, and she just seems like a female clone of Frank's character. Her short hair also detracts from her looks, and I find her extremely bland and boring thus far.I usually like Kate Mara, but it is taking a while for her character to develop, though I like the secret rendezvous meetings with Frank, and the idea of her dirty collaboration on stories he pushes. This may be an excellent show, but after 2-3 episodes, I just find myself bogged down in eternal boredom(and I am not slow or uninformed about geopolitics or literature/plots, etc. I teach these things). This show just needs something else, and I'm not sure the devious deeds of Frank or the political jargon in an office can save this setup for long. We are literally falling asleep watching this, and with all the talking and lackluster developments, slow churning, and unimpressive endings, bland characters with silly motivations, etc. I just don't know if I will continue to watch this. I certainly know my gf will not be watching it again. She was being attacked by the sandman within moments, and later gave me that look that says, "I can't believe this is supposed to be good and you got us to watch it."
This was the worst nosedive of a show after one or two seasons ever! After that it's just unwatchable. Horrible writing.


                
As a viewer who has hung in there all 6 seasons, I feel cheated. When the creators/writers of this show knew this was the end, why did they not give us the payback/comeuppance and final retribution to all the Underwood crimes? Even though Kevin Spacey wasn't in season 6, it was a slap in the face to viewers who have been waiting for a final resolution.
I enjoyed House of Cards until season 6. Kevin Spacey and Robin Wright worked well together but Robin Wright was boring without Kevin Spacey. I understand keeping the show going to be fair to the cast and crew but it was poorly done. If there will be a season 7 I'm not looking forward to it.


                
A very sissy story . don't let the talking fools you .


                
The title of this post says it all. This show is incredibly overrated. The acting is terrible. The writing is terrible. Kevin Spacey's repeated breaking of the fourth wall is terrible. Worst off, the plot is completely unbelievable. I'm supposed to believe that a high-profile politician could go down into a Subway station and murder a respected journalist without anybody noticing? Yeah, OK... Here's why people watch this show: because it makes them feel smart and political. If you really pay attention to what you're watching while this show is on, you'll realize you're watching a poorly filmed pile of sh*t.
Dont get me wrong this is indeed one of my favorite listed series but by time i dunno i felt it gets weaker in terms of story , first 2 seasons were perfectly done but from 3rd season it got gradually weaker , maybe it was better to focus on story more , instead of just relying to the actors which with no doubt they play they role smoothly as possible .


                
Just not up to the standard of the previous Season's. It's as if they were just trying to get it over with as everything from the writing to the direction was ordinary


                
It's very difficult to describe House of cards. It draws you in but at the same time does your head right in. Kevin Spacey as usual is great but Robin Wright's character is just pure irritating. On one hand this show is something you really want to like but on the other over hand just makes you want smash your tele up with frustration.The show starts off well, very cunning and so on but over time gets seriously unrealistic. The show starts to go round in circles. Everyone that could expose Frank and Claire Underwood just seems to bend at the knee and do whatever they please for no real reason and if on the rare occasion someone does decide to go against them, they conveniently have something on them which makes them think otherwise.Characters just seem to come and go very easily. The election result story was just a pure joke, the whole thing were a drag and pretty pathetic. Frank and Claire ending up president and vice president. Just would not happen. Doug Stampers constant arse licking of Frank Underwood is just weird, even willing to go to prison for him. Though the general conception of politics is that a lot of people are corrupt is fairly accurate, It seems that in this world, everyone is corrupt and everyone can be bought.After a while the show starts to get on your nerves to the point where you just want to stop watching it but because you have invested time in it, it's not that easy. I'm pretty sure now that it won't end with Frank and Claire being dragged off in handcuffs. Half decent show but should of wrapped this one up by now. Too liberal.
I've watched all seasons. 'West Wing' was real with substance. The acting in 'House of Cards' is fabulous by all but the show got ridiculous. At the beginning of the series I liked the rascal president and his, seemingly, strong well intentioned wife. Robin Wright has been one of my favorites since forever. If she's anything like in this in real life, yuk. I enjoyed watching Kevin Spacey, as Underwood, knocking everyone around in the most dishonest, rationalizing ways because there are people like that in government even though most are sincere if misguided with idiosyncratic natures not everybody can swallow. At the start Spacey ate at a little out of the way joint having ribs served up by a black guy he was so chummy with giving the audience the idea Spacey had a good streak. The word 'power' is used often to denote 'bullying' and 'shoving others around to get your own way', 'self centered natures. There is only 1 power and that is 'virtue'. Most who think they are powerful are just manipulative from fear and weakness to make themselves feel worthwhile. The higher up the chain of 'authority' the folks went in the show the weaker, colder and more disgusting. This season was almost laughable. Chief of Staff, Woman Vice President to become President, President Underwood all became murderers, sexually promiscuous, liars, cheats, phonies, weaklings, pathetic, frigid, lonely, worthless, untrustworthy doing ever more stupid, unrealistic things. The 'House of Cards' started out interesting and made one think government may even be corrupt in a lot of areas even though it is not. But, by the end of the series the whole show became fantasy land monkey business that i fine ludicrous. However, it is fanciful entertainment with frigid, lying, weak, megalomaniacs and sociopaths running around thus making the audience feel superior to government. I don't think they pulled of the chief characters talking to the camera as most shows can't. Michael Kelly, chief of staff, was exceptional. I see IMDb ranks this higher than 'West Wing' (i anticipate the score will do down). 'West Wing' is far better as regards 'reality'. 'House of Cards' got to be more and more sensationalism, outlandish silliness. Also, most all character were impossible to like. They're void of goodness. And, there's no humor in the show, no crying, no emotion. Oh, well.
Good but nowhere near as good as the original BBC series; since we saw that one first we couldn't continue with this one. As good as Spacey and the cast are, Ian Richardson who played Francis Urquehart in the British series is evil incarnate. I don't know if it's available anywhere. I only saw the U.S. one available on Netflix Even if you've watched and enjoyed the U.S. one you'll enjoy and not be at all bored by the British one if you can obtain it. I don't think any surprises about what happens will be ruined for you. The performances are well worth watching, even if y think you know everything there is to know about the story I don't The setting is England after Margaret Thatcher's reign as Prime Minister. Another series, Yes, Prime Minister, is equally well done and funny. I


                
Although I think I understand why this has such high reviews — it's kind of, or was at the outset, flashy film-making and has David Fincher involved— I also think it really doesn't deserves them. I try to judge this on it's own merits instead of relative to the British original, where it fails miserably, but it also fails as an independent production. But I am working my way through S3, more to see how they handle the ending. I was desperately hoping was that season 3 was heading for a conclusion, i.e. a wrap-up, but now I see on IMDb that there is a S4 projected. I don't know if i sit this out. Dramas that know when to end are so much the better for it. The original The Office could have continued but the natural characters arcs were complete, so why add contrivances?I enjoyed Season 1 for a few episodes (the fincher ones?) but the I re-watched the original to see if my retrospective opinion was accurate, and it was. The original zips along and doesn't contain any filler or unnecessary side plots, and is believable throughout. Whereas the main plot in the Netflix version is soooooo spread out, convoluted and complex that often times it is hard to recollect where it has gotten to and strains credulity. 39 hours— and counting!—versus 9 hours for the original. How could Underwood possibly predict how the separate machinations of different characters would come together to bring about the President's downfall? And really, if you're going to kill a Congressman, why on earth leave the only material witness alive, aside from to further the plot. In addition it's also unrealistic how the arcane issues about political finance and psychiatric medication bring about such a vociferous public and political response. And then there's the main characters. Spacey's and especially Wright's performances are so one-note it becomes tiresome. And they're one-dimensionality leaves the viewer to reason to care about their longevity. In the original, Francis was similarly devious and carnivorous but their was a humor about him that made him palatable if not likable. I am not one who believes main characters must be likable for me to enjoy or care about the movie. Speaking of psychiatric meds, it's shameful how this portrays mental issues, first with the rape victim—Claire's reaction when she spills her meds on the kitchen floor—and then with the president (for an anxiety med, for crying out loud).
I have never been a huge fan of this show. The first two seasons were entertaining, but the show has been in a steady decline ever since Frank ascended to the presidency at the end of the second season.The fun part was his masterful use of guile to climb higher in the political hierarchy. Once he reached the top he became a totally different character. The Machiavellian genius from the first two seasons, now seems completely inept at how the political game is played. A complete amateur.The further the story progresses, Frank, who I suppose is meant to be a ruthless and imposing character, couldn't come off more as a catty old queen if he was in drag wielding a cigarette holder. Claire, the ice queen, is one note throughout the series.The show has always been preposterous, but from season 3 onward it strives for ever higher levels of ridiculousness. The prime example perhaps being the affair between Claire and the writer Tom Yates which made my eyes roll. Maybe because the actor playing Yates was so unbelievably boring, much like the character of the vice president in season 6. They were both anemic and melted into the background.Which brings me to the final season. We all know about the production problems after Spacey was fired. But the end result are 8 hours of television that are barely coherent, with so many gaps in story and character motivations that it feels almost like some postmodern experiment. The only thing that felt credible was Claire playing the woman card (how many times did she use "Would you say that if I were a man?" in some form) in order to deflect criticism. Because that's the level of political debate these days.It's too bad this show didn't end after the second season.


                
Seasons 1 to 5 were definitely interesting, with a good network of stories, ideas, facts, etc.It was hard to wait for the next episode and the stamina played a major role in the spectator.Season 6 ruined it all. What a tremendous fiasco. Up to shame on authors.


                
