I just finished the last season of house of cards. I loved this show BEFORE they got rid of Kevin spacey. It Was okay without him, but not nearly as good. Getting rid of him was a HUGE mistake. The show just wasn't the same without him. I also hated the way the seemed to gloss over Franks death. There was hardly anything about him this season. It was a slap in the face for how good this show used to be. Claire played it well but it just wasn't the same.
The last episode infuriated me. So much so I had to write this review. I couldn't believe it ended like that. Also since when would Doug kill frank? The whole thing was a shoddy ending for a show that was worth way more than this. My advice is to watch all of it except the last season. Don't bother.
Show was great first couple seasons, but as with many other shows, dragging out far too long for (ie Prison Break). Last 2 seasons turning into "seriously?!". It's turning into a bad Hollywood movie, but unfortunately unlike a movie it keeps going. Just gets boring and old. Wrap it up and make the Underwoods pay, otherwise you're just insulting our intelligence.


                
In general, i think House of Cards is OK to watch. But, how on earth is it possible that everybody other than Frank and Claire Underwood is as naive as a high school teen? The president's wife asking Claire for marital advice, come on! And then there is Frank and the president, while being in an important meeting, talking about the president's marital problems.Oh, and every time someone is not doing what Frank wants, Frank knows exactly what to say and all of the sudden the whip, a billionaire, the president, whoever, turns 180 degrees and you guessed it already: now they do what Frank wants! All the turning points and plots are so made up and so far from reality, it's frustrating.And then there's the huge soap opera influence: Frank and Claire smoking a cigarette together every night in front of the window, Frank who says 'i love you Claire' way too often, the cozy late night runs..Is it OK to watch? Yes. A 9.1 rating? Give me a break.
Before anything else, Season 1-5 for me is easily 20/10 stars and I consider it as one of the the best shows of this decade, together with the ranks of Breaking Bad, Game of Thrones and Sherlock.But Season 6? It's a joke. It's like a Superman movie without Superman.The series should've ended with Season 5. Such a waste to end such a wonderful, loved and epic series this way. It was a good run.


                
"I hate madam. Makes me sound like I'm running a brothel and not a country." The constant reflection on the gender of the main character in season 6 becomes toxic.After a decade passes, no one will care or remember the allegations that got Spacey fired... all that we will have left is this garbage ending to a once bright drama about the big old boring White House. Great job, Netflix.
Loved the series, but they should have stopped after season 4 though. 5 is okay-ish and 6 just is bad.


                
Anything that Kevin Spacey does is usually worth a look, but this series misses the mark. The problems start in the very first episode, which resorts to a blatant "deus ex machina" to advance the entire series plot in the form of a partially shredded education bill that ends up in the intended "wrong hands," thereby setting into motion the grand plot to secure the Vice Presidency for Mr Spacey's character, Rep Francis Underwood. BTW- Underwood intends to ascend to the VP spot not through an election, but by appointment, by enticing the sitting VP to give up his job and to go back to Pennsylvania to run for governor, the job he left to take the VP spot on the newly elected President's ticket. Sound far fetched? Uh, yeah!The release of this toxic early draft to the press is central to the entire plot moving forward. We're to believe that Rep Underwood purposefully and personally half-shreds a document in front of the eyes of the newly appointed Education Secretary who wrote it, and that neither this Secretary nor anyone on his staff had the smarts to fully shred the document after Rep Underwood leaves the office. All that's left is for one of Underwood's operatives to dumpster dive after hours to retrieve said document - psst: it'll be easy to find...it's the half shredded one! - so Underwood can turn the document over to the insufferable cub reporter Zoe Barnes, who will unwittingly initiate Underwood's plot by getting the contents of the toxic bill published in the Washington Post, er, Herald.This sets up an unbelievable set of domino-like circumstances that lead to one person after another falling victim to Underwood's lust for power. By Episode 3, we're to believe that Underwood - the Democratic Majority Whip - has somehow pulled off a major coup by getting the House Majority Leader of his own party to unwittingly run a challenge to unseat the House Speaker, a plot that when discovered costs the Majority Leader his job. Underwood pulls off this little coup by going against his own party, getting 205 Republicans to pledge their votes to oust the Speaker, coupled with the help of 13 renegade Democratic Representatives. We're asked to suspend disbelief in a scene where the three men meet privately, with the Speaker believing the Number 3 man in the House (Underwood) over his right-hand Number 2. It all falls apart as planned: the Speaker retains his job, the Majority Leader is ousted (replaced by a member of the Black Caucus hand-picked by - guess who? - Underwood) and Underwood's first major victory in his quest for the VP slot is secured.And what is the comeuppance for that #3? Why, nothing! In a town where everyone knows the deepest secrets of everyone else, we're supposed to believe that Mr Underwood's Majority Whip faces no retribution from his own party for conspiring to lead a Republican-dominated coup against a sitting Speaker in his own party. We're to believe that no one sees any personal political advantage in informing the Speaker that his #3 is a dangerous man, a man who by Episode 10 or 11 resorts to murder to clean up a mess he's created. (BTW - the murder happens when Underwood leaves a car running in a garage to asphyxiate his drunken victim. He wipes down the car to erase his fingerprints. Question: if the police are going to check for fingerprints on the dead man's car, wouldn't the total lack of fingerprints on the driver's side door and the steering wheel set off alarms that maybe this wasn't a suicide?)All of the characters in this series are self-centered assholes who draw little happiness from anything they do. None of them seems to have a game plan that considers an end game - it's like high school, where the bullies spend each day finding new ways to bully different people with no reason or ultimate purpose behind their actions. Sadly, each character comes off as a half-written caricature of a human being. They're all unidimensional and transparent.Because of this, the series is quite predictable. Scene after scene evolves exactly as one expects it to evolve. I found myself imaging lines of dialog that then came out of the character's mouths an instant later, I kid you not! Other reviewers have noted the many, MANY asides Mr Spacey has. I know that this is a sop to "Richard II," upon which the original House of Cards was based, but this breaking of the fourth wall becomes tedious rather quickly, especially as the asides do nothing but confirm what we've already inferred was Rep Underwood's inner monologue. The music to the series is dull as dishwater as well, annoying, in fact (it's like the music from "Glengarry Glen Ross" coupled with the remake of "The Italian Job."). So much so that I was muting the opening credits by Episode 3. There's also way too much music serving as background to dialog. Like I said, it's annoying.That said, there's some good acting going on, especially when one considers the unimaginative material.This is another series that didn't live up to the hype I've heard. I will say it's better than "The Newsroom," which has even more stereotypical characters and leaden, unnatural dialog than this, but that's not saying much.4 out of 10 - worth watching at some point, but not exactly high on the list of things to do.
I've watched all the episodes up to the final one of the latest season. Although the acting is great, the plots are turning unbelievable to say the least. When will these two criminals In The White House, and the Doug Stamper character, be taken down? All houses of cards eventually collapse, and this one needs to as well, in dramatic fashion. What we deserve to see are Frank, Claire, and Doug being led away, in handcuffs, with the certainty they will be punished for their reign of terror. It happened in 18th century France, and during the 1970's with Watergate, and it would be a fitting end for the next season.


                
House of cards was the reason I subscribed to Netflix years ago with the early series quite brilliant.
However to say series 6 is disappointing is an understatement...boring, confusing plot (only watched 3 episodes so far doubt we'll watch anymore..)
Think it's clear the chemistry between frank & claie held the whole thing together but despite her best efforts in S6 its all a bit of a mess..shame.


                
You know the kind of a movie that you watch very attentively but ends up as a fiasco at the very end? This is exactly what this movie series is. I regretted every minute I wasted on watching the last season's episodes.


                
If you are a fan of the show you will like this 8 episode series even though it might leave you ultimately disappointed.
Good points are solid production and great acting from Robin Wright.
Bad points are the terrible plot, wooden supporting characters and the constant mention of Frank, Frank, Frank which serves as an annoying reminder why you can't get the conclusion to the series you deserve. Try to enjoy it.


                
I am a big fan of good quality TV dramas and even a bigger fan of Kevin Spacey. With that being said, I watched the first episode last night and I am truly puzzled at all the good reviews and high ratings. The show is bad, really really bad. I hardly managed to make it through the first episode. Writing is very unoriginal, characters are one-dimensional, cliché and boring. Acting is pretty bad overall (even Kevin Spacey!!). Most actors (with exception of Kate Mara) talk in very monotonous voices as if that would be the only thing that makes them politicians-like. Kevin Spacey's talking to the camera looks ridiculous, has no wit and serves no purpose in my opinion. I truly could not believe how bad it was. Don't think I will give it another chance.


                
The first two seasons are excellent. Kevin Spacey is a ruthless politician who stops at nothing in his quest for power and revenge. From season three on the show loses direction. By the time the final season arrived, I watched it out of habit and the hope that it would reclaim its lost glory. Instead, I received the same disappointment is been suffering through since season two ended


                
I loved the first 4 seasons but season 5 has been a bit of a trial to get through. Spacey chews up the scenery as he attempts to consolidate his power with his wife acting as his second. He tries to become so ridiculously evil, you can almost see him growing horns and fangs. Meanwhile, Claire, initially tries to distance herself from him before being seduced into his circle by being allowed to keep a lover in the White House and becoming VP. That, alone, is what soured me given how patently stupid that is. And Congress is so intimidated by Underwood, they don't push back.Now that Spacey has been fired from the show, it will be interesting to see if Netflix can continue with only Robin Wright as the lead evil-doer. I'm curious how they'll write him out of the show.In any case, watch this season if you want, if only to complete the whole thing but be prepared to be disappointed.


                
I stopped watching the show in 45th minute of episode 6. Simply could not believe the story anymore, realism out the window.Acting is excellent as you would expect, music, scenery, direction are all on par, but the story line got weaker every episode until I could not bear anymore. Seems that every character in the show plays into the hands of Underwood (Spacey) for some unknown reason. And his intrigues which are transparent always find a way of working out. For every bad judgment he makes the other characters make insanely stupid ones. It just got so bad that I quit mid episode and mid season. I see where the hype is coming from but for me only 4/10


                
The American version of the fabulous original is so infectious (except for Kevin Spacey) and its artificial lengthening so nauseatingly profit-based that I just can't restrain myself from giving up the ending (at least in the original):IN THE END FRANCIS' WIFE KILLS HIM WITH THE HELP OF HIS OWN BODYGUARD.Do yourself a favor: Better watch the British original instead.Enough of this idea that audience can be manipulated through infinite seasons with no end in sight, á la "Lost". Simply put, that's not narration. That is a scam.Learn from the Brits: they know how to tell a story without fooling the audience.
An ambitious senator is passed over for Secretary of State and plans revenge upon those who didn't support him. So far, so good. Then the story falls apart. We are led to believe that the entire House and Senate, as well as the sitting president and his staffers are all mental incompetents and idiots and can be led around by nothing more than Frank's slick verbal assets.The acting and most of the dialog in this farce is good. The believability factor is completely missing and gets worse as the story unfolds. The two primary characters, a married couple, constantly cheat on each other (and realize it is happening) and so does virtually everyone else. One good case of AIDS would wipe out the entire population of WashDC if this were really happening. Then Frank personally murders two people. One is a reporter who prostitutes herself to get inside information for print. The other is an alcoholic, drug-using politician who is very unstable and would have never been trusted as a political ally in the first place.Then we have the industrialist who is the puppet-master behind the scenes and the equally unbelievable former aide and now well-heeled lobbyist who falls in love without the most basic human expressions.This series is very uneven. Some writing is fine (although not believable) and some is just totally silly. Some of the events, particularly the murders of Zoe and Peter are complete comic book material.As this is written the series has completed the second season but there is nothing to suggest watching future seasons will be an improvement.
This production is really an appalling adaptation of the original 90's British mini series. The original was a satire on the British political system. Ian Richardson was fabulous in his portrayal of Francis Urquart (Frank Underwood in US version).The US series is just another mediocre political drama with little of the original wicked, satirical humor in the original. Kevin Spacey's monologues to the camera are pointless and humorless compared to the original 90's Series. If Netflix are going into producing their own content, they need to spend their money on something a little more original rather than doing a poor adaptation of an innovative series!


                
This started out great and looked like it was going to be better than the original. But like all the shows in America, and yes I am American, this one is quickly dying from the typical TV show traps.The women now have to be smarter, more powerful and more in control than the men. The love affairs, sex romps, drinking and drugs are the "big" plots instead of political intrigue or power brokering.The show is going to fall to the common thread of writers who can't write. They will go back to the same old tired retreaded plots rather than put out the effort to write thrilling political story lines.I know we don't have the sharpest politicians, but I doubt they are all running around trading their careers for a chance to roll in the sack with mediocre looking women.


                
First 5 episodes I was really occupied by this series. Then it started to seem ridiculous, and the main character tries to be badass but he looks desperate and just bad. Couldn't continue watching this as it started being cringy and merely bad.
This might be rather accurate of actual politicians. It is hard for me to watch all off the payoffs my lobbyists and crookedness that goes on, even in families. The congressman's wife runs a non-profit group that puts in water wells in Africa. She makes a deal with a lobbyist to get parts thru customs in Africa while sabotaging a bill that she drew up. The bill was for cleaning up the waterfront and river around Philly. The bill would have provided jobs and help to clean up years of pollution. Instead, she sides with a lobbyist of Big Oil that wanted to pollute and avoid regulations for polluting. That is very sad! It is rather like Hillary Clinton taking 100 million dollar pay out to look the other way with the sale of a Uranium mine to Russia. So now the Uranium mine that is located in the USA, is owned by Russia!! Go Bernie!!


                
HOC S1-S5, rate 8-9 overall
HOC S6, rate 4I really doubted to watch the final season. After Spacey-gate the show just had a bitter aftertaste. I made up my mind just keept watching. The last season was really hard to watch, because every one knows the storyline is forced in a direction nobody would ever want it to go. The ending is the most horrible way to end a 6 season run, shame on you guys, really shame on you.The only thing positive on season 6 is that it is the final season. So they can't totally ruin the overall rating any more. At least i hope so....


                
Do we really need a wrap up on this series? The plot line has become tiresome even without Kevin Spacey.


                
The whole thing just made me sad that in a few months I have to watch this whole scenario play itself out in real life, with characters just as icky. The American political scene is so corrupt and so beyond redemption that making a soap opera like this one out of it reveals only how boring it's all become. Save your money and watch the original British series. The characters aren't any less icky, but ant least they're more interesting.Netflix has no selections for movies and I'm tired of it.


                
Season one was excellent. It was shot like a Fincher film. It was edited like a Fincher film. It was written and paced like a Fincher film. It was scored like a Fincher film. Then when he took the backseat as producer and let other jokesters take the director's seat... we watched as many all attempted and failed to become David Fincher.With the exit of the main character, Kevin Spacey as President Underwood, this show is essentially dead in the water. Pointless to have even had another season after Kevin's exit, but here we go again with another subliminal push for authoritarian females as the lead in another Netflix show. Can't wait for the sloppy writing, the sloppy editing, the guest star directors...
