Fans of David Fincher and Kevin Spacey have been eagerly looking forward to House of Cards. Not only is this an opportunity to see an elite Hollywood director and actor take on a new medium, but it represents Netflix's first attempt at original programming (I guess Lilyhammer came first, but House of Cards is a much bigger investment for Netflix). The CEO of Netflix has said that House of Cards is meant to be a show on the quality level of the top cable stations, such as HBO, and the final product delivers on this promise.House of Cards follows several characters involved in the political scene in Washington D.C., including politicians of various rank and influence (Kevin Spacey is a House Majority Whip in the House of Representatives) and an upcoming reporter played brilliantly by Kate Mara, who you may recognize from the first season of American Horror Story. The cast in uniformly excellent and thrives under Fincher's direction. Occasionally, Kevin Spacey's character will talk directly to the camera and offer some narration, which is the only area where the show stumbles, but it isn't too distracting. Speaking of Fincher's direction, it shouldn't come as any surprise to know that House of Cards looks great. The atmosphere is moody and resembles a tone somewhere between The Game and The Social Network. The music is equally good, complementing the mood of the show without becoming overbearing. Being a political drama, one could be understandably weary of taking the plunge into a 13 episode season if they don't find politics interesting, but that shouldn't be a concern. The writing is sharp, engaging and clear, and the characters are interesting and well developed. The editing helps: it is tight and keeps the plot moving briskly, making the political intrigue both exciting and easy to follow. Netflix has really created something impressive with House of Cards. When hearing that an online streaming service was creating an original show, some may have been concerned that it would be cheap looking and generally not on par with what AMC, FX, Showtime, and HBO are offering. Well, Netflix got some talented people and gave them the money to make something good, and the product speaks for itself. House of Cards comes highly recommended.


                
As I was describing the show to a friend, I couldn't help but use the adjective "delicious." The characters are so strong, manipulative, and persuasive. Viewers come to "House of Cards" for political thrills, for back-door deals, and for machinations, and the series feeds your appetite. Spacey's performance is, of course, phenomenal. I was particularly impressed by Wright, I found her character the most intriguing of the series.The series is filmed beautifully, each scene screams production value, and this is perfect. The series has some occasional and blatant product placement that definitely ruined the tone; however, if these infrequent advertisements enabled the creation of the series: advertise away.


                
This show was a compilation of everything I wanted to see (in the limits of what is acceptable on TV). I loved the characters but at a certain points, the series gave in to the popularity. I regret the choices made by the runners. I waited a year to see the fifth season watching and re-watching all the seasons like an addict, I know every-seconds, every character, every conversation, knowing all the stakes and side-story. The release of the fifth season was the most important date in the year for me, and in 24 hours, I came to hate the show. It came back on most of the established ideas. Season 1 and 2= 10/10 Season 3 and 4= 8/10 Season 5= not even 5 (It would have been higher if the previous seasons weren't so great) So great series with a crappy fifth season which ruins everything, in an attempt to make it last. Was it to good to be true ?
The quintessential chalk and cheese. Seasons 1-5 are captivating, season 6 compares to watching paint dry.


                
The ending of season 6 was terrible I can't understand why I wasted 8 hours of my time to watch this crap !! Kevin spacey carried this show without him its just confusing repetitive and dumb feminist propaganda !!


                
Here's the thing: the first 2 seasons were something of pure genius, but the third season was just a major disappointment. I've never been a TV fan; I am a devoted cinema worshiper..but the House of Cards was nothing like "TV", and nothing like cinema. The first two seasons were more like strategy games, gamers should know that, and it's no surprise Frank Underwood himself is a PS4 addict. The plot, and the whole strategy, was built on Frank's obsessive vengeance that took him all the way to the White House. As he climbed himself to the Oval, he let us become part of his inner voice, turning every now and then to the camera, freezing time and space to utter few but visionary words that we shall never forget (there is a Wikiquote page documenting the complete works of FU). But the third season was empty, aimless display of Frank's absolute power that eventually turned the plot into something absurd..emotionless. No more quotes, no more strategies, no more House of Cards! I'm looking forward to the next season, unless something drastic happens to the course of this unique experience, it will become yet another missed opportunity to create something unforgettable.


                
The first second and fourth seasons are amazing couldn't have been better but you would have to admit that Kevin Spacey carried this show !! Its sad that he had to leave this way. But the best part about this show is that it explains us everything about the US election system and tell the truth about what goes on behind the scenes in Washington DC !! The 4th wall breaks by Kevin Spacey couldn't have been done any better they loop you in the show perfectly Don't miss it !!


                
I honestly loved seasons one through five. I had high hopes that season six could carry on without Frank. It was watchable, but I am very disappointed with the series finally. 4 stars for season 6.


                
#House Of Cards 6th season went from Rosemary's baby to Basic Instinct.
Just press the right button to finish it...
(rate for 1-5)


                
This was honestly one of the best Netflix original series to hit. The first season was absolutely captivating and had all of us hooked.The second season started off with a huge bang, but a lot of what happened seemed implausible. Still it was entertaining. More than that. The characters built more and you became more invest.Seasons 3-5 remained good. My only "complaint" if you can call it that was the "big people" coming in (Tusk, Conway) and then disappearing the next season.Season six was a bummer. I actually liked the direction that it all went- though I admit the disintegration of Claire and Francis love and allegiance was so integral, it somewhat hurt to watch it fall away. To watch her dispose him (both in season 5 but way more so in 6 obviously with he loss Kevin Spacey) was an interesting thing. But the last episode, and KNOWING it was the last episode, was a total bummer. They didn't close it off for us (like sense8) and I feel slightly cheated.
will people find out its Toms baby?will Claire start a nuclear war with Russia?who's the next VP?will Janine finish her article?I think Robyn Wright did an amazing job considering. Wasn't a huge fan of some of the other casting.Lastly, I don't believe Doug would have ever killed Francis. So that was a weird end game plot twist. I'd have rather seen it be Claire. It would have gotten a 10 but the last season stole some gusto.
When Netflix announced they were starting to create their own original shows, I was skeptical. How would a company be able to create high quality TV without the support of networks or advertisers? My questions were answered positively with the creation of House of Cards. This show is a glimpse of the future of television, and for that should have a place in history.Based off of the 1990s British miniseries of the same name and, to a lesser extent, Shakespeare's Richard II, the show transports the setting from London to Washington, DC. The main character is Frank Underwood, a congressman from South Carolina. This is the role Spacey was born to play, and in fact has played in movies before. The clever, charming, intelligent, scheming, two-faced Underwood is a man with no soul, a man who doesn't understand emotions. He's an addict, an addict to power, and will stop at nothing to get what he wants. He teams up with his wife, the beautiful, strong and equally scheming Claire Underwood (Robin Wright). We've never seen a power couple quite like the Underwoods and the combo together is red hot chemistry. In many ways, they remind me of likely what the marriage between the Clintons is: one of convenience, one of two people, who have the same desires, and are working together to help each other out. Zoe Barnes (Kata Mara) is the hot shot rookie reporter who Underwood befriends. Barnes is equal parts confident and naive, learning both about the dirty world of politics and the dark reality of life post-college. There are a host of other characters who really are nothing more than game pieces to the Underwood duo and are used as such.The "binge-watching" concept is perfect with this show. Writing is used to emphasize characters, conflict and plot. It really revolutionizes the way TV can be watched. Also, with the creative freedom given to the writers, director David Fincher, and the actors, you have some absolutely powerful scenes crafted. Sure, the show is not perfect. The fourth wall breaking is jarring and out of place at times, and so far, there really doesn't seem to be an equal foil to the Underwood pair, but the show keeps you watching on and on. House of Cards might not be the best show ever created, but it's historical. It's proof that the current TV model is a dinosaur. As more high quality programming is released through this and cable TV, more pressure is on the networks to change or be left behind. That might not be such a bad thing.


                
Based on a book by Michael Dobbs and a British show of the same name, House of Cards tells a story of an ambitious and maleficent US congressman Francis Underwood, played by Kevin Spacey, who schemes his way to more and more power.Having only seen bits of the British version, it appeared to be smarter but less exciting – an expected cliché difference between anything American and British. Ian Richardson who plays the main anti-hero of the British show is a known name and his character has a certain charm, but the American Kevin Spacey is<U+0085><U+0085>Well, Kevin Spacey is Kevin Spacey. He is not seen in the mainstream movies nearly enough, but anytime he shows up, he always takes over whatever scene he is in. Kevin's performance can be hypnotizingly delicious and several hours of it are more than welcome. He is best at playing villains and how fortunate is it that House of Cards puts a villain in the front seat. One of the main gimmicks of the show is that Francis talks directly to the viewer, commenting on various events, and these monologues are some of the best moments in the show. In short, this was a perfect casting.There is one issue with his acting. Although Spacey is great in his role, there is a constant recurrence of a particular type of performance that is rather annoying. When Francis Underwood talks to someone whom he tries to manipulate he talks in a special voice, in a sarcastic tone. The makers of the show could not have been unaware of this so it is surely done on purpose, presumably to inform the viewer when manipulation is happening, but why? This type of performance can be seen in many other shows and movies and its use there either seems silly as well, but especially in a serious show about politics, considering the kind of viewers who would watch it, why does the show feel the need to dumb down the manipulation? After all, the show does not explain the workings of the various political systems so why use the funny voice when talking about them? The scheming of Francis Underwood is delightful to watch though, as he puts his arrogance, greed for power and hatred behind the steering wheel, especially because they are realistically implemented into his character. Frank is not a cartoonish villain but a person who sees as weakness the moral barriers that prevent most people from stooping down to using overly depraved methods in achieving their goals and so he thinks himself to be stronger and smarter. But he too is capable of exhibiting honorable emotions, even if they still ultimately stem from arrogance. Though the Underwoods are destroying most people around them in cold blood they still form emotional attachments to certain people, but only as long as those people are loyal and subordinate to them. It is nice to see a largely consistent and complex character on TV instead of the empty pages that you see in most other shows, that change from episode to episode depending on what is being written into them.There is some inconsistency though. Francis is presented as a mastermind, but twice during the show he is personally involved in murder. This seems counter to the ruthless intelligence that is attributed to him and really interrupts the flow of the show. Murder is stupid. It is usually hard to execute well and is extremely risky, especially for a character in Frank's position for whom a mere implication in a murder case would mean the end of his political career. An impulsive murder committed out of absolute necessity may be understandable but that is not how House of Cards plays it out.And the murders are not the only situations in which the show "jumps the shark". There are multiple moments where it goes too far for the sake of adding spice to politics, but no doubt these moments will not be a problem for many people who do not have interest in realism. I get irritated when I see something unrealistic or inconsistent happening while playing computer games, but I know that many other players only care about the entertainment value.The story starts going down towards the middle part of the 2nd season as it becomes considerably more dry and contrived. Lots of talking makes it seem like something complicated and manipulative is going on when in fact it does not. Motivations are mysterious and many conversations start to carry the conspiracy tone of the X-files series. All the while most characters act as clueless pawns in Frank's game. If they were going to make serious national and international politics part of the show they should have done it well. People who say that real politics are boring are wrong. Look at CNN, look at BBC – there is so much stuff going on. Jon Stuart made a career covering the comedic side of politics alone.However, even if the show occasionally feels forced or dry, Kevin pulls it through, and if I am honest, I do not care what that man talks about as long as he does it on my screen.So in conclusion, Kevin Spacey.
The 6th season without Spacey is just bad. And I hate series without ending, but in this case it would be still better to just watch the first 5 season then leave it.
But, for the first 5 season: This is one of the best political drama ever. the cinematography and Spacey's character and acting is just superb. There are also some really good supporting roles. I'm just sad that it never got the ending it deserved.


                
While the West Wing is showing a realistic yet optimistic side of politics, House of Cards is showing the dark and cynical side of it. All the actors and the direction are perfect although I believe that some scenes are a bit too cynical.


                
Season 1 and season 2 are definitely the best political drama out there, even though they are not prefect, if you are a political junkie like me you do need to suspend your belief a little bit since some details can be out of touch with reality, but the plots are still plausible and captivating, not to mention Kevin Spacy's acting is out of this world, the first 2 seasons of House of Cards is a masterpiece.Then season 3 and 4 happened, the show runners became greedy, the original material is supposed to be only for only 3 seasons, but they want to milk it so they stretched the last season into multiple seasons, they turned a superb show into a typical soap opera, the writers lack the basic understanding of foreign affairs, and the office politic of the producers affected the script: Robin Wright's cunning maneuver in real life made this show shift the focus on her instead of Kevin Spacy, the writers are kissing her and her characters azz like crazy.... And the show suffered.If you want to watch an outstanding sophisticated political drama, watch the first two seasons; If you want to watch a standard soap opera about the white house with tons of plot holes, continue to watch season 3 and 4.


                
This show was amazing (10/10 imo) and I was really sad that it was ending but this last season was such a disappointment that I think I'm fine with it now


                
With the insanity of the actual White House, it is hard to match the chaos. House of Cards tries to reflect current events and create a compelling story but ultimately, watching CNN is just too crazy these days for this show to really resonant. We've also been watching the Underwoods scheming and the brilliant acting for five seasons so the plot twists in this season don't come off as fresh or original. Like the show, Frank Underwood (Kevin Spacey) fights to stay afloat as the president with the general election coming in the middle of this season. Claire Underwood (Robin Wright) conspires with her husband as the Vice President. The Republican opponent Will Conway (Joel Kinnaman) leverages his military career and photogenic family to challenge Frank's political dominance. The biggest plot line pulled from the headlines is a hack from the NSA to sway the votes. Doug Stamper (Michael Kelly) and Leann Harvey (Neve Campbell) work with hacker Aidan Macallan (Damian Young) to initiate the election rigging. When Frank sees the election not going his way, he causes Ohio and Tennessee to have a stalled vote, giving the Underwoods a chance to alter votes. Meanwhile, Tom Hammerschmidt (Boris McGiver) at the Washington Herald investigates the long conspiracy that has unfolded over several seasons all the way back to Zoe Barnes's death.Check out more of this review and others at swilliky.com
The show is intriguing and intellectual, without selling out to the masses that thrive on sensationalism that many programs have utilized in this genre in the past. Spacey is eloquent and acerbic; a dark character that you can't help empathizing with, even if his rhetoric doesn't match your personal philosophy. Breaking the fourth wall accentuates the troublesome area of "political politics" that is rare to see when confronted with a drama focused around the intricacies of how the government of the United States works.It's always troublesome to create a program that deals with how the government of the United States (or any nation) operates, but the producers have drawn a fine line between stifling liturgy that bores, and informative drama that highlights a great bit of what the US as a country considers relevant information.The performances are top-notch. Spacey is at his best, delivering a scary performance as a ruthless, yet empathetic character whose main drive is to do his best in his own political situation, and to strive for more. Robin Wright delivers everything you could want as his wife, showing his family side, as well as delving into how difficult it is to be the wife of a politician.This program is intriguing, not because of its depiction of politics in the US, but because it is willing to show the seediness of the political struggle in the United States.I applaud Netflix for creating this show, and I hope to see more programs from them that break boundaries like this in the future.


                
There is just no way a show like House of Cards can legitimately go from a consistent 8+/10 rating to a 3/10 in its final season just because of the absence of its former leading man. His performance was great, but so were all the supporting roles and performances, the writing, cinematography, and musical score - all of which, apart from him, are still there in season 6. While there are some problems with this season, it's without question still a high quality show and a compelling, bingeable watch.This season is getting trolled, and it's no mystery why: because it had the balls to front a strong female lead and an unapologetically feminist tone. The number of reviews here saying that Claire Underwood's character is nothing without Frank is just disgusting. It's called the 21st century, people. Check it out.


                
I have been a fan of political drama, from All the Presidents Men to West Wing to K Street and Ides of March. From first impressions, the writing seems up to par (Willimon also wrote Ides of March) and David Fincher directs Chapter 1, setting the tone and look of the series. I'm devouring each chapter as quickly as I can. A point though; Spacey (love him!) carries an ineffectual southern drawl, seemingly enhanced as he breaks the fourth wall to speak to the viewer, and I think it was a poor choice. It could have been in the screenplay but it could have been changed or left out. Other than that, I will enjoy seeing where this goes. Hopefully this signals a continuation of well written original programming getting made and shown.


                
What a shame one of the great series ever should end this way, all the actors especially Wright have been great, but This series belongs to Spacy.
The character he played could have been him, magnificent performance!
The project to remake HOUSE OF CARDS, Michael Dobbs' satire of political life, must have been a daunting one. The British miniseries not only succeeded on both sides of the Atlantic - even though focusing on Thatcherite politics and their consequences - but contained a definitive performance by Ian Richardson as the reptilian Francis Urquhart (aka FU), whose scheming could have put Machiavelli to shame. In this remake, transplanted to the White House, Kevin Spacey plays Francis Underwood, who comes across as superficially more attractive than his British counterpart. We would like to trust this man, as he seems so eminently plausible. But we should remember that Spacey has played Richard III on stage recently (2011), and should be well versed in the ways of the Machiavel. Underwood's wife Claire (Robin Wright) seems far more fearsome in the way she deals with her staff, picking them up and throwing them away once they have outlived their usefulness. To continue the Shakespearean analogy - and I believe this is conscious on the part of principal writer Beau Willimon and his team - the two of them combine the charm and the ruthlessness of the Macbeths. No one, it seems, can stand in their way. HOUSE OF CARDS is a prestige drama that has attracted considerable talent - David Fincher and Joel Schumacher each directed two episodes of Season One. In structural terms the American remake is more leisurely than its British counterpart (it has thirteen rather than four episodes), but this allows us time to get to know the characters as well as gain an insight into the corridors of power. For non-Americans HOUSE OF CARDS gives a penetrating, if somewhat jaundiced, insight into the way in which the American government works - or doesn't work, especially for those lacking the skills to manipulate their colleagues.


                
Love every season of this show. Disappointed tho that s6 was only 8 episodes. S6 is excellent, would love to see Robin Wright in a new series.


                
I know things with Kevin Spacey some kind of drowned the plot and acting quality in the 5th season but it was coming from even before. Somewhere between the endgame(season 3) and catharsis(season 4) they have lost the track of battles and each new conflict came weaker than the ones before. The casting got dramatically worse in the last 2 seasons which brought an unpleasant series of acting. The scenario has lost its appeal and surprise effect as everything got over dramatic than it was used to be. Oh and cinematography and direction also got out of control with the last season. At least they could have kept those 2 in quality as a farewell to the show.


                
5 intriguing seasons we have been treated with the superb acting of Kevin Spacey, backed by very good, sometimes even brilliant supporting actors. In particular Robin Wright and Michael Kelly had a interesting development in their characters.What went wrong?
Did the remaining actors suddenly became bad actors with the departure of Kevin Spacey? I personally think it is mainly due to the lousy far-fetched writing (througout the previous seasons also often doubtful). Adding to this a significantly poorer direction and production, where all the subtleties were lacking. (even in camerawork and edditing). Time pressure or desperation? I think that - with a little more patience and less desperation - there would have been enough potential for a decent 6th season and I strongly believe that Robin Wright would have the capability to carry this!Why the frustrated ratings?
Even though the last season is indeed a huge disappointment, compared to the first five. Ratings 1 or 2 are - even just for this last season - not judged on its objective merits, but on the frustration of the downfall. There remains a ship load of mediocre, highly over rated Netflix-series, that couldn't even measure themselves with the worst episode of HOC and end up with 7+ ratings.The solution!
Netflix also hosts the original House of Cards (1990 BBC). Admire Ian Richardson's intriguing and sinister interpretation of Frank (Underwood) Urquhart.


                
