This is an incredibly powerful film. Awash with emotion but never stooping to sentimentality this is the story of one frightened little boy you will never forget. All your worst childhood nightmares: the noises in the attic, the intruder in your house, that cold breath that makes your hair stand on end are here and then some.Bruce Willis gives one of the best performances of his career as the child psychologist trying to get himself back on track after a violent encounter with a former patient and it would be a crime if Haley Joel Osment were overlooked at coming awards ceremonies for his powerful performance here. It has been a long time since a child actor displayed such maturity in a role. Cole's innocent little face hidden behind his absent father's large-framed spectacles betrays a child coming to terms with a terrifying secret in the only way he can.You don't need to go and see this film again to realise why the end is such a surprise but you will rush out to watch it again purely because it's an almost perfect example of it's genre.Laugh, cry, jump a mile out of your seat, sigh with relief - but not too early... We did!


                
This was hyped big-time when it came out and, if memory serves me, was a good conversation piece among those who saw it at the theater.I didn't see it for a few years afterward, on tape and now on DVD. It was very good but I didn't find it as "the greatest movie ever" as some did. It is an involving story, however, and I've come to appreciate it more with multiple viewings. I've seen it three times, the last one looking for mistakes to disprove the surprise ending....but couldn't find any. The filmmakers covered their tracks. However, a couple of scenes were misleading. Those who have seen this movie know what I'm talking about. For those who haven't, I'm not going to spoil it here.I enjoyed both Bruce Willis and Haley Joel Osment as the two leads. Willis has had many action-packed, profane macho roles in his career but I like him best when he's low key, as he is in here (and in "Unbreakable," to name another fairly-recent movie) The story is slow-paced but it sure is not boring. In a way, it's nice to see a slower-paced film be a big hit, as this was.Osment, meanwhile, is a terrific child actor, as he has proved in other films. He's simply one of the best of his young generation. He and Dakota Fanning are the two best child actors I've seen in many years.This isn't just some supernatural-horror movie. It's a nice human interest story. There is one scene late in the movie in which Osment's mom is having a talk with her young boy in the car. It is an extremely touching scene that brings tears - a great moment in the film.


                
I am embarrassed to admit that the only reason I saw THE SIXTH SENSE when I did was because THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT was sold out. I hadn't seen BLAIR WITCH yet but I heard great reviews, and of course it was sold out when I went to see it. So my friend and I decided to see THE SIXTH SENSE instead. Not only did it turn out to be a better movie than BLAIR WITCH is, but it turned out to be one of my favorites.THE SIXTH SENSE is about an award-winning child psychologist Dr. Malcolm Crowe (Bruce Willis), who is depressed because one of his former clients committed suicide because Crowe was unable to help him. Cole Sear (Haley Joel Osment) is a child that has social problems frighteningly similar to Crowe's old client, so Crowe decides he will try to help this child in order to find redemption. Cole later reveals that this problem goes well beyond normal social problems. He claims to be able to see the ghosts of dead people, but no one else can.The acting in THE SIXTH SENSE was superb. Olivia Williams does well as Anne Crowe, Willis' depressed wife, and Toni Collette does a great job as Lynn Sear, Osment's loving mother who is very concerned for her child. I think that Bruce Willis is at his very best in this movie, and I happen to be a fan of Willis. But I think that Haley Joel Osment stole the show. He did an amazing job, expressing more combined emotions that most adult actors have to deal with. He is definitely the best child actor I've ever seen, and I am glad that Bruce Willis let him have the spotlight.The plot is very entertaining, though at times you may wonder where it is going. The ending is the best part of the movie, and it completely changes whatever you originally thought of the whole story line. I applaud the advertisers of THE SIXTH SENSE for not leaving a trace of the surprise ending in the previews of the movie (unlike DOUBLE JEOPARDY) and I certainly will not give it away in this comment. But I will say that it will completely surprise most all of you. (I think many that say that they saw it coming are probably lying.)THE SIXTH SENSE is one of my favorite movies, and I think it is surely one of the best films of 1999. I hope it wins many Oscars this year, and I recommend that you go out and buy this movie now.


                
...but I had to watch this one again, right afterward, because I needed to go back and watch for clues. Honestly, and I won't give away the 'ah ha!' moment, but I knew that he was... well, you know, what he was. What I didn't get was how that was possible, or how the interaction with the others that I saw... so I had to go back and watch the movie AGAIN, just to make sure there were no errors in the filming of it. Sure enough, I found none that I could call an error, and was totally blown away with how this was filmed. I am a writer, and I also adapt novels for scripts, and when something like this comes along, that something that just totally grabs me and says, "This is something special... this is not the ordinary..." well, I am impressed. I aspire to write something that can really AH HA! someone in this way. I recommend the movie, highly.


                
Upon first watch of The Sixth Sense, I was hooked and shocked at the same time. I expected a complete horror story, mixed with the usual gore and stomach-churning scenes we ordinarily witness in other movies with a similar theme. The Sixth Sense is anything but. It details the emotional aspects of love and devotion, as well as having to cope with being an outsider.The purpose of The Sixth Sense is to captivate us into looking and evaluating our own lives, on how we treat ourselves, our husbands and wives and our parents and friends. It details these points to graphic effect.Young Haley Joel Osment is terrific as Cole, the young boy who sees 'dead people', and portrays his emotions and his mind to an easily captivating audience. Also wonderful to see Bruce Willis turn away from his usual 'action man' sequence to allow us into the equally troubled mind of Dr. Malcolm Crowe.A divine and heartwarming film combining elements of horror and suspense has made The Sixth Sense an engaging film that is simply unforgettable. It's another firm favourite of mine.


                
M. Night Shymalan's 'The Sixth Sense' is one of his two best movies. The skill by which the development and resolution of this bizarre and chilling classic make it a modern landmark. Just by this movie alone, Night established himself as Hitchcock's successor. To describe anything more than a bare-bones rendering of the plot would be irresponsible, but here it goes... Malcolm Crow (Bruce Willis) celebrates with his wife a recent award achieved helping counsel disturbed children. Soon he meets up with the weaknesses of his past and must suffer the consequences. For the rest of the movie he has to make it all up with a new client, Cole (Haley Joel Osment) and balance his desire to make his wife his main priority. The juggle isn't easy, and he falters, but is honest, in both attempts to make up mistakes for his past. The causality of another dimension presented is disturbing, yet fascinating. The tension of the story is counterbalanced with a heart that makes more than one plot accessible and enthralling. The performances are superb with arguably Willis' best ever. Osment, for his part, plays a prodigy as a prodigy in what has to be one of the best (if not "the" best) childhood performances on film. The supporting cast is remarkable as well. Perhaps critics have given 'The Sixth Sense' grudging praise, for it means to unveil the supernatural in a way that is meant to mirror the real world in an unflattering way. (Psychology is rendered at least overrated.) Shymalan is effective like few directors are with a film that is edited for every second to wrap around the other expertly. I see talented people...


                
By far this is my favorite Haley Joel Osment role that I have seen him play. M.Night is sensational directing this onion-skin of a thriller story, but who doesn't realize that? The bedroom scene with the doctor and his wife was what a shocking good thriller is made of. Donny Wahlberg is a terrifying short detour in this right-made enthraller that packs a whopping cast that has authentic developed personalities with an eerie undertone. Bruce again shows that he is the right choice for a major story that captivates from the start to the end. You feel for Malcom Crow, as he seems to be searching for truth and help for this young boy. The mother has a real appeal in that (Toni Colette is superb)the actress is a well crossed role player that seems like there is just no-acting there. She is on it. All the while, there are scenes that are not 'shot' impatiently. I think that so much of Hollywood is cutting, cutting, cutting to make the scheduled time box that the formula fits into. The visual chemistry woven is done almost with a cinematic respect for the classic film noir, they are held in the length that makes them perfect grippers, you see what's happening and it gives enough 'pause' then makes you feel the chill across the back of your neck. When the story captives and the performances are cut to fit as right as this is, you know that not all movies are even. Not by a long shot. Bruce Willis has a definite old world quality of acting, in a new world format. This movie unfolds with precision in story telling and character development with the good Doctor and the boy and then when it goes to the end, it twists and you are left feeling that cold chill once again. I only had one question that I would like to ask 'M' about the plot. Other than this, I am well pleased with "The Sixth Sense".For what a superb thriller should be, this one is a top pick. It's 'incredible' the success that The Sixth Sense has had, it is no wonder to me and millions of fans, and in that, Willis with his contract and profit agreement took away with him One Hundred Million Dollars. Some might say that he isn't one hundred million good. Some might say, the Razzies gave him three awards for worst actor just the year before, I say, none of that 'banter' will change a wit about Bruce in this film. Recommended for M.Night Shyamalan and Willis fans, even if you aren't it really makes no difference in the end you will know why. (*****)


                
According to director/writer M. Night Shyamalan, the idea of making a horror movie about children seeing ghost; first came to him, while watching an old 1990's Nickelodeon show called 'Are You Afraid of the Dark: titled, 'Tale of the Dream Girl" (1994), directed by David Winning. Hoping to capitalize on that success, he wrote and pitch a similar idea to studios as a kid movie, until rewrites made the script's subject matter, more mature and harder to sell. That's until, the most unlikeable of sources, came to him, looking to buy it, which was Walt Disney Studios. It seem that then-president of production, David Vogel read Shyamalan's spec script and instantly loved it. Without obtaining corporate approval, Vogel bought the rights, despite the high price tag of $3 million and the stipulation that Shyamalan could direct the film. While, Disney later dismissed Vogel from his position at the studio, and apparently show little confidence in the film value, by selling the production rights to Spyglass Entertainment, while retaining a few distribution rights and 12.5% of the film's box office receipt. They still greenlit the project and gave their share. Lucky for them, the film was the biggest jackpot gamble win of all time, becoming one of biggest box-office hits of the 1990s. The reasons, why everybody loves it, are very clear. The film's chilly astrosphere, acting, and unexpected twist ending are some of the best moments, cinema can give you. It was a very memorable movie from a then-unknown director. The story of redemption was also great, with 'Six Sense' telling the story of a once-prideful disheartened child psychologist, Malcolm Crowe (Bruce Willis), dedicated himself, by trying to cure a 9 year old boy, Cole Sear (Haley Joel Osment) from being traumatic by the spirits of the dead. Without spoiling the movie, too much, after watching this film the first time through without spoilers, it is almost impossible to watch it again without seeing obvious foreshadowing, during the second watch. Still, this movie has a lot of rewatch value. I love how the movie has a Hitchcockism/Kubrickism feel to it, as there was a lot of carefully devised storytelling, going on here with the visuals without using too much dialogue. Some great examples are, how the color red was prominent whenever the worlds of the living and the dead came together, follow by visible cold breathing and shivers. Wonderful use of foreshadowing. Added to the tension that is already brought by the wonderful make up effects, sound mixing and haunting soundtrack by composer, James Newton Howard. Another brilliant example of visuals using as foreshadowing, is how everybody's clothes seem heavy wore, their normal hair seem a bit grey/white, and how they barely interact with their surroundings. I like how the filmmaker were very careful, not to spoil the clues of the true state of any of the characters, too much. They were even worry that Cole's iconic, and highly quoted, revealed at the hospital might have spoil the movie for everybody. Lucky for them, most of the audience still, didn't see the twist coming. Another magnificent thing, Shyamalan does well is using reflecting surfaces such as glasses, mirrors, windows, and other reflecting surfaces for a slew of dramatic and thematic reasons. You really get to see, good examples of that, whenever, Malcolm is looking at his depressed wife, Anna (Olivia Williams). Nevertheless, perhaps the best shot in the film, at least for me, was the extreme close-up of the bright silver door knob in the 3rd act with a distorted image of Cole. It was both scary and clear transparent to a positive change. It's great to see, a horror movie, that doesn't end with a downer. Another great use by the director, was the idea of using long take to establish important character relations. We see this, compositional strategy, during the first official meeting between Cole and Malcolm. Not only, does it build a special bond between the two leads, but it gives the impression that Cole's mother, Lynn (Toni Collette) and Malcolm were perhaps are at the end of a conversation about him. Almost tricking the audience. Nevertheless, if they did talk, the dialogue would had been cheesy. As much, as I love, everybody acting, particular Osment. Some of the lines, they were given to say, were a bit silly. A good example of this, was any of the scenes with Lynn and Cole. Seeing them, argue and later, embrace in the car about a Bumble-bee Pen felt a little odd and humorous. It wasn't as intimacy as it should be for me. Still, Toni Collette has said that she was so moved by the emotional resonance of the story while filming, she did not even realize it was a horror film until after its release. Anyway, I think the scenes with Malcolm and Anna, had a more emotional impact on me, than any of the scenes with the Sears interacting with each other. Overall: While, the dialogue writing isn't the best and can be highly spoof by later films. Not even, the awful director cameo by M. Night can hurt this movie. Regardless of what you know, think of M. Night Shyamalan's work since this film. His first horror movie is often viewed as one of the best, and I have to agree. It's worth checking out.
I never really watch thrillers apart from United 93 But this movie was on T.V so I thought what the heck and I watched it. It blew me away. The Sixth Sense is excellent. It is unique, chilling, and you can feel the trickles of sweat rolling down your back. I take my hat off to Willis and Osment for their performances. They suited the parts perfectly. And also congratulations to M. Night Shyamalan for a superb story and for excellent directing. Seeing dead with blown out brains, burned faces and scars all over their body appear from nowhere was frightening. However I thought it was a very good idea. If you like this genre you'll like it. But if you're like me and you don't like this genre still give it a go, you'll like it also.Thank you very much for reading!
This was the first of M. Night Shyamalan's films I'd seen. I've now seen all of his five majors, and this is still a great one. Of course, I'd heard the line "I see dead people" previously, but hadn't known where it came from. Of course, the twist at the end *SPOILER*(with Crow being dead)*SPOILER END* is one of the most startling revelations a movie has shown me plot-wise, and I know only maybe two people who predicted it would happen (one of which is my mother.) A really great movie, highly suggested for Thriller lovers and who are new to Shyamalan's work. If you don't like gore, not to worry! Hardly any gore here. P.S. Look for the color Red!
this is perhaps one of those films which may not suit one at first,but if you watch it again,it'll mostly be better.also,not many films are like this one here.few have the same storyline as this.it was different than usual movies of the same genre.i remember seeing this movie when it first came out...i hated it then,it didn't suit me...a few years later,i was searching through channels and came upon this movie...now that i could understand the story,it was a lot better.the movie itself was right good,it was interesting and it suited me,it wasn't disappointing..so if this does not suit you first off;you should try at least watching it again.


                
I'd be the first to tell you that I avoid thriller or any movie that even smacks of suspense. I don't handle it well and I'm not particularly fond of blood and gore. (I almost passed out when the doctor needed a blood sample.) It's not that I don't appreciate a good suspenseful movie, but current movie tend to be more than I can handle. But The Sixth Sense is a movie that kept the suspense and didn't have the gore. I was riveted from the moment it started. Bruce Willis was great as the doctor and the rest of the cast was outstanding as well. However, what makes the movie great were the writing and the direction. The story keeps you interested and on the edge of your seat. I don't believe in esp or ghosts, but the writing made the concepts seem realistic and believable. There are few red herrings and the surprise at the end of the movie really was a surprise. The direction of the movie probably was the strongest point. The movie is quiet with few loud, screeching moments <U+0097> like many horror movies, such as Halloween or any of the many Friday the 13th flicks <U+0097> which makes it even more suspenseful. This is a must see for any suspense fan.


                
"The Sixth Sense" is the first horror film I know of that also works as a tear-jerker. A "creepy weepy," you might even call it; the darnedest thing about that combination being how well it plays here.Child psychiatrist Dr. Malcolm Crowe (Bruce Willis) is trying to recover his professional equilibrium after one of his most traumatic cases came to a fatal end. Enter Cole Sear (Haley Joel Osment), a young boy who struggles with his peers, is called a "freak," and draws horrible images until he is called into a meeting about it. Now he just draws pictures of rainbows, not because his heart's in it, but because "they don't have meetings about rainbows." Underneath the surface, it's anything but rainbows for poor Cole."The Sixth Sense" has become a prisoner of its popularity the same way "Titanic" and "Jerry Maguire" have, marked for ridicule by those who think themselves better than the hoi polloi who made it such a hit. Even people who haven't seen "Sixth Sense" know its catchphrases and storyline, and with that familiarity comes contempt, especially as its director, M. Night Shyamalan, has struggled in recent years to repeat his success. In such an atmosphere, it's easy to overlook that the one thing that makes "Sixth Sense" so popular is that it's so incredibly good.The art of storytelling is at the heart of the film, the way it quietly unfolds at its own pace, pulling you in with eerie moments and occasional shocks to a place that gets deeper as you get closer. Cole explains at one point to Dr. Crowe that the trick to a good story is that it have "some twists and stuff." People who downgrade "The Sixth Sense" do so on the basis of the twists, which was what got the film so talked about in the first place. But it's the other "stuff" that makes "Sixth Sense" so lasting and compelling for its fans.Take it from me: I watched "Sixth Sense" for the first time just over a year ago. By then its much ballyhooed "secret" was out of the bag for me, just as it probably is for you even if you haven't yet seen this film. The film took me for a ride anyway, because of Shyamalan's soft-yet-penetrating eye; incredible acting led by Osment, Willis, and Toni Collette as Cole's mom; and its sentimental-yet-spooky atmosphere.Every scene is shot with a certain style that makes it compelling not just as horror but as a slice of life, and this constant balance makes the film such a marvel. Even as it slips out of everyday reality into the utterly fantastic, it does so in a way you never notice your feet leaving the ground. Moments of fright are alleviated with humor and warmth.Something else needs to be said of "Sixth Sense," that despite its horror theme it's a positive, inspirational film, one that on its own terms gives "Passion Of The Christ" a run for its money in terms of connecting to the deepest feelings of many of its viewers.Yes, Shyamalan does gild the lily too much at times, tying up things that don't need tying up, and you can feel your heartstrings being tugged at a little too much at points. There may be a couple of minor plot holes visible on a second viewing. But still, at the very least the end result is one terrific piece of entertainment, and probably very much more.


                
Unknown director M. Night Shyamalan's third film surprised everyone by becoming one of the most successful horror/thriller movies of all time. Bruce Willis ('Die Hard,' 1988) plays Dr. Malcolm Crowe, a disheartened child psychologist who can no longer talk to his wife, and is haunted by the memories of a former patient he couldn't help.When he discovers young Cole Sear (Haley Joel Osment, 'Artificial Intelligence: AI,' 2002), a child with strikingly similar psychological problems to the boy he had previously failed, Crowe is determined assist him. However, Cole harbours a terrifying secret that is simply too shocking to believe: he can see dead people!Shyamalan's beautiful and terrifying masterpiece was nominated for a very respectable six Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Best Director, Best Supporting Actress for Australian Toni Collette ('Muriel's Wedding,' 1994) as Cole's worried and confused mother, and Best Supporting Actor for the brilliant Osment, at the age of just 11. Willis is also very good, turning in an appropriately understated performance that often eludes critical recognition.
It isn't often a new director rises so quickly to the top of the "A" list with only a handful of films. But M. Night Shyamalan does exactly that with the surprise hit, The Sixth Sense. The tale is of a popular, but egotistic doctor (Bruce Willis) who sincerely believes in his award winning psychotherapeutic abilities and looks forward to a prosperous career with the mentally ill. But failing to secure a proper treatment for a suicidal patient, the doctor finds himself with yet another troubled, but far more mysterious boy (Halley Joel Osment) who possesses the power to communicate with the afterlife. Together they discover their own fears and a need for mutual understanding and trust. The film is a frightful combination of sights, sounds and illusionary symbols which creates terror and suspense with each new scene. The Director, like other famous movie artists, makes a cameo appearance and it up to the viewer to locate him during the unfolding drama. Fancible enough to be hauntingly interesting, the film is also a masterful canvas of photographic magic. Audiences everywhere will agree, this film will become a classic for the director and it's stars. ****


                
Saw this in the theatre when it premiered on our shores. I avoided learning about that so much talked about surprise ending, since I knew that it would ruin my viewing of the movie. The result was getting it on my face when it arrived. I was sitting on the first row, the screen was hovering above me and I was seeing one of those magical movies that make it all worthwhile. With this magnificent movie, the concept of psiychological terror is reinvented, through the eyes of the amazing Haley Joel Osment, which drives the movie forward. Bruce Willis is surprising to say the least. M. Night Shyamalan establishes himself as the new cream of the crop. Fantastic movie.


                
If you are ready and up for a supernatural horror film which would keep you at the edge of your seat all the way through the running time with boosted and unnecessarily frequent jump scares, 'The sixth sense' wouldn't serve you right.
But instead if you are looking for an intelligent adaptation of supernatural elements about the 'dead' this is a must watch for you.
The film comes to life majorly because of the incredible performance by Joel Osment as Cole sear whose fear seasoned with anguish is deeply reflected through his eyes almost everytime he's on the screen which lets us understand his psychological fear in a more personal sense.
Bruce Willis who plays Malcolm Crowe gets an incredible standing out kinda twist in the climax of his character's arch which is the turning point and the big exposing scenario of the supernatural concept which is adapted in the film.
Even in her small role as Cole's mother Toni Collette shines with a emotionally boosted performance which inflicts the pain of a conflicted and stressed out single mother to the viewers.
The film which maintains its grip by keeping viewers invested with a good momentum of a few scares and thrilling sequences climaxes with an unforgettable and an unpredictable climax which would remind many of the horror genre lovers of the 'the Others (2001)' climax.
do not miss this intelligently written, directed and acted masterpiece.


                
The Sixth Sense without a doubt is the best work of M. Night Shyamalan I have ever seen (I haven't seen all of his movies for a reason). The Sixth Sense is my second favorite horror movie I have ever seen, following Kubrick's The Shining. Although I do believe The Sixth Sense is the most frightening horror film I have ever seen, making me jump even after seeing it a handful of times. The movie isn't exactly a jumpscare kind of movie, but I think it has some of the most brilliant jumpscares I have ever seen. My favorite being while Cole stands in the bathroom in the middle of the night, and we see the lower body of a woman abruptly walk past the doorway when we were under the impression he was alone. Also, the scene where he hides from the young girl is terrifying, actually making me think of the young girls from The Shining. Of course, the best part of the movie indeed is the ending. The plot twist of this film is truly up there with some of the most brilliant plot twists of all time like those from Hitchcock in Vertigo and Psycho. Watching the film a second time is truly crucial for this film, because Shyamalan is so good at covering up the ending, you totally will miss every single clue you are given, despite the clues being EVERYWHERE. Malcolm never once talks to any other person the entire film other than Cole. As much as you may convince yourself he was talking with his wife, think again, because every time he approached him, she did not say a word to him. She mumbles a word or two under her breath a few times, but these words are not directed towards anyone. On top of that, Cole numerous times describes the traits he has learned about ghosts in his time seeing them, and his descriptions so perfectly describe Malcolm's character. The movie truly does bring one of the most brilliant plot twists ever, but unfortunately Shyamalan hasn't brought us much more since.
This film was a remarkable way to end the millennium and provided sight to what was on the horizon for director M. Night Shyamalan. As a fan of psychological horror films that provide an unforeseen twist at the end, The Sixth Sense provided all the feels that I look for in this type of script. The first 5 minutes or so of this movie gave a pivotal scene where Malcolm was wounded by a former psychologist patient that won't have much importance on the film until we're fast approaching the credits. Soon after Malcolm is shot we meet eight year old Cole who is played by Haley Joel Osment as a new patient to Dr. Malcolm Crowe we can tell Cole is different than other children his age. We see Cole walk fast through the streets of Philadelphia straight into a quiet church where Malcolm observes then follows Cole for their first scene together. At this time no one is imagining that we are seeing Bruce Willis as a ghost, but as a human having an introduction to a new patient. As we move further into the film we really start to see where the theme was headed not only for the film, but also a number of characters. In my opinion the theme was certainly showcasing unfinished business or righting a wrong. We can see that Malcolm really has remorse and heartache where he couldn't help save his former patient Vincent Gray and I felt that taking on new patient Cole was a way to heal that pain. Once Cole reveals that he can see the dead walking around not knowing they're dead, we start to see new images of characters in limbo with unfinished business where Cole can be the messenger if he has the courage.Once we see what Cole has the capability of, we start to see the heartache but also the gift where he can help the dead. Cole was able to help a little girl who ultimately was murdered by her mother through poisoning and was found out with Cole's assistance of delivering a VHS tape to the young girl's father. This scene was heartbreaking and really made you feel pain when it focused on the motif with the color red, but his scene was also very joyous when this woman was found out for an unexplained act. This scene showed me that Cole was a helper with his gift and we soon realized for the previous hour that he was also helping a ghost named Malcolm.I would recommend this film to anyone who enjoys psychological films with a major twist at the end such as another film by M. Night Shyamalan Unbreakable. In closing this film is still one of my favorites even after being released almost 19 years ago and I certainly hope they have a 20th anniversary showing at my local theater.
The Sixth sense is a movie written and directed by M. Night Shyamalan and stars Bruce Willis as a child psychologist named Malcom and also stars Haley Joel Osment as Cole, a boy who sees dead people. The ending is one of the best twists I have seen because not only do you not expect it but it gives you a reason to watch it again and the second time you view it the way you view the movie is totally different and I gotta commend Shyamalan for that. I have not seen every single one of Bruce Willis's films but from what i have seen this is his best performence yet and Haley Joel Osment is also really good, not just for his age but in general he is fantastic. This movie also plays with your mind a bit if you don't know the twist and that is just genius writing. Overall this is a great movie that is suspenseful and clever but it isn't without its flaws however. Since Bruce Willis's character Malcolm is a ghost how does he know that Cole was at the hospital? He was not there when Cole passed out and he has no one contact with to know because no one besides Cole can see him and talk to him so that is a head scratcher to me. Despite that I highly recommend you check this movie out
Sixth Sense has a powerful suspense to its story, with eloquent visuals, and great acting.You will be immerse in the drama right away, even if I consider the opening the weakest part of the movie. At first, the subject matter is pretty innocuous and Bruce Willis easily carries you into the thick of it with Haley Joel Osment along for the ride. The boy's role then turns quickly into the linchpin of the suspense, with a number of nerve jarring surprises.Once you're over the horror hill, and you think the movie is over, there's the final piece of the puzzle waiting for you. The only real downside of the whole thing, is that once you know the ending, it looses a bit of its luster, but I still enjoy watching it on a regular basis.A must see. Enjoy.


                
When this movie came out, it garnered a huge amount of hype and acclaim, and I regarded this film as something of a masterpiece. It represented a type of quality filmmaking and storytelling that only men like Hitchcock seemed to master. It was one of the few films that initially established M. Night Shyamalan as a promising director of quality substance (a reputation that would only last for his next two films, Unbreakable and Signs; the rest of his work became arguably weaker and weaker, until reaching rock bottom with The Last Airbender).The story is pretty evenly-paced, but it is a slow-moving one. There's not a whole lot of conflict involved with this, but it's built pretty sturdily on the occasional paranormal fright scene and plenty of mystery.What really matters here is the story, and it is perfectly constructed. It's most famous for its twist ending, but it's not just an arbitrary narrative trick; in this case, the whole movie was built around that twist, so that it holds up on multiple viewings and gives new meaning every time. With quality characters that you can actually care for, and some strong themes concerning people and their gifts, the rest of the story stands strongly on its own and has plenty of insight.This film is immortalized with solid photography and editing. Acting is extremely delicate and subtle, with great nuanced performances by Bruce Willis and Haley Joel Osment. Writing shows some penchant for a little too much exposition (a standard complaint for most of Shyamalan's work, and it really only shows when compared to his later features), but is otherwise very good. This production doesn't have anything lavish, but it makes good use of its utilitarian sets, props, and costumes. Music is nice.4.5/5 (Entertainment: Pretty Good | Story: Perfect | Film: Very Good)


                
There are only a handful of movies out there that have everything in it. Thankfully, this movie is one of them. What I mean by that is it has the horror (the absolutely creepy/terrifying type, not the crappy something-pops-out-and-startles-you junk), the sadness (Jesus, I pretty much just end up feeling sorry for every character), the happiness (and when the happiness comes, you feel so genuinely happy and warm that you could cry), and the best part- the twists (the kind that hits you like a ton of bricks, not some stupid, run-o-the-mill misleads and whatnot). But that's not all. The acting was beyond superb. Bruce Willis was spectacular as the main character, Dr. Malcolm Crowe. I honestly think an Academy Award nomination should have been given for him. But the Academy made up for that in giving, first off, Toni Collette a nomination. She had such a great performance as the distraught mother who only wanted a normal life for her son. But the real praise should go to young Haley Joel Osment, who also had an A.A. nomination, but should have won in my opinion. I will not go into depth because there is just not enough good things to say about his absolutely brilliant performance. The only thing I will say is that he had one of the most convincing and emotional performances of anyone I have ever seen, and he was only 11 at the time! However, a lot of the applause should go to M. Night. Shyamalan, whose writing and directing just goes to show that when he has the right material, he can REALLY make it work! I really hope he gets more opportunities to show off his talent, let's just hope he doesn't do anymore TV show remakes (The Last Airbender was just plain awful). This movie is such a beautiful masterpiece, and that's saying something considering it's a horror film!
SPOILER: Child psychologist Bruce Willis (as Malcolm Crowe) reaches a career peak when he receives the Philadelphia "Mayor's Citation" for professional excellence. Celebrating with beautiful young wife Olivia Williams (as Anna Crowe), Mr. Willis gets drunk, and does "Dr. Seuss" impressions. The happy couple retire to their bedroom, where they prepare for sex. But, after Ms. Williams begins a playful strip, mysterious sounds are heard in the bathroom. It's Willis' former boy patient, Donnie Wahlberg (as Vincent Grey), all grown up and stripped to his underwear (briefs). Obviously quite deranged, Mr. Wahlberg sobs, "You failed me!" and shoots both Willis and himself.The next fall, Willis has apparently recovered from his gunshot wound - but, he feels guilty about failing to help Mr. Wahlberg overcome his childhood psychosis. Willis gets the chance to help another emotionally disturbed boy, unhappy Haley Joel Osment (as Cole Sear). Young Mr. Osment reminds Willis of the man who shot him. Osment is having trouble in school, startling teachers with bloody drawings and psychic abilities. Osment is bullied by his peers, who consider him a "freak". His mother, Toni Collette (as Lynn Sear), is struggling to make ends meet, after a messy divorce. After a few sessions, Osment reveals his anxiety producing secret, "I see dead people." M. Night Shyamalan, who also wrote, does an admirable job directing this unpredictable ghost story; he, with photographer Tak Fujimoto, works storytelling wonders with the camera; even before the revelatory last act, witness how effectively the camera sets each mood. And, the "Best Director"-nominated Mr. Shyamalan elicits wonderful performances from his cast, especially from Osment; his is one of the era's all-time best kid characterizations. But, what a subtext - if you want your kids to grow up sane, without being repeatedly scratched and welted by abusive ghosts, don't you dare get a divorce! ********* The Sixth Sense (8/2/99) M. Night Shyamalan ~ Bruce Willis, Haley Joel Osment, Toni Collette, Olivia Williams


                
Bruce Willis (Die Hard) stars as child psychologist Malcolm Crowe, a man with a good working history, until one night an ex patient causes havoc, and Malcolm seeks to put his career and life back on track by helping a young boy come over his fear of seeing ghosts.Nominated for 6 Oscars including Best Picture, The Sixth Sense delivers a chilling and dramatic tale of life, going through the difficult and the joyous turns of life, which is justified through some strong performances, exquisite writing and stunning direction.Willis gives one of the strongest performances of his career as the psychologist, with exquisite quietness and humbleness to the character, which is only second to Haley Osment' s Oscar nominated role as Cole, one of the best young performances of all time.Osment delivers a chilling performance as the bullied boy who sees dead people, which has turned into a landmark in the horror genre. His likable character goes through typical stages of life, including self doubt, imagination and conflict, a true justification of the young mind, with an amazing shocking twist to match, in that he sees the dead, which provides twists and turns in a highly dramatic plot.The writing is exceptional, with the right amount of realism to reflect the drama of situations, and the use of seeing the dead goes a long way to build up to a stunning and gripping finale, one which will make you question the entire plot and watch it again straight away. The open ending leads to many questions and when watching it again, you may question certain aspects.The drama is pitched spectacularly well by the actors and deserves praise, particularly Toni Collette (Little Miss Sunshine) and Osment.Having the use of real life scenarios including parent and child relationships juxtaposed with fantastic ideologies such as seeing ghosts creates a world of possibilities, and Collette and Osment have some great on screen moments together, perfect realism and perfect fantasy, and one scene will have you in tears.Shyamalan's Oscar nominated direction helps achieve the right mood, being chilling and yet realistic in its own context.Not particularly jump behind the sofa scary, more physiologically scary, and plays on your mind for a while after watching, which makes a true horror classic


                
