'Mr. Bean' has secured itself a loyal fan base all over the world, spawning not only two film spin-offs but a cartoon series as well. If it makes people happy, that's fine by me but personally I do not like the show at all. It is childish and banal to the point that whenever I try to tune in, I feel my concentration wandering after about two minutes. I find it a great chore to sit through.Rowan Atkinson plays the title character, a man who never speaks coherently, cannot touch anything without breaking it and whose habits and ways set him some distance from normality. Whilst I liked Atkinson in shows such as 'Not The Nine O'Clock News', 'Blackadder' and 'The Thin Blue Line', I don't feel he is terribly good at working without dialogue. He just comes across as gormless and emotionless. It is like watching someone who is mentally retarded.One of my biggest bugbears about the show is the fact that people label it as silent comedy. Bean is the only one who doesn't talk, everyone else, however, does, unlike in the later and far superior series 'The Baldy Man' ( which starred Gregor Fisher ), where no dialogue was used at all. The latter, incidentally, was slated by the critics who claimed that it was nothing but a cheap rip-off of 'Mr. Bean'. Whilst it is true that the series of 'The Baldy Man' came after 'Mr. Bean', it must be noted that the character of Baldy was created on 'Naked Video' in 1986, a good four years before this show started. Also, in 'The Baldy Man', Baldy only reacted to situations, 'Mr. Bean' however was responsible for them, so oft-repeated comparisons between the two shows are largely unfair.I would be lying if I were to deny the show's popularity but I just could not take to the show at all. If you ever manage to come across 'The Baldy Man', tune into that instead. Trust me, it is funnier by miles.
Mr. Bean is great. But Hollywood seems to think that Americans are not smart enough to understand that humour. Solution: let's eliminate all the subtlety so that every last stupid person can get it.Result: a film that is fairly entertaining, yet vulgar and butchered. Nothing may be left to our imagination any more, nothing can be just hinted at. No. When Bean explodes the bag filled with vomit, we have to see it. Everything has to be spelled out and shown, and everything has to be turned up to the maximum.Whenever British humour is adapted to the American market, it is butchered. The question is: do Americans really not understand it, or are the owners of American media deliberately turning people stupid?
Mr. Bean is just a bunch of unfunny slapstick humour. It is the most shallow humour TV series ever made in history. The scenes are often disgusting and the horrible canned laughter sends chills through the spine. Mr. bean is a selfish and rude character and one can only sympathies how pathetic he is. It is incredible that such a TV series of low quality can be sustained for 5 years. It is a complete waste of time to watch even 1 episode and one can't help but to express disgust and pity why Rowen had portrayed himself as such a 2-dimensional, unfunny and ridiculous character. Or pity yourself why you had even bother to watch an episode. Watching this is an aggravating experience.


                
Maybe I never got ´charmed´ but I couldn´t stand watching the episodes more than a few minutes. I therefore kept a bad image of Rowan Atkinson for many years, until I saw him in Love Actually, amongst other films, in which he was doing less ´funny faces´ and finally made me smile.


                
I don't recommend it but if you don't believe me then go to england & find out for your self - they're all like this. As i say if you happen to be a human & not a BEEn then you will of found your self in a particularly sad place, even for this worlds generally dismal standards its bad..., but i think people only end up there if they are forceably taken there as a child - no adult with any basic common sense would go there because every time you see a English person on TV they'r always the most horrible C.unt you've ever seen in the world by a million miles (e.g. Ricky Gervais, James Corden, Russell Brand, Simon Cowell etc etc) - there isn't any other group of Count's from any other Countrys to compare them to! Mr been is just an English person.
