There was once someone in my family (not saying who it is because of personal reasons) who thinks that Mr Bean is always so silly in whatever he does on the comedy series. Imagine how I felt at that time. Shocked instantly.There are more reasons than one why I love watching Mr Bean. Being one of those earliest shows on the local television here in my country where I first grew up watching, it's just one of those things which had stuck into my head. There was even once my friends and I talked about few of the selected episodes and we just laughed together.It's always silly, funny and hilarious in whatever antics Rowan Atkinson as Mr Bean will do in each episode. Though lately at times it may show some of the repeats here, it never failed to bring back those childhood memories of mine. In fact, I can dare say this is the very first show which introduces me about the kind of shows which come out of the UK as I was growing up.The comedy series...definitely really wicked, as what the Brits may be saying.


                
Mr. Bean (Rowan Atkinson) was evidently heavily influenced by M. Hulot (Jaques Tati). The difference is that Atkinson's Mr. Bean has a level of malevolence (perhaps mischievousness is kinder), a child-like irresponsibility and unwavering social ineptitude oscillating between crippling self-consciousness and steely defiance. It's unsurprising, then, that Mr. Bean has no evident friends, though it's equally true that he doesn't really need any. What he does cherish (Teddy, his Mini) with fond sentimentality shows his need for companionship but he can get by without it. I think this was intentional: to show us that there's a Mr. Bean in all of us sometimes.The mostly visual humour has a certain strange logic with ingenious, often improbable, solutions. Bean is as funny when he gets into scrapes as he is when he casually dunks a fly in his orange juice with the comically feigned air of a man who does this kind of thing routinely. For the most part Bean triumphs in the face of adversity and when he doesn't he is soon back to his jaunty child-like self. Essentially a positive character who is as wearied as the rest of us with a world full of hold-ups and seemingly senseless rules he can usually find a way around difficulties that most of us would have to think long and hard about and in some cases abandon our consciences.The apparent effortlessness of the humour modestly hides the considerable work behind it. The limited number of episodes represent a lot of time and thought and they're more precious for their scarcity. Better a small glass of fine wine than a gallon of plonk.It seems people love this character or hate him with little middle-ground. If you're in the first group you'll appreciate the careful construction of the situations wherein even the smallest gestures (such as looking sharply up at the new TV set whilst balanced awkwardly on a chair) can bring unexpected hilarity. But nothing can match the scene on board the aircraft, particularly his expression in the final frame.


                
