I have always found everything Steve Pemberton and Reece Sheersmith have written and performed in together total mesmerising. Their stories are highly original and imaginative. All their characters are thoroughly amusing, sometimes poignant and usually down right odd! I love stories with a twist, and so far the tales in this series have not disappointed, they get you thinking and are full of anticipation, Steve and Reece, please keep writing together! I loved The League of Gentlemen and Psychoville and this is well on par with that. They appear to be influenced by the horror genre and their individual episodes are reminiscent of The Twiighlight Zone only more sophisticated. Their acting is so convincing and they can easily portray all the crazy characters without going over the top. Supported by some well known faces, it is interesting to see the interaction between the actors. In my eyes these guys can do no wrong! Can't fault the series so far!


                
Absolutely, one of the best shows I've seen in years. The only show that has good twists that neither my girlfriend nor I ever see coming. Amazing dark British humor at its best. Needs to expand its fan base into the US and Canada even more. Put it on BBC America and/or one of the streaming services. Some of my favorite episodes are: 12 Days Of Christine, A Quiet Night In, Tom & Gerri, The Harrowing, The Trial Of Elizabeth Gadge, La Couchette. Hopefully, the show has many more seasons to come. I can say for sure that this is one of the few programs that truly leaves me shocked. At the end of many episodes, I am left staring at the screen, with my mouth agape. I really cannot get enough of this brilliant show! More people need to become as obsessed with this show as I have become!


                
This is the funniest half hour I have had watching TV for a long time , it started with slapstick ,turned to hilarious comedy with the two hapless burglars ,and then came the bedroom /bathroom scene ,this was worthy of the best of any of David Jason's scenes in Fools and Horses ,I had to pause the programme to wipe away the tears of laughter. No sooner had the hilarity ended then we had a moment of high drama followed by more comedy with the dumb salesman and then the grand finale which took me completely by surprise . The plot twisted and turned and was brilliantly written and acted . I can't wait for the next Inside No 9.


                
Every episode has a different storyline, each one extremely well written, keeping you guessing until the very end. In no way can you predict what is going to happen in any of the episodes. 
The best black comedy series I've ever seen, well worthy of a 10 star rating.


                
Yes, it is short, and yes, I don't think it's long enough to make me satisfied every time. This is a really good show if you just sit down, be patient, watch it, and think. Steve and Reece are my favorite and two of the most talented producers and writers I know. Really want to support this show. Don't make it stop.


                
Inside No 9 is another creation from Steve Pemberton and Reece Shearsmith who together had created Psychoville and were a huge part in creating The League of Gentlemen, two very good dark humour comedy shows with less then a decade between them and three years after Psychoville had ended Inside No 9 was born.The best way to describe Inside No 9 is by calling it an anthology show with loads of horror, drama and comedy in it whilst being set in or around a number 9. Each episode has it's own story and they are usually creative, original and interesting which for half an hour per episode is very good.Most of the episodes are amazing works of art whilst some others may not have what the others do to be great, but with it being an anthology show is good because if you do not like one episode you may like another. The stories of this show are very good as you could have an episode about people playing sardines in a wardrobe, a witch trial or even an episode about an art exhibit. If this show lacks in one area it will more then likely make up for it somewhere else.It is best not to say too much about this show as it can be easily spoiled, so if you think you will like this show give it a try the worst that can happen is that you will lose about half an hour, but if it goes well you will have a new show to watch.If you like The League of Gentlemen or Psychoville there is a very high chance you will like this and also if you like dark humour you will probably love this show. Remember this is my opinion not yours, have a good one :)


                
Plot twists seem to be a difficult thing to pull off well as they have a tendency to either be very predictable when done poorly - making continuing to watch feel pointless and the ending totally disappointing if you do continue after calling it so early - or they can just end up being so contrived and convoluted as to be completely ridiculous which feels equally as disappointing.Inside No. 9 however is like some kind of plot twist master class where the twists are usually impossible to predict, or twist again if you did work it out or sometimes there is no twist at all... which is itself a twist when you're expecting something to happen. On top of this with the format regularly shifting from comedy, to horror to drama and episodes often being dark or whimsical it becomes quite impossible to have any idea what path it is going to take from the outset with the ending either playing out as one big punch line or one horrifying realisation regardless of how funny or dark the rest of the episode was.Also impressive is the ability to generally set each story in such a confined space without it becoming claustrophobic or boring as is often the case with bottle episodes. Often achieving this through the use of interesting styles and settings like a lack of dialogue or playing around with the flow of time in the story which in itself would make for excellent episodes even if there were no cleverness to the story. So much intrigue and character is packed into every scene that you feel as if you could probably watch for hours without tiring of the repetitive setting.Some episodes really are genius whilst a few are a little weaker but make it no less watchable but as a series because they keep you guessing and only make you appreciate the next episode all the more. I admit I almost gave up on the series during the first episode when it was described as comedy but was a little tedious and not overly funny but I am glad I didn't because episode by episode it has only become more engrossing, funnier, darker and ever perplexing.The one drawback it has being quite so clever is it will never be as re-watchable as the League of Gentlemen or Psychoville unless you use electroshock therapy (or just bang your head against a wall) to erase the outcomes from your mind... so I can only hope they're able to keep it going for a few more series before the universe's supply of creativity is depleted.


                
Shearsmith and Pemberton are genius in so many ways. The way they hint at the ending earlier on in the episode does of course require lots of skill, but there are other absolutely genius bits of writing and skill which go unnoticed. The way they structure the episodes, the way they develop characters and the way that they make sure that every line matters are incredibly difficult to do, but they manage it. All while adding hints of comedy. Yes, there are some episodes that aren't as interesting, but the series makes up for it with episodes that are some of the best that tv can offer.


                
Every episodes depicts a different story. If you do not like one episode, you may like the next. You will not regret watching this show. And one of the common thing in these show is thriller. So if you are a thriller lover then you must try this one!


                
Reece sheersmith and steve pemberton have created a great dark comedy, each with its own unexpected twist at the end. Each episode begins as a comedy and slowely turns dark to reveal its twist. Some episode such as "twelve days of Christine" are more comedy and drama than horror, whereas episodes such as "the devil of christmas" are more dark than drama.
Inside no. 9 ranges on 3 genres, each perfected by reece and steve's writing, this is a solid 10/10.


                
I won't comment on individual episodes all i will say is each episode is a different story with the one theme linking them being set in room or location that has the number 9.If you haven't already seen this you need to binge it now don't look at spoiler reviews just watch it and you will laugh,be creeped out,surprised and absolutely heartbroken at times.


                
Being a fan of League of gentleman I thought I'd give this a go. This is brilliantly written. One of the best shows I've seen in a while. The 1st episode is just people playing sardines in a wardrobe. You think this is a normal show, Then you are hit with the twist at the end. You then watch the rest of the episodes trying to work out what the twist is. You think you've got it. Nope. Guess again.
I don't write many reviews...actually, only one other so far. That being said, this show is absolutely one of the best shows I've ever watched. Incredibly well written, acted and directed. Production values are top notch. The show is beyond smart, witty and surprising. Twists are always unexpected and well hidden. So much is packed into a 30 minute episode it's absolutely surprising so little time passes. It would be remiss of you not to give this show a watch.


                
