Pixar has come a long way. To them their creations have become a science into human emotion and I don't know any better company that has nearly perfected the craft. Soon they'll have 10's across the board from music to picture and from story to the characters. Never have I seen that more than in the movie WALL-E. This movie is up there. More than just its basic elements it dared to dive into a culture that very few in the world know about. It went above and beyond in research in getting those in Mexicos stamp of approval. It touches a deeper recess of the heart where the soul lies dormant and awakens it with hope and optimism. It takes the differences we often critique and judge upon another group only for Pixar to place a mirror right in front of us and stare at our own reflection. It takes the common elements so as to identify with the characters and stir a feeling of commonality. It's brilliant and ingenious. These things alone give it an 8. The 10 is because it was bold and dared to go places other won't. In this I found originality. Something you don't see often these days. Best part of all it unified. It takes ones thick skull (pun intended) and supplies human emotion as the medium to communicate the message so as to reach the heart. One may call that manipulation but due to its sincere true message and goodness I humbly give it a 10.


                
I'm no critic, but Coco is close to movie perfection. It definitely deserved the Oscar for Best Animated Feature, no doubt, and is by far the best animated movie ever created. The visuals are stunning, the characters are fantastic, the twist is somewhat predictable but still great, and the story is so touching. This is the best film I have ever seen, over Shawshank, over The Godfather, over The Matrix; this film is a godlike creation from the very, very best of cinema. Do not be fooled by the haters who say it is a poor portrayal of a tradition; the tradition is likely far more beautiful in Coco than in real life. Fantastic, I am blown away.


                
Pixar has done it AGAIN! 'Coco' is a yet another delightful ride from the prolific animation studio, who's winning streak seems to never end. And that's good for all, since 'Coco' is all heart & soul, rewarding the moviegoer wholeheartedly.'Coco' Synopsis: Aspiring musician Miguel, confronted with his family's ancestral ban on music, enters the Land of the Dead to find his great-great-grandfather, a legendary singer.'Coco' captures the themes of Life & Death, with genuine feeling. Themes of family, passion, defeat & redemption also are explored here, but with humor & real emotion. While I laughed for a good share of this winning story, I also found myself weeping in the film's final-act. This is a true fantasy-adventure, that gives life & death true meaning. 
Adrian Molina & Matthew Aldrich's Screenplay is excellent. Lee Unkrich's Direction is colorful. And of course, the Animation is extraordinary. 'Coco' unfolds gorgeously & not for a second, does the pace drop.Vocal-Performances are top-notch! Anthony Gonzalez as Miguel, the protagonist, is a joy, Gael García Bernal s Héctor Rivera, a charming trickster in the Land of the Dead, Benjamin Bratt as Ernesto de la Cruz, the most famous musician in the history of Mexico and Miguel's idol & Ana Ofelia Murguía as Mamá Socorro "Coco" Rivera, Miguel's great-grandmother, stand out. And yes, this is a Film made in America about Mexicans & their tradition. Take That, Mr. President!On the whole, 'Coco' deserves all your time & money. Don't Miss It. Oscars, are you ready?


                
It was great. My favorite part was how the guitar playing was accurate.


                
Coco is a movie with lots of joyfulness and emotion...
I nearly cried when Miguel sang "Remember Me" to her great-grandma, that was so impressively touching!!!
And the end of the movie, my heart filled with so much happiness and joy...Everybody should see this Movie..!!!


                
All my family waiting this movie all the year since we see the teaser and blow up...and more because was a Pixar movie and they all make right all the movies they make (at least the 80%).And Jesus we all not disappointed at all...The music,the animation,the characters,the colors,the family...everything was just perfect.Now being a Mexican born a was worried that Pixar takes so many liberties of the Mexican culture,people,music and more...But that didn't happen they took all the things i mention before and converted in one of the best animated pictures i ever see and make me even more proud to born Mexican.I know you all the see the trailers and teasers and know how the movie it is but NO...the movie have a great twist and surprises that gonna make you love the movie even more...Like i say before everything in the movie is just perfect and one i have to say is that PIXAR portrait The day of the Death (dia de los muertos) very accurate and with a lot of respect.Just see it...you gonna love it Pixar make another classic movie to they collection and Mexican people of all the world...You be pride to be what you are!


                
I have seen a lot of films but only a few of them have touched me as much as coco.
The story building was incredible, you really get to know Michuel and start to feel attached to his story.
De colorfull atmosphere makes it enjoyable to watch and participates in delivering an excellent all-round movie with joy, tears and drama.Pixar delivers yet another masterpiece with (in my opinion) the most powerfull story!


                
The storyline was very unique, so was the concept of the movie. 
To everyone who enjoys watching animations I would recommend this movie. It also has a educational plot, because it shows the importance of family and a bit of the Mexican culture. It was hands down one of the best animations I have watched.


                
An Outstanding movie made by Pixar. I never felt so much emotion since after watching Toy Story 3. A lot of creativity was put into this film and I love the Mexican culture brilliantly portrayed in the film.Coco is about family and life. A well written story with a surprising twist at the end which interests the audience to watch what happens next. Spectacular


                
I enjoyed this movie more than I expected. It made me cry in a good way. It had surprising twists for a Disney movie. I recommend this movie.


                
"Coco" is unquestionably a movie about bridging gaps. In the film, a literal bridge of marigold petals links the Worlds of the Living and the Dead for a night. In the real world, Pixar has tended a symbolic bridge with this film to link Mexicans, Chicanos (U.S.-based Mexicans and their descendants), U.S. nationals and the world via one of our most difficult shared human experiences. This isn't a movie spearheaded by Mexican artists to introduce the world to one of our beloved idiosyncrasies, like the inevitably comparable "The Book of Life" (a movie that I like but have far more issues with as a film fan than "Coco", regardless of nationality) but to simplify it as "a culturally appropriative work by a non-Mexican" would be to not only miss the point of the story told in it but to miss the point in its creation as well.Lee Unkrich and the team at Pixar clearly went at great lengths to not only understand the holiday itself but also how to best present it to those unfamiliar. There's also a clear effort to try and understand the culture(s) that originate, adapt and celebrate the holiday (or as much as one can "understand" Mexico in anything less than a lifetime). Why so much effort? What one can infer from interviews with Unkrich is that his decision to make the movie came from a place of genuine admiration and curiosity. Filtered through Pixar's famously thorough work ethic in the service of storytelling, you end up with a film fruit of both love and intelligent, hard work, clear in many of the filmmaking decisions.For those in the know, Mexican Spanish expressions are uttered without subtitles, national celebrities (or at least their skeletal avatars) appear and are paid tribute, the cultural differences between regions of Mexico are alluded to, the movie is clearly set in the modern day and respect for the country, its people and sometimes complicated family dynamics is on display. Regarding our relatives north of the border and elsewhere, the cast of the film is more Chicano than Mexican-born and the more internationally-popular term "Día de LOS Muertos" is as common as our preferred "Día de Muertos". For those complete outsiders to the holiday, its emotionality and symbolism are explained just the right amount to follow the plot yet leaving some air of mystery while Santa Cecilia is not too far from that most-familiar depiction of small, dusty colonial towns as the face of Mexico. All these compromises show that the film is intended as a message of unity and understanding. Yes, some references will definitely fly over many audiences' heads, but the Pixar magic lies in that, making some parts of the film so specific, they've managed to turn the whole universal.Mexicans, a people defined by a tug-of-war between indigenous, European, personal, global and other identities that work best when balance between them is achieved, are a prime example of the importance of finding what's universal. Our holiday dedicated to "let's turn mourning into joy" may seem incongruous but it comes from the observation of joy and death as being equally unifying. We're all united by knowing joy, some of it courtesy of those who've passed on. We're all united by and equal in death, to every being that's ever lived. The death of beloved ones brings us memories, their memories bring us joy, this is the essence of Día de Muertos. "Coco"'s noble essence, par for the course of the Pixar canon (perhaps not as bold as "Wall-E" or "Monsters University", but bold enough) is to bridge the relatively small gaps between personal passion and responsibility, Mexas and others, on the same level as those huge gaps between joy and mourning, death and life. Thanks to the respectful research and collaborations behind the film, its essence not only aligns with that of the holiday, but hopefully will complement and strenghten each other, for years to come, for every early November night that we remember... and smile.


                
Pixar has given us many successes.Coco is one of the last ones.With a beautiful story,amazing characters,nice music and an unpredictable finale Coco is a film for the whole family.Check it out


                
The whole story is pretty simple but touching: Miguel was restricted by his families to learn music. At the day of the dead he accidentally walked to the land of the dead and figured out the truth, as well as the meaning of dream, love and death!I am surprised by the idea of death Pixar introduces in this cartoon. Actually it is important for children to think about the world after death and realize what's important in their life. If the final death really refers to the moment nobody remembers in real life, then leaving some positive impact when alive is crucial in extending after-death life in another fantasy world. The meaning of life is not about length but depth :)
Also, death is not so fearful: dead people could walk across flower bridge and reunite with their family happily! Greatly appreciate Mexicans created such a memorial but fun festival!Both of great great grandfather and great great grandmother are doing nothing wrong. The bond of blood is not the only thing that ties us, but love!Wish all my pass-away families enjoy their moments in another world...


                
With Coco, Pixar has returned to its roots with an incredibly fun and deeply affecting film. This is all thanks to characters that are likable and fun to watch. The development of the characters is done with a swift breath of maturity that'll have you hard pressed not to shed a tear. We've seen this type of story before, but I loved the way it was executed. A super fun, creative, and emotional journey that will surely leave you smiling upon leaving the theater.


                
So, all I know about Dias De Los Muertos is from Spanish class in high school, but from what I know, this movie was an imaginative and beautiful story using the Mexican culture in a positive and worthwhile way. I was actually enthralled and enjoyed every minute (and at 27, that says something). I think it's an excellent opportunity to expose kids to another culture, and look forward to having kids so I have an excuse to watch it again.


                
Disney Pixar. I must say its one of there best movies i've seen in the past few years. Great story, at first i was a bit worried about how the skulls and skeletons would look in such a movie. I must say, they did great and i immediately fell in love with the characters. The movie makes you feel you are really in it and ofcourse the end is always a happy end.


                
Wow, what a movie!Coco tells a tale about a family who doesn't involve in music, not even remotely.
But a stubborn finds a way to achieve his dream and then unexpectedly story starting to hold the grip.With all the vibrant visuals, music, drama, emotions, humor & most important storyline this Pixar's beautifully animated movie is a must watch. And yes, don't forget the music.I must admit that this is one of the best landings given by Pixar.


                
I saw this movie at a special screening at Pixar Studios in Emeryville, CA. What an experience for the heart, mind and sou!We generally think of family films as those aimed at children, that happen to be enjoyable enough for adults. Coco, however, will be as much a hit in nursing homes as it'll be among grade-schoolers, who will laugh and cry in equal parts as the people at my screening did. It's about a family, a multi-generational family living together. I won't spoil anything, but I wish I'd been as good a great-grandson as the boy in this story.Here are my six takeaways from the morning after. I'm sure more will come to mind in the coming days and weeks, because it definitely deserves a second or third view:1. The story is probably the most rich, complex and well-written narrative I've seen in an animated film. It breaks into, and surpasses, some worthy live-action screenplays. Pixar should start campaigning for a Best Original Screenplay nomination in my opinion. 2. The animation and production design are as expected, first-class. There are feast-for-your eyes visuals in the creation of imaginary places and characters, but what most impressed me was the everyday places and people, and how they filled them with cinematic wonder and color. Note: everyone I was with agreed that the detail of the titular character of Coco was unlike anything we've ever seen in animation.3. I'm a guitar player, and I can say with certainty that this is the first time I've seen animated characters correctly playing the instrument. Even in live-action movies this is not always the case, but in Coco it's obvious the filmmakers captured real guitarists playing note-for-note what you hear in the music.4. All the research and consulting into Mexican culture/sociology has paid off. To the rest of us the movie seems very respectful of family dynamics and the Día de los Muertos celebration. But the best proof lies in Mexico: since its release (which was one month before it appears everywhere else) it has become the highest-grossing movie in Mexican box-office history. After the screening I read that many of the minor characters were drawn as an homage to legendary Mexican entertainers.5. The filmmakers created a good balance between the characters' use of English and Spanish, as well as in the visuals (streets and shop signs, etc.). English-speaking audiences will understand the plot, while learning some vernacular in the process.6. Stay until the last credits roll! The filmmakers added a heartwarming segment at the very end. You'll be glad you stayed.Here in the US it's being released around Thanksgiving, and just like Saving Private Ryan made us respect The Greatest Generation, this movie will make you want to hug and kiss all your elders at the table.


                
Pixar's unique and colorful take on the Dia De Los Muertos was truly remarkable. The story was a match made in Pixar heaven due to its heart wrenching and heartwarming moments. Though this story seemed a bit morbid at times, you can really tell Pixar catered this movie to adults as well as kids. The visual effects were probably my favorite in any Pixar film thus far. The amount of detail on screen at any given time was beyond belief. Also, the character development was extraordinary. Having an extensive look at each character's background not only helped you fall in love with the characters, but it was also used as a unique storytelling device. The music in this movie was great too as it paid homage to the traditional mariachi style still practiced in Mexico today. The movie even featured some songs with lyrics entirely in Spanish. Overall, I would say this movie captured the Mexican heritage to a T. The characters were memorable, the story and dialogue were exceptionally written, the visuals were gorgeous and bursting with color, and the music was festive and fun.


                
CocoLee Unkrich's witty and dramatic world of dead, works on all levels; from music to secrets, from drama to comedy, from kids to adults, Coco delivers the whole package where not only it's characters but range too works in its favor.


                
I loved it, I felt very identified as Mexican with my traditions, it made me revalue the importance of celebrating this beautiful tradition that is the Day of the Dead and imagine how our ancestors can walk among us on this date. Great production by the Disney - Pixar duet. It's an action movie, there are multicolored characters, it has suspense and a great end. I will watch it again!!!
Big movies and studios have a reputation of bending culture and history to create a more entertaining product. Disney and Pixar can be included in this conversation (more Disney though than Pixar, with movies like Pocahontas and Aladdin being some of the most controversial). Pixar, however, has remained relatively close to the cultural truth with Coco. Even though it still has its controversies (mainly regarding its plot originality), the movie makes for a colorful, entertaining spectacle of Mexican culture; specifically during the Day of the Dead, or Dia de los Muertos.Coco takes place during Dia de los Muertos, a colorful celebration of the passed on. This can make for an interesting setting for Pixar, and they worked very well with it. They present a story on the importance of dreams, family, and remembrance. The remembrance part is very prevalent (even its Oscar-winning song is named Remember Me), and it should be. In fact, Judy King states in her article on mexconnect.com that, "On this night, those who wait realize the importance of living to be well remembered, working to be well respected and loving to be well missed"(mexconnect.com). The struggle to be remembered leads people to create a legacy that they will be remembered by, or others tainting said legacy. In the story, Hector, Miguel's great-great grandfather, had been left forgotten because his family tainted his legacy by quite literally tearing him from his family after leaving them and never coming back. On the other hand, De La Cruz worked to create his own legacy by stealing songs and credit to become a well known and respected in Mexico. The need to be remembered is centered on the fact that the spirits of the dead need to return to our world during the Day of the Dead. However, if one were to be forgotten, the story portrays a "final death" where there is no one left to remember someone, and they fade away forever, even from the the realm of the dead. After being skeptical of this being portrayed as true (I had never heard of this idea before), I discovered that this is actually more or less the real idea. Victor Landa is quoted in Judy King's article on mexconnect.com as saying "The third death, the most definitive death, is when there is no one left alive to remember us" (mexconnect.com). This is why people work so hard to be remembered, so that no one ever forgets them, because of they fade from the memory of the living, they will surely disappear from any existence.One discrepancy that I found was the spirit guides. In Coco, they are mostly portrayed as colorful animal hybrids, such as winged dogs or cats. While they do fit in well with the mood and scenery of the movie, they do not portray the whole truth. They are most likely inspired by Colima Dogs, ceramic dog figures designed to help guide the dead in mesoamerican lore. Kristen Romey of National Geographic attests that "The most frequent depictions take the form of small ceramic vessels known as Colima Dogs... which may have served as symbolic dog guides to help the soul of the dead travel through the Underworld" (nationalgeographic.com). So, while the guides aren't all true, they do have basis in real world lore. In fact, a dog named Dante is commonly featured in the story as a "connection" between worlds, and even morphs into a spirit guide himself. In conclusion, while Coco, isn't 100% accurate to cultural truth, there is very little bending to it. Even the added elements have cultural basis to them, which helps them to blend seamlessly to the rest of the story, which has allowed the cultural elements of the Day of the Dead to guide an entertaining story that looks familiar to people who celebrate the holiday, and they have built off of many of the elements to create amazing environments and artistic storytelling.


                
In the never-ending string of incredible visuals brought to life by Pixar, Coco (2017) continues this trend into the afterlife. At this point, I'm convinced Pixar could just go ahead and shoot live video and put their animated characters in the scene and I'd still think the whole thing was animated. The interplay of color, light, and shadow really come out in this celebration of Mexican culture. All spectacular visuals aside, Pixar again delivers on an emotional impact that left me crying, as always. When it comes to new ideas, Pixar certainly still knows how to create a visually-compelling story.While Coco has a lot going for it, there are a few weaknesses, some of which are my own opinion based on my likes and dislikes. I know the film mostly targets children (and older children at that), but the plot was just a smidge too predictable. Sure, it was enjoyable to see my hypotheses play out on the screen, but the twists weren't anything too groundbreaking. Secondly, I'm sure the street dog was endearing for those who like dogs, but I found it to be more annoying than a vital part of the plot.Not necessarily a weakness, I'm a little torn on the message of the movie. Having recently visited Mexico for the first time this January, I had a greater appreciation of the culture presented here. However, even if the "family first" motif felt a little bit like the plot from a Fast and Furious film, I also wanted to root for the young boy who wanted to pursue his passions and dreams despite his family's adamant restrictions. By the end, there's a happy medium, but when I want the main character to divorce himself from his family so he can do what he enjoys, then there might be a problem.A fantastic and culturally-rich masterpiece from Pixar, I give Coco 4.5 stars out of 5.


                
It pushed me into tears. But the movie seems to overly criticise those people that pursue their dreams and have no other way but to leave their family. I'd like to see a better solution for this.


                
I falled in love with this movie because i saw everything i expected
the great great great story and fantastic music , unexpected steps and really strange story its just a new one ! and there was some funny moments and sadness moments and romantic moments it was mix of everything good
you can re re re re see it when you want to feel happy when depression set about arrival


                
