I must say that this is THE BEST ANIME I have EVER seen!!! It definitely is the perfect mix of romance, story, history, mystery, and all other good things all rolled into one series! I especially love it because of its strong storyline and characters. Every character has a history and this anime has been created in a way that allows them to show you that background on each character, making each character all the more interesting. I also like the subtle romance it portrays and the way that it intertwines real Japanese history with fiction - that was probably the best part, actually.Anyway, from the first episode, I was hooked...I was so hooked, I finished the series within like a month and half. Now, I'm on to reading the manga, which is just as good as the anime. This is one anime that I can watch over and over and not get bored of!


                
This is one of the greatest anime series I have ever seen. I have been introduced anime on relatively recently...1997 at earliest. In that time, I've gotten my hands on a number of really good and really bad shows. Kenshin is definitely among the best.The dynamic emotions of Kenshin himself as well as the mix of humor and philosophy of life vs. death in the show make it exceptionally entertaining and captivating.The mutual devotion between Kenshin and his friends, Kaoru, Sanoske, Yahiko, etc... is amazing to watch as it develops and is put to the test.The sadistic enemies, and the foolish ones, all provide foils that drive the plot and cause the viewer to be moved as Kenshin struggles to throw off his murderous past in favor of a life defending his honor, his friends, and the innocent.If you are a long time anime-buff, or a new fan of the genre...this series is a must-see.


                
This is a truly fantastic series... dramatic characters, a hero that is capable of huge mood swings (from goofy, to romantic, to blood thirsty), and female characters that you would swear your life to protect or swear..well... I must be civil.Great sword-fighting actions scenes, a drop of history (it takes place in the 1870s), and some philosophizing about living a life of violence versus peace make this series cover the gamut of emotions a viewer wants from any series, not just anime.I hope everyone can take notice of this story, it is not for everyone, but it hits so many points relevant to our current world order: from terrorism (bad guys attacking the fragile government), to being able to look at the world as something other than a battlefield (Kenshin vowing not to kill after so many years as an assassin).


                
I first saw this great anime when I was about 10 or 11 years old, and by that time I didn't know what anime was so I didn't care much about this series...I mean, I liked it but for me it was just another show on TV. Now, 8 years later, I get the chance of rewatch this series again, and I came the conclusion: This is a truly fantastic series!!!! It has great sword fighting actions scenes, a hero that is capable of huge mood swings (I love kenshin's goofy faces), some real history, dramatic characters, a great story and the music is superb. One thing I did like is the fact that the main character, Kenshin, never kills the opponent and have good sense of moral. Kenshin is one of the best characters in anime history in my opinion, and Shishio, the mummy guy as some people know him, is by far the best villain in the series and also one of the greatest villains in anime history, at least in my opinion. Every character in this series has a history and this anime has been created in a way that allows them to show you that background on each character, making each character very interesting and unique.You cannot call yourself a true anime fan without watching Rurouni Kenshin, and if you like samurai and things like that you will certainly love this series. I was hooked from the first episode and I'm very sad for not be able to find the DVDs.In my opinion it is the best anime in its class, and so I give it a perfect 100/10!!!!


                
The anime is about a wandering samurai in the 11th year of the Meiji era (around 1878)who stumbles upon a dojo in Tokyo and decides to stay there, helping in and around it. He protects the weak against the strong with his sword (even when they are banned) and in the process, runs into some friends and enemies from the past. The series also has some characters who really existed in the history of Japan which makes it all the more interesting. The best episodes to watch are 28 through 62, but you will need to go through the earlier ones which are sometimes silly to really understand them. The soundtrack alone is exceptional and is worth listening to. In my opinion it is better than most animes in its class.


                
Rurouni Kenshin is an epic anime series about a wandering swordsman named Kenshin Himura who protects people with his reversed-blade sword. Rurouni Kenshin has everything you could possibly want in an anime series. It is available on DVD and VHS.


                
You cannot call yourself a sci-fi fan without watching Star Trek or Farscape. And you certainly cannot call yourself a true anime fan without watching Rurouni Kenshin. Few years ago I didn't even know the word anime, but since I accidentally saw RK I became an addict. It is full of action, fun, romance, BATTLES and most of all many COOL characters. I still can't call anyone a favourite even years after. Most of all I enjoyed the fact that the main characters are not divided into good and bad. There's just sides, which is more like in real life. If you like sword fight, samurai or just the best animes this one is a MUST-TO-SEE.


                
Ruroni Kenshin is one of the best television cartoons ever made. Its characters are colourful and fun to watch, they're not your typical Shonen-cast of anime characters, and the fact that this series is a period piece makes it stand out from quite a lot of the other animes on the market. It's nothing like DragonBall Z, Naruto nor One Piece. THIS one focuses on Meiji-Period Japan; and a samurai who's vowed to never kill another soul again. This series is an appealing yet culturally- specific show that oddly works for a general audience. Its story is engaging, its direction fast-paced and never dull, and the voice-acting (of the Japanese cast) is pitch-perfect.This series is definitely worth a watch; even if you're not a hardcore anime fan!


                
I have seen a lot of anime until now, I remember the plot and the story behind every single one of them. More or less. But this one, it made sure that I will remember it for the rest of my life. It gave me a complete image of the life of an undefeated samurai,the owner of the title as the strongest samurai alive, how he has to deal with the inner struggles he has and how hard he tries to atone for the sins of his past.Watching the beginning of the story with the OVAS (Samurai X: Trust and Betrayal), continuing with Rurouni Kenshin and Samurai X: The movie and ending it with Samurai X: Reflection, you actually live with him throughout his story and after a certain point you feel like you're now part of his story. It gives you sad/drama moments,happy/comic moments and even everyday life struggles moments, just like a real person's life is. It really worth my time. I am sure I'll be watching it again some day. All of it.
A Classic Anime a great adaptation of Nobuhiro Watsuki's manga and its full of interesting characters and even villains.It is also set in a very interesting time the Meiji Era over a decade after the overthrow of the Tokugawa Shogunate and the protagonist Kenshin Himura a former assassin who fought for the Isshin Shishi but has sworn never to take a life ever again after a tragedy happened to him. His vow never to kill means he carries a special kind of sword called a Sakabatou which does not kill.Kaoru Kamiya was sweet but had a mean temper but she was a great character though sadly there have been a few poor imitations of her out there.Yahiko Myojin a young boy of samurai descent at first exploited by Yakuza but saved by Kenshin but trained by Kaoru very smart mouthed lad and looks up to Kenshin.Sanosuke Sagara a street fighter who was the survivor of the slaughtered Sekihoutai he lost not only his friends but the only father figure he ever really had Captain Sozo Sagara. At first an enemy of Kenshin due to the anger he still possessed at the Meiji Government but after their fight Kenshin reasons with him and he becomes Kenshin's loyal friend.This is a great anime!
It is the tale of a wondering samurai warrior called Kenshin Himura seeking penance for his past crimes as an assassin known as "Battôsai the man-slayer", during the Bakumatsu (the final days of the Tokugawa government) in Japan.He seeks and finds shelter in the dojo of Miss Kaoru Kamiya. Miss Kaoru is the primary instructor of the Kamiya Kasshin-ryu fighting style developed by her late father, and she wants to resurrect that style of fighting.Kenshin himself is the master of the Hiten Mitsurugi Ryu style of sword fighting. He rescues Kaoru when she is in dire trouble with a local gang of thugs with is ferocious fighting style.Kenshin finds much in common with Kaoru and he moves in to stay with her. Kenshin is then joined by in later episodes with Sanosuke Sagara and Yahiko Myôjin. And so begin the adventures of Kenshin....This is my favorite anime of all time. It has plenty of lessons to teach us about life. The character of Kenshin is very humble and polite and at the same time full of courage and justice. He is dedicated to protect the weak and to uphold the law and fight oppression when necessary. There are 95 episodes in all, followed by 3 animated films namely Samurai X: the motion Picture, Samurai X - Trust and Betrayal, and Samurai X - Reflections. Overall full 10/10 and a historical masterpiece, a testament to that age, that honors those brave Samurai who perished on the battlefield and shows the suffering of those in that age. Kenshin may your ideals inspire the newer generations and may you always find a place in their hearts.


                
There is one word to describe Rurouni Kenshin, Superb. It really is the best of the best. It deserves to be at the top of the top list for animes. Season one one really great, it was mainly about Kenshin saving the day, he fight people with great streghths, pirates, And his own friends. Season two got better, not that 1 was to good to be true. But kenshin was sent to Kyoto to stop Shishio from destroying the meiji government. Shishio kills innocent people and believes the weak die and the strong live. Kenshin fights through juppengatana, Aoshi, Saito and Sishio. He meets Misao on the way. Even kenshin friends help. Season 3 was good, but not the best. I've only seen parts. I need to order it like right now. But its starts off the same as season 1. Fighting off bad guys. Then this dude appears to be the son of god and uses the hiten mitsrugi sonic sword techniqes(If you didn't know that what kenshin uses). Also it's a lot more of a romance.


                
I watched when I was a child , I liked this from then. Its cool fighting scenes, character design , that's it. But re-watched it last year and it was something entirely different. It is my favourite anime , No doubt about it


                
This show is awesome there is a bit of blood and gore


                
Rurouni Kenshin is a refreshingly fun anime with wonderful characters and a great story line.  I would give Rurouni Kenshin 5 stars and two thumbs up...or shall I say "Two Sakabatous up"?  I love when Kenshin says, "oro" or looks like a complete idiot by his friends.  The DVDs provide both the Japanese and English version, plus some very cool extras like notes, out takes and sometimes character messages (at the end of a season) or the openings or closings with out all those credits written all over them!


                
