First of all the story is iconic and timeless. The notion of a champion warrior who has killed many in the name of a cause, yet, when that cause is won, chooses to lay down his weapon and swears never to kill again is ... brilliant. It could easily be turned into an action story anywhere in the world, or even an American western, but at time of writing I cannot think of a US analog. This animated series based on the manga is wonderful. It is well written and the English voice actors do a great job. There are also a number of moral lessons buried in the stories but you would expect that. Interestingly I enjoyed this so much that I made an effort to find the live action feature based on the tale and was thoroughly disappointed. The animation is better. Entertaining for all ages.
(Hiten Mitsurugi is Kenshin's signature technique to anyone who hasn't seen this btw) This tale of our legendary swordsman Kenshin Himura aka Battousai will be considered one of the best and timeless animes of all time. Its a good combo of a story and action for all anime-lovers of any sex or age. Meet Kenshin, our red-haired traveller from Edo (whose physical features make him look younger than his age which is 29) who carries with him two distinct marks: one, his X-shaped scar on his left cheek, and two, his reversed-blade sword. The series tells the journey of Kenshin along with his friends (Kaoru, Yahiko, Sanosuke, and Megumi ) in his quest for a reformed life. Haunted by his past, he sought the ways of a new beginning. Rectifying the mistakes he committed during the time he was still known as the highly-feared Battousai during the Tokugawa era, he vowed to use his reversed-blade sword to defend the oppressed. In his desire to fulfil his promise of making up for the lives he ended, his new life wasn't easy. Along the way he meets new people, new friends, new enemies. Personally, the highlight of the series for me was the Makoto Shishio saga. Its a good sequence of episodes to build a vengeful opponent, with his team of henchmen and then proceeding to be the battle that might cost him his life and his promise.The series involves multi-dimensional characters and unsubtle themes. Story, humor, and action has been well-balanced in this series that's why it's not boring yet substantial. Friendship, love, compassion, betrayal, morality, revenge, reformation, politics, name it. They're all on Rorouni Kenshin. With some humor(as is usual in most animes) and excellent swordfights, this anime will hold your attention. Some might find this your typical man-trying-to-reform type and the usual good-vs-evil concept but still..the series has its charm to keep you watching. It is one of my most favourites and you could ask me in 20 years time, I'll say the same.


                
A very engaging and fascinating series taking place in turn-of-the-century japan. I'll keep this very short, this series would be nearly flawless if it weren't mired in filler and clunky dialogue; but the show manages to make both of those normally seriously detrimental aspects and makes them extremely charming and endearing. The characters in the series have amazing chemistry with one another, and it really shows in the more serious parts of the series in the middle. Kenshin himself is great protagonist and the supporting cast all have unique and appealing personalities that mesh well with one another. Watching the film Trust and Betrayal first might leave fans of the film disappointed with the show's more comedic episodes and "cuter" art style, but when Wandering Samurai wants to be taken seriously, it is, and it is taken very well.


                
I liked a lot this anime series. It was very enjoyable to watch, and it had a very good plot (Which makes a perfect balance of action, comedy, drama and heartwarming moments) The characters from this anime were very likable and interesting, being very well developed.The animation starts being merely decent, but it gets better as the series advances. The art is pretty solid, with very cool and well made designs. The music was excellent. Despite some forgettable filler episodes, this was a very entertaining animation, with lots of virtues and memorable moments.Personally, I think that "Rurouni Kenshin" is at the same level that other great anime series such as "Trigun", "Wolf's Rain" and "Samurai Champloo".9.5/10
Rurouni Kenshin is a wonderful anime.  It's about a wandering swordsman, Kenshin Himura.  In the first episode, he meets Kaoru Kamiya, who mistakes him for the legendary manslayer Hitokiri Battousai.  (He turns out to be by the end of the first episode).  However, Kenshin has taken a vow never to kill again, a vow that is seriously tested through-out the anime.I love this anime because it just has so many good elements.  The plot is wonderful, Kenshin's ethics are extremely refreshing in today's world, and the animation is wonderful.  Plus, for those of us who are attracted to boys, the show has a ton of really cute ones to oogle over. ^^ This is definitely  an anime you want to see.


                
