John Huston's genius as a director is undeniable. From his beginning he showed an uncanny knack for getting not only excellent acting from his actors, but his movies always had a social conscience as well.
Mr. Huston loved Mexico and it shows in this film. It must have been a difficult task for him directing his own father in the movie. After all, Walter Huston was a major star on his own right. Both father and son made a great contribution, John behind the camera, Walter in front of it.Basically the story is about men that have drifted into Mexico to escape jail, or in search of riches, as it was the case of the men that fate brings together in a Tampico shelter. Dobbs, Howard and Curtin start out as partners searching for gold in the Sierra Madre. They find it, but as luck will have it, none of them will live to be rich from what they find in that remote place.In the most ironic of film endings, this one will be a classic. After the trio finds gold, greed sets in. Friendship turns sour and the three friends become enemies. When the bandits finally catch up with an exhausted Dobbs, trying to go north, they beat him up and discover some sacks full of sand....Humphrey Bogart as Dobbs is excellent. Of course, Walter Huston made the best out of Howard, the clever old man who has seen a lot in his life. He is the only one that discovers a happiness living the simple life among the friendly Mexicans that welcome him into their community. Finally, Tim Holt, as Curtin is perfectly cast as an honest man who has gone into the adventure without any expectations.The final sequence of Howard and the peasants riding their horses into the 'yellow dust' is amazing, as it it incredible. In retrospect, it seems to be telling us that sometimes dreams of becoming rich the easy way will not be sustained, but honest work will be more rewarding.
Although John Huston's directing is absolutely equal to the screenplay, winning Oscars for both, it is the performance level of the actors that makes "Treasure of The Sierra Madre" the classic film that it is. Beginning and ending with Walter Huston's award winning role of the worn-out old miner who is looking for one last big score, Humphrey Bogart and Tim Holt are equal to the task and draw us in to this tale of need and greed. So convincing is Walter's portrayal of the seasoned old prospector, we come to believe that he is a gold digger by trade who only acts in movies so that he can dig and pan for gold again and again. His knowledge of mining and the lifestyle it demands and forces upon those who partake, is so thorough that Bogart and Holt seem like school kids in awe of a new hero. Of course, we know that his son John, did much research in preparation for writing the screenplay; but we are nevertheless plunged into a sure belief that this old miner must surely have been there age upon age, mine upon mine, and has therefore, a thousand tales to tell.When, in the course of the story, Walter is taken away, somewhat without choice, to work the magic of a healer for a Mexican village, we are again convinced that he is a medical doctor hiding out as a prospector. This is the acting craft in full bloom. Walter becomes whatever is called for in the story. However, if one views his other films, the effect is the same. He is one of Hollywood's most under rated actors of all time. Those who have not seen this film have a joyous experience awaiting them. Great story, great screenplay, great acting. This is why we love movies the way we do.


                
I think the great lesson of The Treasure of the Sierra Madre is the effect civilization has on the behavior of man. Some people are only as good as they ought to be and the case in point is the guys that go out into the Sierra Madre gold prospecting and how their behavior changes.Dobbs and Curtin a couple of down on their luck Americans stranded in Tampico, Mexico. They meet up with old Howard at a flop house and his tales inspire them to try gold prospecting. The plot of the film is what happens to them when they find the gold they seek.The Treaure of the Sierra Madre is a film years ahead of its time for the stark realism it portrays. These are not classic movie heroes. I could see this film easily being remade today by some of our contemporary stars like Robert DeNiro, Al Pacino, Russell Crowe.It also has probably the most brutal bar fight ever put on film. Before going prospecting, Humphrey Bogart as Dobbs and Tim Holt as Curtin go out on a construction job for Barton MacLane who stiffs them when it comes time to pay up. They catch up with him at a Tampico dive and administer a terrible beating to MacLane. This is not some western saloon fight, this is probably one of the most realistic bar brawls ever filmed. I like to compare this film to The Oxbow Incident. In both cases, stress and a crisis bring out the true characters in people. Tim Holt is a lot like Henry Fonda's character and Bogart would have definitely been found in the ranks of the lynchers.Bogart as Dobbs is probably someone who in civilized society is no better than what he can get away with. His descent into uncontrollable paranoia is frightening on the screen, one of his best performances.Tim Holt who most of the time was content to star in B westerns for RKO shows what a capable player he is. In the flophouse scene look for an unbilled appearance by his father Jack Holt.Walter Huston capped a long career on the screen with the Best Supporting Actor Award for this film which also was the Best Picture of 1948. And son John Huston won his only Oscar for Best Director, making Oscar night a banner occasion for the Huston family. Huston's character of Howard you can see playing sidekick in many a Hollywood western. That would be a superficial impression. Howard turns out to be a wise old man.The ending of what happens to the men and their acquired treasure in the Sierra Made mountains is something else. In a location far from civilization and far from law it's shown that the Almighty does have a wicked sense of humor.
The Treasure Of The Sierra MadreCertainly a consuming piece of cinematic achievement. I was delighted in viewing this film, especially when you have the talents of Bogart, Holt and Huston<U+0085>..oh what abilities or should I say <U+0091>gifts'. My eyes never strayed from the screen, I couldn't take the risk of missing one second of this  tremendous adventure/drama film. Bogart played the character <U+0091>Fred C. Dobbs' so convincingly, it doesn't surprise me though he was at his career peak. It was  like his portrayal of <U+0091>Lt. Comdr. Philip Francis Queeg'  in `The Caine Mutiny'  surely no one would disagree he carried the part to it's limit. The B & W format gave an added depth and the direction by John Huston (as usual) was nothing more then what I would expect from an accredited director like him. I was amused to see a very young Robert Blake in the role of the boy selling lottery tickets and the brief appearance of Bruce Bennett as <U+0091>James Cody'<U+0085>. whom starred with Bogie in `Sahara' several years prior. Another reliable support actor was  Alfonso Bedoya as <U+0091>Gold Hat' my fondest memory of any of his acting roles must be `The Big Country' in 1958.Walter Huston stood out with his performance, this was the first time I've had the privilege to watch him in a film role. His portrayal was astounding<U+0085>..and the script he had to work with was a treat to hear.
Another funny point I want to point out, I don't know why I kept comparing Tim Holt to John Derek. In some of the scenes his appearance and voice were so similar to Derek's it was uncanny. I'm probably the only one who thinks this, but I can't dismiss the similarities (to me anyway).The plot was an interesting one, one that slowly draws you in until you can't stop watching. I really enjoyed `The Treasure Of Sierra Madre' certainly a <U+0091>must see' film<U+0085>highly recommended.


                
The Treasure of Sierra Madre, is not only a stunningly visual treat, but also a story and script of depth and magnitude, set in old time Mexico.As a Bogart fan, I found it at first, difficult to get past Bogart playing such a ragged and gritty character, once I did I realised him and his co stars - Walter Huston & Tim Holt were such a tenacious force in this 2.5 hour epic.Sierra Madre feels fresh and could stand up well against anything put out today. I have not seen a film in recent years, with outstanding lines, powerfully delivered by Huston or with the conviction and honesty Holt does..with Bogart, all three characters are very different yet essential.Do yourself a favor and go buy or rent this. It carries great moral and truth, in a story of rags to almost riches.~Paul Browne.


                
I wish I knew who B. Traven was. He wrote the novel this film is based on, and it's a good read. There are stories that he was a German. Maybe he was. The dialogue has little German touches in it. Traven surely lived in modest circumstances in Mexico, the details and dynamics of run-down hotels being far too accurate to have been made up in a comfortable armchair.But it's not really important. Huston and his cast and crew have turned the novel into a movie that is as good as anything likely to show up on the screen. It's an astounding achievement. I can't even begin to list the moments that stamp themselves indelibly into one's memory, but I will mention one, just en passant, so to speak. After killing his partner and friend, Bogart lies down next to a fire and tries to go to sleep. He talks to himself dismissively about "conscience" and how it only bothers you if you let it, and the fake, sulfurous fire blazes up higher and higher between the actor and the camera until he seems to be consumed by the flame.Alfonso Bedoya. He made a few other movies but nothing resembling this one. What lines he is given! "Aww, come on. Throw that old iron over here.""There's a good business for Jew." And the unforgettable "batches,"which doesn't need repeating.It is surely one of Huston's best films. A lesser director could have ruined the novel's plot. But Huston adds his own touches. Cody is killed, shot through the neck, and the old man reads a letter from his wife, retrieved from Cody's pocket. But -- he doesn't know how to read big words!So Curtin takes the letter and reads it. It's not just a directorial flash in the pan, because the scene resonates at the end of the movie when Curtin rides off to meet Cody's wife in the blossom-blooming peach orchard. What I mean is that the letter-reading scene is there for a larger purpose than simply adding to our appreciation of the characters at that particular moment. The fight with Pat in the cantina. Absolutely nothing happens the way it had always happened in previous movies. Huston stages it in a way that an artist would think of. In all movies before this one, fights involved (1) a general melee in which no one wins or loses, or (2) one clip on the jaw and the guy is unconscious. Here, MacCormack, the heavy, done very nicely by Barton Maclaine, abruptly bashes one guy over the head with a bottle of booze and socks the other one. Both victims crumple. But somebody grabs Pat's legs as he walks towards the door. More blows. Bodies slump to the floor and they have a hell of a time getting back up on their feet. More blows. Pat is finally beaten to the floor and he's not unconscious. "Okay. Enough, fellas. I'm beat. I can't see." Bogart and Tim Holt take only the money that is owing to them, and Curtin (Holt) comes up with, "Let's beat it before the law arrives." Before the law arrives. That's straight out of Traven's novel and is one of the reasons people believe he wasn't that familiar with the English language. Not that it doesn't fit -- but the use of "arrives" is just a tad formal.I could go on listing one scene after another that is simply outstanding. I watched this repeatedly with my ten year old kid, Josh, who finally memorized almost every word of the script. I showed it in classes in psychology at Camp Lejeune in North Carolina as an almost flawless depiction of an ego defense mechanism called "projection." The Marines loved it. I loved it. My kid loved it. John Simon loved it. Rush Limbaugh loved it. Martha Stewart loved it. Rachel Maddow loved it. Napoleon Bonaparte loved it. Moses loved it. Lenin loved it. St. Peter, when not attending the pearly gates, watches it on cable TV. (No commercials.) Everybody loves it -- and for good reasons.
There's so much that's already been said in previous reviews that it's senseless to repeat, but hard not to.On my 1st viewing 15 years ago, 'Treasure...' got catapulted into my top 10 best "1st time movie viewing" experience and it still remains there. Bogart, who displayed such cool confidence in "Maltese Falcon", "Casablanca" and "Big Sleep" is devastating as Fred (don't forget the 'C.') Dobbs. Hollywood brass wanted a more uplifting denouement, but that would have undermined the whole powerful impact of the story. It's dirty, gritty and unrelenting in the power of greed that comes with the lure of wealth. I totally understand if anyone places this as their #1 favorite. Another testament on the shallowness of the Oscars. Time is the only true testament on the truthful quality of a movie...and this movie stands high.
Can't wait for the 2 disc edition being released in Sept, 2003.Not for all tastes, especially for those looking for the typical glamorized Hollywood product of a bygone age. This is a simple tale of gold and greed that is uncompromising...and refreshing.10 out of 10


                
In 1925, in Mexico, Fred C. Dobbs (Humphrey Bogart) is an American begging for food and trying to get any job. He meets Bob Curtin (Tim Holt), another American in horrible economical situation and also looking for job, and the former gold prospector Howard (Walter Huston), and together they go to the Mexican mountains seek for gold. After ten months of hard and tense work, including confrontation with bandits, each one of them gets a small fortune in gold. Meanwhile, their personalities are disclosed, and Dobbs shows himself a man obsessed by greed. The end of their journey is ironic and tragic. This movie is a masterpiece. Having an outstanding direction of John Huston, an astounding performance of Humphrey Bogart, Walter Huston and Tim Holt and supported by a fantastic screenplay, it is certainly one of the best movies ever, highly recommended for any audience. Walter Huston and Humphrey Bogart are really stupendous in their roles. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): `O Tesouro de Sierra Madre' (`The Treasure of the Sierra Madre')


                
Let me start by saying that this is easily one of the top 5 pre-1950 films in existence. No doubt about that in my mind. Not only that, but it is easily one of the greatest films ever made after 1950 as well.To me, this film in the end plays as a dark comedy. A dark comedy that pokes it's fun at the greedy devil within the minds of men.The thing that stands out to me the most about this film is the writing. The Oscar winning screenplay is in my view still under-appreciated. This film's writing is totally devoid of any prejudice at all, and has a depth that almost every other film can only dream to have. A truly amazing work.I could go on and on about this film, but I will just end by saying that as a story, and as a film, The Treasure Of Sierra Madre will stand as an artistic landmark for all of human history.10/10
A brutal and uncompromising portrayal of greed's effects on the human spirit and an exhilarating quest of the Mexican El Dorado, the Treasure of the Sierra Madre. You'll be thrilled by John Huston's masterpiece, a genuine monument that would catch by surprise, even the most skeptical viewers when it comes to 'old' movies.The "Sierra Madre" was the first major studios films set outside Hollywood, in Mexico, when even the most acclaimed masterpieces didn't raise such a level of authenticity in their exotic setting, like in "Casablanca" when Captain Renault refers to the titular town as the middle of the desert. The geography in Huston's film is crucial as it provides the obligatory escapism for any adventure film, with a unique flavor. In "Sierra Madre" we get the same authentic feeling that probably inspired Clouzot's "Wages of Fear", with the proverbial financial struggle of the white men in South America. There's almost the same criticism of capitalism that prevailed in B. Travel's novel, as these men have been purely and totally exploited by the capitalistic majors that literally raped Mexico from its precious resources.Huston's movie is less politically loaded, but it portrayed capitalism in a negative light through the downfall and total disintegration of its main character, Humphrey Bogart as Fred C. Dobbs. Bogie, after having been a gangster, a private eye, a cynical, detached, and sometimes romantic lead, probably gives one of his best performances as a big s.o.b. And how he didn't get a nomination is unbelievable. His evolution from a decent man who wants a job and some money to the cold-blooded paranoid lunatic who tries to keep the gold for himself is not only fascinating but also mirrors the evolution of the film from a light-hearted mood, made of some comedic running gags like the encounters with Huston as the rich man in a white suit, to a heart-pounding thriller.And on that very level, the differences between the characters set the perfect circumstances for tension, despite the many signs of camaraderie displayed in the beginning. Curtin, Tim Holt in a remarkable performance, is younger and exudes a certain idealistic naiveté that counterbalances Dobbs' growing cynicism. Howard, the old-time prospector, an unforgettable Walter Huston, knows everything about prospecting, with enough experience to foresee the psychological changes on people when gold is at stakes. Of course, the movie is also remembered for the famous 'Gold Hat', Alfonso Bedoya with his unforgettable "stinking badges" line but more than an exotic villain, Bedoya foreshadows with a sort of charming charisma the evolution of Dobbs as a similar bastard.Indeed, one never knows how gold would transform us, and one must have the guts to work alone without falling into madness. During their journey guided by Howard, Dobbs and Curtin discover the true meaning of the word 'value' as measurable through the efforts you spend, days and nights, to find the treasure. Walter Huston deservedly won the Oscar for best supporting character, but he's as central as Vito Corleone in "The Godfather". Whatever Howard says, we know it's the truth, when he's reluctant, we understand it's a bad premonition. And when Howard esteems that the best would be to split the share when it becomes money, Dobbs, already showing signs of suspicion, recommends that each one takes care of his own share. Howard is experimented enough to resign, with all the wisdom of a man who doesn't want trouble.Dobbs' gradual descent into paranoid madness is highlighted in the episode when a gila monster gets stuck under the rock that covered his share while he suspects Curtin to have come for another reason. The paranoia grows and contaminates the whole team when another American named Cody, joins them and proposes his help. He's obviously smarter than them and doesn't deny that murdering him is an option they would consider. The way the team handled his proposal says a lot about the conservative instinct that could govern so called 'civilized' hearts, and again, doesn't speak in favor of the monopolistic systems regulated by capitalism. The alienation that grows within the team erodes all the camaraderie built during these months of labor, to a point even the word 'partner' loses its humanistic meaning.Bogart perfectly embodied the metamorphosis of a man alienated by his own greed, where the value of his share of gold, exceeded, every kind of principle that made him a decent man. As it's almost impossible to break free from a gila's bite, Dobbs became that gila with paranoia as a venomous poison, too mistrustful to go, to let go or to be reasoned. When Curtin says he protected Howard's money as he would have done for Dobbs, Dobbs uses the same reasoning in a reverse way, pushing cynicism to its paroxysm : betraying before being betrayed. And in an ironic anticlimactic twist, Dobbs is killed by bandits, 15 minutes before the end of the film as to highlight the pointlessness of this entire struggle. After all, what's the point of earning money if you lose principles? Failure is a recurrent theme in Huston's films with this double dimension of cynical denunciation, generally driven by an impeccable script, and this entertaining dimension that pleases the crowds as much as the more sophisticated audience, both who, matured enough by World War II, accepted a story about greed and deception, but maybe not Bogie so far from his usual character, playing such an unsavory bastard. I don't know, if like some said, this is why the film's flopped. One thing for sure, after 60 years, it remains as one of the most enduring classics ever, that beautifully earned a father and a son three deserved Oscars.And any other consideration is as pointless as crying over the loss of the Treasure of the Sierra Madre, and the only reaction it deserves is the unique loud and hysterical, jig-driven, maniacal laugh of Walter Huston <U+0085>
There are already a lot of reviews for this film and it's in the Top 250 list on IMDb, so I don't feel quite as much need to talk about his film in great depth--after all, it's all been pretty much said. This is an exceptional film for many reasons--most notably because it looks into the darker side of human nature--something you don't often see in films during this era.The film begins in Mexico. Two Americans (Time Holt and Humphrey Bogart) are stranded there and haven't a peso between them. Their needs are few--they just want to get enough to buy a meal and find a place to flop. Through this first portion of the film, both men seem like decent enough sorts and the audience tends to empathize with them--even when they are involved in a vicious brawl with Barton MacLane--you feel the guy has it coming when the two give him a beating.Later, however, their prospects change when they hit on the idea of hooking up with an old coot (Walter Huston) who seems to know a lot about gold mining. The three take off for the Mexican wilderness--and much like the story "Heart of Darkness", the good and bad within them is slowly revealed--all brought about by greed.What I particularly liked about this film is what a great professional Humphrey Bogart was. His character was extremely flawed and later in the film he was very easy to hate. Many stars of the day probably wouldn't have accepted this less role of a less than honorable man. Nor, I think, they would have been so willing to play a guy who wasn't all that macho.Apart from Bogart, the acting all around was very good, the script exciting and insightful and the direction just dandy. One of the best films of the era.


                
The Treasure of the Sierra Madre is one of those pictures you will never forget. I saw it for the first time when I was very young, about twelve and I remember I was a bit sorry about the loss of the treasure, that was blown over the sierra. When I saw the picture again, when I was older,I understood the beautiful philosophy of this ending. And of course I started to read all of B. Traven's novels.


                
Fred Dobbs doesn't have a nickel to his name, at least when he's in the small Mexican village at the start of the Treasure of the Sierra Madre. But whatever the situation is, he wants what he can get, and if anyone tries to get in his way he'll let em have it. We see this early one when he and Bob Curtain have to beat it out of a sleazy boss at a construction site to get their earned wages. It's then no surprise that the two of them find it the best idea to take on Howard, an old seemingly-by-gone codger who once was a great prospector, on their ideal trip to look for gold in the mountains of Mexico. But then we start to see a kind of psychological head-trip go on with Dobbs, which makes the Treasure of the Sierra Madre that much more special of a film. The main characters aren't against any very dangerous adversaries- aside from the bandits- and it's not Cowboys and Indians. In fact, getting all the gold together isn't even the climax of the picture, which is usually where one might think a conventional picture would take this story. But John Huston, the director, has none of that here. In 'Sierra Madre', Dobbs becomes the "bad guy", but it's hard exactly to call him one. I'm almost reminded of Crime & Punishment, the Dostoyevsky novel, where the morality is very blurred and the character becomes a fragmented version of himself (not to mention trying to reason out in a lack of inner monologue, as Dobbs rambles to himself), and as Dobbs tries to make out with the gold on his own, he meets an end that any lessor Hollywood picture wouldn't dream of going to. That Dobbs then is played by Humphrey Bogart adds, at first, to the initial confusion of the moviegoer. This isn't how it usually happens, is it, least of which since Bogart started playing "good guy" roles. But Huston knows, as well as Bogart does- who may be in a true career highlight here alongside In a Lonely Place- that a character shouldn't be just one thing. Even Howard isn't just a kind-hearted old fella, even as he is that to a large extent (he even admits that he might have been tempted to take the money too, had he been younger). And in a sense Dobbs, through Bogart, is a bittersweet reminder of the American dream, where all one really wants is enough money to get by- but then how much can really be enough? Huston is brilliant in building on Dobbs's character, as is Bogart in showing little by little how his generous and genial personality gets stripped away when paranoia and fear settles into his mind-frame. Like when the men discuss how to divide up the money, or when the 'outsider' American comes in, the one who's definitely not invited- notice the striking body language of Bogart in relation to the other actors. Most especially, even if it's a small scene, when the three men talk about what they'll do with their share of the money- Dobbs's goals are in the short-term, unlike the practicality of Howard or Bob. By the last third of the film, if one were just looking at that set apart from the rest of the picture, one might think it's a flashback to Bogart's 'old days' as a character actor in the 30s. Yet he's the star here, which makes Dobbs's plummet a kind of sad testament to the American dream, so called, and to the corruptibility of goods.But aside from building strongly on the characters, Huston is also a good storyteller, and his Treasure of the Sierra Madre is one of the finest 'yarns' of the 40s, albeit subversive as his other great films, the Maltese Falcon and the Asphalt Jungle, were. It's such a simple story, really, but it works because we believe in the characters, the nature of the setting, of the outside influences (i.e. both bandits and the 'common' Mexican peasants). Huston doesn't clutter up his story with any unnecessary moments, even as he uses a lot more bits to build on character than just plot. While Howard ends up being usually expository or with all the information for the other two- as he IS the most experienced like a gold-digging Yoda perhaps- the story never gets clunky. And there's a great sweep to the style of the picture too, with just the right studio score by Max Steiner, and some wonderful desert shots (and shots of the men's varied faces) Ted McCord. And one can't leave thinking about Treasure of the Sierra Madre, aside from considering the performances. Sure, Bogart might be at his best here, both an every-man and every-man-for-himself (plus his own worst enemy), but there's also Tim Holt, who has to carry the most restraint of the three main characters, and he's terrific at it, in what was probably his best remembered role among mostly B pictures. But it's arguable that Walter Huston, John's father, steals the show sometimes from Bogart, or at least gets in enough room to stand right alongside him as a presence to be reckoned with. The character ranges from being wise, to being a cook (like when he laughs wildly at the younger men being tired climbing the mountain), cautious, and always with a sense of truth and honor. Huston probably has one of the more deserved supporting actor Oscar turns here for the part, and if I had to show anyone one performance noteworthy most of all from him it'd be from 'Sierra Madre'. Bottom line, a must-see in the realm of the western/adventure A-pictures of the 40s, with enough to say on the dangers of greed and money to last so many years.


                
The Treasure of the Sierra Madre remains my personal favorite John Huston film. The film flawlessly depicts how greed can drastically change a man, and that saying something and doing it are two completely different things. It is one film that can make you think about mankind and what we think is really important to us.Bogart shines again, this time playing down and out drifter Fred C Dobbs. Dobbs and his fellow pal, Curtin (Tim Holt) are both roaming the streets of Tampico looking for work. The two get stiffed by a contractor that refused to pay them and go to a flophouse to get some sleep. It is there that they meet an old prospector. He tells them about gold in the hills and that he's looking for a few men to go up there with him to claim the fortune. Dobbs and Holt agree to accompany the old man (Walter Huston), and the trio set off. After arriving at the hill, they begin prospecting and soon have enough cash to last them a very long time. Soon though, Dobbs becomes very insecure and begins thinking that the other two are scheming to take his fortune. Dobbs, now clearly being controlled by greed, will even resort to murder to protect and gain more riches.It is at this point where we see that it is too late for Dobbs, he is consumed by greed and is now a different man than the one we knew at the beginning of the movie.There you have it. Those who thought that Bogart couldn't pull of playing a villain will be surprised... not only does he pull it off, he plays possibly his best role to date. John Huston gets the message across very clearly about the nature of man. The greatest film of his career.


                
This is one of those movies that attracts you to watch it no matter how many times you have seen.  Humphrey Bogart is perfect in the role as a down and out American stuck in Mexico with no money.  The dialogue in the movie is unique in that certain lines stay with you (i.e. "I don't have to show you any stinking badges" and " 3 times 35 is 105.  I bet you 105 thousand dollars you go to sleep before I do" and "Reckon it's a bad sign when a guy starts talking to himself" and many more). Even though Bogie does steal all the money for himself, you kinda feel sorry for him when the bandits finally do him in.


                
John Huston made a lot of good films in his career-"The Asphalt Jungle", "Moby Dick", "Key Largo", "Beat the Devil"-but this film is one of his best, a masterpiece that stands above (along with "The Maltese Falcon" and "The African Queen") not only his other work but also other movies in general. Telling the story of three men who go into the mountains of Mexico for gold and finding greed and madness instead, "Treasure of the Sierra Madre" is an brilliant character study that shows Humphrey Bogart's character, Fred C. Dobbs (one of THE famous characters in film history) turn from a ragged, homeless loser into a paranoid monster. Very grim considering the time it was made, "Treasure" is a very mature take (much like "The Asphalt Jungle") on the subject of pathetic people with hopeless, desperate dreams. Walter Huston deservedly won an oscar for his portrayal of Howard, an old coot who is revealed to be smarter and wiser than he appears. His speech about what "gold does to men's souls" is haunting when taken into context. Tim Holt is also strong as Bob Curtin, the young man who hooks up with Dobbs and ends up almost losing his life for it. Come to think of it, there are no slackers in this cast. But, inevitably, it is Bogart who stands above the rest, even oscar-winning Huston. His performance is on another level, watching his transformation is a mesmerizing experience. On the AFI 100 Greatest Movies special, Mel Brooks says Bogart's performance is "beyond Oscars". Well, apparently it is because Bogart didn't even get nominated for this film. When viewing the film you realize just how criminal this exclusion was. The layers Bogart puts on as this character go beyond simple portrayal. Bogart is nuanced in a way that when Dobbs threatens Curtin, he is simultaneously scary and tragic. There is a scene where he grabs Curtin and points a gun at his face, and as you look at Bogart's dirty, unshaven face in the intense firelight you don't see a man, you see the embodiment of mad, the personification of insanity. Huston obviously also had the "genius" switch on for knowing how to frame this movie, how to make the interactions between characters seem so real and original when the subject of the film is something so universal and common as greed. But the strength of Bogart is what makes this film reverberate with meaning and power. He is the engine to this vehicle, and everyone else seems to play off him. No one else can be Fred C. Dobbs. No one else can be Humphrey Bogart. 10/10


                
The Mexican Revolution of 1910 is long over, as our story commences in Tampico, Mexico in 1925. Fred C. Dobbs (Humphrey Bogart), a scruffy, unshaven American drifter, spends some of his last handout on a lottery ticket sold by a persistent Mexican boy. Meanwhile he is able to latch onto a backbreaking oil-rigging job. Dobbs teams up with Curtin (Tim Holt), another American drifter, after they get cheated out of their hard-earned wages by their shaky boss Pat McCormick (Barton MacLane). The two transients catch up with McCormick and get their money after giving the swindler a well-deserved beating. While staying in "El Oso Negro" flophouse Dobbs and Curtin meet up with Howard (Walter Huston), a wiry and tooth deficient old man who talks about prospecting for gold. Says Howard: "Gold in Mexico? Why sure there is. Not ten days from here by rail and pack train there's a mountain waiting' for the right guy to come along . . ." Howard though, grizzled but wise, warns the others that gold does make one ravenous, makes one want more and more. Dobbs says, "It wouldn't be that way with me. I swear it wouldn't. I'd take only what I set out to get ($5,000), even if there was still a half a million dollars worth lying around waiting' to be picked up." Right after Dobbs is told by the Mexican boy that he holds the wining lottery ticket (200 pesos). Dobbs gives the boy his ten percent cut. Stricken with gold fever, the three then pool their resources to buy provisions and mining materials; Dobbs has provided the larger share. The adventurers then head for the Sierra Madre Mountains to search for gold ore. After hard work they strike it rich. The gold accumulates, but Dobbs cannot adjust to his new wealth as his paranoia begins to manifest itself. He becomes insistent that the three prospectors begin to split their gold three ways. Also, instead of being content with his $25,000 share of the gold, he demands that they continue mining for more. Eventually the total treasure amounts to $100,000. Following the men's campsite from town is an American, Cody (Bruce Bennett), who wants to be part of the small group; he refuses to leave the camp. Weighing their options, the three decide to kill the stranger, but before acting out they are approached by a gang of Mexican bandits, led by Gold Hat (Alfonso Bedoya). Previously Gold Hat was unsuccessful in attempting to hold up the Tampico-Durango train that the prospectors were riding; their bullets helped repel the bandidos. In an exciting shootout at the camp, the bandits sustain additional losses and are again driven off, but Cody is killed. Resuming their trip to Durango, the trio is approached by some local Indians who ask for help in saving the life of a young boy who nearly drowned and remains unconscious. Howard goes along with the Indians; his artificial respiration and wiles indeed revive the boy. Meanwhile Dobbs and Curtin move ahead and plan on meeting with Howard in town. Without Howard's wisdom, the camaraderie breaks down because of Dobbs increasing mistrust: he believes that Curtin wants the gold for himself. This happens despite the fact that both Howard and Curtin had helped save Dobb's life on different occasions earlier. Curtin is just trying to hold on while Dobbs, already corrupted, becomes devoured by greed. His self-indulgence turns to madness as he begins to hear noises in the night. Alone as he staggers under the sweltering desert sun, he becomes desperate for a precious drink of water. Feverishly gulping precious liquid at a muddy water hole, Dobbs doesn't notice the ominous shadow of Gold Hat creeping up behind him. Dobbs is truly the tragic performer brought down precisely by his flaws. The ending is truly ironic with gold blowing back into the hills of its origin while we hear the echoing laughter of Howard. Because of his good deed, he will be cared for life by his new Indian friends. Yes, he was certainly the prudent old man, and even more inexplicably, will never have need of the lost gold. Set for life, he generously gives Curtin the proceeds of the sale of the burros, tools, and hides. Maybe Curtin even finds traces of the gold dust around the equipment. Carefully observe that scene near the end, after Hobbs is murdered. Gold Hat and the two survivors of his gang go into town to sell Dobbs' burrows and "hides." After someone spots a special brand on one of the animals, a boy notifies the Federales while people in the marketplace stall and surround the thieves. The robbers are quickly rounded up and turned over to the police who summarily execute them on the spot. Note that the entire dialogue is in Spanish, but is so well filmed that we know exactly what is going on. No English need be spoken. John Houston has told his story visually, a high art form.Shooting entirely on location, Huston won an Academy Award for Best Screenplay and Director, while his father Walter won the Oscar for Best Supporting Actor. The feature was nominated for the Oscar for Best Film, but lost out to Hamlet. Huston shows superb character development, especially in the transformation of Dobbs. Before our eyes, Dobbs has changed from a fairly reasonable fellow into a nervous paranoid, and finally into an insanely avaricious madman capable of killing his friend. Note that glint in his eyes while Howard weighs out the gold and again when he lies down next to the campfire determined to stay awake. By the way, that is a very young Robert Blake as the Mexican boy who sells lottery tickets in the beginning.
This movie is not your typical Bogart movie. In TOTSM, he is extremely poor and gritty. He pals up with another guy in this town in Mexico and then eventually heads to the hills in search of gold. Tagging along with them is an old timer who knows the lay of the land. Bogart goes from nice to paranoid and mean!! I loved this movie! The Mexican bandits were truly terrifying!


                
The only thing I have to add to the many well-written reviews here is this: it's astounding that Bogart wasn't nominated in the Academy Awards' Best Actor category. Sure, he had his share of nods in other years, but his portrayal of the complex Dobbs is unique. Watch this classic-for many reasons-and see if Bogie's performance isn't Oscar-worthy.


                
Again this film is one that I have seen a few times since the 1970s and it's one of Bogarts best. It's basically about a couple of guys bumming around for money, their luck keeps running out in them until they meet an old character who tells them the story of the gold in them thar hills. The two younger guys fall out of luck for The last time and make the decision to pool their little cash and go on the hunt for gold.What then happens is a hunt, find and 10 months of digging out this gold and it's all in bandit country. We do get to see the gravity of greed and mistrust that comes with money and the characters are constantly watching their backs. At some point on the way to cash in their hoard the old man splits as does the other dude for reasons you will see and Bogart left holding the gold ends up getting a sticky end.The film is a masterpiece and so interesting, they got everything right with This. The normal clean, smart dressed Bogart is rough and ready in this and plays a stellar performance, I would virtually say his best. I cannot praise this more and would recomend this to any one to see.A solid 10/10 for me


                
A classic morality tale. Walter Huston dancing a very early version of the frug. Robert Blake when the word "innocent" still applied. Gold dust before Stevie Nicks wrote songs about the stuff. "Steeeeeeeenking botches". Tequila, guns and money. Just another unforgettable, timelessly perfect vintage Bogie flick.


                
John Huston's 1948 classic 'The Treasure of the Sierra Madre' is one of the most fascinating, thrilling and, above all, entertaining adventure films ever made. Huston teamed up with legendary Hollywood star Humphrey Bogart on six occasions, but never with more success than here, though one could certainly make a case for 'The Maltese Falcon (1941)' or 'The African Queen (1951).' The story concerns two young Americans in Mexico (Bogart and Tim Holt) who team up with wizened old gold-digger Howard (Walter Huston, the director's father) to strike it rich in the remote Sierra Madre Mountains. They do, indeed, strike it rich, but human greed leads the group to gradually turn against each other, inevitably leaving them with nothing.Though Bogart began his career playing the sleazy villain, he truly made his name as a cinematic hero, a proud and decent gentleman who we could cheer for. 'The Treasure of the Sierra Madre' marks an anomaly in Bogart's later work, as we witness the promise of more gold tear apart Fred C. Dobbs' steadfast morals, ultimately sealing his own demise. His transformation is truly unsettling to watch, as Dobbs breaks down into a paranoid, mumbling wreck of a man. After attempting to murder one of his comrades, he tries desperately to justify his actions to himself: "Conscience. What a thing. If you believe you got a conscience it'll pester you to death. But if you don't believe you got one, what could it do t'ya?"Regardless of how brilliant Bogart was, it's been argued that he was upstaged by Walter Huston as the tough and experienced old goldminer who's seen it all before. Huston Sr. won an Academy Award for his troubles, and, with his son winning both for Best Director and Best Screenplay, it was the only time in Oscar history that both father and son had won awards in the same year. Tim Holt, whose film appearances were generally limited to cowboy westerns, is also very good as Bob Curtin, the comrade whose loyalties are never swayed by the temptations of the gold. Also notable is Bruce Bennett as James Cody, a lone American who happens upon the site of the gold digging, and requests to be included in the venture.The film's screenplay, penned by John Huston, is loyally based on mysterious author B. Traven's 1927 novel of the same name. The film preserves much of the original story's dialogue, most notably by including the well-known (and often misquoted) "stinking badges" line, though the exact wording has been changed slightly. Whilst most film-goers erroneously exclaim "we don't need no stinking badges!," the precise wording in the film goes as follows: "Badges!? We ain't got no badges. We don't need no badges! I don't have to show you any stinking badges!" The line itself is spoken by Mexican actor Alfonso Bedoya, who plays Gold Hat, a Mexican bandit leader.With 'The treasure of the Sierra Madre,' great writing, directing and acting wonderfully combine to create one of the most memorable cinematic experiences of the twentieth century. Filmed largely on location in Mexico <U+0096> almost unheard of at the time <U+0096> the film has an authentic sense of adventure about it, ensuring that Huston's masterpiece will be remembered for many years to come.
The setting is off by a few decades and a few hundred miles, but this is definitely a Western. If you ever wondered how Bogie would have fared in a Western, then here he is. The themes of typical Westerns are here -- a quest for gold in a frontier setting where lawlessness is still the norm. That much of the culture of the Old West is Mexican allows such a setting in a country that still had much wildness left after the American "Wild West" became civilized.We see Frank Dobbs (Humphrey Bogart) as a down-on-his-luck American trying to scrape by in Mexico by doing construction work for oil drilling platforms. A few things start going right as he wins a lottery, and he starts craving wealth; Dobbs' worst tendencies, already appearing as 'survival skills', come to the fore: greed and paranoia. He starts hearing rumors of gold, and with the aid of a fellow roughneck Bob Curtin (Tim Holt) and a grizzled prospector Howard (Walter Huston) -- a figure of elder wisdom and modest demands --  goes searching for it while evading bandits.Dobbs gets greedier as he gets more gold, demanding a bigger share than others, and eventually getting more through devious means.  As he gets in possession of more gold whatever shreds of decency disappear. Finally he drives off his partners and gets the gold.To avoid a spoiler, let me paraphrase Scripture: "Whatsoever profiteth it a man that he gain the world yet lose his soul?"
When I first saw this film, I just couldn't stop thinking about it and what an experience it was to watch such a magnificent film. Humphrey Bogart, one of my favorite actors plays the role he was born to play in his best performance ever, not to mention John Huston's best as well who has shown us his brilliance in directing 'The Maltese Falcon' in 1941. This is a film about greed and how it can drive you over the edge.The story begins with Bogie as Fred C. Dobbs, an American down on his luck; asking people for money in order to eat a meal. He ends up asking the same person three times which happens to be the director John Huston. Bogie then meets Curtin (Tim Holt) when they're both offered a job but doesn't go as planned. They then meet the old man (Walter Huston) who happens to be an expert in gold digging and this gives them an idea on how to get their hands on some real dough, but nothing is as easy as it looks, especially when dealing with strangers, bandits and insanity while looking out for your share of the gold.This movie has such brilliant performances especially from Bogart and Huston and has a script you will never forget. I think this movie is one of the greatest films I've ever seen and it is defiantly in my list of top 10 favorite films. Winning best supporting actor (Walter Huston), best director, best screenplay, and nominated for best picture which went to 'Hamlet' staring Lawrence Olivier who also won best actor that year. Why this movie didn't win best picture and why Bogart wasn't even nominated for best actor will remain a mystery to me forever.I personally envy the experience of someone who gets to see this movie for the first time!


                
Just saw this AGAIN on Turner Classic Movies (August 5, 2006). For me this is a "benchmark" movie, by which, I mean a movie that you see several times over your lifetime, and each time you draw something new.What is for me, currently most revelatory, is the essential humanity of the Huston character. He is wise, yet is willing to constantly retest his wisdom. He knows all the answers, yet still keeps his eyes open, searching for some thing new.What is worthwhile is to compare this film with Sam Peckinpah's "The Wild Bunch". So much of "The Wild Bunch" is derivative from "The Treasure of the Sierra Madre". Watch them back to back, and the commonalities will POP! A major strength of this film is its uncompromising realism. Nothing happens in this film that is not honest and plausible.Also, seeing this movie would not be a bad idea for anyone seeking to invest in the stock market. The basic dynamics are pretty much the same.This is a film that manages to find hope in the human condition amidst the most brutal reality.


                
