The first hour-and-a-half are not without faults here and there, but quite entertaining nonetheless. But once the trio decides to quit digging, the film deteriorates rapidly; from then on far-fetched and annoying plot-devices abound. For example, the little episode where Huston Sr. heals a Mexican boy; this entire scene was shot with too much pomp: the superior white man cures the savage child, while the entire village looks on, with the village lights shimmering with a divine glow - all this accompanied by glorious Hollywood music. Silly. Then Huston is forced to stay with the villagers as their "thanks" for curing the boy; John Huston uses an old cliché of natives threatening to use force when their wishes for hospitality aren't met. (A plot-device I'd use only in a comic-book.) A little later Bogart makes it crystal-clear that he: a) has gone crazy, and b) will kill Holt to get all the gold. Holt, in spite of this overwhelming evidence, takes no other measure to deal with this dire situation other than to take Bogart's bullets away from him. Eventually Holt falls asleep and Bogart injures him, thinking he had killed him. Now, I don't care how noble Holt's character is supposed to be in this Tinseltown fairy-tale, but there is no way in hell that Aany reasonable person would have not bumped off Bogart, or at least tied him up, or something like that.The film presents us with three gold-diggers whose characterizations aren't bad, but one of them is insane and evil, while the other two are good and nice; there is no in-between, no grey area, just movie (or comic-book) stereotypes. Black and white. Huston, Sr. is far too understanding and patient; he gives his wise-old-man speeches on a regular basis, but this is forgivable. However, what isn't forgivable is the ease with which he takes the news that Bogart tried to kill Holt and took all the gold. Huston, Sr. even shows UNDERSTANDING for why Bogart acted this way! Again: Aany reasonable person would have been very upset, to say the least - even the old man with his I've-seen-it-all-before attitude. Makes one wonder who is more insane: Bogart or the goodie-two-shoes Holt and Huston, Sr? At the end, when no one gets the gold (how very symbolic...), Huston, Sr. even laughs at the idea that they lost all of it! To make things even more annoying, Holt joins in, after staring at the old geezer in bewilderment.I find it ridiculous that the Mexican bandits who killed Bogart didn't recognize the gold; they mistook it for sand and threw it away. But why would anyone carry dozens of bags of sand in the middle of a desert?! Huston would have us believe that Mexicans (or Mexican bandits) are this dumb. Not very PC...The kind of nonsense that takes place in the latter parts of this movie would never be tolerated in a modern movie by any critic, good or bad. But old movies are like little children: they get away with almost anything.I like Bogart much better when he isn't playing gangsters or detectives. However, his portrayal of insanity is not without typical 30s and 40s touches of naivety; this may be the director's fault, not Bogart's, especially in view of the fact that it was Huston who wrote (or adapted) those monologues that Bogart has when contemplating his next moves; these scenes come off very comic-book-like, with the difference that movies don't have balloons so Bogart had to speak his thoughts out loud. Holt is the most convincing in the cast. Huston, Sr. is a motor-mouth actor who could have challenged even Cagney to a duel to find out who the fastest mouth in the West was. There were moments where I wished that Huston's machine-gun-fire line-deliveries had been subtitled. He is likable enough, but occasionally acts in the sort of semi-silly manner, typical of the 30s, 40s and 50s.The worst acting came from the character, early in the film, who didn't want to pay Bogart and Holt. Which brings me to the fight these three had in a bar: this is one of the most strangely choreographed fight-scenes I've ever seen. The fight looks totally unconvincing and lacks "logic". But Huston is known for that; just check out the silly fights in "Across the Pacific".Perhaps Huston's overblown reputation has something to do with his larger-than-life persona. People say he looked and talked like God, commanded respect. Unlike his movies, that elicit unintentional laughs.If you're interested in reading my "biographies" of Bogart, Huston, and other Hollywood people, contact me by e-mail.
I realize I'm swimming against the tide, big-time, and so am somewhat reluctant to even say anything. But the truth is this film did not speak to me. Perhaps it's my age (about 60) or the film's age (about 65); I'm in the habit of expecting a little more subtlety. I approached this film in a straightforward way expecting a visceral experience, and I was disappointed. Perhaps instead I should have approached this film intellectually as a bit of film history. Why didn't I like it? -- 1) it seemed "corny", 2) the stereotyping seemed ridiculous, and 3) portrayal of a foreign culture was markedly uneven.One of the supposed features often touted is how well Humphrey Bogart portrays the stages of a character slowly going mad. But what struck me was what we'd call nowadays "overacting" or maybe even "being melodramatic". Much of this is due to the scripted dialog rather than to Bogart: the character's sudden ruminations about "guilt" and "conscience" with no earlier referents felt obligatory and stagy ...sort of like walking into the last act of Shakespeare's Macbeth. The mise-en-scene didn't help either: his character disappearing into -and appearing to be consumed by- the flames of a fire was a little too obvious.I groaned when the first Mexican bandits appeared with two bandoleers of bullets crossed over their chest, effectively screaming "bandit uniform". Some later bandits avoided that stereotype; instead they had an awful lot of of holes in their clothes and even multiple holes in their hat. Portraying _all_ bandits as overly macho, not valuing life very much, and not very smart felt too simplistic.There are many good points of sensitivity to a foreign culture: long stretches of the actors speaking Spanish without much translation, knowledge of the value of different foreign coins, slightly different barbershop rituals, intimate familiarity with the ways of the local Indians, and even some plot points hinging on detailed knowledge of the ways of others. But at the same time there were several glaring exceptions. Indigenous people are stumped by a simple medical issue, and their automatic reaction is to seek help form a "white man". (Dr. Livingston anyone?) The medical help the white man offers is extremely simplistic, yet it's enough to get the job done and to thoroughly bamboozle folks. The proceedings are observed by a large tight circle of people, so large it's clearly everyone in the whole Indian village. The white man is rewarded not in any realistic Indian way, but rather with our own silly image of almost-heaven: being placed in a hammock and hand fed fruits by reverent attendants. (What, no harp?) And the bandits don't realize the "sand" is actually gold ...which of course is nonsense.
I'm a fan of John Huston, a very accomplished and conscientius writer and director. BUT this is just a simple adventure tale, there's nothing deep about about it or should be found. It's straightforward, predictable, got old cliché morals, it's the more suitable for the kids. It's well crafted alright, but for what it is. And there are adventures, with juvenile tones or not, better, certainly. For people to say it's a summit of the art of the cinema in any aspect is not something i'll say i can't get through my head, fact is these people are talking nonsense, or more likely, don't have a presentable cinematic repertoire. (And what else can you suppose of a majority who elected The Shawshank Redemption as the best film of all time for this site's survey?)


                
Here's a movie that spectacularly fails the test of time. This movie is so boring, so packed with cliches and predictable scenes, that I'd rather have watched Wheel of Fortune re-runs for two hours. Oh, gee, might that be fool's gold?!


                
