Being a fan of Huston and Bogart, this film proved to be a terrible disappointment. It's far too long, and takes ages to get going. Bogart is surrounded by a weakish supporting cast. The plot is signposted beyond belief, and it seems they couldn't work out how to tie up the many different threads. Catch 'The Maltese Falcon' instead.


                
The treasure of the Sierra Madre is one of those films that hasn't aged well. Despite that I cannot say that it has anything to do with the actors. They actually make the most of a film that is just too long and too boring. The thing with this film is that it isn't gripping, thrilling or exciting (as an adventure SHOULD be). It's not funny either. It is just (excruciatingly) long, full of unnecessary scenes and dialog, filled with a majestic score that doesn't do the film justice and some scenes that are somewhat painful to watch. It's not that I do not like films from the 1940's (heck I saw The Maltese Falcon last week and gave that one a 7 out of 10), but that this film has written old-time Hollywood production written all over it. I was really amazed at this and at how different this film was qualitatively from The Maltese Falcon, since they had the same director and the same star attached. The Maltese Falcon is a classic motion picture, but if this one is a classic, it must be a classic sleeping pill.4 out of 10


                
Let me admit up front that I am an action movie buff. I have a limited tolerance for drama and arty fluff, although I do like films that respect my intellect.As a result, like many people I'm afraid of the classics, because some of them are just so BAAAAAAD unless you've got the refinement or film school training to appreciate the subtleties. I don't.I rented "The Treasure of the Sierra Madre" partly out of a sense of obligation to see a classic, and partly because I was wondering if this was the original "Indiana Jones" film.It's not. Do not see this film if you want an adventure. The film is really a drama containing very little suspense or action. In fact, the pace was so slow and the ending so transparently obvious that I'd be surprised if even drama lovers liked this one.I believe that a film's rating should reflect its impact on the modern times in which the rating was given. My guess is that the high rating this film has stems mostly from memories. Well, I have seen this film recently and give it only a 4 out of 10.Who should see this film:-- Arty types who want to study films from the 1940s-- Drama lovers with nothing to do on a rainy day who takean interest in Humphrey Bogart.


                
