Having had his day as an idolized star and romantic leading man, it was now time for Bogart to get down to the serious business of acting<U+0085> For eighteen years it had usually been Bogart playing Bogart in various shadings<U+0085> Now that Bogart was gone and in his place was an older and far less romantic figure, one who found new challenges and was able to meet most of them successfully<U+0085> This new phase of his continued growth began with a story of three men in search of gold<U+0085> Although "The Treasure of the Sierra Madre" is indisputably one of Bogart's best films, it was co-star Walter Huston who won an Academy Award as did the movie's director and scenarist, John Huston<U+0085> Based on a novel by the mysterious B. Traven, the film told a riveting tale which explored the degenerative effects of encroaching greed, distrust, and hatred on three prospectors who team up to search for gold in Mexico<U+0085> Bogart's Fred C. Dobbs was an amazingly complex creation whose slow disintegration into paranoia was brilliant1y managed on camera<U+0085> He is a born loser with no potential for change in sight<U+0085> Suspicious, unfeeling, savage, and easily corruptible, he seems clearly destined for a tragic fate almost from our first meeting with him<U+0085> Tim Holt was also excellent as Bob Curtin, a man who, like Bogart, is tempted but whose conscience will not permit him to exercise his baser desires. (He could have let Bogart die in a cave-in, but saved him instead.) Young, impressionable, and unprepared, he has never seen the likes of a Fred C. Dobbs and he finds himself overwhelmed and uncertain as to how he will cope with Dobbs's rage and greed<U+0085> However, it is the director's father, Walter Huston, who literally stole the picture from both Bogart and Holt as he played Howard, a wise old toothless codger who knew all along what would happen and took it all in stride, kicking up his heels and having a marvelous time<U+0085> Life can't surprise him any more<U+0085> He's already had successes and failures enough for one lifetime<U+0085> Like a faithful dog, he's along for the thrill of the hunt, and should there be another pot of gold at the end of this rainbow, well, that's just a bonus<U+0085> It is mainly the interaction of these three men from their first meeting and uneasy partnership through their final confrontation that made "The Treasure of the Sierra Madre" one of Warner Brothers' triumphs of the forties<U+0085>


                
In the 1920's, labor was hard to find. If you happened to be a laborer, work was almost non existent. Indeed, if you were unemployed and in Mexico, your chances were dismal. Yet, these were the times, which attracted many South of the border. The place was barren, yet many a fortune could spring up directly before you, . . .if you were luckily enough to see it. That is the story behind this incredible film. The legend of El Dorado was only one of the many myths which lured the adventurous to Mexico, another was "The Treasure of the Sierra Madre." The gold of the Mother of Mountains was passed from father to son for generations. Thus when the film adaption was made, it was sure to be sculpted by men of vision. One such man is legendary John Huston who directed this film. Three common men are lured by the promise of discovering a lost treasure. The first is Fred C. Dobbs (Humphrey Bogart) a nice enough guy who wants only to be fair, but is hungry to 'strike it rich.' The second is Howard, (Walter Huston) as honest as you expect him to be and a man of considerable experience. The last is Bob Curtin (Tim Holt) who if given a chance, will use it. The trio make a PAC to share and share alike all the treasure they find. However, only Howard is aware of what the possession of Gold can do to a man. To find the treasure, they need the mountain, some hard work, a little luck. To bring it home, will require something only one of them possesses. The film is a Classic and is due to the combined talents of all the stars and the director. If you look closely, you'll see Robert Blake (Barreta) and John Huston in brief roles. ****


                
Magnificent rendition of B. Traven's story of ambition and human nature at its worst and dealing with an unlikely trio of ambitious prospectors . As Fred Dobbs (Humphrey Bogart) and Bob Curtin (Tim Holt) , two Americans searching for work in Mexico, convince an old prospector (Walter Huston) to help them mine for gold in the Sierra Madre Mountains . Through a lot of troubles they eventually succeed in finding gold, but greedy outlaws (Alfonso Bedoya) , and most especially craziness lead to disaster . As they sold their souls for the treasure of the Sierra Madre . It's an intelligent semi-western that scrutinizes the greed and paranoia that afflicts a misfit group , including their enormous difficulties and breathtaking taking on between protagonists and the Mexican enemies that stalk to them . The film blends thrills , emotion , intrigue , high body-count and it's fast moving and exciting ; being filmed in Mexico, though Warners' studio head Jack L. Warner had the unit return to Hollywood when the budget started to exceed $3 million . Thought-provoking screenplay by the same Huston , concerning about greed and ambition that threaten to turn their success into disaster . Director John Huston had read the book by B. Traven in 1936 and had always thought the material would make a great movie . Based on a 19th-century ballad by a German poet , Traven's book reminded Huston of his own adventures in the Mexican cavalry . When Huston became a director at Warner Bros. , the smashing success of his initial effort, The Maltese Falcon (1941), gave him the clout to ask to write and direct the project, for which Warner Bros had previously secured the movie rights . Although by many to be director John Huston's finest film , this is a tale of fear , greed and murder , as three partners fall out over the gold they have clawed out of the inhospitable and bandit-ridden deserts and mountains . It also has probably the most brutal gold bar fight ever put on film along with "The Ruthless Four" . Overrated by some reviewers , but very interesting and attractive to watch . It above all things mostly also remains a real characters movie, in which the three main roles are the essentials . Their dynamic together is also great and is what mostly keeps this movie going . They are three totally different characters, which is the foremost reason why they work out so great together on film . Bogart is superbly believable and gives a nice portrait of an increasingly unhinged prospector , Walter Huston is very good as a cunning veteran and Tim Holt is also pretty well . John Huston has a cameo as an American tourist , this scene was directed by Humphrey Bogart, who took malicious pleasure on his director by making him perform the scene over and over again. And the little boy who sells Bogart the portion of the winning lottery ticket is Robert Blake . The bum seated near Walter Huston in the first scene in the Oso Negro flophouse is Jack Holt, father of Tim Holt . Walter Huston, father of director John Huston, won the Academy Award for best supporting actor , John won for best direction . This was the first father/son win . The musician Max Steiner composes a vibrant soundtrack and well conducted ; including a catching leitmotif and considered to be one of the best . Atmospheric scenario with barren outdoors , dirty landscapes under sunny exteriors and a glimmer sun and fine sets with striking cinematography by Ted McCord , this was one of the first American films to be made almost entirely on location outside the USA . Also shown in computer-colored version . The picture was shot on location in Tampico, Mexico ; just as John Huston was starting to shoot scenes in, the production was shut down inexplicably by the local government ; it turns out that a local newspaper printed a false story that accused the filmmakers of making a production that was unflattering to Mexico . Fortunately, two of Huston's associates, Diego Rivera and Miguel Covarrubias, went to bat for the director with the President of Mexico , then the libelous accusations were dropped . The motion picture was stunningly realized by John Huston and the film took 5-1/2 months to shoot and was 29 days over schedule ; Robert Rossen submitted at least nine drafts of rewrites on the screenplay when John Huston was away during the war . Rating : Above average . Well worth watching , essential and indispensable seeing . In 2007: The American Film Institute ranked this as the #38 Greatest Movie of All Time.


                
Film noir takes a Mexican holiday in this gritty adventure from John Huston. Pessimistic and full of irony, yet with a sense of adventure and a moralist edge to it, this is typical Huston material.Huston insisted on shooting on location in Mexico, which riled up studio executives no end, but it paid off in the quality of the picture. Treasure of the Sierra Madre would have really suffered in the canned air of a studio. By using the real thing, he perfectly achieves the stark and dusty atmosphere of the poverty riddled Mexican city in the earliest scenes. The sense of scale and grandeur of the mountains in the main part of the film is also very important in achieving the right effect.Huston's background was in fine art, and it's at this point in his career as a director that it really starts to show. The use of lighting is painterly in a way that is almost impossible to achieve in black and white <U+0096> particularly in the scene in the peasant village which looks almost biblical. Huston also has this unique style of framing, whereby he uses figures in the foreground and background to give the effect of a close-up and a mid-shot simultaneously. It's a look that is totally at odds with anything else produced in Hollywood at that time.Actor wise, Treasure of the Sierra Madre turns the clock back to the 1930s, putting the director's father Walter Huston in a starring role, and casting Humphrey Bogart as a seedy villain. The cast is rounded off by the too-little-seen Tim Holt. All three of them are spot on. The spry old prospector is a role Huston senior seems to have been waiting to play all his life. Bogart is also great playing the sort of character he made his name with a decade earlier. Also worth a mention is Mexican actor Alfonso Bedoya who gives what is for this era an incredibly naturalistic performance as the bandit leader.Huston's forte was in his cinematography, his shot composition and the rhythm of his films, not so much in his handling of action or actors, which is why his pictures tend to be a bit hit and miss. This one is a hit though, thanks to the strength of its story and the quality of the cast, not to mention Huston's persistence for authenticity. Not my absolute favourite of his work, but certainly one of the best.


                
Directed by John Huston, "The Treasure Of The Sierra Madre" stars Humphrey Bogart and Tim Hold as two down on their luck Americans struggling to make ends meet in rural Mexico. Upon learning that a nearby mountain contains gold, the duo team up with a wise old timer and go in search of riches. Predictably, Bogart falls under the spell of greed and descends into violent madness. The film's point: material wealth makes you paranoid, increasingly greedy and eventually corrupts the soul.Unsurprising for a John Huston flick, a subtle socialist undercurrent runs throughout the picture. Bogart is oblivious to his own class status, turning his back on those who struggle like him in favour for embracing the race for wealth. Instead of truly uniting himself with his partners, developing a trusting, mutually beneficial relationship, Bogart sabotages everything with his paranoia and every-man-for-himself ethos. So Bogart is essentially the ugliest incarnation of a popular American icon, the rugged frontier iconoclast, striking out on his own to make his fortune. Huston and B. Traven, the author of the novel upon which the film is based, also manage to turn the story into an anti-capitalist, anti-fascist adventure tome in which the greed and deviousness of human nature is juxtaposed with the psychological underpinnings of poverty and post-revolutionary politics on peasants and indigenous peoples. Like Huston, who fraternised with communists in is youth, Traven was an avowed leftist (at one point a character in the film even quotes Marx, applying Marx's "labour theory of value" to the search for gold) and so the film must be read through the lens of the workers revolutionary movements of the era, when the Soviet Union was more an ideal and less a corrupt manifestation of power.Huston made at least two films which defined their genres: "The Asphalt Jungle" and "The Maltese Falcon". "Madre" is equally influential, everything from "Bring Me The Head Of Alfredo Garcia" to "The Man Who Would Be King" to "The Wild Bunch" to "The Good The Bad And The Ugly" to "There Will Be Blood" borrowing heavily from its pages. George Lucas even stole the look of Indiana Jones from Bogart's character. Indeed, all 4 Indiana Jones movies are basically "The Treasure of Sierra Madre" with action scenes, greed corrupting the souls of each film's villains.More interesting is the way "Madre" fits in with its sub-genre of adventure stories. There have always been tales in which heroes go on quests to find "grails", "gold", "treasures" or "magical things", but for the most part, these characters have all been looking for essentially the same mixture of wealth, power, knowledge, dignity and individual freedom. In "Madre", though, the quest for wealth is seen as being inherently negative. Nastily portrayed, Bogart's gang evoke Shylock in Shakespeare's "Merchant of Venice", Gekko and Bud in "Wall Street" or Ebenezer Scrooge in "A Christmas Carol". Economist Friedrich Hayek noted this long-standing tendency to interpret the acquisition of wealth as being sinister: "Distrust and fear have long led ordinary people to regard wealth as being suspicious, inferior, dishonest, and contemptible. Activities that appear to add to available wealth 'out of nothing', without physical creation and by merely rearranging what already exists, stink of sorcery. That a mere change of hands should lead to a gain in value to all participants, that it need not mean gain to one at the expense of the others, was and is nonetheless intuitively difficult to grasp. Many people continue to find the mental feats associated with trade easy to discount even when they do not attribute them to sorcery, or see them as depending on trick or fraud or cunning deceit."For Hayek, it is not that "greed is bad", but that people are irrationally suspicious of the entrepreneurial skills required to acquire and create wealth. Hayek, of course, is the godfather of contemporary Neoliberalism, spawned every evil from Thatcher to Reagan and has been thoroughly debunked by post neoclassical, eco-economists. His stance, which is how most vaguely and intuitively understand modern society (a type of sorcery which denies physics, energy flows and in which value is magically created and benefits everyone), is ultimately an apologia for exploitation which ignores deep rooted, systemic problems.The lesson put forth by art like "Madre", though, is consistently the wrong one. Such art doesn't challenge our conceptions of wealth (or the paradoxes of capitalism- the physics of contemporary money is fundamentally unethical and creates indebtedness), but simply warn us that "too much is bad". The moral tone of all these tales is thus similar to how Spinoza famously reinterpreted the Bible. Because early people were primitive, he says, God's will took the form of a performative command ("Thou shalt not do so and so!"). For the modern man, however, the way to grasp this is not through commands that appeal to authority, but through a kind of scientific or objective "constructive" statement ("Thou shalt not smoke because thou shalt get cancer!") which highlights a certain causality designed to keep excesses in check. And so modern man doesn't get orders any more. Instead, commands are hidden in a universal form, never spoken directly: "Smoke, but nicotine is dangerous for your health", "Eat what you want, but beware of cholesterol", "Money is great, but too much corrupts". The whole world is now a mass of conflicting information, food tins swamped with tables and charts, detailing the levels of sugar, fat, salt etc. In our permissive society, everything is available, you can have whatever you want, the world is yours, but actually, you better not touch anything. Everything is prohibited, even though it's not. Finding gold is great, but it will royally mess up your life.Incidentally, the film's downbeat climax is pure noir, very much akin to the climaxes of Huston's "Maltese" and "Asphalt". Huston would win Oscar's for directing and writing the film.8.9/10 – Worth two viewings.
There is a great deal to recommend THE TREASURE OF THE SIERRA MADRE: the names in the cast, of course (including Humphrey Bogart and Walter Huston); the writer/director (John Huston); the plot (three gold prospectors brave the land, bandits and one another to seek their fortune in the hills of Mexico); or simply word of mouth (it's one of the best-loved films of all time, and for good reason). These are all wonderful reasons to catch the film. For myself, I find two in particular that stand out, the first of which is the wonderfully observed, carefully executed psychological journey on which the main character Fred Dobbs (Bogart) embarks when he and his buddy Bob Curtin (Tim Holt) decide to join old experienced gold-prospector Howard (Huston) on a new prospecting trip. The changes in his character are gradual but shocking, as he becomes increasingly more paranoid and suspicious of his partners. This is further complicated by the appearance on the scene of James Cody (Bruce Bennett), whose desperation to strike gold becomes clear following his death. But Dobbs becomes horrifyingly cold and unfeeling, even rejoicing when Howard is brought away to a Mexican village and leaves the 'goods' with himself and Curtin. The final denouement is painful to watch but true and not at all pat--in fact, it's a great Huston ending, realistic but also self-conscious, particularly at the end with Howard and Curtin realising that if they've lost anything, it's nothing compared to what Dobbs has lost. A good, simple message.The other reason to watch this film is most certainly Bogart's lead performance. His lined, extraordinary face conveys emotion like few others can, and simply calls to the camera for attention. Little wonder that Huston loved working with Bogie so much--Bogie's face, creased in non-sinister joy, or twisted with crazed suspicion, is truly one for the camera. His work in this film is exceptional as well: we believe his descent into madness, just as we accept his rough but amiable pleasantness before he gets enticed by the prospect of striking it rich. We can't help being revulsed by the sea-change in the man, but we can't help feeling sorry for this man, so generous and friendly in the beginning, whose corruption through gold is so scary and complete. It's truly a fabulous performance.So, for these two reasons and a host of others previously mentioned, THE TREASURE OF SIERRA MADRE comes very highly recommended. It's a cracking film, suspenseful and funny with a great score as well. 8/10.


                
Based on German author B. Traven's 1927 novel with the same title, the movie has a great set on about men losing their sanity due to Greed. It's was create by Traven to blast the United States for coming to Mexico only to exploit the country's natural resources after the Mexican Revoultion left the country in ruins. It can also mirror what he felt about United States exploit European countries like Germany after World War I. The only problem is that nobody had the slightest idea who he was. Some people feel that B. Traven is a nom de plum, (Pen Name) as the author's true identity, nationality, and background have been hotly contested from the start, a literary guessing game surpassed only by the who-wrote-Shakespeare controversy. While it's never explain who is the man under the novel, it's clear as day that John Huston directed this movie. This John Huston film begins with Fred C. Dobbs (Humphrey Bogart) a loner bumming off money from rich people and taking odd jobs at Tampico, Mexico in 1925. It's never explain why Fred Dobbs is there, broke or why there were so many poor Americans living in Mexico at that time, when it's clearly proved that United States was riding high at the time. In my opinion, Traven was a Anarchist, not fan of Capitalism and he use Fred Dobbs as a tool to show the wrongs of it. The audience is made to believe, that Fred Dobbs into might have came from America to Mexico due to some crime unexplained in his past, which would help explain why it was easier mislead by dreams of getting rich. Tired of getting rip-off for their hard work and naive nature, and not getting pay. Dobbs and his co-worker/friend Bob Curtin (Tim Holt) decide to join a grizzled old prospector Howard (Walter Huston) in search of gold in the Sierra Madre Mountains. Through enormous difficulties, they eventually succeed in finding gold, but bandits, the elements, and most especially greed threaten to turn their success into tragedy. The greed hits Dobbs hard, as it's turns into a Mammon type character. Dobbs is unreasonably afraid that he will be killed by his partners losing his trust, and always trying to see about killing them first because of the three lusting to possess the entire treasure. While Humphrey Bogart is awesome actor, his character is not the Indiana Jones hero that unknown people who haven't read the novel are thinking coming in this movie. Dobbs is a awful character who just get worst and worst with the gold. Dobbs isn't the hero, Howard or Curtin are more honorable to be label heroes due to them getting their redemption. I think Tim Holt got short shift for one of the great displays of acting in this movie. Huston makes the movie funny with his knee slapping dance while Bogat gives the movie it's dark side. Huston does a remarkable job of depicting the prospectors' collective slide into distrust and then outright paranoia. It's a American adventure story as a mythic battle between reason and madness. There are plenty of actions, from bar fights to shoot outs with Mexican bandits. In the bar fight, it's just amazes that the camera is so close and yet they use doubles so effectively. Put the guys face in shadow and it is amazing how you can not recognize his stunt double if not pausing the frame. The movie has a very interesting screenplay, and the film has a speech full of human psychology and people's reaction to greed. Gold doesn't change a man, it just reveals what he really is. This is a statement on value and finding out what or who you really are, and what is of real value. Best (inadvertent) summation of Adam Smith's " Wealth of Nations " in my opinion. The film is also known for it's famous one-liner about badges, or what I heard 'stinking badgers'. Yes, you don't want stinking badgers there. That would be bad. I don't know why it's famous, its rather funny than dramatic but it will always be special because of how Alphonso Bedoya says it. Once upon a time, Sierra Madre had the stigma of having been written by a Socialist. However, the film has a neutral philosophy and deals with the theme of human nature, rather than any particular message, so it get a pass. Check it out and tell me what you think of the film.
When it comes to classic movies, The Treasure of the Sierra Madre holds its ground. It's a solid story with complex characters that make you shift loyalties on a dime. I spent most of the movie trying to guess what was going to happen next, and I love it when a movie can do that. Hamlet may have won Best Picture in 1948, but I'd argue that The Treasure of the Sierra Madre was the best film of that year.


                
A great psychological study and drama, the story: three gold diggers make the find of their life somewhere in the Sierra Madre in Mexico, but with the gold comes the tension, the greed, the suspicions and darkness. Things go out of hand and wild.A great piece with great performances and Humphrey Bogart at his best. Classic. Masterpiece.


                
Humphrey Bogart, Walter Huston, and Tim Holt are three guys who are down on their luck and turn to prospecting for gold in a rugged part of Mexico known for its bandits. You can practically feel the heat and sweat through the screen, and Bogart's face is covered in grime for most of the movie. He turns in a brilliant performance, and it's right from the beginning, when he splashes water in a kid's face for harassing him about buying a lottery ticket. Walter Huston, directed by his son John, is fantastic as well, as the experienced old man who can scale hills like a goat, and who knows human nature after having seen men around gold over his lifetime. Bogart and Holt's characters seem so reasonable, but his words at the beginning are an omen. The way John Huston tells the story, though, is far from simple. Bogart's evolution through the film is intense and yet nuanced. It could easily have become a caricature, but didn't.I had a few small criticisms, though they didn't stop me from enjoying the film. It seemed to me that the gunfight scenes fell into old clichés, and the music was too intrusive at times. Also, the scene of the white man reviving the native boy, much to a crowd's appreciation as if he were a savior, seems like an overdone Caucasian fantasy to me. On the other hand, the tight shots on the natives, as well as the frequent use of untranslated Spanish throughout the film, were fantastic. I also loved how it was shot on location in Mexico, as that really translated in the cinematic experience. The dialogue throughout the film is great, and it's of course famous for its line from the leader of the bandits (Alfonso Bedoya), who says "Badges? We ain't got no badges. We don't need no badges! I don't have to show you any stinkin' badges!" I really enjoyed some rather stark events that were rather shocking, but what really made the film for me was its commentary on humanity. We see the inevitability of fighting over wealth play out in several ways. We see greed become so strong that paranoia grows like a cancer in the soul. And we see the enlightened reaction to it all, borne from having become wise with age, and that is, to understand your fellow man and laugh at life's misfortunes.


                
Huston's obsessive character study is a slow burn in every sense. We move slowly through the story itself, and even its impact on the audience is steady. In the moment, the comedy is timed beautifully, the script pops, and the performances are distinct. As time goes on, the paranoia seeps in, and we sadly recognize ourselves in the frantic mania of Bogart. A western without heroes and villains, and a drama without caricature.


                
It's the ultimate fantasy.Going on a quest for great riches in order to live happily ever after.Three men go on just such a journey.They gradually,however,become stricken with greed and mistrust.Sleeping with one eye open,never so much as turning your back for fear of a knife being stuck in it,etc.This is a great telling of an all too sad truth in life,that when it comes to money or wealth,no matter how much we say we trust,no matter how much we say it won't change us, it can happen much easier than we give it credit for.Great performances here by Humphrey Bogart(did he ever give a bad one?),Walter Huston, and Tim Holt.Great direction from John Huston,who also makes an appearance in the film.One of the true great films in cinema history.


                
Humphrey Bogart and John Huston collaborated on five films together, among them, The Treasure of the Sierra Madre. The 1948 film also starring Walter Huston and Tim Holt has remained a classic for both the noted actor and director. This is one of my favorite Bogart-had- to-play-this roles. I'm just not convinced that the film would have translated as well had it not been for Bogart playing the down-on- his-luck, then paranoid, amateur prospector. The story of two impoverished men overcome by greed when they finally have a chance to strike it rich in Mexico was also a perfect tale for Huston to tell and audiences have been gifted with the perfect collaboration since its release nearly 70 years ago.Fred Dobbs (Humphrey Bogart) is an American desperately searching for work in Mexico. Unable to find a job, hes taken to panhandling until he meets Bob Curtin (Tim Holt), a fellow American also looking for work. The two consider themselves fortunate when asked to do a job that pays $8 a day when the job is finished. Soon after the job's completion, the two are never paid and realize they were scammed out of the money they've earned. They venture into town to find the man who scammed them, after a certain brand of persuasion, they are given their dues. Dobbs and Curtin then meet a gold prospector and decide to pool their financial resources and efforts in searching for gold. What begins as a valiant team effort searching for financial independence, quickly turns to severe paranoia and greed once they realize they may have riches in their midst.No matter how hard I may try, I can never get through a review of a Humphrey Bogart movie without gushing over the actor. Yes, Bogart has played this type of role (the hardened tough guy) in other films, but the reason he was sought after for the role so many times is because he was fantastic at playing it. Bogart had a way of encapsulating the tormented tough guy and the vulnerable, isolated parts of the same person like no one I have ever seen before. John Huston is truly the master of the adventure film, continuously finding a way to keep audiences engaged. The best thing about Huston's adventure films is that they keep one engaged without constant action. The action scenes are wonderful, no doubt, but Huston was also masterful in establishing tension between characters and illustrating it well enough for the audiences to be enough a part of it that they are on the edge of their seats the whole time. The part of Cody, the intruder who tries to partner up with Dobbs and Curtin, seems tailor-made for Burt Lancaster. Lancaster was quite busy in '48, starring in four films that year, but I just would have loved to see him in that role. Huston told a masterful tale of how money and capital influence everyone, even if you're sure money could never change you. Dobbs and Curtin were so hard up for money, they were sure they would be happy with enough to get by if they were fortunate enough to find any gold at all, until they did.The Humphrey Bogart Eyes moment in The Treasure of the Sierra Madre came when Bogart's Dobbs first sees the gold he and his team found. After struggling for so long, all Dobbs can think of is that he has asked passersby for money for the last time. Dobbs is sure that he will never have to struggle again, as long as he can get home with his share. Almost simultaneously, Dobbs also becomes incredibly paranoid that his team is going to outwit him and crush the dreams he has for his fortune. The paranoia and euphoria captured on Dobbs' face as the gold is weighed is the perfect Humphrey Bogart Eyes moment of The Treasure of the Sierra Madre, as only Bogie could capture it.


                
The opening says it's Valentine's Day, 1925 in hot Tampico, Mexico. Down-on-his-luck and disorderly American drifter Humphrey Bogart (as Fred C. Dobbs) teams up with likewise poor, but fair-minded Tim Holt (as Bob Curtin) for some part-time construction work. Cheated out of their wages, Mr. Bogart and Mr. Holt meet wizened old prospector Walter Huston (as Howard) in a flophouse and are intrigued by his stories. After Bogart buys a winning lottery ticket from pushy young Robert Blake (as a Mexican teenager), the three men head out to the Sierra Mountains and find a fortune in gold. In order to survive and make it out with their claim, the trio must survive Mexican bandits, Native South American Indians and good old-fashioned greed..."The Treasure of the Sierra Madre" is deservedly famously for two very big reasons. First, the starring presence of Bogart, one of Hollywood's greatest golden age stars. Second, the teaming of director John Huston with his acting father Walter Huston. The amazing father/son team attracted immense critical acclaim and won most of the industry's "Best Director" and "Supporting Actor" awards for the year. The overlooked third man, Tim Holt, also performed exceptionally...Director Huston's attention is not always on Holt. At times, he is merely told where to walk and stand in the film's frame. One of Holt's stumbles warrants no re-take. Yet, when he acts, Holt is equal or greater to his more illustrious co-stars. The film peaks after Holt's village visit. It unravels with Dobbs' sanity, which may be appropriate. Yet, with no warning, the senior Huston miraculously becomes a highly-skilled doctor. And, we are led to believe indigenous bandits mistake gold grains for ordinary sand being bagged to make animal hides heavier for sale to locals. Still, from the nighttime campsite appearance of interloper Bruce Bennett (as James Cody) to the reading of his wife's letter, "The Treasure of the Sierra Madre" is sheer gold.******** The Treasure of the Sierra Madre (1/24/48) John Huston ~ Humphrey Bogart, Walter Huston, Tim Holt, Bruce Bennett


                
Two penniless Americans (Humphrey Bogart and Tim Holt) during the 1920s in Mexico join with an old-timer (Walter Huston, the director's father) to prospect for gold. The old-timer accurately predicts trouble, but is willing to go anyway. The film is fictional, but presents a very realistic scenario: By the 1920s the violence of the Mexican Revolution had largely subsided, although scattered gangs of bandits continued to terrorize the countryside. The newly established post-revolution government relied on the effective, but ruthless, Federal Police, commonly known as the Federales, to patrol remote areas and dispose of the bandits. Foreigners, like the three American prospectors, were at very real risk of being killed by the bandits if their paths crossed. The bandits, likewise, were given little more than a "last cigarette" by the army units after capture, even having to dig their own graves first.The film shows the Americans doing just about anything for money: drilling oil, digging for gold, begging and more. And once gold comes into the picture, the men who once claimed they were not greedy see things differently. Bogart actually goes mad, after he gets greedy and paranoid... during which he encounters a gila monster! The most memorable scene of this film involves the bandits, who don't need any "stinking badges". While the line is much more quotable in "Blazing Saddles", we couldn't have "Blazing Saddles" (or "UHF") without this film... just about everyone, even those who never saw or heard of "Sierra Madre", knows the badges line.Humphrey Bogart's best film is probably "Casablanca", but this one features him in a nice, rough exterior. Yes, sometimes leading men have beards and are covered in dirt. Pretty boys do not stay pretty boys after digging in the hills, or at least that wouldn't be realistic. This film does a fine job trying to "keep it real", so we have to commend Huston not only on his directing, but his wonderful location scouting.


                
What more can be said about this great classic. Anyone who wants to be known as a classic film buff has to have seen this movie. The movie stars Hollywood legend Humphrey Bogart in one of his most famous roles as Fred C Dobbs a down and out American on the bum in Mexico. Through chance he meets up with two other characters played by Tim Holt and Walter Houston and decide between them to take their chance on prospecting for gold. Walter Houston's character warns the other two of the potential for problems within the trio once gold is found and his warning is right on the mark. They have to overcome not only problems from within but from outsiders too, such as the Mexican bandits who cause havoc where ever they go. It is during an encounter with these bandits that we get one of Hollywood's most famous movie lines. Bogart's character asks a bandit to show him a badge if he is a Federale as the bandit claims. The bandit responds, "Badges? We ain't got no badges. We don't need no badges! I don't have to show you any stinkin' badges!" This is a great movie from Hollywood's Golden Age.


                
With its obvious warning about the consequences of greed, this film is surprisingly relevant today. True, we no longer suffer from the classic problem of "gold fever." Not many people go out free-lance prospecting anymore, but corporate greed is certainly much in the news and the economic collapse of late 2008 had at least partly at its root the problem of greed. This wonderful classic uses a more traditional setting, but manages to portray the same collapse of civilized behaviour and the problems that arise with simply looking out for Number 1. In this movie, that position is clearly held by Humphrey Bogart's Fred Dobbs, an American drifter in Mexico who hooks up with fellow drifter Curtin (Tim Holt) and "old-timer" Howard (Walter Huston). Together they decide to strike out into the mountains in search of gold, in spite of Howard's warnings about what riches can do to people - and gold they find.The three characters each seem to represent a different aspect of human nature. Howard is past the age of being too concerned with wealth, and seems to treat this more as an adventure, Curtin is the honest one who wants to make sure that everyone gets treated fairly, and Dobbs is the one who catches "gold fever" and becomes increasingly greedy and unbalanced as he contemplates the wealth he can now posses. Bogart's portrayal of the man gradually losing his grip was brilliant, and of the movies I've seen him in I'd rank this near "Casablanca" as his best performance. Director John Huston made excellent use of the setting and developed the story nicely, with Dobbs and Curtin starting the movie as victims of dishonest greed, before having to deal with the temptation themselves. There's also some pretty good actions with local bandits. In the end, Dobbs' decision to give into greed robs them all of the wealth they thought would be theirs, and their reactions to their loss of everything were perfectly in character, Dobbs being murdered by the bandits, Curtin realizing that he really hasn't lost anything, while Howard, thanks to an encounter with some local Indians, discovers more than he could ever have hoped for if he had simply kept his gold.An altogether wonderful couple of hours. 8/10


                
A film about a shady down-and-outer made crazy by greed, The Treasure of the Sierra Madre is barren and downcast, the nicest character in it dies protecting men who were about to kill him, and the ending is not just a downer but like the universe peeing on the protagonist's hopes, creating a chancy undertaking not as an object in itself but as a determination, sort of a yardstick of its characters. It concerns an ethical disconnect between a foresighted old man and Dobbs, an unreasonably suspicious middle-aged man, with a young man coerced into dividing solidarity. It tells this story with enthusiasm and Huston's insatiable appetite for male brotherhood, and it periodically cracks itself up, sometimes because it's amusing, other times sourly double-edged. It transpires on a high, thickety, oven-baked terrain, mostly desert, save for the three gold prospectors, yet clans of bandits and villages of Indians actualize when needed.The nerve center of the movie takes place on the faces of mountains, which the title names while the characters never do. They are so vulnerable in this terrain that only the old man's seasoned intuition and iffy Spanish get them through. They begin as partners, but the second they unearth real gold, Dobbs grows eager in his greed, submitting they divide their gains three ways, every night. Soon they're hiding their gold separately, and there is a long night when Dobbs awakens in the tent to find the old man gone, and then the young man rouses to find Dobbs gone, until the old man sees the turn has come back around to him and so why don't they get some sleep since they have work to do tomorrow."I know what gold can do to men's souls," Howard says early in the movie. He plays a diplomatic placater, agreeing with Dobbs' unreasonable ideas as he knows they will make little difference when all is said and done: Either they'll make off with their gold, or they won't. Listen to the way the senior Huston talks, bullet-time, without pause, as if he's summarizing an old story and doesn't have time to waste on detail. He does a much talked-about dance when he eventually discovers gold, playing the archetype of a gray prospector, but see how his eyes are periodically quiet even when he's playing the fool. He deduces every situation, knows his choices, tries to slow Dobbs' breakdown.Bogart shows not a semblance of star ego in the role. He plays a character who declines firmly as the narrative progresses. The movie has never really been about gold but about character, and Bogart bravely makes Fred C. Dobbs into a lamentable, terrified, mercenary man, so out-of-sorts we begin to sympathize with him. The other two characters get somewhat what they deserve at the end of the film, and with less gratification for the audience. As the stories of the other two men dissolve into formula, Fred C. Dobbs somehow moves to a higher plane of tragedy. Hearing things in the night, despairing for a drink of water, wobbling under the desert sun with the gold he coveted so obsessively, Dobbs is the tragic hero brought down exactly by his weaknesses. There is a merciless, unadorned realism in these scenes that brings the movie to frankness and reality.


                
In every sense of the term, this is a classic movie. The film hasn't aged a day, and is still just as entertaining as when it was first out I'm sure. Rightfully this film was included in AFI's 100 best movies of the past 100 years. Because of the strong and believable performances of it's three stars (Bogie, Tim Holt, and Walter Huston) it has topped the list of Bogie's best films, running a close race with The Maltese Falcon. If you're a Bogart fan, definitely check this one out, you won't be disappointed.


                
"Classic" and "masterpiece" are overworked words in this age of degraded language, but they apply - in their truest sense - to this, one of the great movies of all time. Like all the greatest movies, it has something profound to say about the human condition - in this case, greed, vanity, cruelty and fate. I don't know whether, in 1948, black and white was an artistic or an economic choice for Huston, but it turned out to be eminently correct. Bogart is superb, as always, and the iconic "we don' need no stinkin' badges" scene is always well worth the wait. Your life is deprived if you haven't seen this one.


                
Humphrey Bogart had some wonderful roles in his career--Captain Queeg in 'The Caine Mutiny' and the riverboat captain in 'The African Queen'--and his adept playing of detectives in 'The Maltese Falcon' and 'The Big Sleep'. But 'The Treasure of the Sierra Madre' will always stand apart from all these other roles as his best.Not only is Bogie excellent as Fred C. Dobbs whose lust for gold triggers his descent into madness, but those around him are superb too--everyone, from Bruce Bennett to Tim Holt to Walter Huston--all give fine performances. Occasionally a set will look a bit studio-bound but what is important here is the fine script and the excellent direction of John Huston that brings out every nuance of a complex study of greed and what it does to men's souls.Max Steiner's score is varied and impressive with its pseudo-Mexican variations. The pace is slow because essentially this is a three-man character study of greed. Alfonso Bedoya as Gold Hat manages to look sinister when he smiles and says, "We don't need no stinkin' badges." The ending is artfully contrived, with the gold dust scattering to the winds.Summing up: A richly satisfying experience bolstered by Humphrey Bogart's greatest performance. It won the N.Y. Film Critics Award as Best Picture of 1948 while the Academy passed over it in favor of "Hamlet", beginning a trend by Hollywood to honor British films for their "classic" treatment of "the classics". They also saw fit to honor Sir Laurence Olivier over Bogart's prospector role. In any event, not to be missed. One of the all-time greats.
The Treasure Of The Sierra Madre4 Out Of 5The Treasure Of The Sierra Madre is a tale about three partners going after the treasure and the irrevocable journey or adventure that it brings along with it. The inner politics depicted among the greedy friends and the good old "morality" conflicts that it raises, is the ingenious yet simply sensible take of the makers especially when the heat is communicated directly to the audience, it gets better as it ages on screen. It is rich on technical aspects like sound effects, background score, editing and art design. The primary reason the feature offers a satisfactory outcome is that not only is it unpredictable but is justifying with genuine reasoning which is the soul in here. The structure of the script may be familiar but its additional and side characters does make it worth keeping the audience engaged offering them enough work and art to explore in it. John Houston; the screenwriter-director, uses its smart adaptation wisely and brilliant execution skills on creating the anticipated vision on screen. The performance is decently acted by Humphrey Bogart and Tim Holt but the real gem of the feature is Walter Houston who gives a memorable performance as a supporting cast. The Treasure Of The Sierra Madre is an interesting take on morality while procrastinating the humane accuracy and lunacy on its backdrop that ticks loud and clear all through the way.


                
I had the great pleasure of being shown this film in my Screen writing course at my University and from the moment it ended, it has stayed with me. The Treasure of the Sierra Madre is a very hard film for me to categorize. It is a film that exists outside of the boundaries and genres; thus creating it's own style in the process. It appears that many films since have borrowed several elements from the story (Raiders of the Lost Ark, There Will Be Blood, etc.) but I can think of none that are exactly like it.The story is kept neat and simple; three men head off on a journey into the Mexican mountains to find gold. Yes, gold is what they came for but what they found was much more complex. Each character in the film discovers something about themselves as the film progresses. It's more than just a simple screen story; it's an amazing study of character and drama.Now, for all of my praise the film does suffer from a few inadequacies. I did not particularly care for the second act nor did I find the antagonists very threatening. They played more for comic relief than anything else. However, these are very trivial errors when you compare them to the film's more amazing qualities.Humphrey Bogart gives a very menacing and powerful performance in this film, though he is not initially frightening. The audience is instead forced to sit and watch as his character slowly descends into madness and is completely corrupted by greed. The role appeals to our morbidly curious side; we crave to look away from the destruction that unfolds from within his character's psyche and yet we cannot pull our gaze away from it. It is Bogart's best acting. Yes even better than Rick from Casablanca and I do not feel bold in the slightest for saying so.The lead star is only matched by his supporting cast. Walter Huston, speaking about one hundred words a minute in his incredibly endearing, academy award winning role. Tim Holt is also highly capable as the young, impressionable sidekick to Bogart. He stays morally and ethically sound; remaining firmly on the side of goodness and integrity. You can well imagine what kind of brutal conflict this creates between him and Bogart; some of their shared scenes are among my favourites in the film. This review would be a failure if I never mentioned Max Steiner's amazing score. Sierra Madre contains some of the best accompanying music I've ever heard from a film of it's age. The main theme in particular is exhilarating, powerful and adventurous. I do have the very distinct feeling that John Williams was influenced by this score.I could probably sit here and write page after page of why this film is so significant, but the best way to know why is to just experience it for yourself. Once again, this film is more than just a simple story. One by one, it progressively peals back layers of itself to reveal the true story underneath. The human psyche, moral codes and relational conflict are all explored to a great extreme and I enjoyed every moment of it. The third act in particular is absolutely exceptional. This film is a mirror to humanity; displaying all of it's worst and all of it's best. Watch The Treasure of the Sierra Madre and you will know yourself better than you ever thought you did.
The Treasure of the Sierra Madre is a brilliant film for many reasons. It's a beautifully looking film shot on location in Mexico, a true testament to the greatness that was Humphrey Bogart, and most of all, it's an unsettling tale of what greed can do to your soul. Out of all the characters in the movie, there are only a few that appear to have good intentions. But even those people, are fueled by greed or rage at some point or another. All of them go through fascinating journeys of either self-discovery or self-betrayal. Although it's a film that takes its time with its characters and story, there isn't a moment where I felt the film's pace needed to be picked up. That was just simply the way films were told back in the 40's. You're always in it for the long haul with these characters, even when there doesn't seem to be much left to the main character's souls.If I had to go through Bogart's career of award worthy performances (surprisingly, he was only nominated 3 times), his turn as Dobbs may be my favorite performance of his, and yes that includes The African Queen. There's something to be said about him moving away from his usual gloomy and somber characters to one that completely jumps off the rails. But it fits in with the increasingly unhinged tone of the film, so Bogart would get my vote. He, along with John Huston's directing are why this is one of the most interesting pieces of cinema from the 40's. It's one of the rare films with mostly unlikable characters that actually works. That deserves some props.8.5/10
This becomes such a stunning film with knowledge of the plot a second or even third time round. A context might give us some clues; we might expect Humphrey Bogart to be a bit more nobler, for example. Here it is interesting to be able to pick out select actions that point towards his inevitable demise and downfall. Early on he is drinking heavily and wandering aimlessly in the Mexican oil-town of Tampico, broke, depressed and drowning his sorrows. He targets stranger's patriotism as he begs for a little coin, but he doesn't give them the time of the day to even look at their face, which ends in the rather embarrassing situation of a gentleman chastising him for coming to him repeatedly. Funnily enough, though he acts sheepish and promises not to beg from him again, he is guilty of the same sort of dismissiveness, treated the boy nagging him for the lottery ticket earlier. Fredd C. Dobbs has his eye on the coin from the beginning, and throughout the film we begin to see other little signs of his outward persona cracking and his material greed taking over. It is Bogart of course that steals the screen. Convention tells us that a character talking to themselves with no one else on screen is mad or insane. Is Dobbs insane? We are never quite sure. Bogart's reputation adds a hard, cynical edge to his portrayal, and makes his descent even more difficult to bear - with every softly growled threat or suggestion of camaraderie we are kept on our toes, guessing whether this may be where he falls off the wagon. McCord holds back on the key light in particular moments; most effectively in that campfire confrontation with Bob as his full personality bares its teeth and he rocks back and forth with his knees tucked in, and growls and laughs ferally. His face is almost fully consumed at this point, but for a hint of the key light hitting his forehead and the dastardly glint in his eye. And after he has done the foul deed he lies back beside the fire, muttering to himself about conscience and how it only matters if you feel the need to have one...yet he is contradicting himself by continually worrying about what he has just done. He attempts to sleep for a moment, before snapping his eyes wide back open, full of fear and anxiety...and the fire roars higher and higher and consumes him...perfection. There is nothing wrong with Tim Holt's Bob. He is a good and honest character, and we truly believe him when he says he would treat Dobbs' goods the same way if he had been the one to stay behind. And when he proclaims that the wind will take him to Cody's window out in Texas, we know that he means only good intentions. Walter Houston's Howard is a little problematic. At times he seems to verge along the edge of the maniacal old man, talking less sense and more delusion. Some of these crazy moments show their age considerably; there is only so much frenzied laughter and jig that you can take, even if it is wrapped up in a damning yet poetic ribbon like the gold dust blowing off into the wind. The film works because we all think like Dobbs sometimes. We are cautious of wealth that materialises out of no where, and baffled and distrusting of people who would willingly share with us this wealth. Dobbs does the only thing he knows how; he projects his own insecurities and suspicions weedling under onto his companions, remains blinded of their good intentions, and in the end falls victim to his own vices. Many of us too can empathise with this feeling, of thinking something is too good to be true, and to wastefully sabotage ourselves and lose all sense of rationality. But gold, pure gold, makes it all the more dramatic.
