Some movies have certain scenes in them that hold the viewers interest more than others. However every single scene in this film holds the viewers interest. There is never a dull or lagging moment. Three down and outers who at one time in their lives were maybe up and comers strike out in search of a fortune or at least enough to live better than they have been.While Humphrey Bogart gives a superb performance it is Walter Huston who turns in the greatest performance as the old prospector Howard. The scene in the Indian village where he helps to restore a comatose child is one of the most touching in all of film history and is done virtually without any dialog. Mexican character actor Alfonso Bedoya of course steals all the scenes he appears in and delivers his classic "Stinking Badges" line. (what person would dress up as a Bandito for a costume party and not want to look exactly like Bedoya's Gold Hat character?) This film probably should have been a little higher on AFI's top 100. A must see!


                
I first saw this in the early 90s. Revisited it recently on a blu-ray.
Treasure of the Sierra Madre is one of my favourite n in my opinion Bogarts best acting display.
Searching for gold has always been a popular film topic n this film has really nailed it with superb display of human nature. 
Bogart was phenomenal in this film. In this film he is so full of paranoia, insanity n evil but u still feel pity for him. His grungy, unkempt n unshaven look added to the character. 
The film has a dark tone dealing with human nature of greed, paranoia, evil intentions, insanity n ignorance but it has its share of laughs. Walter Huston's happy dance, Bogart's evil smile, Holt showing equanimity in adversity n Alfonso Bedoyas ignorant n illiterate attitude. The scene, where the character of Holt wondering whether to help his fellow colleague trapped inside the mine n his sympathy towards the widows share of gold as well his infatuation with the widow by jus looking at the photo were again some of the common human nature dealt very well in the film. The scene where the three leading characters are ready to kill the fourth one was indeed mans darkest nature.
Was surprised to see someone like Bogart playing a diametrically opposite character compared to his earlier films. A remake is needed with more focus on the action n adventure.


                
This film is a sharp-edged study of the effects of greed on otherwise normal men, and one man in particular: Bogart's Fred C. Dobbs. Dobbs and Bob Curtin (Tim Holt) are down and out and meet up with prospector Howard (Walter Huston). When Dobbs wins a lottery, he uses the proceeds to finance a trip for the three to central Mexico to search for gold. The three have to deal with the lawlessness of central Mexico at the time - bandits were actually on the loose in that country killing anybody with stuff, and taking that stuff. The Federales were a violent solution to a violent problem - killing the bandits after a summary judgement and the bandits having dug their own graves. So our trio not only have to worry about bandits once they strike gold, they have to worry about the darkness of their own souls. In the beginning, Bogart's Fred C. Dobbs is a decent guy who does not take advantage of others. Dobbs only takes his money from the guy that wouldn't pay and he does share his lottery ticket and is generous with his fellow miners, but as greed begins to take root in him, little by little we see his goodness eaten away. It's a great credit to the writing and Bogart's skills that this is done gradually and played out over time. Incidentally, that's director John Huston "staking him to a meal". One of the best director cameos ever (although Polanski in Chinatown is equally great)! Dobbs overestimates himself and the fallibility of human nature. Walter Hustons character freely admits what gold could do to any of them including himself. Dobbs is sure it will never happen to him, but he's never had anything, so he's never faced temptation, and when he falls it's a long way down. This may be Tim Holt's finest performance - it was probably his finest opportunity given he had spent years laboring as a B western star on the RKO lot. Walter Huston as the prospector, minus his dentures and plus a bunch of pounds and with holes in his clothes is not the debonair fellow you are used to seeing in film . If Mary Astor's character in Dodsworth could have thought this was the future appearance of the man she loved, would she have taken her gondola in the other direction? I guess we'll never know.Highly recommended as one of the great character studies in which several characters get studied in detail.


                
The Treasure of the Sierra Madre (1948)This is a weirdly contemporary film. I mean, it's certainly set in the past, and it's made in the heyday of Hollywood genius top to bottom which is long gone. But because it's about this old time and about raw black and white issues (often), the film and the filming are really appropriate. The whole thing just fits, and beautifully.And I mean beautiful. As rugged as it all is--the landscape as well as the beards, all very real--the movie is lyrically filmed. The story is told with visual clarity. And the script, speaking of story, is sophisticated and believable. In all, under the direction of legend John Huston, this is a spot on terrific movie.Of course, there are two actors who are just amazing in their roles (and a third, Tim Holt, who is just fine, if not stellar). I mean of course Walter Huston, who nearly steals the show in every scene. He's a character, but not a caricature. His wisdom--real wisdom, based on smart observation over decades of experience--is sterling. Great stuff, well put. And of course he's the father of the director, which is a fun, and slightly Freudian twist. He gives one of the great performances of the decade.Humphrey Bogart is not far behind, actually. If you like him in Maltese Falcon or Casablanca, you'll be surprised at first by the scruffy, raw character played here. But it's clear-headed, brilliantly delivered Bogart all the way, and a joy to watch him really act. See it for him, too.Then there is the story itself, which is as important now as ever. That is, what matters in life? And what is the price to pay to get it? It's all rather bold and emotional even though it's delivered by some rough guys out of money prospecting in the wilderness of Mexico.Are there downsides here? I suppose. You certainly can wonder about the way the Mexicans--good ones and banditos both--are portrayed. I think it's not bad, tinged with clichés, of course, but in Spanish without translation or stilted half-English, so it's the real thing. And no subtitles. Nicely done for an early Hollywood affair. Huston, the son, the director, if you don't know, is famous for doing things raw and right and slightly off the charts. He is making a commercial film, to be sure, but it has many small aspects that are just not pandering to anyone. This makes it work.I'm sure to some this is a masterpiece. I'm giving that some thought. See it.


                
The great movies never grow old, they age like fine wine. "The Treasure of The Sierra Madre" is such a film, a classic tale of corruption and greed that follows the trail of three would be prospectors, and ends as a rich morality tale reminding us that the best things in life after all, can't be bought, sold, stolen or given away.For fans of old movies, the casting of the principals may not seem to work on paper, as Humphrey Bogart, Tim Holt, and Walter Huston form as disparate a trio as ever to assemble on screen. The way the story brings them together is a minor act in itself, as the camera follows Fred C. Dobbs (Bogey) through the dusty streets of Tampico, Mexico, living on handouts and a dream. His chance meetings with Curtin (Holt) form a bond that sees the men through a rigorous work detail and a wild bar brawl against their smooth talking boss McCormick (Barton MacLane). When the time comes to move on, the pair seeks out the wisdom of an old codger who's been around the block and back a few times.Though the most memorable line of the film involves 'steenkin' badges' uttered by Gold Hat bandit Alfonso Bedoya, the best lines belong to Howard (Huston), but you better be attentive and listen closely. As he shows Dobbs and Curtin how to wash sand for fine gold nuggets, he comes up with one himself - "You gotta know how to tickle it so she come out laughin'". Later, as Dobbs begins his descent into paranoia and begins talking to himself, Howard challenges him accordingly - "You got somethin' up your nose? Blow it out, it'll do you good." In fact, Huston's a scene stealer more than once in the film. My favorite occurs when about midway through their trek into the mountains, Bogey's character is getting worn out and is ready to quit. It's then when Howard reveals they're actually in the middle of a workable vein, and he goes into a comical jig that's just plain fun to watch. Do they teach that in acting class?However it's not just for comic relief that Howard is so important to the story. Watch his expression and knowing eyes when Dobbs and Curtin shake on their deal the very first time. Later, he's the moral center and conscience of the trio, figuring it's just as well to divvy up the gold as it's mined so each man can guard his own share. Bogey's character is the first to allow his greed to take over, while Curtin falls in right behind. The introduction of Cody (Bruce Bennett) offers yet another psychological angle for the film to explore, as the original partners debate whether to kill him, run him off or take him in. It's the only time we have a hint that Howard's character may have a dark side as well.For his part, Bogart accomplishes a masterful turn as the down and out bum with dreams of glory, creating one of the great morally tragic figures in movies. Watching him wrestle his conscience after he shoots Curtin, then going doubly mad when Curtin's body is gone in the morning is Bogey at his best. That he meets his end ignominiously seems only proper as befitting his traitorous character, one who's willing to sell out anyone in his path.I guess the true measure of the film's greatness is it's ability to hook the viewer in a way that makes you feel you're a participant in the adventure. Come on now, didn't you shudder with disbelief when the 'steenkin' badges' hombre trashed the bags with gold dust, figuring it was only sand to weigh down the hides on the burros? I'm glad Howard was allowed to put his own unique perspective on things as a desert wind storm blew away a hundred thousand dollar fortune. Remarking that theirs was a ten month old joke in the making, he philosophically offers - "The gold has gone back to where we found it", as if that was just the way it was meant to be.For film trivia buffs, 'Treasure' is just that. Study the face of the young Mexican boy selling Dobbs a lottery ticket in an early scene. Doesn't it have an unusually uncanny resemblance to that of adult actor Robert Blake? Back then he was known as Bobby. And how about the white suited American who's constantly tapped for a handout by Bogey's character. That would have been Director John Huston in an uncredited appearance. Tim Holt's actor father Jack Holt also appeared uncredited as a flophouse bum in an early scene. Later the two would actually portray for the first time in the movies a father and son in the 1948 Western "The Arizona Ranger".
This movie is based on the novel written by the mysterious B. Traven, which chronicles the exploits of two down-and-out Americans living in Mexico that join up with a gold prospector. They all go into the mountains of Mexico looking for gold. The movie (and book) is a critique of the capitalist system (B. Traven apparently worked during the industrial boom at the turn of the 19th century in Mexico). This movie's basic premise is the demise of humanity through greed, that even honest and well intentioned people fall victim to it.This is a classic American movie directed and written by John Huston. This is by far one of Humphrey Bogart's best acting role. The stand out performance of the movie is Howard the prospector. The role is played to perfection by Walter Huston (John Huston's father). The prospector is wily, talkative, wise, down to earth and a naturalist. The trio is rounded up by the youthful and idealistic Bob Curtain (played by Tim Holt, whose father Jack Holt has a bit part when Howards is talking to the hobos at the flophouse). When all is said and done, this movie is probably remembered most for the lines spoken by the bandit Gold Hat, played by Mexican actor Alfonso Bedoya."Badges ??We ain't got no badges.We don't need no badges.I don't have to show you any stinkin' badges !!!"-Celluloid Rehab


                
Why don't they make films like this anymore?  Why can't we have character driven dramas and action/adventures with depth? Where have all the Bogies gone?This is easily one of Bogart's best films (he did some of his best work under Huston) and gives him a chance to stretch his acting muscles a bit. While he starts off as the hard-bitten hero, he quickly (and convincingly) degenerates into psychosis and madness during the quest for gold.  The supporting cast are especially fantastic (particularly Huston himself as the dude that Bogie keeps hitting up for money at the beginning of the film). Bobby Blake (of both Barretta and Lost Highway fame) has a small role as the young boy selling lottery tickets.  And Bogie's co-conspirators are both plausible and dramatic.Treasure of the Sierra Madre is an insightful look into human greed and into the human heart.  Bogart plays out the evils of acquisitiveness to the hilt and kicks maximum a** while doing so.  Any fan of Bogart, or simply of great film, should really see this movie.


                
A great film with a supberb cast. The film focuses on two drifters who meet up with another man who has lived his life searching for gold.  After being down on there luck for two long Dobbs and Curtin decide to invite Howard to guide them through a gold mining process. Greed begins to set in when the pile grows higher.  Wonderful to watch.  A must see.


                
"The Treasure of the Sierra Madre" won Oscars for best director (John Huston), best supporting actor (Walter Huston) and best screenplay (John Huston). The film was also nominated for best picture but unfortunately lost out to Laurence Olivier's "Hamlet". This was yet another remarkable performance by Humphrey Bogart in a difficult role and proves once again what an outstanding actor he could be when given the right material.This was a superlative performance by Humphrey Bogart - one of his best - and completely different to his smooth portrayal of Rick in "Casablanca". His character of Fred C. Dobbs was shifty and devious verging on paranoia and madness. The film has now rightly become a classic and is much admired by "movie buffs".Conclusion - An excellent film , One of Humphrey Bogart's best..


                
ONCE AGAIN, WE just cannot believe that we haven't written about this classic & favourite long ago. Being that it is one of those "one of a kind" and impossible to truly classify films. We guess we're just getting a case of being slightly forgetful. (You know, Schultz, some call it "Senior Moments!" AS WE'VE ALREADY stated, this is a delight of a story that we can watch over and over again. It's earthy, it's Noir and at the same time, it emerges as hopeful.SET AMONG THE drifters, tramps and hobos of the 1920's, we have Boagey cast as a down and outer; who finds himself South of the Border. He does whatever to make do. He even panhandles "fellow Americans" for handouts; stopping abruptly when he encounters the same wealthy Americano (played by the Film's Director, John Huston).DESPERATION AND GREED, plus the luck of a winning lottery ticket bring Dobbs (Boagey), Curtin (Tim Holt) and old-timer, Howard (Walter Huston) together in setting out to prospect foe Gold in the Sierra Madre Mountains (Hence, we get the title. Get it, Schultz?) OF COURSE THE hostile environment of the City is bad enough, but when the three man party gets out into the hinterland, they encounter banditos, native Indian tribes and a most hostile landscape. While out on the trail they encounter another American, Cody (Bruce Bennett); but mistrust is already permeating the trio and he is accepted, although only because of the threat from the approach of banditos.ALTHOUGH THERE WAS an early warning from Howard about how gold can corrupt the mind, Dobbs goes off the deep end, trusting no one. His fatal flaw proves to be just that. He eventually meets up with banditos headed up by "Gold Hat" (Alfonso Bedoya); who gives an outstanding performance, forever giving the world a most famous movie line.* WE'RE NOT GOING to go any further with a description of the story; as we believe that it should be if you haven't yet watched it. Suffice it is to say that it will not disappoint. It does however have some peculiar and unique items to report.IN ADDITION TO the Director John Huston's portrayal of the wealthy Yank in Tampico, he was the son of Walter Huston (old timer, Howard). The young Mexican who sells Hobbs (Bogart) the Lottery Ticket was a young Robert Blake. Tim Holt's costarring role was a second choice. Warner Brothers wanted to have John Garfield cast as Curtin; thus giving us the solo teaming of the two screen giants. But by the time of finally getting THE TREASURE OF THE SIERRA MADRE started, John Gatfield had left Warners for other studios.NOTE: * Having been a Chicago Cop for nearly 35 years I can tell this with some authority. In just about every Police Station anywhere, there are incidents where some now under arrest gang-bang punk will shout with a great deal of moral indignity something like: ".....and you didn't show me your Badges!"; at which time every Cop in earshot will reply in near perfect unison: "BODGES? WE GOT NO STINKING BODGES!" This is of course quite puzzling to the "Suspect" involved.
There can be no doubt that as Fred C. Dobbs in "The Treasure of the Sierra Madre", Humphrey Bogart gives one of his very best performances, and is right up there with his playing in "The African Queen". The film relies so heavily on the acting of the three top stars, and they deliver with all the skill they possess. Walter Huston is absolutely brilliant as the old prospector, and Tim Holt certainly proved in this film that he should have been given many better roles than he received before and after this movie. John Huston's direction was spot on, and the musical score, along with the locations depicted, added a great deal to the mood and atmosphere of what was a brilliant movie. It has stood the test of time and can be seen time and again and enjoyed just as much as the first viewing.


                
This is personally my favorite movie.  It was kind of updated to be "A Simple Plan" by Sam Raimi so if you liked that one you will definitely enjoy this movie.  Excellent picture, good all around movie.  Humphrey Bogart, Walter Houston star and John Houston directs.  One of my personal top 100 films.  It is a classic in every sense of the word.


                
Movie Review: "The Treasure of the Sierra Madre" (1948)A book written by writer Bruno Traven (1882-1969) and presumingly published in 1927, then discovered by Hollywood director John Huston (1906-1987) and adapted to attract Hollywood star Humphrey Bogart (1899-1957) to break public character as the easing-cool figure of smoke and drink to become the thoughout unlikeable character of Dobbs, who nevertheless creates "high-rise" fascinations as suspense due to the teaming-up with down-to-earth empathetic Howard, played by the director's real-life father Walter Houston (1883-1950) with harding streetwise wisdom, and actor Tim Holt (1919-1973) as running-for-a-chance Curtin; together they embark into the title-given desert-mountain-strip of Mexico to dig for gold.The story-arc with this gripping 125-Minute-Movie received in times of a fading Hollywood era with "Consent Decree" of year 1948 with regard to United States versus "Paramount Pictures" concluding into splitting states of filmmaking empires by separating exhibition entities from incorporated film producing Major studios, when also Warner Bros. needed to bend a knee with this final effort of a high-concept alternative Western-drama out for the hunt of Academy-Awards at the Oscars in its 21st edition celebrated on March 24th 1949 to a fulminate win for "Best Directing" with regards to John Huston, who had hold together a highly-diverse state of emotions without giving in to spectacle over moral truthfulness.© 2018 Cinemajesty Entertainments LLC


                
It's amazing how vibrant these older movies can be without using color, whether it be the characters or the score, there's something about older movies like this that makes you feel something. Even though I've seen the plot of this play out in other movies, it still engaged me, it still interested me. The film drags on a little bit, maybe the scene between Howard and the Natives goes a little longer than it needs to, but the movie still has a good flow and doesn't drag that much. I do kind of wish that the gold corrupted more than just Bogart, maybe make a Shakespearean tragedy out of it to really get the message across. Regardless, the film's aged incredibly well, and definitely worth a watch if you're interested.
I was really lucky. This newly-released DVD set is available from my local county library and I was one of the first to borrow it. After 'Falcon' and 'Casablanca', I was curious to see Bogart in a different role. Set in 1925, the title refers to the quest of three American men, common only by their being almost broke in Tampico, Mexico, now heading to the mountains to prospect for gold. And they find gold, but the story is not really about that. Far from it. The story is a morality play, a study of how greed and paranoia wrecks what might have become a fast friendship between the three men. It fully deserves its place as one of the better films, and Walter Huston (dad of director John) richly deserved his supporting Oscar as the grizzled and wise old prospector. The DVD set is also rich in extras, a huge bonus for fans of classic films such as this one.The rest of my comments contain MAJOR SPOILERS and should not be read by anyone who has not yet seen 'Treasure of the Siera madre.'Dobbs is down and out in Tampico, decent work is hard to find, and he often hits on apparently wealthy fellow Americans, pleading for a peso so he can have a meal. Director Huston has a small but key role as one of those Americans, and the third time Dobbs hits on him, tells him to quit begging and learn to support himself. Dobbs and another American get hired to go off and work with a crew, with a promise to be paid later. But the boss is a scammer, skips out, they later find him in a bar, beat him up, and take the money owed to them, nothing more. Then, in a flophouse meet up with the old prospector, after conversation about gold in the mountains, the old man offers to lead the prospecting if they can put up enough money for supplies. A winning lottery ticket sold to Dobbs by a street boy days earlier provides the rest of the money they needed.They get to the mountains, the old man finds gold, they build a mine and a water trough to recover it. They spend a total of 10 months, with no plan of how long they would stay there or how much gold they would accumulate. Shortly they decided to split up the gold as they found it, and each keep his own in a secret hiding place. Dobbs' greed and paranoia increase as the gold inventory does. He accused the others of plotting to steal his. In a complex series of events, Dobbs ends up going down the mountain by himself with all the gold, banditos intercept him, kill him for his boots and hides, never suspecting that the 'sand' in the bags was worth anything. When the other two American prospectors arrive later on the scene, wind is blowing the open bags of gold dust and scattering it into the desert, blowing it back to where it started. The old man began to laugh, then the other, "What a joke on us", they had spent ten months working hard and now all the gold was gone, but they were alive.
John Huston's The Treasure of the Sierra Madre tells the tale of two small-time drifters – the short-tempered, glutton for pleasure Fred C. Dobbs (Humphrey Bogart) and the easygoing Bob Curtin (Tim Holt). Both have been cheated out of hard-earned wages by a fraudulent employer, and when they corner him in a bar, they beat him so savagely that it seems pointless to hang around town. When they take lodging in a 50-centavo common room-style hotel, the seasoned, wisecracking Howard (Walter Huston) talks about treasure in the mountains as a way to make a sizable profit. The three down-and-out gold prospectors, hitherto slumming in Tampico, venture into the eponymous mountain range and strike the mother lode. But soon, trouble starts brewing as Dobbs finds his altruistic view of wealth transformed, grows avaricious and becomes completely conquered by his murderous suspicions towards the other two men, till everything they've worked for and accumulated is jeopardized.The simple tale of the Freudian triangle (that ultimately endures 10 months of hardship at the hands of mother nature and, to varying extents, each other) in the Mexican desert seems lifted straight out of archetypal myths, with the tragic Dobbs functioning as the moral lynch-pin - ultimately unlikable but achingly human in his weaknesses. Huston's crackerjack screenplay is a study in karmic justice; tragic in its portrayal of the inevitable crumbling of one's conscience in the face of fortune. Shot largely on location, the film posits its characters against the unforgiving immensity of their surroundings (sun-blasted high chaparral landscape, usually desolate, except for the three central characters), rendering their efforts almost pathetically sublime. Decades since its release, the performances by the three leads continue to exert a raw moral power. Bogart goes full-tilt in a bold, unapologetic turn as the unhinged Dobbs. He exhibits a brilliant level of nuance as he changes from a bum down on his luck to a man filled with paranoia and lust for money. Holt makes a sturdy counterweight to Dobbs' excesses. But it is Huston Sr. who holds his own as the wise old buzzard, flanking Bogart's bravura paranoia. He may have a bit of a wacky side, but that facade belies a capable and wise core. He infuses his character with such energy and charisma that he forces everyone into the background whenever he's on screen.The Treasure of Sierra Madre is a clever study of the essential existential hopelessness and loneliness of the avaricious man. Partly realistic, partly poetic, fully moral, this deservingly canonized behemoth is one of the relatively few films that transcend the medium to become a mandatory viewing experience for anyone that identifies themselves as a human being, period.


                
Humphrey Bogart's journey as a leading man started with The Maltese Falcon and reached its pinnacle in The Treasure Of The Sierra Madre. That's not just because his performance was so terrific. What's impressive is that Bogie goes from an ultra-cool detective in Falcon and a noble Nazi-killer in Casablanca to a crazy loser in Sierra Madre. He didn't coast by playing lovable heroes. He was willing to look terrible and to play a despicable human being in a character-actor kind of way.Fred C. Dobbs (Bogart) is a jobless American in Tampico, Mexico, begging for food money. He pools what money he has with that of a friend (Tim Holt as Bob Curtin) and they head out with Howard (Walter Huston) for the titular mountain to find gold. Howard has been on many such journeys and knows this isn't going to turn out well. It doesn't take more than few months for Dobbs' paranoia to cloud his vision. Before long, he's hiding his gold and proving he'll do anything to protect his burgeoning fortune.Don't worry, "Badges? I don't have to show you any steenking badges", I haven't forgotten about you! Yup, this is the movie with that quote. People love (mis)quoting the line, but they shouldn't overlook the subtext: there's no law up in the wild Mexican mountains. Then again, the real villain is not a gang of baddies. It's Bogie. Dobbs' alienation of his friends not only proves how paranoid he is, but in doing so, he puts his gold and his life in serious danger from steenking bandits.The Treasure Of The Sierra Madre was highly ranked on both the 1998 and 2007 Top 100 lists released by the American Film Institute...and rightly so. It's nearly 66 years old and it holds up remarkably well. Writer/director John Huston made several fine films, but this was his peak. It's one of the best pictures of the 1940s and its dirty influence continues to this day, with Paul Thomas Anderson and Breaking Bad's exec producer Vince Gilligan citing it as highly influential of their recent projects. This one is rough, but for all the right reasons. Great, great movie.If you found some gold in this quick take of the flick, check out the website I share with my wife (www.top100project.com) and go to the "Podcasts" section for our 38-minute Treasure Of The Sierra Madre 'cast...and many others. Or find us on Itunes under "The Top 100 Project".


                
The Treasure of Sierra Madre is a reflection on some of the most basic human values. Greed for money, trust in friends, courage and loyalty, always helping the needy are some of themes that manifest themselves on the screen during different times. The acting is brilliant in this movie. Humphrey Bogart is spot on with his portrayal of an impecunious bloke, who wants an opportunity to make it big, and his transformation from that to a mistrusting, nefarious lunatic. Tim Holt and Walter Huston complement Bogart wonderfully and act as models of rectitude and self-righteousness. The bandits and the Indians put in captivating performances. The scene at the end ,when Holt and Huston's characters laugh at the game fate put them through just to set them off to the next chapters in their life where they can feel contented, served as a fitting end to an impressive movie by John Huston.
IMDb Top 250: 71Wow. After seeing The Maltese Falcon, an earlier Huston film, I was a little nervous going into this one because I hated The Maltese Falcon. I was in for a surprise: The Treasure of the Sierra Madre is fantastic.Two Americans in Mexico work with an aged prospector to find gold in the 20's. That's the short. They fight the elements, bandits, other Americans and even each other to try and make their fortune. This is a plot-focused film, a true adventure. But it steps beyond that: it becomes a character analysis, with themes of greed, betrayal, and suspicion: all in the desert of Mexico. It starts strong, ends strong, and is a bull the whole way through.Like Sunset Blvd., a film from 1950, 'Treasure' is made during the transition period between 'old' and 'new' cinema. There are more cuts and the film feels more dynamic. The film is extraordinarily well made, and is visually fantastic being filmed on location in Mexico, a first. The imposing musical score is also great.I think this is the best Humphrey Bogart film; both in his performance and the overall film. My view of him was turned upside down in this film. The Rick Blaine/ Philip Marlowe character is gone, replaced by a bearded, rugged, unclean bum who asks for money from tourists, and has a really, really creepy laugh. Dobbs. His development is incredible, showing his doubts and delusions without making us have to infer anything. The other two in the treasure hunting trio hold their own next to Dobbsy. Howard (Walter Huston) is an eccentric old-timer, and we are never quite sure what his agenda is, or if he even has one. Curtin (Tim Holt) is the straight man of the three, but is just as grey as them. Together there are three great performances of three great characters in a great scenario. Although I have to say the head bandit is a tad too comical.The plot makes for a great film, treasure hunters in Mexico. There's great dialogue, scenery, fights (fistfights still from the old film era though), and suspense. This western noir has a great pace. There's a lot of character foreshadowing, and then it wraps up with a quietly brilliant ending, though it might not be so astounding today.The Treasure of the Sierra Madre was much better than I could have expected- it's a strong, constantly engaging film. The plot is solid and well told, with developed ideas and characters. And a very, very memorable Humphrey Bogart. 8.9/10


                
Although John Huston's directing is absolutely equal to the screenplay, winning Oscars for both, it is the performance level of the actors that makes "Treasure of The Sierra Madre" the classic film that it is. Beginning and ending with Walter Huston's award winning role of the worn-out old miner who is looking for one last big score, Humphrey Bogart and Tim Holt are equal to the task and draw us in to this tale of need and greed. So convincing is Walter's portrayal of the seasoned old prospector, we come to believe that he is a gold digger by trade who only acts in movies so that he can dig and pan for gold again and again. His knowledge of mining and the lifestyle it demands and forces upon those who partake, is so thorough that Bogart and Holt seem like school kids in awe of a new hero. Of course, we know that his son John, did much research in preparation for writing the screenplay; but we are nevertheless plunged into a sure belief that this old miner must surely have been there age upon age, mine upon mine, and has therefore, a thousand tales to tell.When, in the course of the story, Walter is taken away, somewhat without choice, to work the magic of a healer for a Mexican village, we are again convinced that he is a medical doctor hiding out as a prospector. This is the acting craft in full bloom. Walter becomes whatever is called for in the story. However, if one views his other films, the effect is the same. He is one of Hollywood's most under rated actors of all time. Those who have not seen this film have a joyous experience awaiting them. Great story, great screenplay, great acting. This is why we love movies the way we do.


                
By sheer coincidence, I watched this soon after viewing Werner Herzog's 'Grizzly Man'. Two films separated by 60 years, one a documentary the other an adaptation of a novel. The common thread is their insightful portrayal of man descending into paranoia and delusion. Timothy Treadwell is a real-life modern day Fred C. Dobbs. Both men seek glory - one gold, the other protection of bears - and in that quest perceive threats and dangers where none exist. Their delusion also blinds them to the very real threats that isolation and mistrust can cause to prey upon the mind.Bogart is outstanding as the tormented Dobbs, while Huston gives a perfect counter-point performance as the seen-it-all senior who knows the demons Dobbs falls victim to, and the futility of trying to fight them. John Huston's directing is exceptional, the oft-quoted pub-fight scene a statement on the anti-glamourisation of violence; dirty, draining, squalid and animalistic. The screenplay is top class, with the minor character bandit leader Alfonso Bedoya truly fleshed out with some of the best lines. Each episode in the second act appears at a brisk pace - the mine collapse, the lizard, the arrival and demise of Cody, the Indian child, the need for Huston to separate, the betrayal, Dobbs getting his comeuppance. It all flows beautifully and never seems forced or unnatural.The Treasure of the Sierra Made justifiably lives up to the mantle of classic.
Fred Dobbs, a down-on-his-luck American living in Mexico, joins forces with two compatriots, Curtin and Howard, on an expedition to prospect for gold in the mountains. The three are joined by a fourth American, Jim Cody, who is looking for gold in the same area. They do not welcome Cody's presence, so they are faced with a three-way dilemma- either to kill him, or to drive him off (which carries the risk that he will inform the authorities that they are prospecting for gold without the necessary permission) or to take him in as a partner. Just when Dobbs and Curtin are on the point of killing him, they are forced to accept him as an ally when they are all attacked by bandits. They succeed in driving the bandits off, but Cody is killed in the gunfight.Although the film takes place in twentieth-century Mexico, it has much in common with the Western. Like many of the best Westerns it is not simply an adventure story, but also an exploration of moral issues and a study in character. The three men have very different characters and represent three different age-groups, Howard being old, Dobbs middle-aged and Curtin young. Howard is the only one with any previous experience of prospecting- indeed, he has spent most of his life looking for gold. His past adventures have given him a rather jaundiced view of human nature, especially where the prospect of sudden wealth is concerned: "I know what gold does to men's souls". Despite his cynicism, Howard has a conscience and his own moral code- he is the only one of the three who objects to the plan to murder Cody.Dobbs, by contrast, has no conscience whatsoever, and openly boasts of the fact. At first he does not believe that he will be corrupted by gold, but when he and his partners start to find it he quickly realises that he will do anything, including committing murder, to keep his share of the loot. Dobbs's villainy arises from a mixture of greed and paranoia. He is convinced in his own mind that Curtin and Howard are plotting to kill him to steal his gold. He has no evidence of such a plot- indeed, Curtin saved Dobbs's life at the risk of his own when Dobbs was trapped in a collapsing mine. Nevertheless, Dobbs feels no gratitude for this act, and his paranoia even leads him to try and kill Curtin. Curtin himself stands somewhere between Howard and Dobbs on the moral scale. On the one hand, he is capable of altruism and bravery, shown by his rescue of Dobbs. On the other hand, he is quite happy to go along with Dobbs's suggestion that Cody should be killed.B. Traven, the author of the novel upon which the film was based, was a mysterious figure, but was clearly a man of left-wing political sympathies, and "The Treasure of the Sierra Madre" has been seen as a socialist parable about the power of wealth to corrupt. This impression is strengthened by the early scenes in which Curtin and Dobbs are defrauded of their wages by a corrupt employer, to whom they deliver a savage beating in revenge. My own view, however, is that John Huston here takes a very bleak view of human nature in general, not merely of human nature under capitalism. There is no positive "message" that human nature could be changed for the better with a change in the economic system.Although it was Huston's father Walter who won an Oscar for his portrayal of Howard, for me the performance that really stood out was that of Humphrey Bogart as Dobbs, a man poisoned by a toxic cocktail of avarice and suspicion. Dobbs, however, is only part of a larger pattern of greed, violence and treachery. There are also the swindling employer, the ruthless bandits and their opponents, the equally ruthless Mexican Government forces whose method of enforcing law and order is to carry out summary executions without trial. Howard, one of the few exceptions to this pattern, symbolically withdraws from civilisation at the end of the film, going off to live among a local Indian tribe. There are a number of memorable episodes throughout the film- Dobbs begging from an American tourist (played by the director himself), Dobbs and Curtin's fight with their employer, Howard's famous dance when they discover gold, the "stinking badges" confrontation with the bandits and the scenes of Dobb's final attempts to return to civilisation- all fitting in with the general pattern. The landscape of the Mexican Sierras, shot in striking black-and-white photography, is as bleak as the film's view of humanity. Unusually for a film of this period it was shot entirely on location, and Huston uses this forbidding landscape to reinforce his pessimistic theme.The theme of the power of greed to corrupt- is an old one. It was old even when Chaucer's Pardoner said:- "My theme is always one, and ever was: Radix malorum est cupiditas".(I have modernised Chaucer's spelling to avoid falling foul of the IMDb spell-checker). The Latin tag is sometimes mistranslated as "Money is the root of all evil", but a more accurate version would be "Greed is the root of all evil". This theme has inspired a number of great works of literature, of which "The Pardoner's Tale" is just one. "The Treasure of the Sierra Madre", a powerful and compelling work, is one of the best cinematic treatments of the theme. 9/10
Having seen Paul Thomas Anderson's 'There Will Be Blood' a short time ago and loved every second of it, I felt I owed it to myself to watch 'The Treasure of the Sierra Madre.' Anderson has gone on record to say that he sat down with it every night before he started filming and the influences are all too clear; desperate penniless men scrabbling among dust and rock for a fortune, only to lose their souls when they find it. This isn't the only area that 'Treasure' has seeped into the public consciousness though; that old Texan billionaire that occasionally turns up on The Simpsons? That's Walter Huston's prospector all over. Every person that's turned up at a fancy dress party wearing a Pancho, sombrero and plastic bullet belt while speaking in a ridiculous Mexican accent? They'd be dressed as regular cowboys if it wasn't for Alfonso Bedoya's villainous bandito. The character on the front of Golden Nugget's cereal boxes? That's...well, I'm sure you get the picture by now. 'Treasure' is no mere catalogue for pop-culture aficionados though, it's powerful stuff. A sermon on greed and madness, it has three terrific actors bouncing off each other as the central characters and John Huston, one of Hollywood's all time greats at the very top of his game.That being said, there's still one problem with it. Well, not the film itself per se, more the marketing side of things, as "Storming to a New High in High Adventure" must be one of the most misleading taglines out there. It makes 'Treasure' sound like a ripping, boy's own yarn when in actual fact, it has more in common with the likes of Joseph Conrad's 'Heart of Darkness' than anything else. It concentrates on two destitute drifters named Fred Dobbs (Bogart) and Bob Curtin (Holt) who pitch in with grizzled old prospector Howard (Walter Huston) to go on a search for gold in the mountains of Mexico. They throw all their money together and purchase some mining equipment before heading for the hills. Finding the gold seams is difficult enough, but keeping themselves sane facing the intense heat, violent bandits and the growing paranoia proves an even more challenging task. They rot slowly mind. The tension builds at a gradual but constant pace throughout and makes for one incredibly gripping film. It all starts innocently enough with the trio debating on how best to divide up the gold but no matter what, the nagging suspicions keep growing louder the more they dig. Huston handles this with remarkable skill to the extent you find yourself asking what you would in their place as the story unfolds and the results aren't pretty. This lends itself to some very memorable scenes, Curtin stumbling onto Dobb's stash and the ensuing accusations is an early highlight, but perhaps the strongest comes towards the middle of the film when Curtin reads aloud a letter they find in the wallet of a dead prospector. As the lines flow from his mouth, Curtin's eyes betray a deep sense of sadness, the realisation of how far they are slipping playing out on Tim Holt's anguished face. But then this is indicative of the entire film as there isn't a bad performance to be had. Bogart as usual works his surly anti-hero muscles to their maximum effect but it is the Oscar winning Walter Huston who steals the show. His Howard is wise and learned, but possesses a wicked sense of humour that helps lighten the material and stops it being a non-stop gloom marathon.Needless to say, 'The Treasure of the Sierra Madre' is a very rewarding movie and one that demands repeat viewings. The relationship between wealth and happiness fits healthily alongside a central premise of three men risking the fires of hell through their actions. None of them are likely to come out of it with their consciences clean and despite having a surprisingly upbeat ending, you know that some of the scars they've earned in the wilderness will never truly heal. Granted, at 126 minutes the pace does lag now and again but all in all, this is an excellent film and truly deserving the 'classic' tag.


                
SPOILERS WITHIN!  BEWARE!Alright, I finally saw it and now I'm a believer!  I thought it was terrific!  It was well-acted, very interesting, and hilarious!  The dialogue was amazing.  Lightning fast and very clever.  Everybody was good (except that fake-looking little "Hey Seen-yor" Mexican boy) but Walter Huston stole the show!  Garrulous, squinty-eyed, and stubbly, he was crotchety but lovable (and loving too).  Probably his best scene is when he's taunting Dobbs and Curtin about being so dumb "there's nothing to compare" them to and then doing his little "Eureka-shuffle".  I burst out laughing.  And I think that little dance (without music) must've been an influence on David Lynch.  Though technically not really a "crime caper" this movie follows and creates alot of the conventions of the genre.  As the seeds of dissension and greed are growing, we know that at some point this partnership will dissolve and the s*** will hit the proverbial fan.  Also, you can't have a crime caper without the good old camp-fire, "What're you gonna do with your share?" conversation.  This is most recently reprised in "O Brother, Where art Thou?"  (Why is it that, at heart, the true motivation for every criminal is to get some land and start a farm or to open a restaurant where everyone will have to call him "Sir"?)  Finally, this old classic has CAUTIONARY TALE emblazoned over every line. Not that there's anything wrong with that.  I think Huston makes his message clear without being too preachy.  At its core, "The Treasure of Sierra Madre" is a good-hearted celebration of the real treasures in life: friendship, love, and helping people out.  True to the format, we see the bad guy (or more accurately: the good guy turned bad guy) Fred C. Dobbs get his just desserts.  After he shoots Curtin and leaves him for dead we get his little soliloquy on the peskiness of a conscience.  Then, as he lays his head down, we see the camp-fire flames rise (the flames of a hellishly tormented conscience).  Finally, after stumbling around miserably (in a very "Twilight Zone" fashion), Fred C. Dobbs gets his at the hand of the despicable, (and really creepy) Banditos.  He is beaten, clobbered with a dirt-clod, hacked with machetes, and (more importantly) plundered.  He may die with his boots on but, alas, he doesn't get to keep 'em.And the good guys get the goods, right?  Well, not exactly.  In a painful-to-watch scene Walter and Curtin track down the stolen bags of gold (fruit of their months of labor) only to find that they've been emptied and blown away by a violent windstorm.  (This reminds me of the end of "The Killing" where the suitcase full of money is blown away).  Of course, their rewards (though only implied) are still forthcoming and, while less financial than they'd initially hoped for, they're still pretty dreamy. Walter will go to be the patron saint of a little Indian village where he will be adored, fed, massaged, and probably end up fatter than Colonel Kurtz in "Apocalypse Now".  Curtin is going to deliver the news of Cody's death and hopefully slip right in as his surrogate.  (Apparently Cody's wife rejecting a good, sturdy man isn't even a possibility).   
In spite of its many peccadilloes (and often because of them) "The Treasure of Sierra Madre" has become one of my favorite movies and I look forward to watching it again soon!
I personally feel that this movie is a real classic, not because of Bogart, even though he did a fine job, but because of the fine direction and storytelling of John Huston.  He is one of the greatest directors that seems to be forgotten by old and young alike.  From beginning to end, Huston gives us a wonderful tale about greed and corruption and its connection to human nature.  Bogart is, well, Bogart, what more did you expect from such an icon??  A deserving classic that is underappriciated, and understudied. 9/10.


                
