Seriously, I know that sounds stupid as this is an animated movie, but why can't we have a favorite movie that's animated? If you ask me this is Disney's best animated film of all time. Why do you ask? The animation is just beautiful, the story is powerful and moving, the characters are terrific, the villain is one of Disney's most monstrous and the songs are out of this world incredible! Not only is it my favorite animated movie, this is one of my favorite soundtracks, with the strong power of Elton John The Lion King is absolutely beautiful and a pleasure to watch still to this day. I have to say also that this story is just so beautiful, it's still one of the movies that will always bring a tear to my eye. When I was 17 years old, I begged my dad to take me to the re-release of The Lion King, him and I being the only adults besides the parents who took their children to see the movie, Simba's father dies and I started balling! My dad looks around and said "Krissy, stop it!" and I just said "But it's so saaaaad! Simba's daddy!", yes I'm a sap, I can't help it, this is a powerful movie.In the Pride Lands, Rafiki, a wise old monkey, anoints Simba, the newborn cub of King Mufasa and Queen Sarabi, and presents him to a gathering of animals at Pride Rock. Taking advantage of the cub's naive nature, Simba's scheming uncle Scar, who is very angry because Simba's birth means that he's no longer next in line to the throne tells him about the elephant graveyard, a place where Mufasa has forbidden Simba to go. Simba asks his mother if he can go to the water-hole with his best friend, Nala, but they go to the graveyard instead. There, the cubs are met by Shenzi, Banzai and Ed, 3 hyenas who try to kill them, but they are rescued by Mufasa. But Scar doesn't give up there, he lures Simba into a gorge for a "surprise from his father" while the hyenas create a wildebeest stampede. Alerted by Scar, Mufasa races to rescue Simba from the stampede. He saves his son but is left clinging to the edge of a steep cliff. Scar flings his brother into the stampede below. Simba sees his father fall and rushes down the cliff after him, only to find him dead. Scar convinces Simba that he was responsible for his father's death and recommends that he runs away from the Pride Lands to avoid punishment. In a distant desert, Simba is found unconscious by Timon and Pumbaa, a duo who adopt and raise the cub under their worry-free philosophy, Hakuna Matata. When Simba has grown into an adult he is discovered by Nala, who tells him that Scar, through his irresponsibility, has turned the Pride Lands into a barren wasteland. She asks Simba to return and take his place as king but Simba refuses, still believing he caused his father's death. Rafiki arrives and persuades Simba to return to the Pride Lands, and face Scar once and for all.I know that still that Beauty and the Beast is the only animated film to get a best picture nomination, but I don't understand why The Lion King didn't get the same treatment. I adore this film with such a passion, I will always defend it to the high end. I still watch this movie, ever since it's theatrical release in 1994, I still sing, dance, and rehears the lines back and forth. How could you not at least with Hakuna Matata? Timon is my idol, he's so care free, funny, and awesome during his drag hula scene<U+0085> "Luau! If you're hungry for a hunk of fat and juicy meat, eat my buddy Pumbaa here, 'cause he's a tasty treat come on down and dine, on this tasty swine, all you gotta is get in line, are you achin',? For some bacon? He's a big pig. You can be a big pig, too. Oy!<U+0085> Ahhhh!", best scene ever in film history! OK, not in history, but one of my favorites, it always has me on the floor laughing till my stomach hurts. If you seriously haven't seen this movie, see it! Who said that animated movies can't be true art? The Lion King is a fantastic film and deserves all it's praise and more.10/10
This is a film that can entertain anyone young or old, I usually don't care for animated movies but this film is the real deal, this is one of disney's best animated movies. The animation is top notch and flawless. This film also features superb work from the vocal cast James Earl Jones, Jeremy Irons, Whoopi Goldberg. This is a standout.


                
The Lion King is a great film.  Along with a great story (inspired by William Shakespeare's Hamlet), terrific animation, and an all star cast of voices, there are the lessons that are learned from this film (despite being a little rough for the younger children).  Like responsibility and honor.I rank this animated film among the great films I have ever seen.  It was part of my childhood and it is a film experience I will never forget.  And hopefully, you won't either.  A++


                
The best Disney animated film ever...This film had it all, it was funny, emotional, had family drama, and above all, great animation and songs! My personal favorite character is Rafiki, the Baboon! I still cant forget the line he says to Simbe, "Past can hurt, but as I see it, you can either run from it, or learn from it!" it is so true! i loved Zazu's weirdness, and shenzi's humor, above all, i loved Pumba's innocence and Timon's intelligence! In short, i found the film the best film ever... The voice cast is also great. Mathew did complete justice to Simba, and what can I say about Mufasa, He is the best King, and dad anyone can ever get! The movie is not meant for kids, its meant to teach every adult a lesson...to find our place in the great "Circle Of Life". I give this film a perfect 10.


                
I watched the film today and I have come to the conclusion that this Disney film is one classic that will keep on delivering to Disney fans like myself...TLK is a wonderful film with great characters and songs with a powerful message that you can always find your way back no matter how hard the journey...I think The Lion King is one of the best Disney animated films matching with the power of Bambi and Brother Bear.I love how Disney Works hard to deliver the best in Animation,Song,And MagicI do believe that 2006 and many years from now The Lion King will Shine and still Roar with Success...Thank-You Disney For The Lion King


                
This is truly one of the best Disney movies ever. I really enjoyed it when I first seen it, about when I was 6, and since then I watched it over and over again. I simply LOOOOVED the music. It's one of the best soundtracks I've ever heard. And, speaking of soundtrack, I just can't tell in words how much I love the song "Can You Feel The Love Tonight". Is one of my favorite songs ever. I truly believe that this motion picture could easily be nominated for The Best Picture, but The Best Song and the Best Original Score is really enough. I wonder if they will ever think to make a prequel of this movie in order to understand who is Mufasa, Scar, Sarabi and the other characters. In short, this movie will be remembered in the next 100 years. Truly.


                
This movie is, quite seriously, the Citizen Kane of Disney animation. Every animated movie from Disney ever since has been a failed attempt to recreate the masterpiece that this film is. This movie is an anomaly in a market usually dominated by formulaic kiddie-fare. Unlike most films from animation studios, this movie will enthrall you, whether you're 5 years old, or 50. An epic plot, intriguing characters, great music and hillarious moments make this film a family classic that will endure through the ages. 10/10


                
"The best movie I ever watched in any form or any in language".No, I am not exaggerating! It is the best movie ever, whether in human form or in animated. I can't find a single flaw in The Lion King (1994). Someone could argue that the story is not original, Disney just twisted it. Someone could also argue that i didn't watch that much of movies to judge "The Best Ever" but as I said, this the best movie I ever saw. The story is nice and free flowing and without any unnecessary bumpers. One can not recognized the voices behind the characters, because the characters are so prominent. Music! Let me say I am not very fond of English pop songs, but I could hum almost most of the songs of this movie, so I would say, music is that nice. Animation is superb, landscapes are eye catching, dialogues are sharp and comedy is at its best. What more might I say?Beside everything, you can say how crazy I am about this movie by my name. Enjoy the movie, don't leave the seat. Hakuna Matata!


                
Ah..."The Lion King." There's so much I can say about this movie but all my comments always come down to one thing: this movie is beautiful. Pure genius. A timeless story. I might be a little biased in my beliefs, seeing as the first movie I remember seeing in theatres is "The Lion King" and I still watch it on a regular basis and know all the words but I'm sure there are plenty of people out there who agree with what I have to say. "The Lion King" is beautiful; hands down, it is the best Disney film ever created.The story is something that everyone can relate to, whether they are a lion ;) or not. Simba is destined to become king one day and just can't wait to rule the throne; everyone can relate to wanting to grow up and become an adult, to do whatever they want and not have to worry about anything. His father tries to teach him that, despite the fact that he will one day be grown and king, his life will not be easy. Simba has to learn his lesson the hard way when his Uncle Scar, who, too, wants the throne, kills his father and convinces Simba that it was his fault. Suddenly, growing up doesn't seem so great anymore (I can *really* relate to that).And so, Simba flees his home and comes across Timon and Pumbaa, two other outcasts. They teach Simba the "Hakuna Matata" lifestyle, something that idealizes a life free of stress, worry and responsibility. Now, don't we all wish we could live this way? No worries for the rest of our days... But when Simba's childhood friend Nala returns, he realizes that he can't live Hakuna Matata forever, for he does have a responsibility to his pride and his homeland. Simba understands that he must grow up, as we all do, and does what's right.The songs are catchy and fit the movie well (the original songs, of course, though "The Morning Report" isn't too bad) and the score is haunting and beautiful. Along with the art work, the music captures the heart of Africa.With the types of shows that children watch these days (boy, doesn't that make me sound old?), it's a wonder they'll learn in virtues and values at all. "The Lion King" is a great teacher when it comes to learning lessons that will carry throughout their lifetime. "The Lion King" teaches children that it's all right to be a kid but you must understand and accept responsibility for things you can and cannot control. Everyone has a place in The Circle of Life and we must find it; the film also teaches that we will encounter bad and even terrible things during our lifetime but we must accept them and move on. These are important, meaningful lessons; heck, I even used them in my SAT essay! "The Lion King" is a film for every generation and is a powerful film that all children should see. I'm past my childhood now and I still watch it whenever I get the chance; I look forward to sharing it with my children.A timeless film!
I think think this film is excellent and nothing can ever relate to it. I will love this movie my whole life i know i will!! Its great :) The music, the sounds, the characters,the whole movie is great. Its definitely great for kids and it always will be this movie will never grow old. People will still like it when they are 60+. I bet there are people sixty and over who do love this movie.. I am glad that i grew up with this movie its great and i just have to say fare play to the directer i love it!!! I am happy i found this sight i think it is great it give the public a chance to see how there favorite movie is rated by people all over the world. And i think it is excellent the public is aloud to vote!


                
I first saw The Lion King in 1994, when I was 8 years old. Ever since then, I have seen it at least 100 times. I have seen it at least that much because I watched it once every week for almost a year and a half.Recently, I became interested in it again, after having seen The Lion King 3 (or 1,5 if you prefer). It kind of surprised me how I was still intrigued and impressed by the whole thing. It was a magical experience that was almost as good as the very first time (I hadn't seen it in years).Everything about The Lion King is so good, that I can watch it over and over again, just like in the old days. The story begins light-hearted and it has a very nice and fun atmosphere. Very stereotypical characters, as always with Disney, but ever so unique in their own way. As the story progresses, it gets very serious, dramatic and sad as well, I actually cried when I saw it the first time (hey, I was 8, give me a break).Then two of the greatest characters in the history of Disney cartoons get introduced. Timon & Pumbaa set a new height considering comedy in cartoons. Again, very stereotypical, but unique in their own way (I loved Lion King 3 because of them).Another thing I absolutely love about this is the awesome music in it. When I was young I didn't pay attention to it as much as I do now, but the music adds so much to the whole movie.It was very obvious, even from just the intro alone, that Disney worked very hard on this masterpiece. I will definitely never forget The Lion King. I still watch it occasionally and I've never been bored.That's another thing I like about this: the songs. Every major Disney picture has a few songs in it and most of the time they are very memorable. It's the same story here, the songs are very memorable and overall just brilliant. "Circle of Life" and "Can't Wait to be King" will always have a special place in my heart.I knew the entire script of the Dutch dubbed version when I was young, having seen it so many times. Kind of pathetic, I know, but I liked it that much. Still do.The King among Disney Cartoons for me.
This isn't just the perfect animated movie, it's a perfect reflection of my own life. As strange as it sounds, when I watch this, I don't just see animated animals on screen, I see my life as well. The first half of the movie appeals to my childhood, it's fun, but when Mufasa dies, it brings back memories of my own life. My father died when I was really young, and just like Simba, it hit me pretty hard. I had trouble accepting responsibility for years and years. I kept running from responsibility, putting off learning to drive and even getting a job.But like the second half of the movie, I learned that one of, if not the most important thing about growing up is accepting responsibility. I'm now in my early 20s and attending college, I also learned how to drive and I have a job as well. I can't think of a better message a film can teach than this. That sometimes bad things happen, and you can't do anything about it, but just because you can't prevent it, doesn't mean you can let it control you. You have to move on, and accept responsibility. Don't let the past control you, don't run from it, learn from it. It's a message I try to live by everyday. Everything about this movie is perfect, it's one of the very few movies I would call "flawless". The characters are great, all of the songs are fantastic, the animation is timeless, it literally hasn't aged a day since it came out.There isn't a single negative thing I can say about this masterpiece. It makes me want to be a better person, it keeps reminding me to be responsible, it's funny, beautiful, dark, it is everything I want in an animated movie. There is nothing more I can ask of an animated movie than this. The greatest animated movie I have ever seen, and well deserving of being in my Top 10.
Of all the animation classics from the Walt Disney Company, there is perhaps none that is more celebrated than "The Lion King." Its acclaim is understandable: this is quite simply a glorious work of art."The Lion King" gets off to a fantastic start. The film's opening number, "The Circle of Life," is outstanding. The song lasts for about four minutes, but from the first sound, the audience is floored. Not even National Geographic can capture something this beautiful and dramatic. Not only is this easily the greatest moment in film animation, this is one of the greatest sequences in film history.The story that follows is not as majestic, but the film has to tell a story. Actually, the rest of the film holds up quite well. The story takes place in Africa, where the lions rule. Their king, Mufasa (James Earl Jones) has just been blessed with a son, Simba (Jonathan Taylor Thomas), who goes in front of his uncle Scar (Jeremy Irons) as next in line for the throne. Scar is furious, and sets in motion plans to usurp the throne for himself. After a tragedy occurs and Mufasa is killed, Scar persuades Simba to flee, leaving himself as king. Simba grows up in exile, but he learns that while he can run away from his past, he can never escape it.When viewing the film, it is obvious that "The Lion King" is quite different from its predecessors (and successors). This is an epic story that contains more dramatic power than all the other Disney films combined. While there are definitely some light-hearted moments, there is no denying the dark drama that takes up the bulk of the story. While it could be argued that Disney is the champion of family entertainment, this film is not for the very young. Some of the sequences are very dark and violent, many bordering on frightening, even for the older crowd.The voice actors are terrific. Jonathan Taylor Thomas brings a large dose of innocence to Young Simba. He's mischievous, but also terribly naive. His older counterpart, voiced by Matthew Broderick, equals him. He's older, but no less mature. The voices are so similar that it's almost impossible not to believe that they are the same character at different ages. Perhaps no one could have been better suited for the role of Mufasa than James Earl Jones. His baritone voice gives the Mufasa a quality of great power and wisdom; there is no question that his role is king. As Scar, Jeremy Irons is pitch-perfect. The drawing of the character is villainous, but Irons' vocal work complements the animation to create one of the most memorable, and vicious, villains in Disney history. He's unquestionably evil, but he's also clever, which makes him all the more dangerous. Manipulation, not violence is his greatest weapon. Providing some much needed comic relief are Nathan Lane and Ernie Sabella as Timon and Pumbaa, two other outcasts (a meerkat and a warthog), and Rowan Atkinson as Zazu. While there is definite fun from these characters, neither the actors nor the filmmakers allow them to go over-the-top and destroy the mood of the film.Disney's animated features are known for their gorgeous artwork. Nowhere is this more apparent than in "The Lion King." Every single frame is jaw-dropping. The colors are rich, and the drawings are sharp and beautiful. One of the pitfalls of animation (both computer and hand-drawn) is that there is sometimes a visible distance between the subject and the background, making it seem as if the figure animation was cut and pasted on the background (this is obviously what happens, but it is up to the artists to make sure that it isn't noticeable). There is none of that here.Throughout the Golden Age of Disney animation, the films have been musicals. "The Lion King" is no different, and the songs are brilliant. All of the numbers are standouts ("Can You Feel the Love Tonight" won the Oscar, but in my opinion, "The Circle of Life" was better). In the cases of Simba and Nala (Simba's girlfriend), both young and old, there is a noticeable difference between the speaking and singing parts (everyone else does their own singing and speaking), but never mind. It still works, and that's what's important."The Lion King" is not flawless, but on first viewing, they aren't noticeable, and it is likely that the young won't ever notice them. "Beauty and the Beast" was the first animated film to get an Oscar nomination for Best Picture (it lost to "The Silence of the Lambs"), and is thus far the only animated film to receive such an honor. That being the case, it's hard to understand why "The Lion King" was not given the same distinction. The two films are more or less equal in quality, and the nominees for the honor that year were not strong.If you haven't already, see "The Lion King." You won't be disappointed.


                
In 1994, I was 9 years old when my aunt took me to the local cinema to see the "new animated Disney Film" called "The Lion King" I'm 32 now...In all honesty, the world has changed a lot since -94. In life and in the world we all live in. I wouldn't say that I'm worried about the future. But I think we all feel the ground shaking beneath us....The projector started rolling and "The Lion King" came on the big screen. ..From the very first scene, I was BLOWN away! - The Music! - The Colors! - The Characters! - The Voices! - The Story Line, Drama and Comedy!In this adventure, EVERYTHINIG comes together so amazingly perfect. It made me "choke up" for the first time, it made me laugh out really loud, I was captured from the first frame to the last."The Lion King" is arguably the best animated feature film to date. The film is flawless, an absolute masterpiece in animation. It deals with great loss, hope, friendship, love, and despair. It strokes every emotional string you have! Trust me. This is truly a film for everyone! Your age, gender, what country you're from, or currently live in is irrelevant. This film will capture you in ways that will make you remember what being human is, and will leave you with that extra special feeling that if experiences like this exists? Maybe things are going to be alright after all. <f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+008A>My dear friends!This is a film you shouldn't miss! It is a TRUE masterpiece in every aspect! Let these 1,5 hours be part of your life!


                
The Lion King is a classic from Disney. I remember going to the movie theater/cinema and watching the film...I was exactly 8 years old. And until now, with 19 years old, the good sensation of watching this movie is the same as that time. My mother even bought me Simba's doll! =)The story takes place in Africa, where Simba, son of Mufasa, is very well protected by his dad.(sometimes with the help of Zazu, a bird that is kind of a counselor of the king Mufasa)Everything goes well, but there is one problem: Scar, Mufasa's brother, is jealous because he is not the king of the jungle, and decides to do a plan to kill Simba and Mufasa. Simba escapes, but Mufasa dies; Scar tells Simba that he is guilty for Mufasa's death,and the terrified Simba runs away, too sad of what happened. Far from his kingdom, Simba meets Pumbaa and Timon, who takes care of him and teaches about Hakuna's Matata philosophy. Everything will be very well for a long time, until Simba meet again his childhood friend Nala ,who tells him about the horrible things Scar is doing in the old Kingdom.
I being an Animator watched this movie over and over. The quality of animation, movement and voices behind the characters all were so good I have this movie in my collection.This movie was the best animated movie for me in 1994, but still is. The creativity in screenplay, dialog, character development, environment, music, etc. all are masterpieces. This movie is outstanding and exceptional for me.


                
This is in my top 3 animation films of all time. I don't think that any animation film before it managed to enter the hearts of both children and adults at once like this one. An ensemble cast with such a gripping tale, great music and superb animation, made this one of the all time greats. The characters are so well flushed out and each scene is so memorable. I cannot stress just how good this film is. Without a doubt the peak of Disney and to this day they have not made anything this original and so influential. The creators gave us such a good villain and great hero's that in my opinion shows that an animated film can be just as good or if not better than a real life film.


                
The Lion King is not just my favourite animated movie, its one of my favourite movies in its own right. The animation was amazing, and captured the essences of the Savannah brilliantly. The story and plot was one which people of all ages, not just children, could follow and understand, an impressive achievement for an animated movie, one scene in particular wouldn't leave a dry eye in the house, no matter what age the viewer may be, such was its emotional power. The voice acting was some of the best I've seen, particularly James Earl Jones, Rowan Atkinson and Jeremy Irons, and of course Nathan Lane and Ernie Sabella, who at times were flat out hilarious as Timon and Pumba. The music and songs didn't disrupt the scenes they were in, if anything they added to it, particularly the opening song The Circle Of Life which was the best opening to an animated movie I've seen so far. Some have criticized the portrayal of certain animals like the hyena's and the movie doesn't depict life on the plains accurately, well the correct response to that is, its only a story and it isn't meant to as its not a nature documentary. This is a timeless classic which will never age, the fact that it took twenty years for another animated movie to overtake it as the highest-grossing animated movie is a testament to just how brilliant this movie is. A classic which all the family will enjoy.
This may be an unorthodox way to start a review, but hey it's as meaningful as i'll ever be for a review. My lucky number is 14. I was born on August 14th. My birth sign is Leo (Lion), my State Football Team is the Lions, and its been 14 years since i'v seen my favorite movie from my childhood; The Lion King for the first time. And now I had the honor to experience it in the theater. From the moment the black screen faded to the rising sun along on the African Plane, with opening Zulu lyrics playing to Circle of Life, I got chills up my spine and my lips were shaking as they were forming the biggest smile I think i'v ever had. Now of all the films to come out these past years like the final Harry Potter, Avatar, Inception, Super 8, Transformers, etc. I want make this clear; The Lion King was the funnest time i'v ever had at the Movies! I don't even care for it being part of the 3D effect.I wanted to see it in the theater as if it was the opening weekend back in 1994. It's still The Lion King, but in a sentimental way (If your a 90's kid) it makes you completely feel dropped back into your seat like it's was the first time viewing it. The story of a young lion prince, Simba (Jonathan Taylor Thomas and Matthew Broderick) framed into killing his father Mufasa (James Earl Jones) by his evil uncle Scar (Jeremy Irons). Then flees from his past and meets Timon (Nathan Lane) and Pumba (Ernie Sabella) whom teach him "Hakuna Matata" (Literally meaning No Worries). And in the end Simba returns to be the one true king. The story may be considered Hamlet with lions, but it's so much more than that. Most in part of the fun characters, humor, and still having the true drama and emotion that makes The Lion King what it is. The 3D added depth to the film and actually didn't give me a headache. Zazu flying overhead Pride Rock, the music sequences, and the stampede scene are better than ever, yet I'm sure the new generation seeing it will probably be emotionally scarred for life. I don't want to be a "Lion King is the Best Disney Movie Ever" Guy without mentioning it has a flaw. Which is its quick resolve with the last 40 minutes of the movie. Yeah, Simba is intervened by his old childhood friend Nala and crazy shaman blue butt monkey Rafiki to go back home from his 'time away from home' that almost feels like the 10 second log scene in Hakuna Matata. In any way it still doesn't turn you away. Then add the key ingredient to a classic Disney Movie; Songs! Just another element that adds to the formula. Elton John and Tim Rice won an Oscar for their work on this film! And who's to say they don't deserve it? Circle of Life, Just Can't Wait to be King, Be Prepared, Hakuna Matata, Can You Feel the Love Tonight, and even Timons Hula Song! It took every bone in my body not to sing in the theater but hey, now there's another reason for multiple viewings. I want to say to those who are curious, there is no "Morning Report" song in the film! Disneys Classic 2D Animated films are true Disney.Disney mixed meaningful and powerful themes with maximum entertainment in a perfect way that are what make true classics. Today any critic from the New York Times can slap a comment on a movie saying it's a "classic" when really they can't say in 10 years people will be talking about it. But hey, Hakuna Matata! In the end if you want a luxury of seeing (Arguably) Disneys best film on the big screen than don't hold back. It will really make you feel like a kid for an hour and a half, and also give you witness to Disneys most beautiful masterpiece that isn't just Dinsey's Best, but possibly one of the greatest achievements ever made.....The Lion King!


                
That was the first movie I've ever watched in a cinema. I was a kid and I remember crying while watching - I was in love with the characters and I was feeling them. They felt so real to me. Now... actually, as a grown person, now is the same. Characters are so believable and so realistic. Watching the movie as an adult brings a whole new meaning. The good and the bad characters from the movie are like the people I meet everyday in real life. The story is full of morals which I think are really important for young kids these days. I think that The Lion King is a must for every child and adult! With it's characters and plot, it can really move you and the kids might actually learn something from it. It is far better than modern cartoons full of meaningless action and dialogue.


                
This is one of the best movies of all time. Not just in terms of animated movies, but ALL movies ever made.One of the last films in Disney's 10-year era of blockbusters and critically acclaimed films.Magnificently animated with incredibly well-composed music. It is more an art than a movie.This film has everything, Mystery, Romance, sad moments and moments of great joy. It's a film for all ages, even those who do not like animated / cartoon can see the class of this movie.The sad thing about this film is that no one longer creates masterpieces like this.10 out of 10.


                
This is the most incredible movie I have ever seen. Sounds silly? It may, considering it is an animated film which a majority of people don't take seriously when in the subject of the greatest movies anyone has ever seen. I personally love animated anything, whether it be cartoons, movies, shorts, etc. The Lion King *IS* the king of all Disney films. We all know the tragic tale of the death of Simba's father, even if we had not seen the movie, thus recognition and praise this movie receives absolutely deserves it no less. This is my favourite movie. The art is simply fantastic. The animation is just breathtaking. The story -- though based off of 'Hamlet' -- is beautiful and will leave you in tears. The voice actors and actresses did an impeccable job for each of the characters' personalities. I especially adore the music. The Lion King had introduced me to African music and I have loved it ever since. The songs in the movie such as "Can You Feel The Love Tonight" (one sung by Elton John, and one sung by Kristle Edwards along with the voices of adult Simba and Nala, both pieces of which I love and listen to everyday) and "Hakuna Matata" are divine and catchy, not to mention adorable. I cannot say how much I love this film. I'm in love with it. The producers and directors and every person who had contributed to the making of it did a marvelous job. Overall, this movie is PERFECT. I've watched it a hundred times already and I'll watch it a hundred more without feeling the slightest bit sick of it.


                
I hadn't thought much of The Lion King back then because I'd watch anything. But now that I'm older, I can see why many people agree that it's one of the best movies, and I agree. There may be spoilers ahead, so you have been warned.The animation's great, I really like the songs (especially Circle Of Life and Be Prepared), and I also like the characters (like Mufasa, Rafiki, and Timon and Pumbaa). Out of Disney's protagonists, I feel that Simba's story is one that'll always be told for many years to come. From a cub who can't wait to be king to an exiled prince whose father had been killed by his uncle and finally to be a king, retaking the Pridelands from his cruel uncle Scar. This movie has some hidden good values as well, such as heroism, faith, hope, and reconciliation.That's why I think that The Lion King is not only one of the best Disney movies, but it's also one of the best animated movies ever. So on a scale from one to ten, I'd give it a perfect ten, and I'd definitely recommend this...and even though The Lion King (1994) will always be better than The Lion King (2019), I hope the remake will be good.
I believe that a great movie is one that clearly conveys a strong message. One that you can use to justify your views on various topics. Only a hand full of movies delivered the aforementioned attribute as well as The Lion King. Although this film's plot is enough to prove its brilliance, factors like voice-acting, background themes, dialogs, etc give an attentive viewer more to be impressed with. Case in point: James Earl Jones's voice boosted Mufasa's powerful appearance. The voice had a commanding tone which rivaled Mufasa's powerful roar. Likewise, there are many details that can make this movie the face of Disney. It has been more than 10 years since its release, and it still boasts a strong stance against far more graphically advanced movies. Kids as well as adults can enjoy this flick, possibly without snacks. I rate this film a ten out of ten while suggesting that everyone watch it at least once.


                
Keep this movie in the family! Great story and there's never a dull moment.


                
