For starters, I've been a big Disney and animation fan all my life; seeing Pinocchio at a pretty early age and "Robin Hood" on its initial release made huge impacts on me, and by the time this film came out I'd caught up with all of the Disney features. I loved - and still love - the early work, and have mixed reactions to most of the stuff from "Peter Pan" through "Oliver and Company" with a few exceptions. "The Little Mermaid" seemed like a return to form - and a return to the fairy tales that the company always seemed to do best with, and I liked "Beauty and the Beast" even more. "Aladdin" was alas a major step down - still pretty solid in the animation department, but Robin Williams' shtick was for me completely out of place and irritating. It was of course their biggest hit to that point, and they took some of the lessons they'd learned - less romance, more slapstick and gross humor, celebrity voices - and applied them to "The Lion King" with even more spectacular results.For 15 years this film has ranked among my worst films of all time, and every time I mention that I get people reacting as if I told them I was the Antichrist. Seriously - I think more people will get bent out of shape if you tell them you hate "The Lion King" than if your feelings are negative about "Citizen Kane", "Casablanca", or "2001". It's always struck me as weird, because I know I'm not the only person to dislike it, and in fact none of the friends I saw it with when it came out liked it much - though none of them hated it like I did either.I think that the main problem for me in 1994 is that the elements that I disliked from "Aladdin" in particular seemed amped-up several degrees here. I hated Whoopi and Cheech, hated the music, hated above all what I saw at the time was an infantilist assault on intelligence and wit - the smartest and coolest character in the film, Scar, also is pure evil, and all of the "good" characters are white-bread, boring, stupid. Dumb and strong triumphs over smart and clever; the songs sucked; the animation was coarser and less interesting than in the previous couple of films. I suspect that there were a lot of personal issues that contributed to my overwhelming hatred of the film, too, but those are lost to me at the moment.I'm pleased to say on this re-watch that I don't HATE the film anymore. But I still don't like it. The issues with the treatment of Scar - not sure what I was thinking there, that was over-the-top on my part. Sure Jeremy Irons' voicing of him is in many ways a typical smart but venal character, a Godless intellectual I suppose - but it's not really that overstated or deliberate, it doesn't come off as anti-intellectual to me anymore. James Earl Jones' Mufasa may not be a genius, but he doesn't come off as a dumb noble-hearted brute either, and nobody can really beat Jones in that kind of role. The opening sequences are somewhat impressive, and the film is rarely boring. I actually sort of liked the shaman baboon character Rafiki (Robert Guillaume), and it's good that young Simba (Jonathan Taylor Thomas/Matthew Broderick) takes a fair amount of screen time to grow up.But...I still hate the music; "Can You Feel the Love Tonight" I actually found tolerable in relation to the other songs, but even it was so cloying and just banal that I had a hard time not fast-forwarding. This is purely a matter of taste, I make no bones about it - I like very little of Elton John's post-1970s work and so it's not surprising really. I still find the hyena characters irritating, unfunny, and way over-used. The female characters are essentially just there to move the action forward - no, the film ain't obviously racist like I guess I thought it was (though it's rather confusing in its racial and ethnic undertones) but it's definitely a boys' film. Timon and Pumbaa are gross and annoying and the film as a whole just has no sparkle, no wit to me. The animation doesn't have the zip or the beauty of the previous few films; the direction and pacing seem more inevitable than exciting, the "spectacular" scenes like the stampede that kills Mufasa just don't come off as all that spectacular as the digital help is too obvious and cheap-looking.In any case, it wasn't torture to watch anymore, and it's actually reawakened an interest in going back through the Disney feature canon, re-watching some of the ones I don't remember well and catching up with a few of the newer ones that I never bothered with after being disappointed by this and "Pocahontas" in succession.
I find many people describe this film with extreme fondness. I watched it again today after not watching it since I was a child, maybe a little over ten years ago. I really cannot believe the big fuss and when I read reviews on here to see what everyone loved about it I couldn't really find anything and to be honest it just seemed that everyone was stating the obvious 'the songs,' which were the only terrific thing about the entire film, and the fact that they 'loved it as a child,' but children love what everyone else loves, can you really point out something that can really be admired? Do people not consider the incoherence of the plot? I have seen many reviewers see the film as I do, and they tend to point out the things that people don't seem to realise, such as the extremely annoying characters and the fact that the characters are almost... scrambled-like throughout. It's hardly a story. And I know you could say well maybe I liked it as a child because it is a child's film but as many people have stated it is not - because of the violence and depression. What irritated me most is how the film makes you feel sad at the death of Simba's father, yet Simba himself just runs away and almost immediately seems to feel indifferent towards the situation! He just DOESN'T care! He starts singing hakuna matata for goodness sake!!I struggle to see why this film is so loved.


                
A little balance, I hope, to offset the rants of some of the single-star-ers: after years of having "The Lion King" simmering in the background of my film-going conscience, we finally bought it for the kids for Christmas and watched it tonight for the first and, at least for me, last time.The Simba/Kimba thing has been mentioned here enough, so I'm going to focus on this from a story-and-character point of view. <U+0095> half-hearted (read: rather pathetic) attempt at explaining away the "we eat animals but when we die we become grass so what goes around etc." concept (or restated, the prey animals know their place in the big picture and consent to being eaten <U+0085> nice if you're the lion), but let's not get too deep into the mythologies this film supports (patriarchy-as-common-sense, benevolent dictators, ma-'n'-pa family model as the ideal, Africa as one big national park) <U+0095> poor character development. Simba is just shallow and his change of heart towards the end is cheesy. <U+0095> by comparison with films like "Toy Story" or even the "Ice Age" franchise, the writers simply seemed to lack imagination. Perhaps they cancelled each other out, considering that this was definitely not the brainchild of a single writer<U+0085> whatever, the result is pretty watery <U+0095> Scar is barely scary, nor is his scar ever explained. He comes off as being effete and lazy and conniving, which is fine, but like all the other characters here he's completely two-dimensional from start to finish. A mediocre villain at best. <U+0095> A lot of the Americanisms in the dialogue left me cold: this was clearly pitched at a Disney-loving US-English audience <U+0095> Mostly cheesy humor. Second time I've used cheesy here, must mean something. Lots of mediocre puns, a few good ones. And somehow, references in films like this to classic lines from far more adult and accomplished films like "In the Heat of the Night" and "Taxi Driver" (both get a nod from Pumbaa in his "Are you talking to *me*? -- THEY CALL ME MR. PIG!" sequence) come off as cheap and Disney-American in the worst sense. Some brightish moments when Fuzu is the unwilling object of a "pounce" lesson and the look on Nala's face after her dip in the pond, some decent character voice work from Rowan Atkinson and Jeremy Irons despite the lines they were given. <U+0095> Characters appear at opportune moments with no sense of them being there for any other reason than an easy out on the writers' part: Musafa rescuing Simba from the hyenas, e.g. or Simba rescuing Timon and Pumbaa from Nala. <U+0095> The orchestral music is overblown, the songs largely forgettable. Strange, considering the involvement of Tim Rice. I'll leave Elton out of this: apart from "Tommy" I was never a fan. Although Timon's anti-romance intro to "Can you feel the love tonight" is pretty good (just the intro, though). <U+0095> Just why the heck did the river run dry just because Scar took over the pride? <U+0095> For a "family film" this is pretty high on the violence scale, not least the slow motion and totally uninspired slugfest between Simba and Scar. <U+0095> Enormous plot holes and missing info: Did Simba really get that big and strong on bugs alone? Why did Scar have so much access to little Simba when Mustafa obviously mistrusted his brother? Where was Simba's mum all this time? Just how did Simba pull himself back onto that rock at the end when Scar had him dead to rights? Etcetera. <U+0095> Some egregious examples of explaining away plot points in the dialogue, especially how Nala just happens to stumble across Simba again. <U+0095> Cloying and sentimental far too much of the time.Okay, that's my two cents for now. I could go on, but would it be worth the effort? The best I can hope for is to persuade a couple of potential viewers to make better use of their time than with soft-boiled tripe like this.
Unlike the majority of its Walt Disney brethren, The Lion King was written directly for the screen and does not find its roots in either a fairy tale or popular children's literature. It relates the story of the young lion Simba, who is destined to become king of the pride one day when his regal father Mufasa steps down. This does not sit well with Mufasa's villainous brother Scar, who concocts a scheme to eliminate Mufasa and then convince a guilt-stricken Simba that the death is his own fault and he should exile himself from the pride. Simba befriends the unlikely duo of a meercat and warthog and they become friends during his exile, until his childhood friend Nala arrives to apprise Simba of the ruin that Scar's villainy has left the pride and beg for Simba's return.Although the plot is fairly familiar and clichéd for a new story, there is a lot that could be done here. Unfortunately, Simba is such a passive, uninteresting central character that it is difficult to care much about what happens. Other than Simba, Mufasa and Scar, the pride pretty much blurs together. Simba's mother is a virtual non-entity and Simba's female friend Nala is gone for so much of the running time that you nearly forget she is a character in the film. Other than the comical meercat and warthog team (well voiced by Nathan Lane and Ernie Sabella), none of the supporting characters are especially memorable, and that duo has little to no impact on the climax. It also does not help that Scar (lazily voiced by Jeremy Irons) is a fairly dull villain. His first act number where he sings about his nefarious plans is disturbing, not only because of Irons horrendous singing, but because someone had the ill-conceived notion of having hordes of his hyena henchmen goose-stepping in the background like Nazi soldiers, which adds a heavy weight that this slight film cannot carry. The film also has a fair amount of dead spots between songs and fight scenes.The animation is typically first-rate, but not as impressive or imaginative as that found in its predecessors, even as recent as Beauty and the Beast and Aladdin. The vocal talent is a mixed bag as well. While Lane and Sabella are stand-outs and James Earl Jones provides the suitably dignified tones for Mufasa, Matthew Broderick is an incredibly bland choice to voice the adult Simba. Ditto, Moira Kelly is not much better as Nala. Whoopi Goldberg and Cheech Marin are not particularly menacing as some of the hyenas.Huge gaps in the story seem to smack of really lazy writing. Mufasa is supposed to be an insightful leader, yet is completely blind-sided by the evil plots of his nasty brother, whose perfidy is ridiculously blatant. Once Scar is king and demonstrates that he is terrible, the film would have us believe that not only are there no other male lions to challenge him, but that the lionesses would passively put up with him destroying the pride without any show of resistance. This, of course, sets up the scene for Simba to return as a savior and rescue the pride while facing down Scar, but there are several things wrong. First, the film never convinces us that there is a need for anyone to await Simba's return when the pride could have banded together themselves to challenge Scar and his minions instead of suffering. And second, Simba does nothing during the course of the film to demonstrate that he could be anyone's savior other than that he is Mufasa's son and the plot rather ham-handedly demands it of him.I am also not a fan of the soundtrack written by Elton John. The film opens with the "The Circle of Life," which is a sequence that heralds the birth of Simba, introduces the main characters and sets the stage. Unfortunately, I find this song comes off like one of the worst examples of faux-inspirational Christian rock. "I Just Can't Wait to Be King" sung by the young Simba feels like a third-rate Michael Jackson riff. "Hakuna Matata" is probably the best of the songs, but it is surprisingly forgettable. And the less said about the dirge-like love ballad "Can You Feel the Love Tonight", the better. It is a horrible song badly shoe-horned into the film. Old childhood friends Simba and Nala rediscover each other and then immediately start fighting, then the film pauses for the love ballad, before they go back to fighting and parting. It is a clumsily staged sequence and one that more often than not has the little ones tuning out. Ironically, the song that sticks with the viewer after the film ends is "The Lion Sleeps Tonight", the old 1950s nutshell which gets a few bars sung in the film and easily outclasses John's pretentious and precious piffles.Purportedly this is Walt Disney's biggest box office success, but it is hard to understand why or how given some of the landmark classics in animation that Disney has provided in the past. I don't find the film fun, or memorable, or particularly astonishing. In fact, barring the dreadful Hercules, I would rank this as one of the worst of the Disney films.
Rarely have I watched a "kids" or "family" animated full-length movie and felt so unsatisfied, finishing the viewing with a frown on my face. This didn't happen the first time; just on the second and third looks. The film just got worse the more I watched it.Maybe I got more culturally aware. I saw how much New Age baloney was thrown into this film, with Elton John singing about the "circle of life," and a bunch of other more subtle Left wing propaganda that is typical of the Disney company.The villain, and even the little hero, became more annoying in multiple viewings. Once again, the more I watched this, the more unappealing both the characters and the story became, not just the "theology." Nothing in the story is boring, however. The characters are interesting, from the lions to the hyenas to the warthog and his buddy (who provide most of the comedy in here.) The graphics are top-notch with some of the animation - especially in the beginning - just gorgeous.


                
I am simply amazed at how much positive response this emotional hodgepodge has received since its release back in the summer of 1994. As a young teenager back then, I saw it opening weekend on the big screen and remember thinking that it was a very visually engrossing film. In terms of capturing realistic movements and sweeping scenery, the animation in THE LION KING had easily surpassed any of its animated predecessors, and for that I found the movie fantastic. As an adult now, I realize just how superficial my initial attitude toward the film was. If there's one thing that today's overabundance of CGI has taught me, it's that there's more to a film than just "looking good". You need story, compelling characters, an original and well-defined conflict, and, especially in the case of animation, an artistic hand with which to draw. There's no denying that many talented artists were at work on THE LION KING, unfortunately too much effort was put forth in animation achievements and too little in developing a solid story and a clever script. Like many other IMDb users, there's no denying that this film was adapted from Shakespeare's HAMLET, just as Disney's 1988 film OLIVER AND COMPANY was adapted from Dickens' OLIVER TWIST. I wonder why Disney did not acknowledge its blatant robbery of subject matter. This is unfortunately just a minor detail in my dislike for THE LION KING. This was, in my opinion, the first in a series of many films that signaled the deterioration of Disney's traditional hand drawn animation department. No doubt about it, they were in a definite slump in the 1980's: THE FOX AND THE HOUND, THE GREAT MOUSE DETECTIVE, THE BLACK CAULDRON (ugh!), but with a fresh new crew in their animation department and a galvanizing reinvention of the formula for animated musicals in THE LITTLE MERMAID, it seemed that Disney had gotten back on its feet. Alas, THE LITTLE MERMAID, BEAUTY AND THE BEAST, and ALADDIN were merely Disney's Indian summer, for with THE LION KING came a completely new generation of animated films. With THE LION KING and its followers, viewers were bombarded with a predictable stories, numerous pop culture references, an obnoxious slew of celebrity voices, dated 90's pop songs, campy humor, and heaping spoonfuls of sugary melodrama. Don't get me wrong, many of Disney's previous efforts had many of the same deficits and only a handful of them would I consider near-perfect, but the animated flicks of old never attempted to sell out their audiences in the way that THE LION KING did. Yet somehow all of these flaws are what made THE LION KING the most successful animated film in Disney history. Call me old school, but I do not think that Walt would have approved of this. Since THE LION KING's release and the replacement of traditional animation with CGI, animation I feel has lost its art. I dare you to re-watch LADY AND THE TRAMP, BAMBI, SNOW WHITE AND THE SEVEN DWARFS, or anything made pre-1960 and compare it to such 90's fares as THE LION KING. You will notice that the films today no longer resemble moving paintings as they once did and as was the original intention of animation. Still, my opinion of THE LION KING, as well as the rubbish that followed (POCAHONTAS THE HUNCHBACK OF NOTRE DAME, HERCULES...okay, MULAN was not bad up until its pop-music ending..THE EMPEROR'S NEW GROOVE???!!!) seems to be the minority. None of these later Disney flicks were works of art, they were just another form of advertisement---predictable story with the feel-good moral of an ending, comic relief sidekicks, a pop song rolling during the end credits, etc. Yes, they all have very admirable morals (what makes a true hero???...it is important to embrace diversity...who's the real monster here???)but (gasp!!!) that's unnecessary political propaganda. Disney wasn't always that wholesome (Does anyone remember the Siamese Cat song from LADY AND THE TRAMP or "What made the Red Man Red" from PETER PAN?) and, even when they did take America's sensitivity into consideration, it never overwhelmed the entire project. Oh well, censorship is a completely different subject that needs not be addressed in this review. The point that I'm trying to make is that somewhere along the road animation was no longer considered art but simply cheap entertainment guaranteed to make money. And when I hear praise for films like THE LION KING for merely manipulating the general population with special effects, melodramatic plot twists, pop songs, and cheesy one-liners (not to mention lame attempts at comedy via ninja-fighting), I think back to when an animated film was not just a movie, but an idea, a seed, a creative project, an event, and and art form, and I am saddened.


                
All credit where it's due, on a technical level, THE LION KING is a very well put-together movie. The colors are vivid, the character's movements are fluid, and it's just a very pretty movie to look at. I give this movie a bad rap all the time, but even I have to admit this. My problem is that it's been unbelievably overblown for twenty years. Disney marketing got it into their heads that this is some sort of high prestige experience; bigger than all their other animated fluff, and warranting of blind praise from everyone. It's impenetrable for me because I haven't been able to listen to the soundtrack for two decades (and the movie's big on its music). 1994 radio was saturated with both the Elton John songs and the Simba numbers, and I haven't been able to hear any of it again since. For a musical, that's kind of a deal- breaker.Story-wise, it definitely works better when you're a kid. The characters aren't obnoxious and Simba's reckoning isn't shallow. But it's just such nauseating material. The whole thing's built on pomp and spectacle, but there's nothing underneath. 3/10
I'm sure I'll get many down votes on this review, seeing that so many people seem to think it's this amazing animated experience. Well, this is just my opinion, you can like it or leave it, to each their own and I only hope I never have to watch this thing ever again.I only ever saw The Lion King twice, both times were involuntary. The first time, I was six years old, sitting in a movie theater with my parents and eating this nasty bright yellow popcorn. So, the movie began, and I nearly fell asleep sitting through the annoying intro music and strange "lion birth ritual" thing with this wizzled up monkey holding up a lion to the sun (by that point I was hoping the monkey would drop the lion off the cliff but sadly not all wishes come true). For the next little while there was some dopey singing that I'm surprised didn't give the whole audience brain damage, and this scene with these freaky drunk-looking hyenas (I was six, it freaked me the hell out back then). Next thing I know the father lion gets killed, which shocked all the kids in the audience, many parents carried their screaming and crying children out of the theater by that point, mine included. Thank you mom and dad, you saved my childhood.Recently my friend dragged me along to see it again at her house (she's a huge Disney fan, I'm more of an X-Files and Cold Case person). She kept on saying, "isn't this a masterpiece? It's so breathtaking!" and all I could do was try to block my mind of the two annoying singing animals (a pig and a squirrel-thing) who were on-screen singing this bizarre new-agey song thing and they adopted the baby lion, god knows why. Well, I told her exactly what I thought of The Lion King, and it involved many swear words. Her comeback to me was: "You only hate it because it's Disney, you just don't understand its amazing moments!" Alright, true, I'm not a big fan of Disney, I think it's a load of commercialized, always happy garbage that stupefies children. That being said, there are a few Disney films I didn't mind: Alice In Wonderland (the 1950's cartoon version), Mulan, Lilo & Stitch, The Beauty and The Beast, Monster's Inc., Toy Story, The Aristocats and Oliver & Company are the few Disney films I've seen and thought were okay."You hate it because of the singing!" was her next argument.Well yeah, the songs in this movie were terrible, that goes without saying. But it would be dumb to hate a movie based primarily on its soundtrack."You hate it because it's popular!" she said then.Harry Potter, Goosebumps, The X-Files, Criminal Minds, Cold Case, A Nightmare on Elm Street, Romero's Living Dead films, those films/TV shows are extremely popular and I love them! The Lion King is just stupid, plain and simple."Okay, then you hate the actors," she concluded, looking unsure of herself at this point. (I just wanted to go home).I have nothing against the voice actors, they weren't bad (my all-time favorite actor, William B. Davis, has never been in any Disney movies, thank god).In my opinion, The Lion King was just a stupid movie and a waste of time, nobody has to agree with me. But I'd say it deserves 3/10 stars, definitely not the 8.5/10 stars it currently has.
There are a million other Disney movies that are sooo much better than this one! This movie is just boring all throughout. Also,i felt it was too scary for children. It made my little cousins cry. The songs were bad in my opinion. I hated every character, and i really didn't care what happened to them, really i just wanted this movie to end! Disney is capable of so much more, which I saw in 2015 Cinderella! That Beats out this any day of the week. There just wasn't anything for me in this movie, very bland and boring. I really don't know what else to say about it, it was bland and poor! I'm giving The Lion King a 3/10 for being a poor attempt at a family film by Disney.


                
Long live the king :((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((
I know that this movie is absolutely atmospheric and the image detail and score are wonderful (hence the 3 stars) but as a Disney animation for the family, it is NOT appropriate for kids 6 years and under. I have an almost-6-year-old daughter and a 4-and-a-half year old and they aren't wimps, but The Lion King had far too much tension, dark moments, chase/fire scenes for them. My daughters couldn't even finish the movie, I had to turn it off before half way. However, for +10 year olds it is fine. I remember watching it when I was 16 and really enjoyed it (but I wasn't bothered with watching it again: another reason it gets less than five stars, I only give more than 5 stars to movies I want to and have watched more than once).


                
