I'm not a Disney convert. I didn't like what I saw of Disney movies as a kid and by the time THE LION KING came out in 1994 I was 13 and couldn't be less interested in kid's films anymore anyway. Decades later, I've finally watched it for the first time and the experience has reaffirmed all of the negativity I associate with Disney animation.This is over-simplistic, spoon-fed pulp for the masses. The story is copied from HAMLET and simplified to get rid of all the complexity. The characters are trite and one-dimensional without anything in the way of depth or motivation. Jeremy Irons' bad guy is that just because. The positive thing about this is that the character animation is very good indeed, although I found the backdrops simplistic in the extreme. The comedy relief is laboured and the songs trite. The whole experience washed over me without touching or involving me once, and don't get me started on the exaggerated voice acting.
OK I know I am probably alone here, but I was a little disappointed with this film. Maybe the hype surrounding it gave me greater expectations, who knows? I thought it was a good plot, (although an overused plot in movies)and some of the characters were really good. But I found parts of the movie boring and the music not up to Disney standards. Elton John got an Oscar I believe, but can't see why.Best parts of the movie are the interactions between Simba and Scar. In fact I thought that Jeremy Irons performance was outstanding.The animation was pretty hit and miss I thought.So sorry TLK fans but I wasn't thrilled by this movie.


                
Difficult to deny the worldwide success of this Disney animated musical from which already has sprung a sequel, a theatrical show and now, we hear a live-action remake in the near future. And yet watching it for the first time, I'd be lion sorry, lying if I said I thought it was top drawer Disney. I've liked Elton John's music too for many years too but again didn't feel the songs he contributed (with Tim Rice as his lyricist) were his best work even if it did give his career an unexpected boost at the time.So what's not to like...well I struggled a little to side with the ruling Mafusa who when asked why it was okay for lions to eat antelopes, lamely proffered the line that lions turn back into grass when they die which then feeds the antelopes as part of the circle of life...that's not my understanding about evolution in the animal kingdom, where I thought survival of the fittest was the raison d'etre. I know the film is almost 25 years old but I also thought the animation quality wasn't of the highest while the characters repeat stock situations and emotions which Disney still peddles today, i.e. rebellious youngster leaves home before returning to heroically save the day against big bad baddie, in this case Simba's uncle Scar. Oh and of course there are cute side-attractions a-plenty, like the meerkat that thinks it's Groucho Marx, his less-than-sharp wild boar sidekick that definitely isn't a pig and a witch doctor funky gibbon all helping Simba in some way or other. I didn't really think the hyenas who support Scar were especially malevolent either.Maybe I'm just an old stick-in-the-mud but I just didn't think "The Lion King" lived up to expectations. No worries though or as they say in the film Hakuna Matata.


                
I'm not going to apologize to any of the idiots who may get offended by this comment. The Lion King is a really really really dumb movie. It is crap. The plot is extremely superficial and the characters are all so quickly spun and consistently shallow that by the end of the film I couldn't care less who won the day. To be honest I was rooting for Scar (at least he had the cool creepy voice).Raves about the celebrity voices? I'd rather have people I don't know speaking the lines. It gets distracting when you know that the hero is Matthew Broderick, or the villain is Jeremy Irons or Whoopi Goldberg, or whoever. And since when are all African lions American or British?Raves about the songs?! THEY ALL SUCKED. I only remember three of the songs (were there more?) The circle of life (even I have to admit that the first 5 five minutes of the movie were impressive), I Can't Wait to be King (possibly - no certainly - the most annoying song ever to be created by Disney, topped by the most out-of-place and contrived dance scene, and it was also reminiscent of the Beauty and the Beast classic Be Our Guest...extremely tacky, all in all), and Hakkuna Matata, which almost ties for most annoying song, because for years it was being shoved down the public's throat through toy and soundtrack promotions.I am a huge Disney fan, but this movie made me doubt my allegiance. To all duped consumers out there: If you want to see good Disney; if you want a movie that will entertain children and adults; if you want to hear good songs; if you want developed lead and secondary characters; if you want to see a plot with more dimensions than a sheet of paper; then see Beauty and the Beast, or The Little Mermaid, or Aladdin. Give this one a rest!


                
I wish I could rank this higher, but considering the material that this film stole from that isn't possible


                
