This movie was such a sweet heartwarming tale. It had its funny moments its action it really is a perfect movie for the kids. And for the adults the acting was great and it had a very good story very predictable but not when I was a kid.This movie is about a young lion cub "Simba" who is tricked into thinking he was responsible for his fathers death so ridden with guilt he leaves the pride and goes off on his own. He grows up on his own but meets lifelong friends on the way.This was such an adorable tale. Everyone is sure to love this movie exspecially the kids but the adults will find it very sweet and heartwarming as well.


                
The lion king is a beautiful and hopeful film destined to be a classic 
Don't be fooled this movie is not only for kids 
Recommended


                
The Lion King is viewed by most as the peak in Disney's renaissance period and remains, to this date, the highest grossing 2D animated film of all time. With Disney on such a high expectations were, while this was increased by the superb vocal talent and wonderful animation, and for many those expectations were met. Though a lot are going to disagree with me, I have to come out and say that I think the film is kind of overrated. That doesn't mean I dislike it as a matter of fact I agree that it does have fantastic elements, but for the heaps of praise it gets I'm not sure if it holds up well enough.The story is effectively a toned down Hamlet. A lion prince named Simba is born, meaning that his cruel uncle Scar is now second in line to the throne. Scar plots to kill both King Mufasa and Simba, succeeding in killing Mufasa and making Simba believe he was at fault. Simba flees the kingdom and remains in exile for a number of years, until figures of the past challenge him and he must return home to take his rightful place as king. The story is a very interesting one, it is a much more mature than you would expect from Disney and I really enjoy it for that reason. Everything that happens seems to happen for a reason and there isn't any filler as far as the plot goes. After all this is a very big story and telling it in a cohesive mature manner works very well.The other impressive feature is the animation. It's clear that the animators put a lot of work in to create such a visually pleasing place for this to all happen in. The colours used give the place such a bright beautiful look and it is actually quite authentic looking too. Scenes of bird flying over the vivid landscape or of the sun shining over the land are so beautiful to look at. The character designs were also very good, like the contrast between the powerful Mufasa and the slimy Scar. The sheer scope of things is another wonderful aspect, such as when Scar's paw first comes down or the later Wildebeest stampede. Even things like the backgrounds look massive which gives an extra size to this world.The characters are rather hit and miss. Simba is a bit of a bland lead, he is just a kid for most of it but he does come off as a bit too boring and even obnoxious at times. He doesn't get any better the older he gets and Matthew Broderick's voice only adds to the dullness. Mufasa is just a brilliant character. He is designed wonderfully, has some really interesting characteristics and James Earl Jones' booming voice is perfect for it. A lot of people rate Scar as a top villain yet for me he's just decent. He is enjoyably devious and Jeremy Irons clearly has fun with the role, but he does come off as not that smart and a bit snivelling in the end. Zazu is very funny with Rowan Atkinson delivering some good lines and Rafiki is also very likable for coming across as a good friend. I'm not a big fan of Timon and Pumbaa as they come off as a bit annoying and wink at the camera too much, though they do have some amusing scenes. The Hyenas were daft but entertaining, while I think Nala was underplayed too much.I do have issues with the film. The message that it is trying to get across is an interesting one in how we must learn from the past to move forward. The problem is that when Simba confronts his past nobody believes him until Scar says what really happened. Looking at this you can't help but feel Simba would have been better off lying and that harms the whole point of the message. Also I think a lot of the comedic elements feel very misplaced. For a story as grand and serious as this I can't help but find that the comedy is too trivial at times which is distracting. As mentioned Timon and Pumbaa just feel a bit misplaced because they're jokes are slightly too silly. If done well, like with Zazu or the hyenas antics, then its nice relief but otherwise it doesn't work.Also I really find that the songs are a mixed bag. 'I Just Can't Wait to be King' and 'Can You Feel the Love Tonight' just come off as your typical pop songs and there isn't anything truly catchy or memorable about them. 'Hakuna Matata' is another one everyone loves, but for me it's just annoying. On the other hand however, 'Circle of Life' is a brilliantly grand number that opens the film perfectly and 'Be Prepared' is really catchy with some very enjoyable singing from Jeremy Irons. Elsewhere there are some really memorable sequences here. The circle of life opening is something that everyone should remember, the wildebeest chase is visually stunning as well as pulse-pounding, Simba talking to Mufasa in the clouds is sadly beautiful and the final battle sequence does have some great images. Also I thought it was very brave decision to actually show the body of Mufasa after his death. In fact going on from that the movie does have a very strong emotional core running throughout that is very welcoming and smartly used.On the whole I do think that The Lion King is a very accomplished piece from Disney, I just don't find it as engaging as most people do. This is a big story with a lot of big elements, I just find that whilst most of the work some of them aren't quite as successful. I do wish other Disney films were as acclaimed as The Lion King, but I still find an entertaining and well-made film.


                
The Lion King made a big splash when it was released in the mid-90's. I missed it then, but saw it recently because of my 3 yr old son. I've also seen other animated-family comedies like Shrek, Finding Nemo and Ice Age in recent weeks. Given the leaps in digital technology achieved in the past decade, The Lion King looks very dated. The animation and colors are not as realistic and vivid as 21st century Pixar-Disney offerings.This is basically a child-friendly take on the Hamlet tale with Denmark replaced by the African jungle and people replaced by lions, and other animals, notably a parrot, hyenas etc. The Elton John soundtrack is still quite good, with The Morning Report and Hakuna Matata standing out. The dialogue is not nearly as witty as that of Ice Age or Nemo but still appealing for kids. We have James Earl Jones and Jeremy Irons voices for two vital characters, and both have magnificent voices for animated movies. Irons even sings a song or two and has a pretty pleasant voice.


                
One can't argue, that "The Lion King" is one of those movies people expect you to know when the conversation comes to films. After years of missed chances I finally managed to close this hole. Of course, as far as I can tell, I'm not exactly the peer group for this title, so I won't be judging too hard.The movie tells a nice story. One of those typical stories of good and evil, betrayal and loyalty and the difficulties of finding yourself. Wouldn't it be for the animals, it could as well be some historical drama. Whilest you don't get bored, partly due to the humorous sidekicks, the plot in itself is not really all to innovative.The big strength of the film is in my eyes the soundtrack, that produced quite a few classics that even I could recall. Singing in movies is always a risky thing but in this case reminds me of the old day Disney movies, where singing was almost something like a brand mark."The Lion King" is short, but I'm sure children will be able to fall in love with the exceptionally drawn characters quite easily and therefor have their fun. Personally, I didn't quite see why this particular title has so much more credit than many other comparable movies but it entertained me well for an evening.
We enjoyed this film immensely. Great voices for the characters, including a compelling villain. Loosely follows the story of Shakespeare's Hamlet.


                
I just love this movie since I was kid in early 2000's.
So I have love about Bloopers, YTPs and more about it.That's all I can say.
Great movie The Lion King is a great film. Along with a great story (inspired by William Shakespeare's Hamlet), terrific animation, and an all star cast of voices, there are the lessons that are learned from this film (despite being a little rough for the younger children). Like responsibility and honor.I rank this animated film among the great films I have ever seen. It was part of my childhood and it is a film experience I will never forget. And hopefully, you won't either. love this movie i will suggest to watch this movie you will enjoy.animals can think they also have feeling and desires they also want to live freely and happily in their own world we should not waste forest and should protect forest
The Lion King isn't a bad film. It just doesn't have anything unique and the songs are annoying as hell. The story also has a ton of stuff that isn't explained. Why doesn't Scar kill young Simba after killing Mufassa. Why does Nala travel all the way to where Simba was living with Timon and Puamba. Why is there a drought, famine, and bad weather when Scar rules. There are like all these animals, so why don't they overthrow Scar. When Simba returns to face his actions, no one supports him until he finds out he didn't kill his father. Why does the land turn back to normal after Simba returns. This is probably the most overrated Disney film, but not the worst.


                
This movie is pretty good. Except for a few dumb moments and ideas, this movie is very entertaining with great animation, story, and voice acting. If you haven't seen this movie yet, I'd recommend watching it.


                
It was a wonderful Disney movie. The great thing about The Lion King was that it probably had the best Disney villain there is: Scar. It was him that set this movie apart. Scar was pure evil; so evil that he's willing to kill his own relatives in order to become king. There were many other great Disney villains, but Scar is something else, and possibly the best of the lot.
For sure I am a Disney-fan. But perhaps I don't like the enormous media hype which is there whenever a new Disneyanimation hits the cinemas.The power of this movie is that it's both for kids and adults. And because I am a bit of both! I had the time of my life! DO BELIEVE THE HYPE!


                
Tricked into thinking that he caused the death of his own father (James Earl Jones), a young lion cub (Jonathan Taylor Thomas) flees and abandons his destiny as the future king.Disney's strongest period in recent history was the late 1980s and early 1990s. They consistently released hits: "Little Mermaid", "Aladdin", "Beauty and the Beast". The princesses from these films have taken their place alongside the classics (Snow White and Cinderella). Until "Frozen" twenty years later, this success would not be repeated."The Lion King" came at the end of this cycle, and did not feature a princess (at least not in human form). But it is still a great tale of loss, redemption, triumph. Many would place it among the top three Disney cartoons ever made.


                
I know my score does not seem all that high, but trust me from me a seven is good for a motion picture of this type. This one, unlike many other Disney musical cartoons is a film I say was pretty good. The songs were okay and fit the story well and the animation was rather good and the story not all that bad either. The humor was funny, and though it got semi serious at times the flow of the film was good and never really bogged down even when it did tend to be a bit more on the sentimental side. The story of a young lion cub, who is the son of the lion that rules the valley is nice. You watch him progress through this life and you meet the villain Scar who hatches a plan to not only rid the valley of this cub, but the father as well who happens to be Scar's brother. He does this with help from the hyenas and after seemingly succeeding with getting rid of those two, he takes over the valley and lets the hyenas do as they wish. Well unbeknown to Scar, the son, Simba, has survived and he becomes friends with a couple of funny characters Timon and Pumbaa. They add a lot of comedy to the film and I really laughed at the scene where they sing their song as a distraction using Pumbaa as basically bait. So a nice movie that ends really quickly and is good even to a guy who usually dislikes this type of movie this one is a nice treat.


                
This is a wonderful movie, I must say, overall, the best children's movie I can think of! But it's overrated, especially in comparison to other movies: shortly below The Lion King, is To Kill a Mockingbird, an American classic, while the movie is certainly not as good as the book, I can promise you, it is far more thoughtful, intelligent, and overall deep than The Lion King, that is just considering the story, but I don't think the animators broke any new ground. Contrary to popular belief this is most certainly not the greatest Disney movie, American Disney, kids Disney, yes... However, over in Japan, lies Studio Ghibli, I suppose comparable to Pixar, in its association w/ Disney. And they have made Spirited Away and Princess Mononoke,and be cautioned they are not children's films. And if you look online you'll find several people who can point out that several Disney movies are essentially just kid's versions of many classic and original Shakespeare plays.


                
I suppose it's fun to re-visit a Disney film every now and again; The Lion King holding a rather special place in my psyche as well as my heart for it was the first film I ever saw at a cinema. Needless to say; watching it now for perhaps the first time proper since that cinema viewing hasn't made me like it or love it any more than I perhaps did then but it hasn't made me dislike it any more, either.The Lion King was made at a time when Disney was booming. The 1980s wasn't exactly a great decade for Disney but what with The Little Mermaid, Aladdin and the best picture Oscar nominated Beauty and the Beast; Disney were thriving. So there was an expectancy behind The Lion King and watching it now, it does deliver on an entertaining and well told and well animated level. I laughed at some of the jokes, couldn't remember certain scenes and generally enjoyed it. But the film does feel like it is orientated at children more than adults. The general synopsis for the film does not rely on a love story like The Little Mermaid, Aladdin or Beauty and the Beast did but rather uses a theme of self discovery with a rather meek love plot entwined between Simba and Nala; the two lead lions of the narrative. This would suggest more of an infant target audience as the film would like to think it is educating young ones on how to face your fears and beat your demons etc.But this isn't a criticism, merely an observation. Aladdin was as routine love story as you could ever get but it included the genie as a post-modern stroke of genius that made the adults laugh. Similarly; the complicated love story in Beauty and the Beast, full of emotions and situations kids won't have experienced yet had the items of furniture that amused and entertained on another level. In The Lion King, there is no get out clause; there is no escape hatch that the film can rely on to get across to two demographics. I suppose if Simba's journey of enlightenment is supposed to be aimed at adults then the buddy combination of Timon and Pumbaa are supposed to be kid orientated but I didn't see it entirely this way <U+0096> yes Timon and Pumbaa seem adult enough but they remain too lacking in everything else what with the emphasis of toilet humour cropping up every now and again.Like most Disney films, The Lion King suffers from its issues with race, religion, class and/or gender. People will deny it but that's only because they cannot see it. The lions in The Lion King are golden brown, beautiful and voiced by Americans; all apart from Scar who is brown with a black mane. It's no surprise that he is the 'evil' one and is consequently English, voiced by Jeremy Irons. There is also the shameful representation through the hyenas: one is Mexican, one is a mute retard and the other may well be voiced by an American (Goldberg) but in truth; the character is a big, black, loud, 'man-eater' of an animal. Watch Aladdin when the title character steals a loaf of bread and the representation of the fat black woman who hugs him whilst saying the line: "Still I think he's ravishing!" There is also the character of Timon who is the victim of Disney's most cruel representation. Timon's gender is confused; it is neither male nor female and his name is too ambiguous to be classed as one or the other. Timon is extremely effeminate and embodies very 'touchy-feely' traits around Pumbaa; frequently stroking his rear-end and stroking his nose and general facial area. Timon's voice actor Nathan Lane is also homosexual and I read that the line towards the end where the distraction tactic of 'dressing in drag and doing the hula' was improvised, further embodying homosexual traits on this character. Now; whilst my specific class/race/sexuality/etc. wasn't targeted to extremities (Scar was English, like I am but I'll look past that); I still feel these sorts of things are highly unnecessary in a film I've already established is child orientated.The characters are also obsessed with food. There is frequent reference to food and hunger. The lionesses report no food which angers Scar, Pumbaa belches before announcing that he is 'starved' and the Hyenas live in a constant state of looking where the next meal will come from. There is also heavy emphasis on how Timon and Pumbaa get by on nourishment by eating bugs. Perhaps this is reference to Africa's state of affairs regarding health and food with the Ethiopian humanitarian crisis of the 1980s fresh in memory. The Lion King also suffers in its obvious plotting: the hero has a wrong belief but needs a mentor to come out of the blue to aid him in his correct quest which I found a little forced and unoriginal for a film made in 1994. But the message about the 'circle of life' and the ideas that you confront your demons when required is good with Mufasa himself saying "I'm only brave when I need to be; I don't go looking for trouble." The film clearly saying that picking fights is not a good idea.The Lion King also has time to throw in a domestic relationship featuring Simba and Nala. They meet up; reminisce; Simba shows her around and to 'Can You Feel the Love Tonight', they make love before breaking up the morning afterwards. Incidentally, the sex is witnessed by Timon who displays disappointment and disgust. The Lion King is a somewhat strange film but has fun with its plot and its characters and is an enjoyable animation film on the whole with one or two tragic scenes particularly standing out in memory for me; both then in the cinema and now.


                
The 32nd animated Disney classic is one of Disney's best known films. It is considered by many 'the best' of Disney. I don't agree with that, there are better films. But still, it is the last of a kind.I first saw it in the cinema in December 1994, with my parents, sister, godfather and his wife and kids. I was 10 at the time. It was in a cinema I used to go many times back then and which I first saw other Disney films, like 'Aladdin' and 'Beauty and the Beast', for example.The original 1994 version is the true version for me. The version with that dumb 'Morning Report' scene has no reason to exist and is completely unnecessary. Seriously, did they think that people were really gonna accept that? Aside that it's the same movie but why changing a movie, even if it's only for 1 minute?The beauty of the artwork is one of the film's best attributes. It shows us beautiful landscapes of Africa and includes, among other things, the gorgeous sunrises and sunsets characteristic of Africa. We know this takes place somewhere in Africa but we don't know where exactly. They call it "Pride Lands" in the film...The lions and lionesses are extremely well drawn and handsome and their roars are very realistic, so much that I wonder if they used real lions in stage or if it was very talented people roaring like that.Simba is very pretty and cute as a lion cub and grows looking similar to his father. Mufasa always fascinated me and even now he still fascinates me: he is a gorgeous lion, powerful, with an imposing and majestic figure, a strong voice, a brutal strength and an amazing physique. Mufasa really is a 'Sir Lion'.Scar is one of the great Disney villains and he really has that cold and harsh look on his face and eyes.Timon and Pumba are two goofy but funny characters. They are clearly stupid, but more of a comic relief than anything else. I don't particularly like the hyenas, but Ed is a funny one, perhaps for being a mute character like Dopey ('Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs') and Gideon ('Pinocchio'). It's hilarious when Ed laughs hysterically because of the way Mufasa scared them away.However, Mufasa's death is one of the most severe things for a child to watch and the sequence itself is depressing, easy to make some tears come to our eyes.As for the voice cast, talents vary, but some do an excellent job, like James Earl Jones as Mufasa, Jonathan Taylor Thomas as infant Simba, Jeremy Irons as Scar and Rowan Atkinson as Zazu.The soundtrack is great. It has two versions of 'Circle of Life' and 'Can you feel the love tonight'. In the case of 'Circle of Life', I like both versions. In the case of 'Can you feel the love tonight', I prefer Elton John's version.I also enjoy the songs 'Hakuna Matata', 'The Lion Sleeps Tonight', 'Be Prepared' and the silly song 'Asante sana squash banana', but I adore 'I Just Can't Wait To Be King' and those instrumental-vocal songs which resemble African sounds and at the same time they have this dark feeling in them. The movie's environment is a mix of paradise and darkness.


                
This was one of the first modern animated movies I had seen and I did enjoy it. I went into watching this thinking I wouldn't like it at all and did so that's a plus.I liked this movie in many ways. Obviouysly it was very sweet and touching and the complete aura of realism was there for an animated picture. There were moments I cried, the story was just so touching and I can see why this movie was..is.. so big.However, as much as I liked it, I don't think it was as good as Shrek(just my opinion-I KNOW many will disagree with me on this one!)Shrek probably makes my 50 top films ever. Lion King however was a major influence for me because had I not liked it, I may not have given other similar films a chance.One thing about Lion King. It was heavier then I thought it would be. There's some tough to watch scenes and I was a little surprised they'd be there in a movie that so many children would be seeing. I was expecting a much lighter movie but it was a beautiful film.However, although I wouldn't put this in the same category as Shrek(meaning, for me, I wouldn't necessarily want to watch it over and over as with Shrek) I'd still give it a well above average rating. Lion King was an extremely well done, moving picture.
This is one of the most popular and important Disney animated movies of all time. It's dark, emotionally stirring, and hard to watch at times. It has a great story about revenge and although the plot isn't entirely original, the movie handles it so well that it didn't bother me. The intro is very memorable and it will forever be remembered as one of the best movie intros of all time. I'm not going to spoil anything but a particular characters death is handled so well that it made most people cry bitter tears regardless of their age. It's probably the most saddest scene for any animated film. Like most Disney animated films, it offered adult themes which makes it good and enjoyable for grown ups as well. With some Disney films my nostalgia wears off but with this film, it gets better every time I watch it. Its final act has more action then you'd expect to find in a Disney film. I did rather enjoy the ending scene. Also, it has one of if not the best movie soundtrack of all time too. It perfectly fit the mood and setting of the movie and it's pretty catchy. It's a must see for all animated movie fans,


                
When i watched The Lion King for the first time, it was about 15 years ago. I was very young, and the death of Mufasa made me cry. And this year, I went to the cinema to watch The Lion King 3D. I had thought I would not cry this time, but i was wrong. I cried again in the same scene. It is still an awesome animation. through watching it, i felt this movie is actually based on Hamlet, which is kind of orthodox now. The basic story lines of the two are pretty much similar. Simba and Hamlet went through their fathers' death whose responsibility is on their uncles, and they try to fight against the evil uncles. Dead fathers' shapes make them feel guilty by keeping saying "remember." Still, the two works are different at the same time. Simba overcame all the problems and revenged his father. The Lion King ended happily ever after, unlike Hamlet. The differences are from the existence of Timon and Pumbaa, no doubt. The tragic question "To be, or not to be" gets replaced with "Hakuna Matata," and the fact makes the wholly different endings. The two amazing and priceless friends are truly huge parts of the movie.This time when i watched it, I felt sorry for Scar a little bit. When i was young, Scar was an absolute villain to me, but i think Scar could be a pathetic thing which desperately desired to be a king. (anyway he definitely did wrong things) maybe I grew too much. Just as Spring comes after Winter, as Simba has his son, i hope the pure days come to me again.
Disney pull off another magical film with The Lion King. From great characters to superb music this film has it all. Despite telling a simple story Disney capture all the features and elements that make their films so beloved and loved. The voice cast is right on the money and the sentiment that can often cloud this type of film is subtle and emotional. If ever there was a Disney film that perfectly captured the spirit of pure family entertainment it was this one.This film was a huge success for Disney and catapulted them back to the top of their game which judging by this film is exactly where they deserve to be.


                
Disney returns to style with 'The Lion King', a great story for the whole family about a young lion and his destiny.This young lion's name is Simba, but they might as well call him Sambi, as it's the tale of a young animal who has to face his responsibilities after the death of an elder, in this case, Simba's father King Mufasa.Evil genius is uncle Scar, who wants to rule himself, and he does as Mufasa gets killed and Simba leaves the kingdom, thinking he's responsible for his fathers death.Movie lightens up a bit then with the introduction of the hilarious Timon and Pumbaa, then turns heavy-handed again when Simba reclaims the crown when he returns to the kingdom.Fantastic animations and a compelling story make it an experience world wide, although the songs aren't the best IMHO.Overall: 7/10.


                
This is probably why J.R.R. Tolkien was so against the use of allusions: has anybody noticed paradox of making Scar--through a song and dance routine, no less!--a Hitler-figure?  If he were really akin to Hitler, wouldn't he be creating a scapegoat race--or in this case, a scapegoat species--and run around killing all of them (or more likely having them killed) for the sake of the purity of the species?  Instead, he makes an agreement with the hyenas--who are hated by everybody in the pure Prideland--and actually honors his promise to them until the tide finally turns so far against him that he has no other way to survive than to finally make them the scapegoat. Also, Hitler was a great propagandist (I mean that in the most derogatory way possible), and I'm sure he built up the hatred against the Jews/gays/blacks/gypsies/etc. for a number of years before the genocides actually started.  As a propogandist, Scar makes a lousy Hitler (again, spoken sarcastically): he brings in the SS hyenas immediately, as if he expected them to suspect his murder of Mufasa and retaliate against him; instead (though in the script they don't) everyone should have suspected him, as his little speech and the sudden appearance of the hyenas could only have been planned well ahead of Mufasa's death (*smack*smack*smack* quick round of knocking the lions' heads together for their stupidity).  Someone as slick as Scar is supposed to have been should have known better than that; it is only the sheer dumbness of the lions and their supposed fear of the pitiful little hyenas that allows his assassination/coup to come off without a hitch. Going along with that, Scar is portrayed as being far too obviously evil, so much so that it's hard to believe nobody but Mufasa and Simba though that he was power-hungry and back-stabbing before he murdered Mufasa (though if Mufasa didn't realize it during the confrontation scene after Simba's ceremony, then somebody needs to have smacked him upside the head and yelled, "Duh!").  I suppose you could call that a gaping plot hole (or at least a major lack of good judgment of character) that Mufasa would expect for his brother to help him.  Obviously, Scar is meant to be a Shakespearean-type villain, like Ursula and Jafaar before him, but he is really too lacking.  NEWS FLASH TO DISNEY: Yes, Shakespeare's villains are obvious to the audience, but that's because there were scenes where their deceptions are revealed only to the audience, not to the characters being deceived!At least Ursula made her snide comments under her breath in asides.Besides Scar, a great movie.  Look for his amusing cameo in Hercules--a fate worthy of Hitler.
...but not this one.  The Lion King is Disney at its family-oriented BEST! This is one of its few films in recent decades that belongs with its classics!  The animation is great, the voice-acting superb, and the characters...well, quite animated!  Don't just rent this one, it's a keeper.


                
Okay that's a bit of an unfair quote, as The Lion King is that rarest of beasts: a really good Disney movie. Packed with all the formula highs of past successes (including, Bambi-style, the bizarre kiddie favourite of a murdered parent. What does that say about infant psychology?), yet its sentiment tempered with an Eastern outlook, this is a worthwhile picture.Cute, but never so that it's twee and self-conscious like most of the studio's output, the animation is more sophisticated than the now-creaky "classics", yet it steers clear of the more angular, abstract pieces of late. This is a traditional cartoon, and all the better for it. If there's a complaint then it's perhaps the too-brief running time, stretching to little over eighty minutes. This is particularly evident when Simba grows from cub to lion within ten seconds, though the film does contain the requisite three acts.Some great vocal characterisation (Whoopi Goldberg's hyena even strangely looks like her), but I'm not sure about Scar though. So named because he's facially disfigured, he's also darker than the other lions, complete with black mane and has an English accent. Three Hollywood villain stereotypes for the price of one. Though as the voice in question belongs to the superb Jeremy Irons this isn't too much of an issue, and he does meld the film with a darker element. In particular the (delightful, mind) SS symbolism of Scar's army during the best song, "Be Prepared". The reference would be lost on the child audience, so it's pitched to the adults. I wonder how many holocaust survivors would find this in good taste?There are some decent jokes, many puns on the nature of lions <U+0096> "As far as brains go, I got the lion's share"; "I'm gonna be the mane event"; "my words are a matter of pride" <U+0096> and "What's eating you?" "Nuthin', he's at the top of the food chain." The rite of passage plot is as generic as the majority of the songs, yet both are loveable in context. I don't know if Buddhists would approve of their philosophies being transformed into Mickey Mouse morals and tracks by Elton John, but it still works in a naive way. Odd too how the lions accept the nature of karma and respect for all animals. Whenever I watch a Richard Attenborough show they're always tearing out zebras' hearts with their bare teeth. Still, I suppose they had to keep it a U certificate somehow...Some movie referencing combined with violence towards the end are dubious occurrences. Yet that and a couple of fart gags not withstanding, this is an innocuous affair that epitomises family entertainment. 7/10.


                
