This movie's story was written solely by Disney Studios, about a young lion, Simba, who was forced into exile by his evil Uncle Scar, who wants to take control of the jungle before Simba claims it. Life in the jungle declines under Scar's rule as Simba abandons his identity and meets new friends, Timon and Pumbaa, in another part of the jungle.Roger Allers and Rob Minkoff directed an exciting movie, adopting more of what I think are some of mainstream Hollywood's intense drama and comedy styles, seen in such parts like Uncle Scar and his crafty hyena goons chasing away poor Simba like gangsters pursuing a helpless hero, and the parts of the more modern day jokes and punchlines made by Timon and Pumbaa. The movie is also full of drama and action that will attract an audience of all ages, providing a great source of entertainment. It is compelling to see how Simba tries to wrestle his way out of his doubts as he tries to find his true identity and compelling to see Simba's family try to overcome adversary under Scar's rule. This is also a powerful story about courage, duty and identity (noticable as Simba tries to find his way) and the importance of family. Hans Zimmer did a good job on the music score and Elton John wrote some memorable songs like "Circle of Life" and "Can You Feel The Love Tonight." The toe-tapping "I Just Can't Wait To Be King" is my favorite.The characters are likable and, like the plot's style, take on more of a mainstream Hollywood approach. This movie differs from the more earlier films such as "Cinderella" and "The Jungle Book," and even the later films such as "The Little Mermaid" and "Beauty and the Beast." "The Lion King" doesn't have that Disney touch you've come to expect and love in many of the fairytale and adventure movies, signaling that Disney films have evolved immensely over time. Even though it's not one of the more conventional Disney films, "The Lion King" is still a very good movie to watch due to its original concept, captivating story and memorable characters.Grade B+


                
This is my favourite animated Disney movie ever. It has a good plot, good storyline, good characters and good villains. This movie is a must see for any kid and I'm sure a lot of adults enjoy this movie too. Basically its about a lion cub simba who is future king of the pride lands but his uncle scar wants to be king and so forms a plot to kill simba he doesn't succeed in killing simba but instead kills simbas father. Scar convinces simba that it is his fault his father died to simba feeling upset and guilty runs away. Some scenes are funny and some are sad. This is a movie I could watch over and over simply because its a great movie as I have already said a must see for anyone especially Disney fans. I give this movie an 8 out of 10
The Lion KingThe Lion King uproars family drama into tragic, guilt and revenge with the help of funny and soothing characters that brings out life in a musical act.


                
Excellent movie which I would cherish all through my life. The whole movie is well scripted with screenplay smoothly flowing like a river. The narrators have given life to the characters through their graceful voices. This movie was a benchmark for all the animated cartoons featured later in the history of films. The movie revolves around the emotions of father lion towards its cub and vice versa. This movie is definitely one among st the favorites of 90's kids. I was really moved and touched by the climax sequence and the scene where the dad lion will be assassinated.Though there are sequels made, my favorite still remains this one.
If this came out when I was a kid it would have been my favorite Disney film. My generation had "Lady and the Tramp" (1955) and "101 Dalmations" (1961). Me, I was always fascinated by wild animals and when it comes to lions, the idea that they were the 'King of Beasts' was icing on the cake. That's why I never missed a Tarzan or Jungle Jim flick when they came on TV back in the day.Well I'm not a kid anymore, so I guess there's no reason to qualify it. This can still be my favorite Disney movie. There are some good lessons here for youngsters, the whole circle of life business and the idea that being brave doesn't mean you have to go looking for trouble. Animation wise it resembles a lot of the older Disney pictures, only natural since it was the last of their hand drawn features. There's a simplicity to the style that's missing from the high tech wizardry of present day animated films. I don't think that means there's a better or worse here, times and technology change so why not movies.Cool comical characters like Timon and Pumbaa, and regal heroes like Mufasa and the adult Simba make this a fun picture. I especially liked the scene where Simba as a cub stepped in his father's footprint making him realize he had big paws to fill someday. The conflict with Scar and the hyenas was positioned well to help Simba understand that early failure is not indicative of future success. Colorful, quick paced and energetic, "The Lion King" is a delightful film experience.
Hakuna Matata, the catchphrase that this movie made many say for years, the movie is full of action and fun, that has made it one of the best 2D animation one could see, the movie dialogue is also intriguing and funny, the movie which seems to be in three parts, the first being Simba's life in Pride rock, his life with Timon and Pumbaa where he loses some of his Lion instincts and the last part where he goes back to Pride rock to reclaim his throne. The Lion King was the first Disney animated feature to be a total original story, all other animations before it have been based on an already existing work. The idea of the movie was conceived during the promotion of Oliver & Company, the idea was basic: a story about animals that will be set in Africa. The filmmakers, then went ahead to build the story taking ideas from the lives of Joseph and Moses (from the Bible) and William Shakespeare's Hamlet.The movie production began during the time of the production of Pocahontas, many of the animators and directors at Disney felt that not many people will want to sit and watch a little Lion cub who is framed for murder (murder of his father) by his uncle, for that reason alone many of the animators wanted to work on Pocahontas instead, but to their surprise although both were financially successful, Lion King made more money (it has become the highest grossing 2D animation ever) and received more positive reviews.The voice casting for Lion King, was full of stars from Matthew Broderick, Jeremy Irons, James Earl Jones, Rowan Atkinson, Whoopi Goldberg (just to mention a few) and even Disney's long time voice artist Jim Cummings was also available in this unending list of star voice actors.The movie plot of Lion king is about a lion cub named Simba who gets framed for murdering his father (Mufasa voiced by James Earl Jones) by his uncle Scar (Jeremy Irons). Simba runs away from his right as heir to the throne and meets and befriends a meerkat, Timon (Nathan Lane) and a warthog Pumbaa (Ernie Sabella). Things were going well but the past that Simba ran from found him where he was hiding and now Simba (Matthew Broderick) has to go back to Pride Rock to face his past.Lion King is a nice animation to own and watch again. Two home video sequels were done of the movie, The Lion King 2 (not worth watching at all) and The Lion King 11/2 (good enough to be seen), and a series about Timon and Pumbaa was also done, which was amusing.www.lagsreviews.com


                
One of those 90’s classics that I had enjoyed during my schooldays was a beauty to watch again recently. Though the story is just an odd family drama where the less capable brother overthrows the king by deceit while his son runs away; only to return years later to undo the injustice and regain his throne. Where “Lion King” excels is getting this story out of animated animals and put in a way that kids would love.Pride Rock in Africa is where the earth is green and animals live in peace in the reign of the great lion Mufasa (James Earl Jones) who is assisted by an old wise monkey Rafiki and a loyal bird Zazu (Rowan Atkinson). Plotting with the hyenas, Scar (Jeremy Irons) causes a wildebeest stampede and kills Mufasa while Simba (Jonathan Taylor Thomas/ Matthew Broderick) takes the blame for putting his father in fatality’s way.Consequently, Simba runs away to a distant land where he grows up in the company of Timon, a meerkat and Pumba a warthog, characters so lively that their “Hakuna Matata”, the no-worry song is one of its biggest hits with its infectious positivity. In a chance encounter with his former playmate and destined lover Nala reminds him of his unfinished business at home. Wiser now, Simba returns to claim his due!Made in times that can nostalgically be remembered as the days when animation still had the old artistic beauty with just the right mix of CGI. “Beauty and the Beast” and “Anastasia” too come from a similar time and won accolades for their Music. Though its sequels or games weren’t too appealing, the original is still a masterpiece. You can’t just miss those adorable characters, each filled with life and character! No description of “Lion King” can be complete without a befitting praise to its songs. While Hans Zimmer won the Oscar for the best score, Elton John’s Can You Feel the Love Tonight in the credits is its best song. The judicious mix of African vocals in “Circle of Life” the deep darkness of “Be Prepared” and childish fun of “Can’t wait to be king” keep ringing much after the movie is over and even after years pass by! With its short runtime of just over an hour, it doesn’t take away much of your time but doesn’t at all fail to take you into itself. Neatly edited, there is never a time that you get bored with it. Though technology has moved light years after Lion King, I’d still say that if you have missed watching it back then, better run and grab the DVD!
After 12 years I re-watched its DVD version and I still love it. It's simple, straightforward but excellent for everyone.Simba, a young lion, is going to be the future king. But his vicious uncle, Scar, who is so jealous of him and his father, Mufasa, cooperates with the Hyenas, kills Mufasa and makes Simba leave guiltily. After years Simba has grown up and met his best friend, Nala, again and decides not to escape from his guilt any more.Music is always Disney's strength and it's particular good in this film. The songs has already become classics and it's really cheering when you listen to them. With them you just don't feel like watching the film for one and a half hours.The message is very positive. Disney makes use of the impression the public has of lions to show that even someone really strong can be weak sometime. No matter what has come what you should do is face it and deal with it but not run away from it.This is one of the best Disney's animations and I'm sure both adult and children will enjoy the story and music and won't get bored even if you watch it for a few times.


                
This was my favourite movie for the longest time. The music, the animation, the voice actors, they all did a great job. But looking at it again there are somethings that don't work, such as why did Scar reign cause a drought? But anyway I still found many things that I still enjoyed. The comedy for me works very well, I laugh so hard whenever I see this movie. The songs, although all very catching, listening to them again I found some were annoying and were just alright. But I found that the orchestral score greatly outshines the singing ones. The voice actors, especially James Earl Jones, do a great job and I see them fit into their roles perfectly. The movie also gets some of its story from one of Shakespeare's greatest works, Hamlet. And finally, the animation is spectacular. Every bit looks grand and big. The style looks great. The scenes go from colourful and cheery to dark and violent. The climax, almost similar in power to Bambi, is one of the best in Disney's history, mixing powerful emotions and visuals. All in all, I must say it's still one of my favourite of Disney movies.
"The Lion King" is a very good movie. It's entertaining and funny. It's moving and overall a very satisfying film. But if I went through this review listing everything that's good about "The Lion King" it would be to long. It does have all of the characteristics and a technically fine movie so I will just go over some of the little things that kept me from giving this film a slightly higher rating.The story, while completely technically proficient with all beats hit, felt a little thin to me. The story works fine, but it doesn't really explore the world of "The Lion King" and flesh out the atmosphere as I feel it should. It felt like there were missing scenes now and then.The only other complaint is rather minor. I felt the animation was a little poor at times. While this film is mostly quite beautiful and a joy to behold, at some points the animation just felt limited. Mostly it was because of lack of detail in the environments, and small amount of character environment interaction. However like I said this amounts to be a small complaint.Overall this is just a really good film. 7.9/10


                
Many saw this movie. People of all ages, older and younger, have appreciated it. But a movie is always aiming at a particular target public. The movie was really "speaking" to the teenagers, who respond radically to "the Lion King" by buying songs and videos, and by singing to the "pride land's" rhythms.The movie is truly a masterpiece of animation, though many confirm that the storyline was borrowed from a Japanese anime. It's style is classical and really "cleancut". Colors, atmospheres, and musics, all combined to achieve an extraodinary emotional film. One of the best. Only surpassed by Disney's Mulan, which was more complete.A classic! 8* on 10


                
The Lion King is unquestionably a first rate animated film - my daughter counts it as one of her favourite films of all time (and pinched my copy of the DVD when she left home!). But something about it doesn't quite work for me.The story is excellent, and I love the way that Simba's story is effortlessly tied in to the (non-preachy) circle of life broader picture.The voice talent is all excellent, character design and animation first class, the emotional high (and low) points are all reached as planned.Maybe it's the songs. I like Hans Zimmer's score, but I must confess to not liking all of Elton John's songs (particularly The Circle Of Life itself).And maybe it's just because I am becoming a grumpy old curmudgeon. Because, without any doubt, it is an absolute classic children's film.Edited 10 October 2011 after seeing 3D version at the cinema.Am I correct that this reworking is the first full-length 3D film using traditional drawn animation? Whether it is or not, it is a terrific conversion: it adds an element of visual majesty to a film which is already very good.
One of the most beloved animated films The Lion King is a great take on Shakespeare's Hamlet. It must have been clever on the part of the studio heads to use the Shakespearean template and apply it to one of the most beloved of animals- the Lion. The animation is gorgeous, the voice actors are very good and the soundtrack, albeit criticized as not being as memorable as other Disney films in some corners usually gets it right. The spectacular "circle of life" to open the film should be singled out. This is one of the best films of the Disney Renaissance period.


                
It may have been the anticipation that my wife built up in me over the last month waiting for Disney to re-release this movie, but it just wasn't exactly as exciting as I thought it would be. Still giving the movie a 9 rating as it was a good movie; however, there were many parts my 4 year old daughter did not understand. This caused us to pause the movie on numerous occasions in an attempt to explain. This was a great educational experience for her, but took too much discussion and took a little bit away from the flow of the film. On another note, the movie was rather short (88 minutes) which is actually great for an animated movie. Many of the movies today are 120+ and just cannot keep the attention span of a child that long. 88 was great!


                
Everyone recommended it. They told me it was the best Disney movie ever. I had seen almost all the Princess films. I have also seen a few other Disney films. Ever since then, I have seen so many classics.It's hard to explain. On one hand, this film was VERY well done. Good characters, good plot, good story, good effects, good music, no cheesy everyone-goes-into-the-middle-of-the-street-to-dance sequences, etc.On the other hand... I don't know. It seemed to lack something. To be honest, most movies no matter how awesome they are, lack something. I guess near the end when the evil lion was about to be eaten, having the good lion save him even though he did all those bad things, would have been interesting to see. However, it went quite well.But in this case, I'll have to rate it 9/10 because it's a classic! :)
Alright, so the comment about Hamlet and The Lion King is more-or-less Accurate. It has many of the same ideas, about the father murdered by his brother, and the son seeking revenge. However, Nala doesn't go insane and die, Simba doesn't go insane, he just goes on a "simbacation" and some other things. The main reason that it seems very similar is because both stories are full of Archetypes, which if you don't know what that is, look it up. it's very interesting. It is a great movie and i really don't have a problem with the comparisons to Hamlet. In my AP English class we discussed that very comparison and then discussed why it's not quite the same. Overall, good.
The lion king is one of the best if not the best animated movie of all time. Rowan Atkinson and Whoopi Goldberg are great for the roles they do and this movie should be seen if you haven't yet. Also, great animations are another plus for the movie.85% Very good for an animation film.


                
This is definitely one of disney's BEST looking animation. The character animation of this is so fluid and the colours just leap. But my lord, the backgrounds are masterpieces. This film is pretty much a paintng come to life. I do like the story, but Timon and Pumba are the stars of the film. They are just so funny. The film is as amazing now being an adult, but it still is amazing.


                
This movie is good for the whole family. And the songs in the movie are great as well


                
One of the most beloved animated films The Lion King is a great take on Shakespeare's Hamlet. It must have been clever on the part of the studio heads to use the Shakespearean template and apply it to one of the most beloved of animals- the Lion. The animation is gorgeous, the voice actors are very good and the soundtrack, albeit criticized as not being as memorable as other Disney films in some corners usually gets it right. The spectacular "circle of life" to open the film should be singled out. This is one of the best films of the Disney Renaissance period.


                
The Lion King is a story that we all know. After watching it as a very young child, I decided to watch it again as a 15 year old. This story follows Simba, the next in line to be King. His father, Mufasa is killed by Scar, his brother, however Simba is taught by Scar that it is his fault. He runs away, only to meet new people and learn new outlooks on how to live life. I review this film in the mind of a child. It was warming to the heart, action packed (but not too much because you know, kids) and even enriching to the mind. Just what you want in a film for children, and what Disney generally delivers. It however does not have the magic that people are expecting in a Disney film, but that is not to be expected. It did not however make me feel as child like as other Disney films. This movie is solid, and a great watch for all of the family.
Out of all the animated features that the Walt Disney Company produced, the film that is the most celebrated nowadays is coincidentally the one that made the most money. That film being their 32nd full-length animated feature, "The Lion King" (1994). Now the question I'm sure almost everybody will want me to answer is this. Do I think that the hype surrounding this film is well deserved? While I can say that "The Lion King" is still a good movie, I honestly think that there are better Disney films out there than this one. I know I'm shocking most of America with that comment. So why do I think that "The Lion King" is not the best Disney picture like everyone else seems to think that it is? We'll delve into that later. But first, let's look at the main plot. Mufasa (James Earl Jones), the ruler of all animals in Africa, and his wife Sarabi have given birth to a young lion cub named Simba. His birth is celebrated of course with him being presented to the other animals of the kingdom by a loyal baboon. Mufasa's brother Scar (Jeremy Irons) is jealous that Simba will succeed Mufasa as king and hatches a plan with the hyenas to kill them off and take the throne for himself. After Mufasa is killed in a stampede, Scar places the blame on Simba for his father's death and orders him to get out of the kingdom forever. Simba almost dies trying to evade his home, but is saved by a meerkat named Timon and a warthog named Pumbaa. Timon and Pumbaa believe that it's okay to stay away from your troubles, and Simba decides to adapt to their laid-back way of life and never go back home. But then, his childhood friend Nala finds Simba and tells him that things are bad back at home with Scar and his hyenas taking over the land and they need him to return and know that he's alive. Given that he thought that he killed his own father, Simba must decide whether or not to challenge his uncle for the throne. I think the lesson one is supposed to obtain from this story is to learn from your past mistakes. This is also where one of the main problems of the movie resides since this message wasn't well delivered. Doug Walker, a popular Internet video film critic, made a good point when he said that this film didn't teach him to learn from past mistakes, but to tell people that he didn't do any mistakes. For that matter, I thought the climax was the weakest part of the film. Between how unnecessarily confusing the content of the dialogue between Scar and Simba is, the distracting and silly moments with the comic relief and the underlying pop culture references ("They call me Mr. Pig!"), and the battle between Simba and Scar in slow motion, the climax fell flat in contrast with the earlier parts of the film. Another big issue I have with "The Lion King" is that I felt it didn't explain enough regarding why the hyenas are bad news to the kingdom. Sure, the movie tells us that they wipe the land clean of its grass, water, animals and other resources under the rule of Scar. However, we are given no explanations regarding why the hyenas are such bad creatures as the lions are claiming that they are. For that matter, the film also didn't tell us what made Mufasa and Scar rivals to begin with. I know it's nitpicking, but when a film lacks crucial story details like that, I can't help but penalize it for forgetting to explain more. The animation in "The Lion King" is spectacular, no doubt about it. Everyone's gone on about how the stampede sequence in particular is outstanding to watch on the big screen and their praise is certainly understandable. "The Lion King" is a visually impressive film to watch mainly because of the epic scale and depth of the African environments. With the exception of "I Just Can't Wait to Be King" which is a major distraction to the film's tone, the songs by Elton John and Tim Rice are pretty solid. "Circle of Life" is the standout song in my opinion and serves as a worthy introduction to a film of this grandness and spectacle. Hans Zimmer's orchestral score is another big standout for me in regards to the film's music, since it fits with the large and absorbing images being shown on screen. The voice-over work that stood out the most from the all-star vocal cast was James Earl Jones and Jeremy Irons. James Earl Jones incorporates the right amount of authority, humbleness, and class into his performance as Simba's dad Mufasa as we should expect for a role from such a distinguished actor. Even though he's only present for half the length of the film, I thought Mufasa was one cool father figure. He felt like a real dad in both his playfulness with Simba and his seriousness with him about how he isn't as fearless as Simba thinks he is. There's a scene between Simba and Mufasa in which he states this which is very well done. Very little else can be said about "The Lion King" that everyone else hasn't already said except that there's a reason why "The Lion King" is an animated feature that pleases almost everybody. It has comedy, drama, music, and a little bit of something for everybody. As long as movies are a form of entertainment that unifies us all, then a film with something for all of us isn't anything to complain about, is it?


                
"Lion King" is a pretty good movie. It is filled with action and hilarious scenes. The characters will keep you guessing throughout the whole movie. Also it is very original. It is the type of movie where one guy is jealous of what the other gut has, and will do anything to get what he has."The Lion King" is a movie were the characters are animals. They all live in this small kingdom inside of Africa. The leader of this kingdom is a king who brother is very jealous that he is the king. So the brother of a the king plots to kill the king. After he kills the king, the son of the king, who is the next ruler in line, feels that his father's death is his fault so he runs away.The main character, the protagonist, is the son of the king, Simba. The antagonist of the movie is the brother of the king who wants to take over the kingdom. Then there is Tumion and Pumba. One is a meerkat and the other is a warthog. These guys take in Simba when he runs from his troubles.The over view of the story is that it is a very funny/action filled story. The son of the king who has a really jealous uncle who wants to kill his brother for the leadership of the kingdom. This is a wonderful movie with a fantastic story! Cordarius D. Campbell


                
Disney, for all practical purposes, invented the animated feature, and for decades pioneered the genre's significant advances like special effects animation, and the multi-plane camera. The studio was riding high in the late 80s and early 90s with top-notch films like The Little Mermaid, Beauty and the Beast and Aladdin. Toward the end of this new Golden Age of cell animation, Disney released one of their best – The Lion King. The film is a little less humorous than past efforts, but it's law-of-the-jungle theme (and some of the characters) hearkened back to The Jungle Book.Like the Jungle Book, we have a child (this time a lion cub), and a tyrant ruler cat wants him dead. (Jeremy Irons' portrayal of Scar in The Lion King even sounds like George Sanders' portrayal of Shere Khan in The Jungle Book.) He's hidden away in the jungle where he befriends some fun-loving, off-the-wall jungle animals that provide not only comic relief, but some of the best songs of the film, before a climactic battle ends the tyrant's rule by fire. In fact, the parallels to The Jungle Book are so prevalent that one could call it a remake. But no matter, just like that film it's highly enjoyable, and a highpoint for Disney. Unfortunately, just like that film, which marked the end of Disney's first Golden Age, The Lion King was the last gasp of Disney's second Golden Age. After this came a long steady, slow decline into mediocrity beginning with well-worn tales like Pocahontas, Hercules and Tarzan, ultimately leading to such forgettable fare such as Treasure Planet and Home on the Range. A hole from which they might never have re-emerged were it not for the saving grace of Pixar.


                
Previously when I'd watched this, I liked it, but I preferred many other Disney films. Re- watching this film cheered me up when I was sad right then and there! For those of you who don't know, this is the story of a lion cub called Simba who's future king. He lives on Pride Rock with his loving parents and his friend Nala, a girl lion cub. When he goes into a place he was told not to go, it is only the start of a mesmerising and exciting adventure...I love this film for the five main reasons. Reason 1: I like all the characters in this except Scar, the main baddie. He annoys me just slightly (although I like his voice). Reason 2: The scenery portrays a beautiful vision of Africa and it makes me feel like I'm really there. Reason 3: The plot is very beautiful and it has made me want to read "Hamlet" on which the plot was based! Reason 4: This film has beautiful songs! My favourite is "Can You Feel The Love Tonight?" (written by Elton John) but I love all the others as well. Reason 5: I love the voices that were picked for all the characters. I especially like the sound of Jeremy Iron's (Scar), Rowan Atkinson's (Zazu), Nathan Lane's (Timon), Whoopi Goldberg's (Shenzi), James Earl Jones's (Mufasa) and Moira Kelly's (adult Nala) voices!WARNING! For those of you who are upset by goodies dying in films, then I suggest you use the fast forward button on your remote control when Mufasa leaps up on a rock ledge in the stampede until you see Scar walking towards Simba and Mufasa.Otherwise, enjoy one of my favourite classic Disneys! :) ;) :()


                
