I find it hard to believe that kid's movies these days will ever be called classics in years to come (excluding Pixar movies). In my mind, this is the last classic hand drawn film, and it upsets me that I have to wait for another five years for it to come out on DVD. This film deals with great issues and involves a huge conflict for the main character, something that recent kid/family films lack. It is funny and lighthearted when it should be, and heartfelt and serious when it needs it. I believe that everybody should see this movie, regardless of your age. It may just be the last good movie that Disney will ever do without the help of Pixar.


                
Released Christmas Day in 2002 to IMAX and large format screens, The Lion King makes a triumphant return to the screen after eight years. Its every bit as majestic and great as it has been before.The Lion King Mufasa (James Earl Jones) just had a baby cub named Simba. All of the animals come to the ceremony, except for Mufasa's brother Scar (Jeremy Irons). Scar desperately wants to be King, but can't. As long as Mufasa and Simba are there. Soon Simba is able to walk and talk and is voiced by Jonathon Taylor Thomas. After hearing about an elephant graveyard from Scar, he and his friend Nala (Niketa Calame) visit it. They meet three bumbling hyenas: Banzai (Cheech Marin), Shenzi (Whoopi Goldberg), and Ed (Jim Cummings), but they manage to leave unhurt. Scar is upset that the hyenas didn't do the job, so he orders a stampede to wipe out both of them, but it only takes care of Mufasa. Scar convinces Simba that he killed Mufasa, not Scar. So Simba flees into exile.The Lion King really benefits from the larger screen. Its lavish landscapes will be able to capture you more, and you can really savor the animation. Disney didn't need any humans, so they could spend all of the time on a great story and lush landscapes. In fact, its camera movement was so majestic that you actually felt like you were part of the pride of lions.The music boomed and really created the atmosphere. Although I had seen this picture before, I still was tense because of the way the music played out. Most of the time, I would just roll my eyes at the attempt to make me nervous. But Hans Zimmer's music really bowled me over and made my heart do calisthenics. Unlike such new Disney pics like Lilo and Stitch, the songs actually did some good. They took you out of a somewhat dreary mood and put a smile on your face and made your feet want to tap along. There were only a few, but they were very entertaining. And the Circle of Life song at the beginning was beautiful, with its perfect pictures and perfect sound.I really like James Earl Jones (he's pretty diverse), and this time was no exception. He seemed to act like he didn't want to do this role, but he couldn't contain his excitement for wanting to do voice-overs again (he had done some work in The Simpsons before). Matthew Broderick redeemed himself for me (after the atrocious Ferris Bueller's Day Off) by showing a strong voicing as the adult Simba. Cheech Marin, Whoopi Goldberg, and Jim Cummings really had good chemistry together, even though they didn't have much screen time. Irons was really good and creepy as Scar (one of those who you can't help but hate), and if that is him really singing, brava!Be warned, The Lion King isn't really for youngsters. It had intense thematic elements that should have warranted a PG, instead of those that don't deserve it (Lilo and Stitch, again). The mood that the music and the script brought out could damper your day, so be warned.This is one movie where you can feel for the characters. You don't say `haha, he's dead', you say `Gasp! I'm so sad!' If it weren't for the gifted scriptwriters, this movie would be kaput and a nothing, not the best Disney movie ever made.The Lion King is a majestic movie, not without humor, that is for almost all to see.My rating: 9/10Rated G for intense thematic elements.


                
I was sick of of seeing this everywhere and it being everyone's favorite, but I watched it anyway and have have to admit, it is a great movie. Great. All over. From the animation (which was GORGEOUS with its vivid colors and details) to songs to characters, I love it. It's a masterpiece and one of Disney's greatest animated movies. The characters were engaging, songs catchy, plot captivating, and action exciting, even though it's cartoon. I loved how some of the action was in slow motion. Each of the characters are unique and important, all of them interesting and distinguished from one another.There's one thing that bugged me, though. I love Simba, but the person who voiced grown-up Simba didn't do a very good job. For a little while--not the whole movie, but at first--he sounds nonchalant and casual, without any emotion or care, and it's not just because of Hakuna Matata, no worries. His voice seems bland. The emotion on Simba's face doesn't do enough; the person has to put emotion into the character's voice. After hearing it for a little while, I managed to adjust to it. The boy who voiced cub Simba did a perfect job, though; he was so likable and cute!This movie is incredible and definitely worth watching, purchasing, keeping, and watching again. I just wish the person who voiced Simba had done a better job and that the live-action (or live-animation, really) version doesn't ruin it.
this was, and still is,a great movie I love it, and hope that everyone gets to experience it for themselves, I've watched it many times and it is always good no matter how many times you have seen it,the songs are great and so are all the characters and the story is incredible, great for all ages and I really recommend it to anyone who hasn't already watched it.


                
To begin with: this movie is worth watching just for the music. The beginning (also optically beautiful) still gives me goosebumps. If anyone ever deserved the Oscar, it was the two guys who got it for this one! Though it's wonderful entertainment, the film also contains some serious topics, like death, taking responsibility and coping with the past. The characters are charming, the romance between Simba and Nala is really cute, and the song lyrics are worth listening twice.A little warning to parents: as I said, this is a perfect Disney classic and really recommendable to both adults and children - only not for very young ones. The scene of Mufasa's death is very sad and touching, and Scar's and Simba's fight at the end could be considered scary.
Directed by Roger Allers and Rob Minkoff, The Lion King (1994) is a Disney masterpiece. It provides a colorful and multi-emotional experience while subtly delivering an important life message, enjoyable for people of all ages. Not many films are so enveloping as to successfully simultaneously deliver an action-packed adventure, romance, and comedy. Throughout the entire film, the audience is entranced by the wondrous diegesis that is created, and so easily mourns when it is supposed to mourn and laughs when it is supposed to laugh. The Lion King uses animals as opposed to humans (as in Shakespeare's Hamlet), but this contributes to the experience and message rather than takes away from them. Under all the emotion, this charming film makes a social statement, that the circle of life must inevitably continue, and death should be accepted as long it is part of the natural cycle. As a perfect mix of an emotional experience and a moral message, it's no wonder that The Lion King raked in so much revenue and is seen as one of the best films in Disney history.In many parts of the narrative, the audience is completely wrapped up by the magical atmosphere that the film creates, with help from its beautiful original score. In the scene where Mufasa dies, the audience follows Simba, both visually and emotionally, through the discovery of his father's limp body and the acceptance of his passing away. The audience feels the fear and desperation of the little Simba cub as he sees Mufasa motionless on the floor. The audience weeps for Simba as he tries to "wake up" his father. Later in the film, when adult Simba meets Nala, the musical accompaniment, "Can You Feel the Love Tonight" (composed by Elton John) (1994), really creates the romantic mood that devours the audience's heart. When Timon and Pumbaa break the audience out of that oneiric state with their funny antics, and even when they break the fourth wall, they offer a reprieve from the intense emotion present in the rest of the film. These reprieves strengthen the emotions created rather than diminish them. They are an asset to the deep emotions awakened by The Lion King.The use of lions instead of humans might be expected to reduce the emotional intensity of the film, but instead it actually, in some ways, increases it. With animals, the audience experiences defamilarization, as the death of a lion, although still sad, is less taboo and tragic than a death of human. If human Scar had murdered human Mufasa, the audience would experience boundless hate for Scar, rather than experiencing the sadness of Simba as it was supposed to. Using animals also made the diegesis much more colorful and kid-friendly. Using human characters would have created a whole other unwanted experience.Aside from the emotional aspect of the film, The Lion King also disguises a powerful social statement. At the end of the film, the child of Simba and Nala is declared the heir of the pride, as Simba was at the beginning of the film. This metaphorically completes "The Circle of Life" (also composed by Elton John) (1994), the title of the opening score. The audience learns that Mufasa's death was inevitable, and sooner or later Simba will die too. Death must happen to complete the cycle, and the past should not be clung on to. This important message is what makes The Lion King more than a simple narrative and a delight for 5-year-olds and 50-year-olds alike.The Lion King was made 17 years ago, yet still stands as an artful classic, despite it being an animation movie. This is a result of the intense emotional experience that an audience can't help but be enveloped by, and a powerful life lesson that is delivered flawlessly. Throughout the action, romance, and sudden comedy, the audience follows without any difficulty at all, and at the end, learns a valuable lesson. The choice to use animals also benefited the film. Aside from making the film more kid-friendly, it precisely manipulated the audience's feelings. The Lion King is a shining gem in film history, a gem that will truly stand the test of time.The Lion King will remain one of my favorite films for a long time, and if you haven't seen it yet, you definitely should.
This was a fantastic film and it was beautifully made. This is an animated movie in which everyone will love including the critics and Audience. The movie had a beautiful story and it also had wonderful music and animation. It's starts off with a young cub who lives in a kingdom place until his evil uncle kills his father and he is banished. Then he grows into an adult, he comes back and defeats his uncle and becomes the king. The movie is very sad also. But the movie has a very great ending. My favorite character of the movie is Simba. The ending is wonderful. The actors did a great job. The lion king is a masterpiece and this is my 5th favourite animated movie of all time


                
"The Lion King" is essentially a retelling of "Hamlet" set on the Savannah and casted with lions. Simba (Prince Hamlet) is the child of Mufasa (King Hamlet) and Sarabi (Gertrude), the heir apparent of the Savannah. His uncle Scar (Claudius), however, has ambitions for the throne. Aligning himself with a pack of hyenas, Scar succeeds in killing his brother and taking the throne for himself. The Hyenas, unable to kill Simba, chase him into a desert and leave him for dead. He grows up mentored by the meerkat Timon (Rosencrantz) and the warthog Pumba (Guildenstern) until Nala (Ophelia), a childhood friend, finds him and convinces him to return home and take his place as king.Despite abundant opportunities to become a derivative child-friendly adaptation of the Shakespeare play, "The Lion King" succeeds as a unique and family-friendly experience. It conveys the emotions of tragic loss and unforgivable betrayal that, while devastating and heartbreaking, are still appropriate for the entire family. Even moreso than Bambi's mother's, Mufasa's death is a heartrenching experience (and I am not above admitting that I cried watching Simba search for his father in the deserted gorge in which he died).The animation is easily the most breathtaking of Disney's 2-D features: brilliantly capturing the majesty of the African Savannah. The Pride Lands are bright and crisp while the elephant graveyard is nightmarishly grim. The landscape upon Simba's return is nothing short of haunting.The film demonstrates an elegant mastery of visual symbolism rare in films produced since the early sixties. The song "Be Prepared" contains evocative visual allusions to the Third Reich, aligning Scar's reign with that of Hitler's. Gothic tradition holds that the natural world is a reflection of the social order; as such, the barren Pride Lands, littered with bones and scorched flora, with bent, stunted trees in the foreground reflects the unnatural ascension of Scar to the throne. In a moment of catharsis etched into every child's memory, the post-battle rain washes away the last remnants of Scar's reign, cleansing the Pride Lands and its inhabitants.A host of prominent actors lend their vocal talents to this film, including the James Earl Jones, Matthew Broderick, Cheech Marin, Whoopi Goldberg. Elton John rounds out the vocal ensemble, lending his voice to a number of Tim Rice's exceptional musical numbers.This is film is a true classic and easy to for all viewers, young and old, to enjoy together. It is a rare person who will not find something to like in it (genuinely funny quips, thrilling musical numbers, well-crafted script, exceptional voice talents). If you get the slightest opportunity to see this film, I recommend that you take it.
Throughout the early 1990s, Disney animation appeared to be unstoppable. "The Little Mermaid," "Beauty and the Beast," "Aladdin" and "The Lion King" in quick succession had set a new standard for animation. Unfortunately for Disney, "The Lion King" would be its last hurrah for a while, or really for good. Pixar would soon pick up the torch, and now Pixar is king of the jungle.But as for "The Lion King"......."Beauty and the Beast" is probably my favorite Disney animated film, but this one is a close second. It's the darkest and most ambitious and it's got superb animation. The song score by Elton John is the weakest in the above-mentioned string of films, but the orchestral score by Hans Zimmer is the best. The film doesn't shy away from the savagery of the natural world, or the difficult emotions surrounding life and death, and for that I applaud it.Grade: A


                
This is an outstanding work of animation. I realize that it has been criticized for political incorrectness. The fact of the matter is that it has strong female characters as well as male, and it's about a vision of monarchy. I have the greatest respect for female role models but I really don't see this as a worthy criticism. It's a great story of defeat and betrayal and renewal. It has delightful individual characters, dressed up to show their beings in a clever way. It has the most despicable villains with Scar and the Hyenas. It has the Henry II thing about duty. It doesn't glorify fooling around as one of my colleagues told me. The free life is OK but at some time you must follow your heart and redeem yourself. The music is outstanding; another triumph or the Disney team. There are three or four numbers that are so critical to a complete understanding of the events of the story. The sound effects person should have been rewarded because sound is so critical in this. From the stampede to the forbidden areas of the kingdom. I watched this about sixty times with my small children and never really tired of it. I would put this at the top of any list of animated adventures.


                
"The Lion King" is and will always will be regarded as one of the better Disney movies. And it deserves that!First of all the movie looks visually splendid! The African land scape's are beautiful and so are the animations of the animals itself.What makes "The Lion King" such a special movie is the emotional dept the story has. The story plays a significant role in the movie and it has some good adult moments. The entire movie has a more of an adult feeling, unlike earlier made Disney's that mainly focused on only young children. Still there also is plenty to enjoy for the young ones, especially the characters Timon and Pumbaa shall be loved by them.The story is filled with symbolism and reference to mainly the communist regime.The voice cast is good, mainly of course thanks to James Earl Jones who has an amazing good deep voice. Also the three hyenas are voiced perfectly by Whoopi Goldberg, Cheech Marin and Jim Cummings. Jeremy Irons who voices the main villain Scar really brings his character to live and makes the movie even more worth watching.There are some typical Disney songs that are good. Also surprising good is the musical score itself composed by Hans Zimmer who also received an Oscar for it. His first and only one but hopefully not his last. Also Tim Rice and Elton John received an Oscar for the song " Can You Feel the Love Tonight" and were nominated for two other songs from this movie.A must see animated movie with some scene's and songs that you'll not easily forget.9/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
So...I'm going to try not to be too biased here...I'm going to compose myself the best I can...But, I'm not going to lie, that's going to be really hard seeing as though I AM IN LOVE WITH THIS MOVIE!!! I know a lot of people say this film is overrated and all that jazz, but LOOK AT THIS FILM and tell me you don't love it too!ANIMATION: Spectacular! This movie looks great! Of course it has an epic, grand quality about it, and the animation really takes it to another level! The stampede scene has got to be one of the biggest scenes ever put to traditional animation!SONGS/MUSIC: This movie brings us the Tim Rice/Elton John team. Even though there's no Alan Menken or Howard Ashman, these songs are still great! They fit the movie's tone, they're not out of place, and they are ALL memorable! This Disney movie has the best soundtrack - there is no Number One hit song from this film - ALL the songs are Number One! I don't just love the songs, but I am in mad love with Hans Zimmer's score! It's beautiful! It tells the story and fits the mood perfectly! The main theme, "Lea Halalela," is fan-frickin-tastic! Gosh, if that theme were a woman, I'd marry her! But the music is what takes us to Africa (which country are we in? I don't know...), and if it weren't for Lebo M's contributions, NO music in this movie would be great!ROMANCE: For as much as I love this movie, I have to admit that this is one of the weak aspects of the film. I love the "Can You Feel the Love Tonight" number; I love the song, and I love looking at the animation. But...why is the song here? Why is this scene here? First of all, it doesn't match the story at all. It feels like the scene takes place because...Disney movies have romance scenes! Secondly, I don't believe Simba and Nala are in love. Look at how other Disney films show love: characters are smiling, singing, happy, and would do anything to be with their romantic interest. Here, Simba and Nala are arguing and yelling at each other after the scene. I'll tell you what, though, if you look at Nala as she's laying on her back during the song number, look at how she looks at Simba. That says, "I want you, lion man."CHARACTERS: I am in love with these characters! Much like the "Beauty and the Beast" gang, there's not a person...or animal...in this movie I don't dislike! My two favorite characters are Mufasa and Rafiki. Mufasa wreaks of power! The reason we hate Scar so much is because he kills Mufasa, who we love so much! He is the father of Disney movie fathers - Disney fathers period! He says one of my favorite lines: "Look inside yourself, Simba. You are more than what you have become." OOOH, that line just OOZES power - just BLEEDS power!!! Rafiki is awesome because he is both funny and wise. He knows just what to say and just what to do for the right moment. He has funny lines like "It means you are a baboon, and I am not!" Yet he knows when to hit Simba over the head with a stick and tell him to learn from his mistakes. Go Rafiki!STORY: I think the story is excellent. I love watching it, I love watching Simba's arc, I think it is brilliant...Though, there's one other problem the movie has that lies in the story. After Mufasa dies and Simba cries over his body, Scar comes and tells him to run away. Question: if they're all alone, why doesn't Scar just kill Simba himself? At first I thought it was because he didn't want Simba's blood on his hands, but that can't be right. First of all, he has Mufasa's blood on his hands. Second of all, he has a violent fight with Simba at the end of the movie. If Scar wants the throne so badly that he puts together an attack against two children, a Nazi team of hyenas, and a wildebeest stampede, I don't think he was above killing a child. The movie could have been over just like that; why didn't he kill Simba? The only reason I can come up with is "If he killed him, there'd be no movie." Well, that's weak. If that's the case, then the movie didn't need to happen. We should have gotten a better reason for the following events that took place.CONCLUSION: Despite the two problems I have with the movie, I still adore it! It's epic, it's dramatic, it's funny, it's musical! It is large! It has one of the saddest moments ever in Disney. It is one of the studio's biggest movies for a reason! Find out for yourself in the big Circle of Life! BOOYIKA!
The Lion King is acclaimed to be one of the best and if not the best Disney film of all time. Well lets find out. The plot of the movie is about a young cub named Simba and plans on becoming king, but when Simbas evil uncle Scar kills Simbas father Mufasa. Scar tells his hyena henchmen to run Simba out into the jungle and make him never return. Simba makes new friends in the jungle and decides never to return because he rather lives a life with no problems whatsoever. When his childhood friend Nala informs him that Scar has taken over Simba comes back and stops his evil uncle. I personally find the plot very interesting and exiting. It's like you want to know what happens next every moment. Now the moment that everyone remembers and one of Disney's most saddest moment is when Scar lets the stampede out to kill Mufasa. I mean come on haven't we got enough with Bambis Mom! Mufasas death in my opinion is more sad. The main reason is that with Mufasas death there are not any flying birds after it. With Mufasa they keep it silent like if its at a funeral So after watching this film its now clear to me why its called one of the best. In my opinion its not THE best because it does have its flaws here and there./Cough,cough/ Timon and Pumba! Sorry had a couple idiots stuck in my throat. Still, its one of the best, but by a landslide Not the very best.
The Lion King is by general consensus the greatest Disney film from their glorious renaissance period (1989-1999), and is undoubtedly worthy of such recognition. Notably, it is the highest rated Western animation on IMDb's own Top 250, which while flawed and imprecise is a good indicator of quality.A loose adaption of Shakespeare's Hamlet, The Lion King is visually stunning, the peak of hand-drawn animation, with a strong voice cast and a wide selection of memorable tunes. It is a tight ~80 minutes, and one sometimes forgets just how quick the movie moves, yet it does so deftly. The characters are well defined, and the arc of Simba's growth, the core of the film, evolves satisfyingly. One could question whether more time should have been spent on Simba's growth in the middle act (there is incredulous imagery as Simba grows exponentially next to the stasis of Timon and Pumba), but to meander so would ask it to be an entirely different film.While it is not uncommon for a side character or two overshadow the main (see the Genie in Aladdin), Matthew Broderick and Jonathan Taylor Thomas (adult and young Simba respectively) are at risk from nearly all of the phenomenal cast. James Earl Jones is a commanding presence, and Jeremy Irons as Scar steals every scene. The 'fools' of the film, be it Timon & Pumba, the Hyena trio or even Zazu, all provide the levity believably, that would otherwise leave an incredibly sombre film. Nala is powerful, though one must note that she seems at times far more capable than Simba to actually achieve anything. Nevertheless, Simba's coming-of-age arc, while predictable, is enjoyable, helped along by fantastic charisma and choice songs.The fact that the film has spawned a wildly successful musical gives a strong indication of the quality of the music, but what is less said is how beautiful the film is. As The Lion King was being released, works were already moving away from hand-drawn animation, with Toy Story released a year later. And The Lion King might be the peak of hand-drawn, with an enormous palate of creativity and variety. The opening vista for 'Circle of Life', the bursts of colour in 'Can't wait to be King' and the sombre tone of 'Be Prepared' all are gorgeous. Yet, special mention must go to the Stampede scene, one of the finest scenes of animation ever.One thing I've developed from multiple viewings is how Timon and Pumba might be the weakest part of the movie. First, their 'life lessons' are essentially reversed by Rafiki. Certainly they are qualified to the point of being narratively sidelined. They feel contrived and even a detraction from the meat of the movie. Their role is the fast food portion of the film- the quick fix over more meatier bits of the film. The entertainment provided is enjoyable regardless, and is essential to round off the movie as Disney.The Lion King is endlessly re-watchable, catchy, fun, while remaining a fantastic piece of cinema and an invaluable part of the Disney canon. Magnificent.


                
Still here in autumn 2013 the reviews are still coming in.Back then in Christmas 1994 I saw the movie in the cinema, and came back many times for this movie.The movie deserved some Oscars for use of sound.An all star cast are included with names like Whoopi Goldberg that suits her role as the crazy hyena Shenzi.Jeremy Irons does what he can to play the powerful villain that get what he deserved by being assaulted by the hyenas he had control over.Back at the beginning of the movie we see Simba the lion being raised with his family.But Simba's uncle Scar wants to kill Simba's father that is the king.Simba must flee after his father is killed under a wildebeest stampede.Now it's up to Simba as older later on to get revenge on Scar.This is a classic Disney movie with something for everyone.Songs both dark and playful, thrills and funny scenes.10/10
The Lion King (1994) Movie Review Directed by: Rob Minkoff and Roger Allers The Lion King is more than just a Disney animation. Its two Oscar wins was well-deserved. The main characters – Simba, Mufasa, Scar, Nala, Timon, and Pumbaa exemplify the different traits present in our society. Roger Allers and Rob Minkoff work together to direct a film that not only shows us the beauty of life and nature, but the moral values we should all seek to sustain who we are. Roger Allers is credited for writing some of the best known Disney classic films such as Beauty and the Beast (1991) and Aladdin (1992). Robert Minkoff not only directed The Lion King but other movies such as Stuart Little (1999) and The Forbidden Kingdom (2008). These two directors teamed together to play a role in a film that had a moralistic approach. Life is wonderful – don't run away from it, appreciate it and always know family and friends can help you in ways you'd never expect.Looking beyond the obvious characters on screen, each of them can be characterized by a specific expectation. Simba must transition from a young cub (boy) to a leader (adult). Mufasa must rule a land and protect his family; he went as far as he could to protect his son – to the point where he lost his life. Mufasa's fatherly actions teach us that with true love, a parent is willing to exceed limitations to secure his own child. Scar is a representation of evil, greed, and jealousy. He was willing to kill his own brother and nephew to assume a higher rank. He is often portrayed with many high angles, a sign of his dominance and leadership amongst the hyenas and the power he holds over them. Timon and Pumbaa represent the friends who support and guide you when you're troubled. The comedic sense of the duo lightens up the mood of young Simba, giving the viewer reassurance upon Simba's faith and emotions. Nala gives the film a romantic turn, adding on to the idea that love and support can guide someone in the right direction. A major influence that aided the communication in the film was the musical score. In the scene in which Mufasa explains to Simba what the stars in the sky were, a significant musical score plays in the background. This same musical score appears again when Simba is grown and tells Timon and Pumba his father's explanation of the stars. As Simba walks away from his two friends, it presents itself as Simba's remembers his father. This music appears more than once in the film, setting up a connection between previous and present scenes, it was placed at each particular point of the film for a reason. The color and lighting tones between Mufasa and Scar gave way to the differences between them. The darker tones represented Scar's faded thoughts. The little lighting provided in his scenes showed that he was of a sadistic nature whereas Mufasa is presented in brighter lighting among nature and mostly outdoors. Scar is usually located in the interior of a cave or other dwelling – enclosing him in the darkness that eventually drives his jealousy. Cultural aspects of Africa are introduced immediately in the beginning of the film with the first song. The majority of the animals also show the beauty of nature and the variety of animal life that exists. The song "The Circle of Life" sets off a major theme of the film – creating the idea that life is a constant circle, there is life and then there is death. After Mufasa dies, a new ruler had to assume his position – Simba. The circle kept going until the film concluded with a new life – the child of Simba and Nala. Once again, the circle has fulfilled its goal of life and death. "The amazing thing is that I think when we (Rob Minkoff and Roger Allers) made this movie; it's safe to say that we didn't really fully understand the impact this movie was going to have on people<U+0085>.and how long it was going to kind of stick around." The Lion King shares that universal theme that we are all part of "the circle of life", live life with true happiness and do the right thing. Take out time to love those who care and not to back down from fear – face it. Rob Winkoff and Roger Allers may not have realized it when the film was released in 1994, but The Lion King has become a Disney classic, true to the standards of morality and teaching us how magical and complex life is truly is.
The Lion King was the best Disney film of 1994, and perhaps for a few years after. We all know Disney's been hashing up cheap tricks for kids-dumb sequels like Lady and the Tramp 2, Cinderella 2, all that stuff recently. But the Lion King was great, and the all star cast including: Rowan Atkinson, Matthew Broderick, Whoopi Goldberg, Jeremy Irons and James Earl Jones really help this film too! Great animation, story, and characters. The Lion King's a great film!3.5/5 STARS-JOHN ULMER


                
After the tears I decided I would never watch it again. 20 years on and promise kept. Wonderful piece of cinema.


                
If I was tasked to rank every Disney animation, this universally beloved feature would most definitely be in the upper echelon. It's quite rare these days to find someone who has not seen this...and if you haven't well, I'm disappointed in you. The story revolves around the 'Circle of Life', paraphrasing nature's way of taking and giving back life to earth. As current lion king Mufasa teaches his son Simba how to be a great king, his brother Scar secretly plans to obtain the throne of Pride Rock for himself. There's not much I can say that everybody else hasn't mentioned. Hans Zimmer composing yet another epic orchestral masterpiece. The first time that the music and animation blended together in perfect harmony. Elton John and Tim Rice's musical numbers are some of the best Disney has to offer. Literally every song is memorable, my personal favourite being "Just Can't Wait To Be King". The animation is absolutely beautiful and still holds well even by today's standards. The effortless blend of red sunsets and green grassy plains. The computer animation used during the wildebeest stampede might look slightly dated, but it doesn't detract from the enjoyment to be had here. Then we come to the voice acting...oh God damn it's perfect. James Earl Jones as Mufasa was inspired. Jeremy Irons as Scar was sensational. Heck, even Rowan Atkinson as Zazu worked! Every actor provided a voice that gave life to the animation. Not a single voice felt out of place. A nice light comedic script to balance the more powerful themes it conveys such as fatherhood, death and facing your past. The inclusion of Timon and Pumbaa was just the comedy the film required, and I'm sure children will adore these two. Whilst this is undoubtedly one of Disney's best, I do find the third act slightly unmemorable compared to the amazing first two acts. It just feels slightly rushed and concludes far too rapidly. Minor gripe aside, The Lion King is a film that is indefinitely adored by everyone.


                
I've watched this movie countless amount of times and it never gets old. The characters and the storyline is incredible. Great for all ages.


                
I was watched lion king 1998. But I remember it sooo long time. It's very wonderful story & cartoon.


                
Undoubtedly a classic family movie that has meaning and enjoyment in store for all ages.


                
I don't remember what the pre-release hype was like back then for this, but I saw this movie that summer and I enjoyed it. So many interesting characters with an East African setting and such a gripping plot. It does have its parallels with the old Egyptian myth of Osiris and Set, and Osiris's son Horus, but as a fan of animated movies, this is the one with all the best actors and actresses lending their voices. Especially James Earl Jones. This and Mulan (1998) are among my favorite Disney films. If you've wanted to see African animals and a good story with memorable characters, don't miss this!


                
What can I say about this movie that hasn't already been said? On every level, it is perfect until Simba is exiled, then I believe the film devolves only slighting. The character development, plot, humor, and animation are all on point. I only issue, which is small, is the predictability of the plot after Simba leaves, destined to return. The message is clear and good: Do not forget who you are/where you came from. 9/10 (almost perfect)
For a long time I have been deeply thinking about what I really think of The Lion King. After watching all the animated Disney movies I can see its appeal, but it still hasn't caught me. Let me make it clear. TLK is among the most beautifully animated Disney movies. The stampede scene is just huge and intimidating, the intro scene is by far the most iconic scene from any Disney movie along with one of the most iconic and grandest songs ever to be in a movie. The backgrounds are amazing, the whole animation aspect of it is amazing. On that spot it is an undoubted masterpiece. And I must admit that the culmination of the stampede scene with Simba, Mufasa and Scar will for ever be the most emotionally charged scene in a Disney movie if not in a movie in general.The voice acting good. James Earl Jones is never a disappointment with his booming voice. Jeremy Irons does make a great, slimy, backstabbing, power hungry villain, but falls a little flat when he comes to power compared to both earlier power hungry villains like Maleficent and Jafar and my personal favorite Frollo. Aside from "The Circle of Life" which as mentioned before is perhaps the grandest Disney song ever the rest of the music does not really get to me. I am not as fond of "Can You Feel the Love Tonight" as I am of earlier songs like "Beauty and the Beast" and "A Whole New World". "Be Prepared" has a great visual appeal and serves the scene well, but when I listen to it on its own it does not get to me as well as I thought it would. It is as well with the other songs: great in the movie, not as great on their own.It is my personal opinion. I feel at times TLK is a little overrated, but it is also a great movie.


                
