I was amazed at all the reviews that say this movie was great. I found it boring, repetitive, noisy and pointless. How many explosions do you need? You get the point in the first 30 minutes. Men sweating, shouting, water leaks etc etc etc. If you have seen a submarine movie you have seen them all. Trust me. There is only so much you can get from sub movies and that is why there is so much repetition. Showing the crews faces over and over again as they mumble incoherently gets old fast.The movie is way too long and you know what going to happen before it happens. I would not invest time in this unless you just like noise and explosions.


                
I had to watch this film along with U-571 for a world history class report back in 2001. I checked out this film at my local library. It was three VHS tapes. I don't remember much about the film. I do remember it was very boring and trite. I remember it went into detail about the submariners' lives during the war and many dark shots of the submarine during the night. Other than that, I don't remember anything else. I didn't just rate this film a low score because it was meticulous and long. Many films of the kind can be good if they provide an interesting plot, story or something that makes the picture stand out in one's mind other than tedious boredom. For example I thought the movie Heat was boring for the most part, but there was a major scene in the movie that saved it completely: the bank robbery scene. That scene was probably one of the most intense and expertly executed action sequences I have ever seen. Another example is The American. It was another pretty boring movie except for a scene in the middle and its devastating ending. Those two scenes, and especially the ending, not only salvaged the movie, but took it to a completely new height. However this movie in my memory had just a documentary type bore throughout. I have to say I'm not sure if I paid attention throughout the whole movie, and I probably have to watch it again just to make sure about my opinion. Anyways, I remember watching U-571, another submarine movie, and it was a lot better. Not just because of the action sequences but because it was actually a thrilling ride. I felt as if I was one of the crew members on board. I don't understand why so many people have such a high opinion of this movie, but I will be sure to review the movie again just to make sure.0/5


                
