In 1941, Britain and Germany are battling for control of crucial Atlantic supply routes. German submarine U-96 leaves the French port of La Rochelle; its mission, to inflict as much damage as possible on cargo-ship convoys.This is a unique movie and for my money one of the best war pictures ever made. Whilst maintaining a very high level of drama and suspense for a long film, it also seems so real and credible, and the filmmakers went to great lengths to convey this authenticity. It is based on an autobiographical novel by Lothar-Günther Buchheim who was a real-life war correspondent. The stunning submarine set by Rolf Zehetbauer was built with incredible attention to period detail and as an enclosed space, restricting the camera-work but adding tremendously to the crucial atmosphere of confinement. The great cast gave everything to the picture (for example, they were not allowed out in the sun during the shooting) and their transformation as it progresses into haggard, bearded, weary ghosts is startling and unsettling. Prochnow is stunning as the unnamed Captain; a man who has the respect of his crew yet is essentially alone, but the entire ensemble are brilliant - I especially like Wennemann (the chief engineer), Tauber (the navigator) and Hoenig (the radio-operator) all of whom give quiet, thoughtful, understated performances, very atypical in an epic movie filled with action. The eerily effective use of sound adds to the movie's tension, and there is brilliant claustrophobic camera-work by Jost Vacano. The depiction of the crew's struggles - alternating intolerable boredom with sheer terror when the alarm is raised, evading depth charges and destroyers, running dangerously deep to avoid detection, repairing the ship (literally everything breaks at some point), following suicidal orders - is the heart of the film. U-Boat crews had a one in four chance of surviving, and the movie's heartbreaking conclusion is deeply profound and moving, regardless of your views on World War II. This is a film about people, not politics, which is why it's such a great war movie. Shot as both a 145-minute feature released first, and as a six-hour TV miniseries screened later; this review is of an even better 200-minute version recut by Petersen and re-released in 1996.
Das Boot (1981)Widely considered the most impressive submarine movie ever made, I'll go so far as to say it's easily the most accurate that I've seen. The action scenes, the sense of doom, the eerie quiet and then explosive depth charges, the grime and the crowded conditions, all of this is palpable. But more impressive, I think, is how the movie works as a German movie about Germans in a war where the Germans were painted as evil. American movies to this day still glorify and make heroic their roles in WWII (unlike the willingness, at times, to show the problems of Americans involved in Viet Nam, say), especially in the European side. But in movie after movie, the German film industry has confronted the real problem of being aggressors, and of being under the Nazi sway. "Das Boot" is typical, and key. The captain goes so far as to openly make fun of the German propaganda coming in on their radio. It isn't just that war is bad, but that the Nazis are bad.Nevertheless, there they are, and they have a job to do, and they're going to do it well. So a small group of men in a small underwater tin can try to survive the boredom as much as the British, who come very close to getting them several times. It's a great movie, one of the best at capturing the feeling of being there.What is less impressive, at times, is the more ordinary character development that seems inevitable in a movie this long--2 ½ to 4 hours depending on the version you have, I saw the long one, the director's cut. I think the acting is superb, and so it's easy to go along with the conversations and interactions, but they aren't always compelling in themselves, more just creating some space before the next conflict arises. Maybe, in some honest sense, this is exactly how it would have been. Life for most people is pretty ordinary.But this movie is not. Or it makes what is ordinary in war--the nostalgic to the profound and deadly--believable, and not simply big and dramatic, which it also is. For full German effect, I suggest seeing it with the original German language track on and subtitles if you need them, though I tested the dubbed version in English and it's really well done. I also suggest, if you have doubts about such an involved war movie, trying to find the older, shorter release. The visuals are not enhanced, but some of the character development sections are left out and I don't think you'll miss them. Then, of course, if you want the whole kit and caboodle, try to find the 5 hour version released in sections for British and German television.


                
This 1985 effort was re-issued with a longer VHS version in 1997 with surround sound and 60 minutes added to the original video, then put on DVD with 5.1 surround sound. All these improvements made a good movie even better.Considering most of this 209 minute film is done inside a U-boat, a submarine, it's very nicely filmed. Jurgen Prochnow, who plays the lead character - the captain of the boat - is a manly, rough-looking but compassionate human being who's always attention-getting. Just as interesting as him are the sounds as the noises from the boat echo through all the surround speakers.There are several tense, long drawn-out scenes, sometimes drawn out too long. In that respect, this movie might have been better had it been shorter and tighter. The language is "crude" in here in spots, so beware of that.I would recommend going with the German language track with English subtitles. The dubbed version has English spoken with a German accent and isn't easy to understand, anyway.....so stick with the way it was made and go with the subtitles if you don't understand German.In summary: a little long but generally moves at a decent pace and features a good ending to all of it. Recommended.


                
This is an excellent 15 million dollars German movie chronicling the strong conditions of forty three men assigned to a U-Boot in 1941 . This exciting film contains nail-biting action , drama , suspense in a claustrophobic atmosphere . During WWII forty thousand young German served aboard Nazi subs , only ten thousand survived . This is the story of 43 raw recruits caught up in a war they didn't understand, and the Captain who must lead them in their struggle to survive .The claustrophobic as well as realistic world of a WWII German U-boat was meticulously mounted ; retelling boredom , filth , and sheer terror . It recreates faithfully the tension , hardship and claustrophobic conditions of the young seamen . The bulk of the film's $15 million budget was spent on constructing U-boats , the plans were taken to the original builder of the subs, who was commissioned to build a full-sized , sea-going replica , their first such assignment since the war ended ; second full-sized model was built for interior filming . A miniature submarine was used for scenes in which we see the submarine from outside , the model was steered from the inside by a diver . While shooting scale models in the Northern Sea, filming was disturbed by doves landing on the submarine . The submarine models built for Das Boot were also the ones used in Raiders of the lost ark (1981). In addition , it arranges to embrace an anti-war message concerning thought-provoking and brooding issues . Originally a five hour German TV miniseries , later released in a 217 minutes filmmaker's cut . Interesting screenplay by the same filmmaker Wolfgang Petersen based on Lothar G. Buchheim's autobiographical novel . Perfectly played by Jurgen Prochnow as commander and a solid support cast as Herbert Grönemeyer , Jan Fedder , Otto Sander and Uwe Ochsenknecht . To help his actors convey the claustrophobic conditions found on a real U-boat, director Wolfgang Petersen insisted on filming within the actual confines of the ship , scarcely wider than a man's outstretched arms , rather than removing the model's outer Wall . Thrilling and enjoyable musical score by Klaus Doldinger . Colorful and appropriate cinematography by Jost Vacano . In order to get the fast tracking shots through the U-boat without a shaky image , director of photography created a system of heavy gyroscopes that kept the camera steady as he ran through the hallways . The motion picture was lavishly produced by Mark Damon , John Hyde , Edward R. Pressman , being compellingly directed by the great filmmaker/writer Wolfgang Petersen . The film was nominated for six Academy Awards which was at the time the highest number of Oscar nominations ever received by a foreign language film . The movie provides a realistic detailing of life aboard and a portrait about the crews subjected to stressful and psychological tensions . In fact the sailors had sleep in shifts . For months they were lodged in close quarters because every inch the space was needed for machinery , supplies and torpedoes . The air was heavy with odors from bilges,diesel oil and unwashed bodies . The men faced sudden death from depth charges ,aerial bombing attacks or the sharp bow of a swift destroyer as happen in this film . The picture is based on historic deeds , thus the construction of new U-boats continued at a record -breaking during WWII . In 1942-43 Hitler raised enormously his U-boat strength , the German submarines sank numerous ships, in early 1943 the called ¨Wolf packs¨ sank 90 ships in 20 days.Then,suddenly , between March and June 1943 , an exceptional change took place . The Allies began to win the war against Hitler's underwater in the Battle of the Atlantic . By this time the technique of submarines warfare had advanced far beyond that used in the beginning the war . The Allies pitted thousands of boats , seamen , destroyers , cruisers ,subs , cannons and billion of dollars against the undersea craft . As early as December 1943 Karl Doeniz , the architect and designer of U-boat campaign, admitted the grave turn in events . The cost was great on both sides . In the six years of war , the Germans , by their own statistics , destroyed more than 2000 British , Allied ships in the sea . Hitler had built 1162 subs , of which 783 were lost . Of the 41000 men recruited into the underwater service , between 28000 and 32000 lost their lives and 500 were taken prisoners .


                
Das Boot. The claustrophobic world of a WWII German U-boat; boredom, filth, and sheer terror. It is not an easy movie to watch because it needs your patience and attention throughout its long duration but if you are ready to endure, it is quite an engaging, emotionally moving, technically perfect and equipped with amazing performances. Half an hour into the movie and you will be right in the middle of the life of people of the boat and living every moment be it joy, sorrow, boredom or fear. Actually Das Boot is one of those movies where you feel that you are running short of right words to describe what did you feel while watching this epic battle of those soldiers. The climax scene might leave you empty, devastated but most of the running time it is the story of hope even when there is no hope. All I can say, if you feel movies are great medium to understand the lives of others then you gotta see this one.


                
What makes "Das Boot" such a fine film, beyond the artistic merits, is its portrayal of Nazi soldiers as real people. Most, if not all, American films tend to have Nazis as inhuman monsters who want nothing more than to kill everyone and take over the world. I think the reality is a bit less dramatic.Here, some of the men doubt Hitler's greatness and are merely doing a job they had to do. Weeks, months under the sea eating questionable food in tight quarters. In many ways, they are no different from American (or any other) military men. Their propaganda films move them to new levels not much differently than our films did and do.Beyond that, again, there are technical and artistic merits to be had. The claustrophobic nature of the film was masterfully shot, and we could not have fully sympathized with these men without the aid of the lighting, camera and sound. Truly a modern masterpiece.


                
I hate movies about submarines. Seriously it has to be one of the most overrated genres ever. Why? Simply because usually there is not plot enough to fill half a sub and there is almost NO variation to the themes presented. But there is always exceptions, and most of the time it's these exceptions that highlight just how awful the genre in general is. This is that exception.The story here is nothing revolutionary. It's just the tale of a German submarine during WW2. Their operations, the life on board and the ever-present fear of being stuck inside a bubble of air in a broken submarine at the bottom of the sea. And i must say that this is the only submarine-movie to truly capture the fear, the claustrophobic intensity of the situation. And that makes this movie fantastic.This is not first and foremost a war-film. Although the theme is World War 2 and the men portrayed are soldiers, this is more a psychological journey telling the tale of people on the edge. The acting is in most parts excellent, with Jürgen Prochnow excelling as the tightly-wound captain. What astounds me here is also the way that the film-makers do so much with so little. There is not many special effects needed, nor any of the CGI that is standard today, to create a suspense that far supersedes most of what is released today.This is the only submarine-movie you will ever need. See it for the suspense, as well as for the lesson in the futility of war. I rate this 8/10.


                
Recently, I watched another (semi) war film, `The Deer Hunter', and in my review I complained of pacing problems that led me to not like the film as much as I would have, had there been a little more fluidity.  What solidified this position and what I have used as a comparison since seeing the film, was `Das Boot'.  In theory, I should have been bored.  Here we have a film about a German U-Boat that almost solely takes place on this boat (save book ending scenes ashore) and yet there was not one moment when I could conjure up any sort of criticism regarding the pacing.  There were multiple scenes where the camera pretty much panned the faces of the crewmembers, and still, it was compelling due to the masterful direction of Wolfgang Peterson, a director whose filmography (in my opinion) is spotty at best.`Das Boot' is intense, real and enthralling.  Very quickly I felt slightly claustrophobic because the film has an incredible ability to draw you into any given scene.  `Das Boot' was intriguing to me because it is rare that we see war films from any perspectives other than our own, especially from the perspective of the enemy; and showed that these men were doing their `job' in the war, exactly like the American soldiers were.  `Das Boot', while not one of my `favorite' war films, is indeed an excellent film that requires a certain time commitment, but that time will not be arduous or wasted.--Shelly


                
Hardly a movie was so able to immerse your audience in the reality of their characters. With an extreme level of detail, interpretation intense and dramatic set coherently built, Das Boot accurately presents the frightening reality of German fighters confined in Nazi submarines.Perhaps the most striking quality of the film is the ability to portray the Nazi soldiers with disconcerting verisimilitude.Most movies that portray World War II tend to characterize all Nazi fighters with a sharp inhumanity, a unanimous monstrosity, thereby facilitating the heroic role of Allied soldiers. Nothing more than a comfortable justification for the successive massacre of German soldiers. The dehumanization of the villains is an old strategy used in the movies, a dramatically distorted laudable but extremely fictional.Das Boot reconciles, provocatively, both the dramatic aspect as the humanity of German soldiers. It is not, let us say, to praise or fade Nazi ideology (or its horrors) instead, is a gritty portrayal facing the banality of evil in its various latitudes.


                
Wolfgang Peterson has succeeded in sharing a claustrophobic and terrorizing experience of a wartime submarine crew as you find yourself rooting for this German U-Boats' survival. With no American flag raised, betrayed or turned back on, this movie was mesmerizing in its' sharing of common war themes, but here as Germans. Ideology is turned on its' head in this role reversal. Ou crew becomes our friends we root for, except the one obvious blinded Nazi, and we feel for them, once an unthinkable option. The sinking feeling of inevitability was inexorable as war- time orders are followed. Retribution and fear of the same, runs through these waters, as we silently wait for our fate to show itself.


                
I have only ever seen the tv mini-series which was shown for the first time in the U.K in the mid-eighties on BBC2 in the original German, and generated record audience figures for subtitled material of between seven and eight million ( the equivalent in the U.S would be almost forty million). I cannot imagine it being cut, much less dubbed. I can only say that I found it compelling drama, though everyone I know who has seen it has been male, and it may be that this film has particular meaning to those who have at least to consider the possibility that they may one day be required to fight in a war. The British have always been able to distinguish between honourable and dishonourable German fighting units, but the acting in Petersen's film is of such a quality that you really care what happens to these people (and I speak as someone whose father fought against them). The feeling of being part of a U-boat crew that is one moment the hunter and the next moment the hunted, the elation and the fear of combat, the heightened sense of self-awareness, the questioning of one's role, and, above all, the ultimate futility of war are all powerfully brought home. The extraordinary German sense of discipline is evident throughout (helping to explain why it required the combined efforts of The British Empire, The Soviet Union and the United States to defeat Hitler's forces) but it is a discipline infused with respect and intelligence. This is a wonderful piece of filmmaking which I would recommend to anyone. Just make sure you see it in the original German.


                
Most war films are made from the perspective of the victor, or at least tell an inspirational tale.  Few depict only futile effort and inevitable defeat. But only one quarter of German U-boat crew members during World War Two ever made it home.  "Das Boot" informs us of this, not as a final observation, but by way of introduction.  Armed with this information, one only only view the boat in question as a tomb waiting to happen.In some ways this is a very uncinematic venture.  All the action takes place within a small metal tube; even when it surfaces, the sub is visually unimpressive; enemy ships are but spray on the horizon; torpedos are fired unseen, their lethal impact heard but unwitnessed. Additionally, some of the dialogue, at least in translation, is slightly clunky.But "Das Boot" has great strengths.  In sharp contrast to "The Perfect Storm", the same director's later return to the sea, nothing is played for melodramatic effect.  And by the conclusion of this epic story, the claustrophobic boat seems as much one's own home as that of the crew, whose understated characters one has come to appreciate through simple observation as they go about their everyday tasks.  Especially good is Jurgen Prochnow as the captain, on whose shoulders lies full responsibility for the lives of his men. His plays a true hero, but one without any halo or gloss.For those of us fortunate enough not to have lived through the war, this is a rare film that presents a plausible picture of that terrible time. By implication, the truth about today's wars is in here too, more so than in anything you'll find on CNN.  Watching it makes you realise how most other supposedly "great" war films aren't great at all, just the slick product of an entertainment industry. "Das Boot" is the real thing.


                
Das Boot, one of the most detailed cinematic examinations of life on a submarine (here a German U-boat in the North Atlantic during WW2), spends the majority of its lengthy running time with a firm grip around the pounding hearts of its audience members.  Director Wolfgang Petersen constructs a tense, claustrophobic, nightmarish world of cat and mouse without ever losing sight of the compelling stories of the individuals who comprise the submarine's crew.  Jost Vacano, the brilliant cinematographer who designed his own gyroscopic camera support specifically for use in this movie, creates meticulous shots that race the length of the sub -- and place the viewer in the heart of the action.  If possible, listen to Petersen's DVD audio commentary for a thorough explanation of the various running times and versions of the film as well as fantastic information on the production of the movie itself.


                
It is strange that the description above describes the crew of the U-Boat as "raw recruits." Whoever wrote that must not have even seen the film. It is obvious that they were mostly veteran submariners.I was surprised to see in the credits that they had a technical adviser from the German Navy on this film, because the many errors (that could have been easily avoided with a little attention) detract a lot from the film. I mean things like the sound guy calling out a bearing to a target when his indicator dial is pointing in a quite different direction. Still, it is a gripping story that really makes you feel the desperation of a submarine crew struggling to keep their boat (never call one a "ship") and themselves alive after a severe attack.The biggest flaw is included in the film from the book. I guess the writer must have thought it would be sort of poignant to show something of how the "brotherhood of the sea" has to be abandoned in war when he had the boat surface at night to observe the burning tanker they torpedoed two hours before, and shoot another torpedo to "finish her off," then having to back away leaving the surviving crewmen in the water to drown.One big weakness of the German U-Boats was their fairly small load of torpedoes. No competent U-Boat commander would have ever wasted a precious torpedo sinking a ship that was already doomed. But even worse was the act of surfacing at all. In a calm sea, with a brilliant tower of flames from the sinking tanker, the sub would have been easily spotted by any enemy vessel within many miles of there, while their own lookouts would have been blinded by the light of the fire. The whole scene was dramatic, but utterly absurd. In reality the sub would have had to get away from there as quickly as possible in order to surface and recharge its battery.Still, I have the DVD and enjoy watching it now and then. It is fun to play it with the English subtitles and notice how they sometimes differ from the German being spoken. Note also, for English speakers, that the title is correctly pronounced "Das Boat."Some posts have called this the "greatest anti-war film ever made." It certainly has a strong message about the futility and waste of war, but I think when it comes to the many fine anti-war films out there, one special film stands alone above all the rest. It is called "Johnny Got His Gun." If you can find a copy of it, see it. Then you will have a proper basis for judging anti-war films.
Avoid the dubbed version of "Das Boot".  We watched 15 minutes of it before returning to the video store.  They had the subtitled version, which was much better.  We noted five significant differences in the first 15 minutes. The dubbed version got things wrong, and missed some important points!  The sound was also worse (which is especially important for this film).Besides, it makes a lot more sense to watch the German version with subtitles.  The film depicts the war from a German perspective, and watching it in English could prevent you from becoming immersed in this fine film.


                
(Directors Cut Review)There are few war films that can say they captured the spirit and atmosphere of what the actual events were like. Das Boot is one of them. This is one of the true epic-war films. The word epic is thrown around a lot, but perhaps none more relevant than describing this film. At approximately 3 and a half hours long, Das Boot comes across as just one long trip with a German U-Boat crew. At surface level, it is. But it's Wolfgang Peterson's direction that really cements this as one of the all-time great World War II films.One of the first thing's I noticed, was that Peterson was not going to bang us over the heads with the fact that this is a group of German's. More importantly, I think he pretty easily got the audience to care about the crew, no matter where your from. It's hard not to root for this group after all they go through. Considering near a hundred attendees spend weeks, and even months, in one boat together without showering or really any time alone, yeah I would say they deserve some sympathy. Peterson does a great job of capturing they claustrophobic-ness of the boat and the genuinely disgusting nature of the entire trip. Ultimately, this film isn't about the action or the naval battles, it's a character drama about how these guys attempt to live together and the many, and I mean many, unfortunate circumstances they are forced to undergo together. Speaking of the action, I felt like several of the battle sequences became tedious after awhile. Not because they weren't realist at all, but because it seemed like the exact same consequences with the exact same explosion shots over and over again. It was made in the early 80's without the technology we have now, so it's forgivable, but that was my one major complaint.One of the most impressive things about Das Boot is the realistic nature of the boat. But also the dynamics and relationships that the crew members have with one another. I don't know that I can pinpoint any of the names of the characters, but I remember their faces (led by a German looking Denis Leary). I think that's the more important thing. The film is really long, and although sometimes you don't get the context of where they are or why they are doing it, but you feel the impact of it, especially in the last 30 minutes or so. That is much to the credit of Peterson and the bittersweet score played throughout. Das Boot is really one of the most realistic looking and feeling war film I have seen.+Peterson's great directing+Score+Capture the claustrophobic feel+Character drama-Explosion scenes repeated?-Maybe a little too long8.1/10


                
Most people consider life aboard a submarine to be very difficult, but consider a comparison with life aboard a German U Boat. These were considered truly awful boats to live and work on.Its said if you work in a profession you avoid it in your free time, but I think submariner's are a different breed to everybody else because they love to watch films about their life.They like to watch films such as The Hunt for Red October, Run Silent, Run Deep even Destination Tokyo I wonder why but I honestly think they most find some kind of humour and appreciation in them. Ask any submariner and they will tell you the same thing, this is the best film they have ever watched. Its wonderful.


                
"Hail and victory and sink 'em all!" Director Wolfgang Petersen takes us on an epic, once-in-a-lifetime maritime adventure, set in the autumn some years before World War II came to a close and U-boats were still sailing(mostly below) the cold seas. An adaption of the eponymous 1973 novel by German author and painter Lothar-Günther Buchheim, the film was released in 1981, but is filmed in a time four decades its prior. 'Das Boot', or known in the U.S. as 'The Boat', which originally aired as a six-hour German mini-series and was shot in complete silence due to complications of getting sound equipment into the actual submarine, thus having the actors to lip-synch their dialogue in later, was the most expensive German film at the time. But does it's length outweigh it's story? Let's take a look. Told from the viewpoint of the naive but honest Lt. Werner (Herbert Grönemeyer), of whom has been assigned a war correspondent to gather photographs aboard the German sub U-96 and only to bring them back for Nazi propaganda purposes, sails out from the harbor of La Rochelle, France to do battle above and beneath the cold, foamy waters. Captaining the war vessel is rock-solid Captain-Lt. Henrich Lehmann-Willenbrock (Jürgen Prochnow), and also called "Der Alte" or "The Old Man" by his crew, a grizzled thirty-year-old-battle-hardened war veteran, who complains to Wener that most of his men on board are boys, on whom the latter would solely depend upon later. Chief Engineer Fritz Grade - Der Leitende- Der LI (Klaus Wenneman), the second oldest crew member besides the captain and also the second most important crewman, is a quiet and well-respected man, tormented by the uncertain fate of his wife, especially after hearing of an Allied air raid in Cologne. Sooner than not, though mocked for his lack of experience, Lt. Werner, as well as the rest of the crew, soon discover the true horrors of working and living aboard a U-boat amidst the unknown fate of a life-threatening attack beneath the green-tinted waves of a vast, empty world below. With brilliant and breathtaking cinematography shot and captured by Jost Vacano, we too sense and feel what the crew is emanating towards us as as he hurtles the camera through tight spaces and cramped passageways. Time passes and seems to stand still for those aboard, as we wait for some action as they do in turn, boredom beginning to slowly take over in waiting of a possible, imminent attack. Their boredom is somewhat of an unbeknown relief to its audience, because when the attack scenes do actually commence, Petersen is relentless in letting up, water bursting in through cracks from torpedo hits, lights flashing, flames emerging and alarms blaring as hysteria befalls the crew beneath the dark and unforgiving sea, entrapped in what may be their narrow, pitiful. grave. The iron womb that is their comfort and protection is penetrated and punctured with underwater missiles as the men race around through the ships tight, steamy labyrinthine passageways piled on with perfectly claustrophobic dread, doing all they know and have trained for possible for the sub not to become their permanent coffin in a race against time. Our only glimpse and fresh breathers of air from the world above is the captain and a handful of crew peering through binoculars for enemy ships when the top is opened or when sighting targets through a periscope in some POV shots. When the radar does not respond when locating another sub later on in the film, the U-96 sinks to a depth of two-hundred-eighty meters, stuck on a sand shelf for sixteen hours as the men on board are succumbed to nothing but cramped, humid darkness and muster up all the sanity and mental will they can and know to survive amidst hunger pains and near paranoia as they too are being hunted by Nazi boats while in wait of the silent unknown, scraping into their subconsciousness for a glimmer of hope as the oxygen quickly dwindles as they all wonder as to what may surely become of them in the end.Taut and gripping, its authenticity is as pungent as it is horrific, as we sail with the crew confined and contained below the biting spray of the rough Atlantic waters. Featuring little dialogue, the film's anti-Nazi sentiments ring through loud and clear to make up for it. 'Das Boot' is truly the ultimate submarine movie: a harrowing voyage that carries with it lingering trepidations of what may come to be beneath the murky green depths with each eerie sonar pinging reverberating from their precious vessel off the U-boat's hull. Lengthy but unsurpassed with its intense tension and unabashed realism, with meticulously crafted and constructed long-takes and closeups all with fate hanging in the balance, 'Das Boot' is rightly regarded internationally, if not already, as the pre-eminent among all submarine films. Going beyond the sub-par into an acutely distressing exercise in pure craftsmanship and articulate detail, this WWII film went on to be nominated for six Academy Awards deservedly, including one for Best Director, Best Cinematography and Film Editing. With a budget of 32 million DM ($12 million), the film never sinks but rose above the surface with $84 million plus at the box office, showing us a story that war, as depicted in all of its gritty truthfulness and horror, is indeed hell.
Wolfgang Petersen directed this realistic and compelling film, spoken in German, with English subtitles,and told from the perspective of a German U-boat patrolling the Atlantic during World War II. The captain(played by Jurgen Prochnow) is a dedicated but war-weary man trying to keep his mostly young crew together during stressful times of either stifling boredom or nerve-wracking fear, as they face many life-threatening situations from the British forces they are battling, from both the sea and air. Starkly told, and quite claustrophobic, leading to a powerful closing sequence. Despite being a bit hard at times to differentiate all the characters, this is still quite involving.


                
'Das Boot' is the ultimate war film. It's not the conventional drama, thriller or whatever. It's the real deal. It's about the real horror. But this is just possible to realize after the end. Why? You need to see for yourself.It don't has that much of a character development, an aspect that I think important, and the dialogs says nothing overly important for our perception about the characters, but everything which happens in the submarine is so intense and sincere, that the viewer don't need much more to be involved in the story. The acting is outstanding in my opinion, and so were the terrific FX(given the year, 1981) and the excellent direction and cinematography. And after all, it's a cruel and unfortunately truth about the world in war. The horror, the fear and tension the confined men suffers for a long period , things that can drive even the bravest man to a mental collapse. Though is not flawless. Some things aren't explained and others are way too confuse, and the soundtrack don't has an important presence. And again, I didn't feel connected with any character in the submarine. I was a viewer that sometimes was 'into' the story, but sometimes 'out' of it. It couldn't live up only by the thriller and the tension, both the fuel of the film. When it tried to show a little more, it was mostly uninteresting. But yet, it's effective and excellent in it's depiction of war. 8.3/ 10


                
Pretty much Wolfgang Peterson's magnum opus, as far as the majority of the world is concerned. He's a talented director, but nothing else he's done adds up quite to the level of intensity all three some hours of this movie relentlessly piles on top of you--with few breaths of fresh air to cut into the tension. Not a movie for the claustrophobic, Das Boot almost literally goes deeper and deeper into the ocean, letting the tension in the air build to near bursting point.The camera work in this movie is worth paying attention to simply because it's an exercise in limited space. Somehow Peterson keeps the camera dynamic and moving despite the fact that there's very little to move to, the angles are fresh and aren't repetitive and yet it's not as if he had much choice in how to block a lot of these scenes. Hitchcock's Lifeboat is pretty sweet, but this is the real thing. And as the characters have to contend with limited space, they also deal with limited resources, oxygen, energy, and sanity--bringing the audience into most of it as well.Also refreshing is the lack of political persuasion in this movie. Heck, even the ending isn't really a "War is hell" message, much more a cynical survivalist point. These characters have very little interest in the war, they're just trying to survive their separate battles, and in the one scene in which they are able to interact with the political side, everything from the dress to the formalities to the lighting of the scene does not fit with their day to day reality; and in the one scene where they're confronted with the morality of it all, they nevertheless have to choose survival and adaptability over any humanistic concerns.By the way, I would not recommend the English dub of this movie. The voices and accents are downright cartoonish, and would fit better in an animated anti-German propaganda film than in this more seriously considered survivalist tale.--PolarisDiB
This film is truly amazing.The directors cut is the best version.The sound and feeling are amazing.You begin to feel the closeness of the ship.How can 40 men live like that for months on end!Life on board is shown in great detail.The ending is sad to say the least.See it on a home audio system.
10 of 10 folks.


                
After 20 years or so, having finally gotten around to watching it properly again, as it should be seen: in full Directors Cut/Original German language mode, I was initially totally engrossed in the beautiful nature of this film. Wonderfully shot, eerie compelling drama, very real human emotions, (even given the nature of the whole Nazi/Master race subject matter here) and then...that "Commando Comics" ending. For any non-Brits reading this, "Commando" was a series of WWII comic books for young boys that always made sure the 'nasty baddies' got their comeuppance in the end, usually in some typically gung-ho moment of literary redemption. What a shame it had to end like that. All that effort, all that time (3.5 hours), spent empathising with the crew and especially with U-96, feeling their fear and their worries and then a random US fighter plane comes out of nowhere, kills them all and sinks the sub when it's home and dry. Shocking Cop out Herr Peterson and it means you don't get the 10 your film should've deserved.Other than that, it's a masterpiece. Great shame.
Das boot is a movie that will nail you and that's why you are going to love it. It's a movie that you will feel the emotions of the crew and especially of the captain (Jürgen Prochnow).In some moments you will feel that you are also a member of this crew and you are going to feel how it feels to be a member of this crew and what are the difficulties they experience in their "journey".I liked this movie very much because of interpretations of actors and how they interpreted their roles. It's a movie that in some moments maybe it is slow but this is the meaning, in a submarine time passes very slowly and it was still something that this film wanted to show us and make us feel it.I recommend it and I want to tell you that this movie it is not a simple movie with a submarine and its "journey" (war), it is more than that. So if you want to know more for this movie you have to see it.


                
This is certainly the most authentic representation of life on a WW2 submarine. In this case, it's a German U-boat; but conditions were unlikely to have been much better on allied subs.Made in the 1980's the movie offers a warts-and-all insight into the grubby, smelly, dank, confined and intimate world of submariners. It's a grim and rather myth-puncturing portrayal, compared to those made during or soon after the war, in which well-groomed and smartly-dressed seamen wandered about in large, clean, hygienic over-sized vessels.Jurgen Prochnow plays the skipper to perfection. His crew is a mixture of familiars and new-hands played by German character actors who seem to know their parts very well. A journalist is also sailing with them.The movie conveys all of the issues confronting the submariner. As well as the perennial moisture and the smell, the bad food, the terrors of depth-charging, the inadequate sanitation and so on; there is boredom. Long, long waits for orders and the hunting of allied ships.If anything, the movie overstates the case, and there are times when I find in drags a little. The crew don't seem sufficiently differentiated to provide interesting contrasts, and the script - however authentic - is banal to the point of soap-opera. This, I think, may be more to do with the English dubbing. I would also have liked a greater infil on personal background and their motivation for volunteering to take a job that I wouldn't have done at gun-point. The most we get is a rather coarse, over-the-top pre-sail party.All of the usual time-honoured underwater issues are addressed, including beyond-test-depth diving, and the crew-member who goes berserk. But - as I say - it's all performed within an authentic environment and with great fidelity, even to the point of bananas hanging amongst torpedoes and crew members overcome by bowel-movements during attack. The rough-sea sailing sequences are absolutely tremendous.Title and incidental music is well chosen to express both the peaceful interludes as well as tension and high drama. Sound and other technical issues are all on the money. My DVD is a 280 minute epic which I have so far failed to manage at one sitting. It could be edited to half that length. If anything its powerful impact would be heightened in a shorter format, because at that length; even the most dedicated viewer's attention begins to wilt. The trouble is; I've seen a shorter version and many of the bits I enjoy are edited out!As a movie about life below the ocean-wave during WW2, it's a must-see. The definitive presentation of the genre. But brace yourself for the twist at the end.
