War movies have been biases to one side or the other. This movie does not make hero's or enemies of the German U-boat sailors. Instead, it grips the viewer with realistic depictions of what it was like to be a U-boat sailor for the Gemans in WWII. It starts off with young (17 year old to 25 year old) who have been filled with propaganda about the war effort and glorious battle. After this young crew of immature sailors start to experience the true horrors of war, you can not only see, but experience with them the boredom, laughter, camaraderie, team work and death. In a world where you have no windows, where your ears have to be your eyes, where a cat and mouse game is played and the looser dies, these young men age 10 to 15 years It makes the viewer realize the horror of submarine warfare in WWII. The most realistic war movie I have ever seen.


                
I've decided not to review the 1981 dubbed cinematic release of DAS BOOT . Instead I've decided to review Wolfgang Petersen's director's cut which is far closer to the miniseries version which most readers will be familiar with When someone makes an anti war statement it's important that they differentiate between being " anti war " and " anti military " . The Brits don't seem to know the difference and seem keen to make anti- military / anti - soldier self loathing war movies with Paul Greengrass's RESURRECTED a good example . Having suffered the tragedy of Vietnam the Americans finally made anti- war movies that were a million miles removed from the old John Wayne and Errol Flynn star vehicles where a man wipes out 30 enemy soldiers single handed without suffering a scratch . But when it comes to making anti - war movies that shows the horrors of war and the courage of men in battle the Germans are top of the league , heads and shoulders above everyone else . This is because present day Germans realize that the enemy isn't the other side - it's war itself that's the enemy and DAS BOOT is a great example of this thinking The story starts slowly by introducing us to the crew via the war correspondent who are celebrating a last night ashore before they sail on their mission to sink British convoys sailing from America to Britain carrying vital supplies for the war effort against Nazi Germany . This is where DAS BOOT is superb , I really felt empathy for these crew man . Okay I didn't want them sinking British ships but I didn't want them to die either an opinion that shouldn't be taken lightly since my paternal grandfather was a merchant seaman during the war while my maternal grandfather was a crewman on a destroyer . The fact the crew of U-96 are presented as being utterly human and for this Brit hoping they make it home in one piece is a great achievement DAS BOOT was nominated for several Oscars and it's not difficult to see why. Watch it on widescreen television with stereo surround and you'll be amazed with the very clear sound effects and sound editing . Perhaps the best technical aspect is the cinematography where during moments of crisis the camera shoots along the length of the U- boat as it follows crewmen rushing about . When a foreign language movie is nominated for several Oscars you just know it's good!!!!! SLIGHT SPOILERS !!!!This is a superb movie but it's not perfect . Being a German movie Nazis feature at one point but none of them are crew members , the only Nazis featured are the crew of a supply ship who have who have never seen a days fighting in their lives . It's understandable for German film makers to play down the courage of Nazi party members of the Second World War but it should also be remembered that the Waffan SS were exclusively composed of party members and they were the most feared fighting force of the conflict . CROSS OF IRON ( My favourite movie featuring WW 2 ) does make the valid point that because someone isn't a fan of the Nazis it doesn't necessarily make them a good person either . The screenplay also drags due to the fact that there's two subplots of U-96 being damaged and stuck on the Atlantic seabed when one subplot of sinking and then resurrecting the vessel would have sufficedBut the pros far outweigh the cons and I recommend this movie to people who have never seen a foreign language film in their life . It's placing in the IMDb top 250 is well earned . You may be shocked to know that director Wolgang Petersen later went onto to make Hollywood crap like OUTBREAK and A PERFECT STORM
Never has nothing happening been such compelling viewing.No debate, no discussion, no contenders - DAS BOOT is THE submarine movie for the ages.In autumn 1941, World War II U-Boat 96, crewed by young rowdy Germans, puts to sea with its veteran captain, wildly Teutonic Jürgen Prochnow, his eyes the color of eagle and high cheekbones set on stun.The battle for control of the Atlantic is turning against the Germans, yet Hitler orders more and more U-boats with ever younger crews into battle against the British freighters and their destroyer escorts. This opening pitch and the antsiness of Jürgen's young hooligan crew seems to presage a roaring Hitlercoaster of war war war Amerikan style - but director/co-writer Wolfgang Petersen and writers Lothar G. Buchheim and Dean Riesner swerve to port with a counter intuitive yet singularly entertaining and tension-filled, character-driven non-action action movie. These young punks discover that being at war is much like the waiting room in any doctor's office.DAS BOOT is filled with periods of waiting in fear, waiting in boredom, waiting in terror, waiting in anxiety - and sudden action that rips throats and bends steel with its bare hands.DAS BOOT does something which most commercial war films are too gutless to do - humanizes Germans: they carry photos of their girls, they write home, there are heroes and cowards, there are hard men and those that crack under the strain; they catch crabs and rib each other about it; at one point, a sailor stops a celebration with the announcement of bad news on the radio - into the silence, he declares that back home, their team has lost! These men doubt much of the war propaganda they are fed. Even though German tacticians convey Churchill as a "paralyzed guzzler" the officers on U-96 respect the British fleet ("Those aren't amateurs up there"). Yet they do not fear the British simply because that is the default position of Germans in Westernized film, but because the British had better equipment. These Germans are not one-dimensional haters, not committed blindly to the Führer, not simple villain props as in countless Brit and U.S. movies. They are the heroes. And our hearts are with theirs in their throats every watery step of the way.Even in its shortest version, DAS BOOT is 2 hours, 29 minutes. The Director's Cut is 209 minutes, the uncut version is 293 minutes (4 hrs, 53 mins). It's the most fun you'll have growing a five o'clock shadow.DAS BOOT attains such a high level of drama, we forgive Wolfgang Petersen for the subpar exteriors, with those model subs and little dolls on the tower being foamed in slow motion to emulate a sizable u-boat.When most movies are ending - at the 1:33 mark - this movie sees its first action. Yet even the action is not what one expects: after U-96 fires torpedoes at a British convoy, they submerge and wait in silence, listening for the muffled far-off explosions and counting the British ships sinking by the groans of steel they hear through the depths. And they know they're in for repercussions - depth charges. The waiting begins anew - the interminable, unbearable waiting for death to claim you or not - as they "run silent," all lights out, submerging further, engines at minimum. The sound of sonar pings their only warning that something is closing on them from above. The Captain says into the silence, "Here it comes. The revenge." And all they can do is hang on through the bucking explosions and bolts bursting on pressurized pipes.After the terror subsides, Prochnow simply declares, "That's the end of that." Not heroes. Not cowards. Just doing their job.When U-96 surfaces to survey their kills, they are outraged to find that one of the flaming ships they torpedoed still has men onboard, jumping off, screaming, aflame. And the focus of the Captain's outrage will surprise you: "Why weren't they rescued after all these hours?" One of his officers begins to weep for the dying. It's a wondrous portrayal of war empathy, of humanity. It makes us question war yet again, and question the supposed intelligence of the species that can create the marvel of submarines and battleships only to use them in such unproductive, moronic fashion against each other.Imagine the frustration of knowing that on a submarine, humans are the least important cargo - literally stacks of torpedoes, spare parts, tools for repairs (it's like being in space - there is nowhere you can turn if you need a certain part), food, fuel, ballast, the mechanics of the sub itself, and at the very bottom of the list - as evidenced by the way sleeping bunks are haphazardly squeezed into crawlspaces - people.Director Petersen instructed the whole crew not to go out into the sun during filming, so they would retain that bloodless pallor. He effectively suffocates us in the ghastly, claustrophobic passageways and "living spaces" of a submarine; he sends his cameras barreling through crawlspaces full tilt, pursuing running men who trip and glide through hatches; we almost feel the cracking of our skulls on jutting iron overhangs; sea water thunders in every time the top hatch is opened, drenching the plastic-coated charts and everyone nearby; everything is wet and damp, dark and cold...DAS BOOT is a gritty study in patience, tactics, anxiety, tolerance, futility, and brings a whole new meaning to wetting the bed.
When you go to a liquor store to buy Vodka you can purchase one of several brands or you can purchase Stoli. That's what Das Boot is when it comes to Submarine films. You can watch any one of several or you can watch Das Boot. Like Stoli Vodka it's in a class by itself. Superb film either way you see it i.e. subtitles or the dubbed version. See the directors cut if you can. The German crew could be any nationality the film is so well done it doesn't matter. Andy Rooney once said that when you're in a war you live life at 100%. The opening scene of this film demonstrates that. The men are living life at 100%. I never saw any other war movie that captured that like Das Boot.


                
I've seen a fair number of war movies, but none can come close to "Das Boot." I saw it first in theaters when it was first released, in German with subtitles (great); saw it again in theaters, dubbed in English (awful); and then just saw it on the DVD director's cut with subtitles (excellent). The last was definitely the best.No war movie has ever captured the reality of the soldier's experience like this one. It's a submarine movie, so of course you're going to get the stock scenes of destroyers on the surface, tense men listening to the sonar ping, depth charges, diving deeper and deeper, etc. But it is so much more convincing in this movie than in any other in its genre ("Run Silent, Run Deep" and "The Enemy Below" come to mind).But don't expect non-stop wall-to-wall action; the realism of the movie comes through in depicting the long periods of time when there was nothing to do: cruising through stormy seas, wandering about with no particular task or mission, the frustrations of the crew after weeks of inaction, etc. As a movie, this presents a problem because the viewer is taken through all that time in somewhat realistic fashion, which in turn makes the film long and not quite as gripping.The real punch of the movie, though, are the characters, their life on board, their hopes for a successful cruise and a return to normalcy. The actors do a fantastic job, all of them, but the captain and the chief engineer are probably the best, along with the journalist on board. The best scene, one which I remembered clearly ever since I first saw it in 1981, was the one where the sub crew goes on board the supply ship at Christmas time; the stark contrast between these rough, slimy, smelly crewmen and the polished, uniform-clad, hair combed and slicked officers on the supply ship, was just phenomenal. To think that some men went through the war in hell like the submariners, while others basically lived like kings, is just too painful to really comprehend.The ending is very creative, very surprising, and emotionally devastating. After seeing Das Boot, I can't ever bring myself to watch any other submarine movie.I give it 9.5/10 stars; just barely on the edge of a perfect 10, but not quite.


                
Wolfgang Peterson, wrote and directed this superb film of submarine life during World War II. When first seen by an American audience, reactions were mixed. Halfway into the film, the German crew begins to exhibit some universal traits which touch the heart of anyone fighting for a cause. Gone is the reason why the seamen are fighting often-times an unseen enemy. The reasons are replaced by a plethora of dangerous and certainly dramatic events which allow an audience to see the life and death struggle of all veterans. The visual heart of this unusual movie, is that of an experienced German Captain (Jürgen Prochnow) who sails the Atlantic, meeting both friend and foe alike. With him are his aids, Lt. Henrich (Lehmann-Willenbrock), Herbert Grönemeyer as Lt. Werner and Klaus Wennemann who is superior as Chief Engineer. When they realize the war is nearly over, they head for home. Unfortunately they are spotted, targeted and attacked by the English navy. Now comes some heart-pounding action as most of the crew expect to die before reaching home. Seen from the perspective of an American audience, one expects the inevitable. Yet, from the audience point of view, one can not help but sympathize for the Captain and his valiant crew. A Great film indeed. ****


                
"Das Boot" is an excellent drama...and it's also more terrifying than virtually every horror film I've ever seen. The dark, dirty, claustrophobic environment of the submarine is something out of a nightmare. Even the sound effects are scary - the boom of the depth charges, the groaning of the hull under pressure, the "ping!" of bursting bolts, etc. etc. The images, the sounds, and the charged performances of the actors work together beautifully to create the illusion that fifty men are fighting for their lives in an amazing but fragile piece of machinery.But the film is more than just an intense sensory experience - it's also an unusually well-written, antiwar character piece. While some of the sub's crew members are inevitably underdeveloped (in the director's cut version, anyway), most of them are interesting and memorable. Actor Jurgen Prochnow is fantastic as the cynical captain, who still fights hard even though he's clearly lost his faith in the Nazi regime. Herbert Grönemeyer is pretty good as the war correspondent, who starts as an outsider but gradually blends in with the veteran crew. The other standout character, for me, is Johann (Erwin Leder), who has one of the most gaunt and frightening faces in movie history.Speaking of the crew, some critics have complained that the film is far too sympathetic to them, since the Germans were the universally recognized bad guys of World War II. But, while I believe that Nazi Germany was the most despicable state in human history, I don't necessarily feel that every German who served in its armed forces was despicable. In other words, I simply have no problem sympathizing with the German characters in this movie. They're common fighters, not policy-makers; you can't blame them for Hitler's doings any more than you can blame the average contemporary American for George W. Bush's Middle East policies.The other common criticism of the film is that it's a little too long, too slow, too repetitive, whatever. I can understand why some people might be bored by "Das Boot," but of course director Peterson actively tried to make parts of the film slow in order to simulate the tedium of daily life on a submarine. (Similarly, "The French Connection" depicts surveillance as a tedious and time-consuming business, and risks becoming tedious itself). Anyway, as far as I'm concerned, if you're mentally prepared for a long and tough viewing experience, then these aspects of "Das Boot" should not annoy you. If you want an action submarine movie, then by all means rent something cute and inoffensive like "Crimson Tide"! Perhaps the one real weakness of "Das Boot" is that it utilizes dated model effects. The models draw you out of the realism a bit - you may find yourself wondering who turned off "Das Boot" and put on "Godzilla" instead - but, for the time, they look fine (I could point to several equivalently lame model shots in "Star Wars," for instance, but that would be blasphemy.) Anyway, the effects are certainly respectable enough to earn our (slight) indulgence.There are really no problems with this movie, then - it's one of those "just about perfect" films. It's not pleasant to watch, and in fact I put off seeing it for years because I knew it would be really intense. But, if you're in the mood, "Das Boot" is a rare visceral and intellectual treat. War movies really don't get any better.


                
Well - a very exciting movie with very good attention to detail. I liked the German with English subtitles - the dubbed version didn't have the impact their language provides. Some beautiful scenes and some very scary scenes. J. Prochnow was the perfect choice for the Kapitan. What was also very good - was the dialog in which they criticize their own leaders & make no pretense about their doubts about the war. The ending bothered me in that the boat he loved sank before his very eyes. But - in the German Navy - the submariners suffered the highest casualty rate. Of the 35,000 submarine sailors - barely 4,000 ever survived the war. But - this is a movie I could watch over & over again. Cannot say that about too many other movies. Very good directing & cinematography. Wish they'd make more films like this. Want to discuss it - I'm at ml2348@att.com
In this superb drama, we get into the lives of the crew of a German submarine. It is a small submarine, and their individual lives are melded into the claustrophobic constricted world in which they live. Every action has a reaction. Everything is done with the knowledge that a single slip up will lead to their destruction. They face a series of death defying maneuvers and escapes, losing a little of themselves whenever they survive. The war is the enemy, and these men would have meant nothing to those in power. As with most wars, we redefine the value of human life and put others ahead of the common man. The terror of each moment, each challenge, is magnified. They probably don't know what it is for except someone has told them it is important.I will not spoil the conclusion, but I will say that it is apt and arbitrary, just as their lives have been. This is a really effective film because it doesn't allow the audience to relax for even a moment. When it's over, we want out as much as the guys on the boat.


                
Adapted from a mini-series, Das Boot ranks not just as one of the best war films, but one of the best suspense films of all time.Apart from some scene-setting at the start, Director Wolfgang Peterson centres all the action on the U-boat itself. The crew are cut off, with only the pings of sonar and the creaks from the hull to connect them to the outside world. They are trapped in a cramped, claustrophobic tube, a million miles from the cavernous interiors normally portrayed in submarine films. This is a submarine where people sleep 2 to a cot; where supplies litter the interior; where water sluices across the floor; where the sweat and fear is palpable.The crew are portrayed as professionals doing a job. These are not Nazi zealots, but cynical and hardened to their job. In one telling scene, the U-boat retreats from a recently torpedoed convoy, dooming its crew to certain death. Jurgen Prochnow's restrained performance shows that he has no choice, and that this choice is not a happy one. The only Nazi zealot amongst the crew (an SS intelligence officer and ex-Hitler Youth leader) is soon subdued and eventually proves his worth. (The other officers tease him by singing along to Allied crowd-pleasers like "A long way to Tipperary").The photography is superb, with a steadicam ranging up and down the sub in a way that conveys just how small and cramped it is.There are some standout set-pieces, where the submarine is under depth-charge attack from British destroyers. These rank as some of the most suspenseful sequences every committed to film - expertly acted, edited, and with breath-taking sound design. You will share in the crew's horror as the U-boat plummets to the bottom, with rivets popping and engines dead.The film spends a remarkable amount of time on character development. The clean-cut crew soon become haggard and tense; one key character snaps and derelicts his duty, risking court-martial; there is a sense of what each crew member has lost in the war. There is a jarring sequence where the U-boat sneaks into a neutral port to resupply from a German merchant vessel, and these gaunt and dirty ghosts are invited to a feast; their contempt for the self-satisfied merchant officers is palpable.There are few weaknesses. The visual effects don't match up to the rest of the production and are occasionally distracting. The ending is abrupt and rather shocking.Not just a must-see, but a film that bears repeated viewings.
This has to be one of the best, if not the best psychological studies of war in a movie. The tension, tedium, and coarseness all work so well together that you can actually feel for the crew. The viewer get a close and personal feel for what these crews went through, how they felt, and what they had to go through to serve their insane Government. Wolfgang Peterson did a fantastic job directing this movie, and the cast was top notch to carry this out the way it needed to be. Do not expect a high action movie, it has its action, but that is not what this movie is. Be ready for a movie that is long, drawn out, and sometimes tedious to watch, it is well worth every minute of it. Be ready for a no thrills movie that shows you what hell was like in submarine warfare, in WWII. I wish we had something like this for the American Submariners in WWII.


                
"Das Boot" is one of those movies you think there's no way you could actually enjoy, and then find yourself totally engrossed in. A three-and-a-half hour film in German set almost completely on a submarine would not seem to have the makings of a gripping film, but gripping this film certainly is.Wolfgang Petersen and his cameraman make tremendous use of their limited space, and this film is more visually dynamic than many films that have much more room to play with. The claustrophobia is intense, and the small details about life on a submarine endlessly fascinating. And it's a tremendously humanist film as well; by the end, we don't really care that these men are fighting for the Nazi cause, we simply care about them as men.Grade: A


                
I'm happy about the fact that this movie gets still this big attention. Even if it is already 25 years ago when it came to the theaters worldwide I'm surprised and happy, that the movie made such a huge impression to a lot of people everywhere. This is not usual for a German movie and less usual for a German WW2 movie. I've seen "Das Boot" a lot of times over the years and I'm still impressed by the pure and realistic atmosphere in it. The actors are brilliant and for a lot of them "Das Boot" was the start of a big career in the European or German cinema or TV. One of them - Herbert Gronemeyer - was already a pop star at the beginning of his career in Germany 25 years ago. Today he is one of the most successful stars in the German music scene... he makes good music but unfortunately only music. His character was, except of Prochnows role, my favorite one, but unfortunately we'll never see more of his acting talent. Here in Munich you can visit the Bavaria Studios where they've filmed the movie. And you can still make a walk through the submarine.... claustrophobic feelings included, because it's very narrow inside. At the latest then you realize how complicated it must have been to film the movie.To cut a long story short: One of my all time favorite movies!


                
Wolfgang Petersen did something I felt was impossible... I actually found myself kind of rooting for the Germans in this WWII set film. Great performances from all of the cast and it is good to see that even the enemy is just doing what they also think is right. A must see. Must. Must. Must. Must. Must.


                
Spoilers herein.The best films -- very few -- understand how to use space. Included among all the other things to worry about is how the space on the screen relates to the viewer. Welles' `Othello' is a masterpiece because the way he peers through the space, he places the viewer in the set, makes us part of the emotional weave.This film is perhaps the best architectural film of this era. The bar is much lower when you deal with a single space that we conceptually understand coming into the theater. But this team really understood how to let us know what is behind us, and thus puts us in the sub. There, we are subject to the same fate as these men, and relate to events more viscerally.
The underwater battles somewhat remind me of Sergio Leone in that Wolfgang Peterson takes forever and a day to get the fights started. Unlike Leone, once the torpedos are launched and the depth charges dropped, the cat-and-mouse game is ongoing and relentless, but never boring.And despite the fact that most of the film takes place inside a cramped submarine, Das Boot is never boring to look at; in fact, it's a visually spectacular film (given the dated special effects, who hold up reasonably well and add to the old-school charm). And the freedom of the camera in those tight corridors came as an incredibly pleasant surprise. The color and composition of the shots in those tight quarters -- particularly upon approaching the first destroyer when we get the first real glimpse of the interior prepped for war -- it is both haunting and beautiful.Jurgen Prochnow delivers the most believable performance of a ship captain I've ever seen on film. All the emotions register on his face--his concern for his own life, ship, and crew; his hatred for the decisions he's forced to make; the disbelieving joy of beating the overwhelming odds--while simultaneously holding it back so the crew sees a strong unmoving man forever in control of the situation. His performance is, in a word, brilliant.The rest of the cast also delivers amazingly believable performances, and trust me, I could write an entire review on the film's characters and their portrayals. It's both disappointing and satisfying that I'm not given enough space to do so (I wish I could state that about a tenth of the films I've reviewed here on IMDb.) I liked the entire crew of this U-boat, the war correspondent and his character arc as he realizes the truth behind these "heroes", the chief and his longing to return to his wife, Johann and the story of his redemption--all well cast, well acted, and believable.Another aspect I adored about Das Boot - the controversial scenes simply rolled by with no more or less emphasis than any other statement the film makes. In fact, I saw the film before really reading anything or researching it and found myself somewhat shocked to hear about these "talked about" scenes. Granted, the film does pose some moral questions, but I felt the film handled it with grace and great subtlety, showing what it needs to get the point across and not a step further . . . unlike typical Hollywood where controversy gets bold print, italics, and a highlighter. Maybe I should move to Germany.


                
Actually it does not do the movie justice to call it a war movie. The war movie genre doesn't lend itself to many classics. For me the movie is about male camaraderie in the face of grim, overwhelming circumstances. The stoic captain maintains discipline below the waves despite everything. He is perfectly cast. It is one of those few movies that actually improves with each viewing. Apart from the above, the movie is also interesting in that it is from the German viewpoint (and made by Germans). The acting is superb and the scenes realistic. As with most foreign language movies, it should be watched subtitled. (Although the movie makes we want to go out and learn German, just to experience the movie more fully)


                
I believe that every one has his/her own taste of cinema, So do I. Well honestly, I am that kind of person who is likely to be pulled off by war-related movies and those which over 3 hours. With a strong recommendation from my friend, I gave it a try. And now I find out this movie is so compelling and astounding, and I have to say IT AMAZES me so much!I only watched the director's cut version, but I think this version is just perfect. It is the first war film I've ever watched, maybe it is the last. I think if one has only one chance to watch a war film, this is the greatest choice. Or I should say, it has nothing to do whether you like war movies or not, It is a good movie for all movie-lovers. Watch this, I believe that you will have no regret.


                
This film is really a masterpiece in history of the German film industry. Although it is quite long with over 3 hours, it is worth seeing it and by the way, one never gets bored. Instead, tension is built up throughout the entire film with outstanding acting of Jürgen Prochnow first of all and Herbert Grönemeyer and rest of the "crew"!!! It is really a must see film. I am not only saying it because I am half German myself, but because it is a second world war movie that doesn't focus on who are the good and who the bad. Its all about the people in the submarine trying to survive, far away from political attitudes. The ending could not be better, its simply a film of my taste. Its just so disappointing that current German film industry can't manage to do such great work again, except of last year's "Der Untergang"!!!!!


                
Words cannot describe this film. In fact words would not do this film justice in any way, shape or form. However ,against my better judgment, I'm going to attempt it ...Rarely do I award films in my native tongue 9 stars let alone foreign films. Das Boot is the exception in every sense of the word! It's foreign it has absolutely no subtitles yet I couldn't get enough.In fact I was so enthralled with this film interpreting every move, nuance and facial expression that this ended up being one of the greatest cinematic experiences of my entire life.This is the film that changed cinema for me. It opened doors that had never been opened previously.This is not a film for everyone. In fact the subject matter would turn many off I'd imagine. This is intense, dark, and moody film. With small doses of humor mixed in for good measure.You must enjoy intensity, embrace the full gamut of human emotion and appreciate artistic expression.Quite a bit of depth here.Not for the shallow, impatient or lighthearted. Probably a sleep inducing film for some.However this is just what the doctor ordered in my case.Enjoy!


                
Set in a German submarine in the midst of World War II, the most striking element of Das Boot is probably its lack of sentimentalism. The speech of each character is curt and to the point, and although the director's cut is long, every scene advances the story in some way. And the story is incredible. From the first minute of blackout drunkenness to the sinking, and the recovery, you will be on your seat. And ultimately, Peterson forces you to rue the forces that have led to the institution of war. It is an epic of its class, a more modernized Moby Dick, with the white whale of survival ever elusive. Don't be intimidated by the length or the subtitles. You need to watch this movie.
Frightening. That was the first thing that came to my mind. A submarine had always been a floating coffin in my mind. When I saw the film for the first time, this image was confirmed. One can hardly imagine anything more frightening than being on a submarine when it is being attacked. There are at least two film versions and 2 TV series. I prefer the director's cut film, which lasts about 3.5 hours. The cast show us exactly what life on a submarine meant. The boredom at sea when they can't find enemy ships and the terrifying attacks when faced with depth charges. The film is based on true experiences on submarine U-96 and a book, written by Lothar-Günther Bluchheim. He later criticized the film for not being totally true to the book. Well, so be it. The film is what it's all about and if you're really interested in life on a sub, you will just have to see it. If you suffer from claustrophobia, this film will undoubtedly make it worse. If you're interested in good acting and portraying life as it really was, this is your film.


                
I saw this in San Jose when it was first released and dozed off for a few minutes in the theater. Then I watched it on TV and nodded out again half-way through. Tonight I fell asleep twice while watching it. Not that it's in any way dull. It's packed with action and suspense and even a bit of character development. (Eg., the pro-Nazi Junge who insists on being clean shaven and dapper eventually becomes integrated into the crew and turns into a bearded slob too.) It's soporific because it's so LOOOONG. Three and a half hours of being cooped up in a sardine can with a couple of dozen sweating smart fellers.It's based on a journal kept by Lothar-Gunther Buchheim, which is also long, chiefly because it contains more expository material. Ever wonder how, when the KaEl shouts "Dive!", they make the boat dive? Read the book. You'll be able to take out a U-boat for a solo sail.The film has the usual incidents of submarine life, some of them clichés by now. The popping bolts, the Tiefenmesser inching below 200 meters, the depth charges, the sea water squiring in, the men gasping for air until the boat finally surfaces and the hatch thrown open. But, and this is a big but, that's not all it has. All the incidents shown are real, and there are others thrown in that turn the story choppy, the way real life is usually disjointed. And, plot aside, I can't think of another film that has so effectively captured what life aboard a World War II submarine was like. OUR submarine crews are always so tidy, so beardless, so freshly uniformed. These guys are so ragged and greasy that you can almost smell them. Hams, giant wursts, loaves of French bread, and crates of fruit are stuffed into unused corners or swing from overhead beams. There is only one toilet for some 45 men so it's always busy. (There's another head but it's jammed full of food.) The grandiloquently named "Officer's Mess" is about the size of your closet. When the meat turns green with mold, the men joke about mold being nothing more than another kind of vegetable, rather like lettuce.The performances are fine, and a few are outstanding. Jurgen Prochnow as the Captain exudes authority and sometimes an understated irony. He has a perfect face for the role -- not particularly handsome, stern, and with sensitive blue eyes. And when the boat is in immediate danger he doesn't look angry, like Cary Grant. He looks scared to death just like everyone else.The film deals with the crew of a German U-boat but that makes no difference. The men are instantly recognizable in every way. And the movie was not the big hit in Germany that it was internationally because Germans do not like movies about the Nazi era that shine a humanistic light on members of the Armed Forces of the period.It's a finely crafted film. If you never see any other submarine movie, see this one.
Das Boot (The Boat) is an excellent German film about WW2. This movie is great from start to finish and is full of action and drama. The setting is dark and gloomy and there are many very intense and terrifying scenes. The characters were interesting, but they were not the main focus. The main focus of this film was the overall experience of the war and people fighting in it.The camera angles are excellent and really enhance the story to make it feel as if you are there. The plot is great and it does not drag on. This movie was not short. It was a bit long compared to other movies. But, it actually could have been even a bit longer as I was engaged and enjoying myself the entire time. If you have 2 and a half hours to spare and want the time to go by quickly, then watch this film.


                
One can feel the stale, dank atmosphere and almost smell the sweaty stench of this top-notch submarine warfare film. Taking place, for the most part on board a German U-boat during WWII, it details the adventures of Captain Prochnow and his crew of mostly unseasoned young men, headed out to sea for their first taste of underwater battle. Bored and disappointed at first by the lack of action and disheartened by the lack of fresh air, fresh food and fresh females, they eventually see all they had hoped for and more when they take on a British destroyer, followed by a skirmish in Gibraltor which leaves them wondering if they'll ever even surface again! Prochnow, who leads a very large cast of German and Austrian actors, is excellent as the stoic, knowing determined Captain. Gronemeyer plays a correspondent, sent on the mission to report on the happenings and provide propaganda for the German war machine. He is occasionally a bit one note, but, like everyone else in the film, provides a generally strong performance. Presented in a variety of cuts (an original release, a 5+ hour miniseries and a director's cut <U+0096> commented upon here <U+0096> which falls in between the two in running time), no expense was spared and no detail left uncovered in order to make the film as authentic as possible. The film was shot primarily in sequence to allow the crewmen to grow beards and lose their hearty coloring (the actors were kept out of the sun for the duration of filming) in an effort to convey the bleak, stark atmosphere of life on a sub. No concessions were made to make the sub any bigger than in reality which means that the camera had to fit in tight confines and that sound had to be rerecorded later, there being no room for boom mics in the realistic set. The men were put through training so that they could more believably and rapidly through the submarine set. Though some historical details were warped and a few glitches can be spotted with regard to instrument readings by those in the know or so inclined to look for them, this stands as a watermark in the genre, giving the most believable and appropriately claustrophobic rendering of life on a U-boat ever attempted. Though the film was re-cut by the director, with enhanced sound, in the early part of this century, the original was nonetheless a startling film in 1981. Remarkably, all of the primary actors spoke English fluently and were able to dub their roles in both versions, making the English language version far less crippled by voice-overs than it could have been if left in others' hands. Though it can seem strange to be rooting for soldiers who are fighting for the Axis powers, the audience is reminded that most wars are between the heads of state and that the common people <U+0096> on both sides <U+0096> are frequently called upon to do their duty whether they fully agree with it or not!
