This 1954 Akiro Kuroswa-directed film has legendary status among critics. It was the forerunner for the western hit "The Magnificent Seven."Knowing these facts, I was anxious to see it. Wow, what a letdown! Yes, it had some nice photography but the story was way too slow-moving to sustain interest. It took FOREVER to get to the main action scene. By then, it was too late; I had lost interest. The film runs 160 minutes and can seem longer.So many of these Kurosawa films are overrated by the critics. Maybe it's not politically-correct to criticize this man's work, it's not the "thing to do," so they keep telling everyone what great films like this are, hooking unsuspecting people like me into wasting my time and money on them..I wanted to like this, but I have to be honest, too. If you thinking of purchasing this, sight-unseen (especially with an expensive Criterion price) , don't say I didn't warn you.


                
Maybe I'm used to the fast paced action of more recent movies, but I simply could not stand how sloooowly this movie crawled along. There would be full minute breaks in between dialogue where two characters would just be gazing at each other wistfully, with the camera panning back and forth between them.OK, OK.. I get it. It's an important moment. Can we move along now? Don't get me wrong; I tend to be one of the few people in my generation of viewers who can actually appreciate the nuances of a slow-paced movie. I can appreciate a good movie even when it's in black and white and set in one room, like with 12 Angry Men. There's nothing wrong with creating a character slowly, and building up the tension to the climax.. but this movie was something else. I had my DVD playing at 2x speed by the end of the movie, just so I could get it over and done with.It was a bore. Give it a miss.


                
I liked Seven Samurai better than Rashomon (1950) by the same author, probably because it has a plot. The approach is similar, though, leading to more than a third of the movie being excess footage. A two-hour director's cut would most likely had been a watchable piece of cinema, but we'll never be able to verify my claim.The question remains why is this one of the best movies by one of the best directors of all times, apart from a lot people telling you so. Decades of repeating led this mantra to becoming an unquestionable truth, but i'd like to point out that critics might be wrong, after all.One of the more recent examples is Sofia Coppola's Somewhere (2010). You watch it and wonder why the accolades... but i guess the critics always need something to talk about, even when it puts some of the viewers to sleep.


                
I tried to watch this film. I really tried. I tried twice. Both times, I found the beginning so long that I fell asleep. This is considered by many to be a classic film, so I approached it with some excitement. That excitement gave way to boredom after the first 45 minutes of the film with NO action at all. That's about as far as I got both times I tried to watch. The acting is absolutely terrible. Perhaps it's better if you can understand the dialog, but I had to rely on the subtitles (which don't bother me at all). The story is that a small Japanese farming village is routinely plundered by a band of outlaws. So the village decides to hire some Samurai to protect the village. The part that I've seen is completely spent finding and hiring the Samurai. And it's totally boring. This is the basis for such films as "Young Guns" and "The Magnificent Seven", which are good. This one, unfortunately, isn't as far as I'm concerned. A real snorer. Too bad.
Lots of great movies stand the test of time. Seven Samurai simply doesn't. You're lying and deceiving yourself if you consider this to be a great movie.Why do people rate this so highly?1. It's in Japanese
2. It involves Samurai
3. It's old
4. Kurosawa
5. Relative obscurityAll of these factors allow people to like something non-mainstream and thus profess superiority.Look, no doubt this is a relevant film in understanding the evolution of moviemaking. But historical significance alone doesn't make for a great film. While various action shots might have been ground-breaking for the time and stunning to audiences in the 50s, they simply don't hold up decades later.The movie is extraordinarily long- well clearly, we must get a great character development of the Samurai then? Nope. Hardly anything. Fantastic dialog? Nope. Perhaps the subtitles weren't great, but discourse is extremely shallow most of the time.A real emotional involvement? A sense of urgency? Excitement? Nope. Aside from fleeting moments in the first two hours and a little later on, you get almost nothing. There's a persistent and constant malaise as characters slog through the plot.Instead the movie lags and relies on portraying mediocre sets and "action". I'm sure audiences in the 50s would consider the film almost immersive into various landscrapes. As a modern movie goer, a few fake trees with a backdrop isn't engaging by itself. A character falling into a pile of fake flowers shot in blakc and white does nothing for me.So yes, if you watch this you'll see the development of interesting camera techniques that would become staples of work to follow. But as a movie, bleh, terrible pacing, shallow characters and a work that falls flat emotionally. And that's the opposite what good movies are supposed to be- entertainment through delivery of a compelling story.If you want to see a Kurosawa film that still holds up, look at "Only the Bad Sleep Well", which has some absolutely fantastic camerawork, an engaging plot and delivers a gripping story.


                
