I decided to check out Seven Samurai after reading the rave reviews on this site and being exhausted with all of the lack of quality that Hollywood seems to give us from year to year. I can enjoy most styles of movies, with the notable exceptions of the love story/chick flick and slasher movies, so the samurai genre is an available genre for me. The movie was okay, but not great. Three and a half hours is much too long for a relatively simple story without truly deep character development that gets you far into any one of their minds, perhaps because of the large number of "main" characters. The result for me was that I couldn't genuinely care about many, if any, of them. The cinematography, I felt, was average, especially for an "action" movie - this is what separates Citizen Kane by leaps and bounds from Seven Samurai (also check out the first 3.5 minute, no-cut shot in Touch of Evil). I need to go back and watch this film again, but do not have high hopes for the return trip. Again, the film was decent, but definitely not worth the accolades that it has received on IMDb.1-11-06 Okay, I have seen it again and am not impressed. I don't see anything exceptional about this film and it isn't entertaining either, so you might want to save some of your time and skip this one.


                
This movie is a good movie. It is well made, has a great storyline, has good acting and is interesting. It is a novelty, for sure. The problem with this movie is that it was made over 50 years ago and that wears on action movies. On movies like Casablanca, Gone with the Wind, It's a Wonderful Life etc. etc. They are timeless, they don't put a big emphasis on special effects and action scenes. This movie relies on them! And while I am sure that they were state-of-the-art in 1954, the action scenes are boring, by today's standards. I know people will take offense to this, but try showing this movie to anyone who doesn't have prior knowledge of Kirosawa's reputation. They won't like this movie.


                
This is universally regarded as one of the greatest films in cinematic history, but the emperor is wearing no clothes! The film has the visual elegance one would expect from a great director, but a great director also elicits good performances from his cast. This is where Kurosawa fails. While Shimura is fine as the leading samurai, much of the acting in this film is overly theatrical and melodramatic. Mifune is supposed to be endearing and funny, but his over-the-top acting makes his character most annoying. The narrative is not compelling enough to sustain a length of three and half hours. The final battle scenes are so drawn out that they lose their sense of excitement.


                
Sorry, but this movie didn't really do it for me. While I usually enjoy the defense of cities/forts, this movie didn't have enough in it for me. There could have been more excitement, action, and trickery involved with the defense.It was slow and the first half of the movie was drawn out and could have been shorter and contain more.There wasn't enough character development or details in it for me other than Kikuchiyo, and even then his story could have been improved.Now I know this film is a classic and that many people like it - I just don't feel the same. While this movie was perhaps good at the time of release, when I watch it now, it just doesn't seem good. I guarantee if you released this exact film in the theater today, barely anyone would like it. Let me make this analogy: Blood letting used to be a great medical technique. The world being flat used to be a great belief. And so on. And this movie used to be good. But we are in the present day - it really isn't good anymore. Sorry. Perhaps it has some historical significance, but watching I would not show it to anyone in attempts to provide them enjoyment.
The Seven Samurai suffers from several near fatal flaws that make watching it very tedious.  Most foreign movies are so bad that this may be better by comparison, but its still a bad movie.One of the most ridiculous things about it is the way many of the actors are wearing really obvious skin head wigs.  They look so fake you can't help but but focus on them.  Why not have the actors all shave their heads for a while during filming? I don't understand why they couldn't find some Japanese guys with shaved heads to act in the movie?  Weren't there tons of people in Japan who already had their head's shaved like that?  Why not just get them instead?  Who knows?  Nobody knows...The whole thing about the villagers eating millet and guarding a bowl of rice like it was made of gold was just silly.  These are farmers that are growing rice - why wouldn't they have tons of it?  Another unanswerable question.Why do the villagers need these Samurai anyways?  Do they really need someone to teach them to sharpen some sticks and use them as spears against the bandits?   The idea that they are oh so helpless and need the Samurai to protect them is the key to the whole movie - and its such a poor premise that you wonder why they made the film in the first place.Perhaps its surprising that a movie of this length would be made in postwar Japan, but that's no reason to say its a really good movie.  Anyone looking at it objectively will agree that it is not - not even close.
They really should have done a major rewrite to the script before going ahead with filming.


                
