Loved John Oliver on Community and love him on this show. He's intelligent and sarcastic, and somehow manages to make topics that are completely horrific (e.g., the U.S. government's actions) not thoroughly depressing. I love how he will make fun of ANY political party; so many shows just spend their time panning Republicans, losing half the country as a result. Oliver must be a libertarian, because he very fairly simply makes fun of anyone who is doing something stupid, regardless of political affiliation. This is something that cannot be said of the unbearable John Stewart, or SNL, for example, but can be said of the awesome Lewis Black as well.I also like his way of poking fun at the U.S. - it's not condescending or rude, it's just good humored teasing. The segment in which he shows the globe with countries marked as Not the U.S. is priceless.Oliver's topics are well chosen, and his take on them is unique. I greatly hope HBO will continue this show as it's the best comedy late night hosted whatever genre you call this currently on TV.


                
The insane level of awesome energy John Oliver feeds the viewer can almost be felt! John cuts through the bullshit and touches on real news.There's something about this show that I really genuinely like (and I'm an Australian). Perhaps it's the way most of us would like to already live in a world that does good and makes fun of the stupid and absurd, a bit like Japan perhaps!? Well John Oliver has us covered. Each week a much needed hit of vitality and rejuvenation gets subtly unveiled, then straight up sucker punched to us.The views on issues are sublime, as though John has been on our planet in a future time of peace, then come back to help lube us all through the hole we're already headed for, the peace hole. The energy and views on the show are just like a pick me up to make us go a tiny bit faster.I've just watched episode 3 and that episode alone sums up the type of people, media and just the general positive peaceful way I'd like to see humanity head.10/10 for the sole fact we need to take a look at ourselves in a mirror and thankfully John Oliver's right there, holding up the mirror for us! If you enjoyed Chasers War On Everything, Newsroom, Real Time with Bill Maher or a slew of other 'younger trend news~ish' shows, I'd say this is well worth a look!


                
John Oliver is involved in one of the most tasteful shows I have come across which is currently in production. John pulls through with a very unique flavor which leaves the viewer thinking about the show long after it is over. His insightful outlook and commentary on a wide variety of issues is well worth the half hour (plus internet content). In my opinion, John doesn't, or at least attempts not to alienate any viewership the show may achieve but the show is perhaps designed to engage those with an open mind. The humorously named "Last Week Tonight" is a lot more than cheap laughs, and then some. In the few episodes that have aired so far, John has proved, at least to me personally, that him and his staff are capable of having very sophisticated opinions on some very deep issues. Honestly, I hope I can hear a lot more from John Oliver and the writers/staff involved!


                
After the season finale of Game of Thrones, Veep, and Silicon Valley (whichever comes last), I was going to cancel my subscription to HBO. Now comes Last Week Tonight with John Oliver, and I'm in a quandary. The history of television and big belly laughs for me is a rare combination. The best sitcoms every have mostly merely amused me. Laughing out loud so hard I can't stop and I have to get online and tell my friends to add this to their watch list is more rare than a lamb chop in Hell's Kitchen. John Oliver made The Daily Show funnier. It's great to see talent like that finally get its due share of hate mail.So now, what to do... cancel HBO and pay $1.99 per episode to watch it on Roku? Yeah, that's how frugal I can be. But can I wait 24 hours for that kind of laughter? Therein lies the quandary.I must take a moment to thank John Oliver and his creative team. Laughter is the best medicine. You're saving the planet--perhaps the multiverse. Boredom is hell. Torture is preferable to boredom. At least torture is something. So thank Fox for 24 hours of torture. But boredom will kill you to death. I didn't know what I was going to do after Dexter ended. Being Human relieves me for a few months, then it's agony. Hannibal comes along and I'm mesmerized for a few months, then I have to wait like a pregnant woman for the next amazing moment. OK, I admit, Wednesday nights in the summer are delicious because of the people who think they can dance. But you, sir, you are the kind of jester who comes along once in the history of an empire, and where would we be without you? Perish the thought.


                
Well first of all, I have always liked John Oliver. He is yet another talented comedian in a line of many others bred at the talent breeding grounds known as the Daily Show. For people who don't know, Oliver lured away the talented Tim Carvell, former head writer for the daily show, away from Jon Stewart. This was clearly a brilliant move and Stewart was nice enough to part with Carvell. Now that both Oliver and Carvell have a show on HBO with pretty much unlimited creative freedom, they are tackling the most important issues with a fearless tenacity that most comedians/hosts/shows can't afford to have. The reporting is concise and brilliantly edited, the delivery is sharp and witty, and the fact that the show is only 30 minutes long is long enough to hold most people's attention. Good job HBO on creating this gem!


                
As someone utterly disillusioned by Jon Stewart's dogmatic chauvinism, I am so utterly relieved a talent as intelligent and insightful as John Oliver has been given the opportunity to have what is essentially a more educated, dialectical version of the Daily Show. Stoners reminiscing about Half Baked can keep TDS as their main source of news but at least now those of us willing to hear a different perspective on US issues and considerably more (and better) commentary on international affairs can at least have a weekly bit of entertainment. Only advice: Jon Oliver's audience is de facto more educated than TDS and we do not always need to laugh out loud to appreciate a segment, John Oliver does not need to mimic Jon Stewart's fear of silence and desperately reach out for trite laughs and non sequitur dick jokes whenever something isn't met with gut bursting laughter; America has youtube and getting high while watching Aqua Teen Hunger Force for that; sometimes being informative isn't (and does not need to be) outrageously funny.


                
I think the most important way to describe the emergence of Last Week Tonight (LWT) is to characterize how it alters the progressive comedy news ecosystem.Here's my take, in a nutshell: The Daily Show (TDS) and The Colbert Report (TCR) do what they do and do it fairly well... and yet, LWT shows that a niche remains, and it can be summed up in these two points: 1) LWT shows that it's possible to dispense with the pop culture marketing accretion disk that has come to sort of weigh down TDS. I'm referring to the fact that, a) tho he still can "bite", Jon has become noticeably saddled with too much "lite" content--occasional bits involving current events that really don't have much relevance to the concerns of progressive political folk, and b) the occasional kowtow to absolute dawg flicks of Hollywood "hot properties". Oliver shows that you can resolutely dispense with this and still be total laff riot! He has put the lie to the assumptions of the suits that inflict their marketing-think on TDS.And, 2) Oliver has put a fresh and long-overdue "world news" spin on the structure of his show. In fact (am I hallucinating?), it appears that TDS has, of late, responded to Oliver's spin, and has been injecting a little more global perspective into his content... too little, too late?Note that I haven't mentioned TCR; and that's because, relatively speaking, it inhabits a separate space from both TDS and LWT.Anyway, the crux, from my perspective, is that it appears Oliver found that "grail"; a portal to another media political content space which is exciting, while amazingly failing to be redundant! A tall order, but he fills it!Add to this the arguable assessment that, while his first few episodes seemed to be struggling to get airborne, it's safe to say he is now properly aloft. Congrats! As long as Oliver keeps running as fast as he can to stay in one place (a la Carroll; and apologies for the mixed metaphor), he should continue to deliver a quality product.


                
Way way way better than Stewart, Colbert, Noah. The way he combines comedy with real life issues in America is just tremendous. His coverage of FIFA and embattled president Sepp Blatter was ahead of the curve. If you're not watching this show you're missing out big time.Oliver uses dry British wit, combined with some light-headed mockery to expose stupid people, organizations, or general events. The fact that so many people he names choose to respond to his segment, show they are clearly uncomfortable with how bad he makes them look. It's utterly brilliant.Deeper than the comedy though my hope is that the issues he discusses (like quality of sex education, censorship, food wastage), bring forward positive change. It's not enough to just talk about it. I hope lawmakers/officials are paying attention and act on the issues that Oliver exposes.


                
Intelligent and well researched, Last Week Tonight does some hard-hitting segments that leave most other news shows way, way behind.I used to watch Comedy Central's back-to-back "news" shows every night. But, the formula for those shows has devolved into tedium. The writing is good and, luckily for them, there is always something incredibly stupid going on in politics. But, I can't watch those shows anymore; I don't even want to.Last Week Tonight with John Oliver has the laughs. It has the "stupid politician does stupid thing" segments. But, those two aspects of the show are just the potatoes served alongside a thick, juicy slab of deep, serious news brisket. No subject is safe while the camera is on Oliver. He hits the nail on the head when discussing the death penalty, issues with advertising, the Ukraine situation, Net-Neutrality (thank you), equal rights in Uganda, and so many other issues.I have two complaints: Sometimes the mic on the crowd sounds like a laugh track. It's not, though; the show is filmed in front of a live audience in NYC. Sometimes Oliver gets so carried away that he starts to doubt himself and you can see the cognition on his face. Just let it all out, John!Those are the cons! Watch this show, it's worth every penny. And now, this...
I was never much of a fan of John Oliver when he was on The Daily Show (probably because I find British accents slightly annoying - sorry!), so I had no plans to watch This Week Tonight. But a few days ago I try an episode after my boyfriend convinced me to give it a try.Wow, am I glad I did! Since then I've been devouring the episodes. The show is equally as funny and clever as The Daily Show and Colbert Report. Unfortunately, HBO's studio seats a much smaller audience than Comedy Central, so there's less laughing and cheering, but if the audiences were the same size I don't doubt it would be equal.In my opinion, Last Week Tonight is better than The Daily Show and The Colbert Report -- two shows that I'm big fans of.Why, you ask? Three reasons.1. He doesn't endlessly talk about elections. Both Stephen Colbert and John Stewart seem to talk about US elections day after day, even when elections are two years away. Not only is that boring, but there's way more important news going on that gets no attention.2. He focuses more on international issues. The main focus is US news, but he gives more coverage to elsewhere in the world than Colbert or Stewart.3. More in depth coverage. The beginning of the episode is an overview of some news highlights, and then he spends the rest of the episode doing one or two issues in depth. I find I'm actually learning things, being educated.Great work, John Oliver.


                
This satirical news reporting show keeps me in stitches, and occasionally even brings me to tears. But never too long before the hee-hawing returns. Watch John Oliver, reporting the news as a human who cares about humans, and who isn't afraid to highlight society's shortcomings (and triumphs) with thorough research, relatable metaphors, delicious wit, adorable animal clips, and a most lovable, magnetic personality. Most certainly a must watch for any Stephen Colbert or Jon Stewart fans. But honestly, I find Last Week Tonight even more informative, objective, entertaining, and educational about current events. I only wish that it was available to a much wider audience than just HBO subscribers, as most people do not fall into that category!


                
What's the Daily Show for during the week, is Last Week Tonight with John Oliver for the weekend. I personally think it is even better than the Daily Show, because it is very informative. If you like the Daily Show, and liked the Colbert Report, then you will probably also like (or love) Last Week Tonight with John Oliver. Also if you don't like the Daily Show nor liked the Colbert Report, you still could like Last Week Tonight with John Oliver, because it is more focused on facts and information, then on comedy. For me, Last Week Tonight with John Oliver became instantly with the first broadcast one of my favorite shows on TV.


                
Jon Stewart is a genius. He has a genius comic presence, the most awesome comic delivery, and the best material. His subjects are very, very timely (after all it is a news show) and relevant. I adore his mascots, his hashtags, and his use of his hands on his desk. He is very watchable. The phillip-morris smoking bit, FIFA ridiculousness, Miss America debacle, 50 Shade of Gray dumping, Putin roasts, and just about everything else is crazy funny! And in spite of it being a comedy show, he tackles very serious issues in just the right manner.I love that he is not afraid to say anything about anyone in spite of real threats. I never miss this show, its my laugh for the week! #WeLoveJohnOlvier


                
The facts this show tells about America makes me never want to live there however, the fact this show is still broadcasting in America makes me what to.This show speaks to everyone; it is a fusion of: news, documentary and comedy that provokes all emotions known to humankind in just under 30 minutes in each episode. No doubt, that John Oliver delivers (in my humble experience of TV shows) an unparalleled outcome however, such a huge effort cannot possibly be a one-man show. Thus, this is a small thank you note to the small army that should be helping him in getting the material for the show and (I cannot believe I am saying this) also the legal team who are -I imagine- cannot catch a breath dealing with the reflections on each episode.


                
I used to love John Oliver on the Daily Show, and when he filled in as host for Jon Stewart during his 2013 absence he really was excellent (initially stiff but settled into the role). So when he moved to HBO with his own show, I was sorry to see he leave the Daily Show but eager to see what he could do. The first few initial episodes were good and showed promise, but then John and the writing team hit their stride and week after week provide some of the most insightful and educational exposes with humor.Best Comedy/News program on TV at the moment and I would love to see them win the Emmy next month.


                
John Oliver's blunt look at the world is refreshing. Serious topics are covered in depth, while humor is used to keep things from becoming too bleak. It was this show's story on infusion clinics where I learned Richard Nixon was the one who set up kidney dialysis through the federal government. I appreciate the attention to detail, and the honest appraisal of any situation. The few people I've encountered that don't like John Oliver tend to be those who are uncomfortable with facing unpleasant facts. They don't want to face ugly truths, and they tend to be highly judgmental of others. John Oliver is smart, witty and entertaining. With with an open mind, and you will learn something new.


                
John is a comedic genius. I wish the show came on more often or was an hour long. Absolutely brilliant!


                
Last Week Tonight is not your regular show focusing on political satire, its clever, intelligent and hilarious. Covering a vast majority of topics from local community issues to macroeconomic and worldwide social problems. It manages to educate people without talking down to their audience while also being funny and interesting during the process.


                
not only does this show entertain the sh*t out of me but I feel like I learned some thing and I feel like a better person!They news you get here is more informative than any news channel will give you, which is kind of messed up, but just enjoy it and try not to think about that?Booty bumpsJeff!I call DingoTen lines Ten lines Ten lines Ten lines Tin loans Ten lines Ten lines Ten lines Ten limes please!


                
John Oliver is my Lord. I mean that in a non-religious manner, especially being an atheist...He makes me cry sometimes. I forgot there were people like him in the world. He gives me hope. He makes me want to keep living. He makes me feel a huge relief of sanity and goodness. We need him, and we need way more of him. When I watch his show, I feel like the hatred and negativity of the world is pushed aside. It is such a relief to hear good things, for a change. And I don't mean "good news." I don't really care about good news. I mean, he doesn't add to my loss of hope for humanity. Thank you so much, John, for existing.Somehow, you can get away with all those disgusting jokes. I don't know how you do it.


                
I almost never write reviews. However, I feel compelled to inform people who haven't seen the show to know what they have missed.He covers every topic you never think to imagine and he does it with such wit and grace that you wish he was American so he could run for president. Honestly, I've never been able to disagree with anything or any view that he has shared. He is the most honest person on television and the country would be a better place if everyone watched his show.Even if you don't share his political views, his topics cover moral dilemmas facing our country today. If you are super conservative socially, you may not like him. However, if that is the case, you should at least hear what he has to say before disagreeing. If this show is ever canceled I will take a s**t on Richard Plepler's car every day.


                
A show I look forward to every single week! John Oliver is not only hilarious, but an excellent teacher on world issues and how things really work. I have learned so much watching this great program. Thank you HBO!


                
John Oliver is one of the best comedian and political commentator in recent years and since 2014 he is the host of this show in order to comment (obviously) the events that take place in our crazy, weird and sadly miserable existence.In his tonight show he has given analyses to everyone from politician to companies to films and every time the out come is hilarious and insightful. In all honesty his show has been proved for many, myself included, as the best tonight show of our generation.However his work is not only jokes, thesis and a crash-course to politics ,which is not boring. He has taken interview by some of the people,who or whose actions has analyzed. Some of them are the Steven Hawkins, Edward Snow-den and more recently Dalai Lama.Also he and his team have managed to influence political decisions through their work and even going out of their way to inform groups in issues in which have little or no knowledge, and often their well-been is in jeopardy (see for the Tobacco industry).All in all Mr. Oliver is perhaps the best think that happen in HBO since Band of Brothers and Game of Thrones and if you haven seen him yet ,what were you doing in the past years, you missing something awesome .
You thought Jon Stewart was becoming unbearable? You couldn't stand Bill Maher's condescending tone? You cannot stand most of MSNBC, CNN or FNC (with some exceptions, those being Maddow, Tapper and Kelly (and sometimes O'Reilly) for me)? Well "PRAISE THE LORD", your calls for rationality and sanity have been answered in the best of ways: a TV show that may (just) push some people to attend their local council meetings more often or read papers on public subsidies on a regular basis. More than just a "news show" (which "The Daily Show" kind-of-was), this probably represents some of the most interesting "investigative" reporting (well, most of the "investigation" is being done by others, but John Oliver is providing them with a megaphone) in a while. From local governments being hoodwinked in subsidizing football stadiums to chicken-farming malpractice, from Police Departments using unjustified "civil forfeitures" to pay for Zambonis and "slurpee machines" to mandatory minimums, this show has been acting as a firm, but just, mirror on America and its shortcomings. However, and this is where the show differentiates itself from the rest of the crowd (something that "conservative media", old like new, has been noticing... by not attacking it), it does underline the positive aspects and advances that are occurring. When you get a subject on bail and its effects on the poorest in society, you get the US-based counter example (paying a bail amount that fits your budget). This is what makes this show not just great, but a must-watch. It does not fall into either eternal desperation or irrational wishful thinking. It strikes a balance (most of the time) and sticks to it.
I look forward to this show , its like a sacred reunion with the voice of reason. The most defining voice of our generation. Jon Stewart's departure left a void, and I am truly grateful there are gents like Colbert and Oliver to carry the flame. Both with the same wit and balls. But I have to say, with all due respect, Colbert is just a snack I snack on until Oliver's main dish. Best served whichever f**king way he chooses to cook it. You are vital to this culture's sanity, John. Your truth slicing though the cancerous bullshit of our political, public,social, human platforms with the such graceful prophetic and poetic precision. I am overcome with gratitude after every show that there is a voice like yours able to shelter us from the countless damaged narcissistic sociopaths spewing their rhetoric insanity to the masses. Your revelations are revolutionary. Che Guevara and John Lennon love's child.


                
