I learned pretty much everything covered on this show in magazine articles ~20 years ago so the weekly feigned "omg am I blowing your mind?" is pretty obnoxious. It's also far too partisan and dishonest about who caused which problems (many were actually caused by so-called progressives as well).


                
Gaslighting progressive viewpoints with half-truths that an uneducated viewer will accept as fact? Check. Continuing to spread the hopeless propaganda of the neo-liberal establishment and their corporate owners? Check. John Oliver does absolutely NOTHING to help rectify the problem with Washington today, and that is this: His corporate handlers are the same handlers as those that have bought and own our government. They have a vested interest in making sure that our populace are incapable of critical thinking, lest we become aware of the fact that neither party has the people's interests at heart and are only interested in keeping their donors happy so the gravy train continues to steam forward into complete subordination from the masses.


                
While his writers can be very witty, he in general is everything wrong with American television. He pushes his narrative so hard its pathetic, and panders to publications like NYT, Washington Post, and CNN, saying they are the only honorable journalists left, while at the same time blaming the media for Trump losing, DESPITE him being part of that same media.Media comedic journalists should have the decency to report facts, and be unbiased. Oliver does neither. He makes an outrageous claim that cannot be backed up, then makes a witty joke to make people laugh, so they think he made a legitimate claim.I had respect for him when he exposed issues such as the pharmaceutical sales rep industry, but him being so shamelessly against Trump, to me, is unacceptable.


                
Oliver will make some good points from time to time, and when the show first started he spoke about injustice and the like and I found him entertaining. After 4 shows I was done!! I'm tired of the typical cliche' "trash the president" rhetoric. I find it extra insulting to have to listen to a Brit or anyone not from this country thrashing our president and our government. I just want him to GO HOME at that point. And it seemed he opened EVERY show like that, or made it his main theme. I say, go back to Great Britain and trash your own country.


                
