Pepperidge Farms remembers. The first three seasons were very good. A wide variety of topics were covered, and my knowledge of the world expanded. After season 3, this show went down hill for me. Majority of season 4 (2017) was focused on Donald Trump and his Presidency. And on the first episode of season 5 (2018), the main topic yet again is Trump and his Presidency. Nothing interesting is being presented. The show has stagnated.


                
I was a big fan of John Oliver on The Daily Show and, at least for season one of Last Week Tonight, I remained a big fan. I expected that with the relaxed language filter on HBO the dialog might be a bit more, shall we say, salty, and in season one the f-bomb was dropped more or less appropriately. But it seems that in season two, and even more in season three, the "colourful metaphors" are being used more and more frequently. And it seems they are being used with the attitude that "well, we have an unlimited supply of f-bombs so let's use as many as we can."Season 3 episode 4 was the worst yet. Was it really necessary to say that dinosaurs didn't reproduce on Noah's Ark because "nobody f**ks on a cruise"? Or to have an extended segment with newscasters (and I use the term loosely) using euphemisms, with big block-letter overlays stating "HE/SHE MEANS F**KING"?It's one thing when Samantha Bee responds to Hillary Clinton's comment about how she "wouldn't have believed two years ago that she'd be running for president" with a deservedly sarcastic "oh f**k off". It's another entirely when John Oliver interrupts the flow of an otherwise brilliant op-ed with crude comments aimed at the more juvenile audience members. Here's a clip of the Republican Debate and now here's a video of two turtles f**king. If the content were a little less salty (I allow that some profanity is warranted) I would still rate his show a 9. But with the increase in crude metaphors and pointless peppering of the f- bomb I can't rate him (currently) as more than a 4.


                
