There have been a lot of comparisons to the Daily Show so I decided to point out some important distinctions. Aside from what one can only consider Jon Stewart's showbiz fatigue, there are two glaring differences between the Daily Show and Last Week Tonight.First, Last Week Tonight is not only fresher, younger, and therefore has more to prove (and has been successful so far), but perhaps most importantly its on HBO. At first the difference didn't really strike me, then they did a long segment on Comcast and Time Warner Cable that was not only eye-opening in an investigative manner, but is a subject you would NEVER see on the Daily Show, probably because it is ultimately a subsidiary of a subsidiary of one of those two companies.Secondly, and perhaps less importantly, Last Week Tonight is not, like its title suggests, a weekly show. Just look at its episode air dates. I'm not sure why so much time goes on between two episodes, but as long as they keep up what they've done so far I'm looking forward to it.Primarily I'm excited to see a comedy news anchor go after the things that have been off-limits for comedy central personas due to their network status.


                
Every week John Oliver details the main events of the week, makes a few jokes about them (often at politicians' expense) and then unveils a piece of damning investigative journalism so important and thorough you wonder why some more mainstream news show didn't do it.The revelations often leave you appalled at what is going on, and wonder why nothing is being done about it.Not only do Oliver and his team expose the injustices and scams of society, they often do something about it, creating characters or organisations to mock the villains.Now, if you're thinking, well Jon Stewart did this first, on The Daily Show - not really. Yes, John Oliver was a contributor to The Daily Show and, to an extent, honed his craft there, but this is far better than The Daily Show in terms of investigative journalism. In fact, calling The Daily Show investigative journalism does journalism a disservice. Stewart's idea of journalism was to take a story, generally involving a right wing organisation or person, and mock it/them, sometimes using disinformation or misinformation, in what was really a a very primitive, uninformed editorial. If somebody pointed out the inaccuracy of his editorial, his defence was always "Hey, we're a comedy show, what do you expect!?". Fine, but then don't behave like you're an authority on the matter...Don't get me wrong - I enjoyed The Daily Show immensely..for its comedy. Stewart should avoid trying to pretend he is an authoritative political pundit. This is why I preferred The Colbert Report - Colbert never took himself seriously.On the other hand, John Oliver is setting out to objectively, thoroughly and accurately expose evils in society. No half- measures, no playing to the gallery, no lazy journalism, no relying on political stereotypes. Most importantly - no safety net. No fallback of "it's just comedy" as that would totally devalue his show and any future articles.Well, that was until late-Season 3. The lure of easy, cheap Trump jokes could not be resisted and unfortunately that's all the show now seems to consist of. I'm no fan of Donald Trump, and the man and his antics beg to be parodied, but Oliver's obsession with him and his one-dimensional, cheap-laugh ridiculing of him got very tedious very quickly. It all just smacks of lazy writing and lack of originality. Gone are the fresh perspectives and thorough research, replaced by predictable jokes. After, at one stage, being a massive fan of the show, I gave up after two episodes of Season 4.


                
Ive noticed that 99.99% of the reviews are right-wingers who say "ITS JUST MY OPINION" and then refuse to let anyone else have, you know, an opinion. yes, its left-wing but, no, it doesnt mean that its inherently wrong. there are PLENTY of sources from Actual News Shows^TM and newspapers, so, unless they want to source their arguments against the show and the left in general... im all ears


                
