Tom Hanks executive produced this mini-series after completing Apollo 13 as a way of detailing the entire Apollo program.  Each episode is a story about a different aspect of the endeavor and each features different writers, directors and actors.  As a whole, the series is a wonderful adventure and a great history lesson.  Cameo appearances by many, many well known character actors enhances the fun.  A few of the episodes really stand out as special, but the entire series is more than worth watching.  The entire video was shot on video for HBO but still looks great, special effects are as good as in any movie and for the DVD, excellent 5.1 sound is used.  The boxed set includes a fourth disc containing extras that I have not seen, thought I anxiously await the opportunity.


                
There are two things, historically speaking, that really grab my attention and for which I cannot get enough of: war and space. From the Earth to the Moon is the story of the latter and specifically the Apollo program that led mankind to make its first steps on the surface of another world. The story of the space race in the 1960's has always fascinated me and as I write this I can think of no single achievement in human history that rivals the moon landing. This mini-series, released on HBO in 1998, captures the grandeur of the trip we made to our sister world nearly 50 years ago. From the Earth to the Moon is an anthology series that tells many different stories in different ways. There are straight forward episodes like Mare Tranquilitatis about the famous Apollo 11 landing alongside other stories like "Spider" about the construction of the Lunar Module or "The Original Wives Club" about the wives of the brave astronauts and while there's some good stuff contained in the off stories, the real bread and butter of this tale are the episodes directly involving the moon landings. While it's ok to visit some other tales what you really want is to see Alan Shepard or Pete Conrad treking through the lunar dust. The mini-series is great and probably, along with the film Apollo 13, is the best story of the thousands of people who participated in the greatest journey of mankind's history, but the show never really reaches the highs that it could (I'm looking at you "The Original Wives Club"), but thankfully never reaches the lows either. If you are fascinated with manned space flight like myself then check out "From the Earth to the Moon" and you won't be disappointed.


                
