If you think that movies that deal with Nazi atrocities are inherently worthwhile, then you might think that this movie is inherently worthwhile. If, on the other hand, you expect a movie, whether it deals with Nazi atrocities or not, to actually tell a story, then I'd say there's a good chance you *won't* find this movie worthwhile.  What does this movie give us? Well, it gives us a string of Nazi atrocities, very realistically depicted, and it gives us what I suppose is supposed to be a main character, but it gives us precious little else!  Most of main character's screen time is given over to him being acted upon by circumstances and by other people, but very little of him being pro-active, himself.  And even his passivity might be interesting if we knew what he was thinking or feeling.  But we are never given that information.  We never know what it is that he really wants.  Or how he feels, say, about the fact that his family was shipped off to their probable death, but he was saved by a fluke.  The picture is certainly well-made from the stand point of art direction and cinematography, but story-wise, it's a shambles.  As far as I'm concerned, Roman Polanski owes me big-time.  Thank you.


                
I left "Schindler's List" haunted. I left "Life is Beautiful" incredibly sad. I left "The Pianist" bored and very, very sleepy.I'm not saying the Holocaust isn't a worthy movie subject, but it's all been done before, and much better. There's not much to care about in "The Pianist". As told here, Vladek Szpielman's story isn't especially compelling or interesting. He survives the deprivation of the Warsaw ghetto, goes into hiding, endures more deprivation, then plays piano again. The end.Szpielman seems strangely unaffected by the horror unfolding around him. He witnesses various atrocities, sees his family get deported, and watches 2 executions and a cremation, yet his facial expression never changes. He goes from starving before liberation to playing the piano on the radio afterward, with no explanation of what happened in between. And why does a man in hiding pull aside the curtains to watch a shooting outside?I'm not afraid of a film where most of the action is internal (like "The Hours"), but this film has almost none of that. We get no clues about what Szpielman thinks or how he feels about anything. "Schindler's List" and "Life is Beautiful" convey the horrors of he Holocaust much more effectively, including their effect on the survivors. "The Diary of Anne Frank" tells a much better story about life in hiding.To those who say Holocaust movies are needed as long as there are Holocause deniers, I can only say this; there literally hundreds of Holocaust movies out there. If a small number of people are still denying the existence of the Holocaust, making another 100 movies isn't going to convince them.
So this film has won the Palme D'Or? I didn't see any reason why...The film is well executed in its use of the usual Hollywood visual clichés, rendered in a more "European" style. A fusion of the worst of Hollywood and the worst of Europe. The result unfortunately is even less than the sum of its parts. I am extremely concerned by the lack of any real ideas beneath the thin veneer of story. I felt that the film rubbed my nose in one awful even after the other while presenting only caricatures (or often no characterisation at all) of the participants and victims - especially the German characters. So we have caricatures versus caricatures, without a caricaturist's sense of humour or insight.I found these caricatures quite obscene - they obscured the fact that the Germans who committed such atrocities were ordinary men and women - not merely evil-laughing "monsters". That European Jews who survived this period went on to murder and torture Palestinians and reproduce the exact same ghettos imposed on them for every year since 1945 is testament to that. I wonder if I'd win the Palme D'Or by switching the roles and making a film about the Israeli organised Chatila massacres or atrocities by the Israeli Army in the West Bank? The result is that the real power of the film was completely lost in the process of presenting the facts of Szpilman's experience of that period. I found no insights in this movie - either into art/music nor the Holocaust, and certainly nothing about Szpilman. Is it true to fact in its unrelenting depiction of atrocities committed? I didn't care anymore after 30 minutes. I am no historical revisionist so after the 4th violent atrocity in the first section, not only these acts, but the whole film became silly and patronising. A far more unsettling and profound film about evil, art, personal responsibility and racism from this period is definitely István Szabó's "Taking Sides". It leaves Polanski's film far behind in every filmic and intellectual aspect.The Holocaust compels us to think and act, even if entirely beyond comprehension. In this regard, Polanski's movie is both bland and abhorrent.
And no, I don't mean that to be a complement.


                
How did Adrien Brody win best actor when he couldn't even convincingly "fake play" the piano? Every time he sat down at the piano, I rolled my eyes and felt so embarrassed for him: here goes again the utterly ridiculous head sways and the faulty positioning of the hands on the keyboard! The scene in which he plays for the Nazi guy was the most hilarious: The Nazi is supposed to be "inspired" and "touched" by his playing, but because Brody looks so awful, all one can think about is how truly awful it must have sounded while filming; there was no suspension of disbelief. Brody has been awarded for FAILING--that's totally unfair! If you want a truly inspiring and believable performance, then watch "Shine". Geoffrey Rush does a spectacular job at pseudo-playing the piano--he won't make you cringe or laugh in embarrassment.


                
This movie taught me that Jews suffered unspeakably during the Nazi occupation of Poland. Much thanks for the history lesson -- now how about some good acting? script? plot?For a movie about a guy who plays the piano, this spends most of it's time showing him walking around and watching bad things happening to others.I thought this movie was generally a waste of time. Where Schindler's List was poetic, beautiful and touching, this movie was just boring, empty and derivative. Alternating scenes of bland lament and violent, pointless sadism.If you're looking for a film to stimulate your heart, your mind, and your conscience, look somewhere else. This movie delivers none of that.


                
well I must say I was disappointed.we were waiting very much this movie since cannes,and when you walk out of the theater,your reaction is:it was just that??this movie has visual beauty for sure but it was without soul,lacks point of view.it's not a bad film just a not solved film. the acting:well for those who wanted oscars,forget it immediately the technical aspect:only art direction and score were not bad. Wladyslaw Spillman must be turning in his grave!


                
I don't care how important the subject matter is, this film is as boring as anything I've ever seen.Yes, it's a unique twist to view the Nazi-jews situation from this musician's perspective, and yes the cinemetography is excellent.  -But that's all you can say.There's almost no plot.  There are a few very moving scenes, but they are few and far between.There have been SO many superior movies made on basically the samesubject, what is the point of this one?  Watch "Schindler's List,"  or the excellent "life is Beautiful."  Those two films make "The Pianist" look like a film school reject.You would have to pay me, and duct-tape me to my chair, to get me to sitthrough this movie a second time.


                
I went to see this movie expecting to see a film about music - that's what the name implies and what the posters promised. But it was not about music... it was about the Holocaust. I stayed and watched but only because one of my long-time friend's grandmother was clubbed to death on the streets of the Warsaw Ghetto (site of the movie) so there was a personal and painful connection.I asked another friend, a young American Jew who lives in California, if the movie made him feel confident, outgoing and positive, or wary, uncertain, fearful, and negative. No surprise - it was the latter and how could it be otherwise? I would be hard pressed to think up a more effective means to screw up Jews' psyche than to produce a movie just like this one. I wonder if Roman Polanski was secretly and unknowingly financed by SDOPOAJ (Syrian Department of Psychological Operations Against Jews)The problem with making people fearful, and that is what this movie does quite successfully, it that they become diminished. As Lord D'Abernon (1857-1941) said: "The worst atrocities are probably committed by those who are most afraid". I think that the Jews' oppression of the Palestinians may be rooted in the fear that Jews feel in their very souls... and this is being fanned, constantly it seems, by films like this one. The world would be a better and kinder place if the Jews would stop wallowing in their victimization and move on to positive things where they are so well equipped to make big and positive contributions.


                
in this film the Jewish nation , has shown very oppressed. the Jewish man is very useless or in other words he is just trying to stay alive and he never tries to fight against the oppression. this guy does not even try for food and even running away, he just stays in a ruin. and in my opinion in this movie the Germans and Nazi is shown too wild and very brutal, which is not the whole truth. by the way this film could not even entertain me like an ordinary movie and it was too boring. the first actor was not very professional. the ending was not which the guy deserve it. I am never going to offer any one to watch this film. thanks.


                
A lot of movies in this subject pls not one more...it´s awful we can´t forget but please...STOP IT...IDIOT MOVIE!(1/10) It´s ridiculous So badd


                
I will admit i saw this film by mistake, but how can anyone like this movie it's long and boooooring. The story in this movie is truly about a very serious subject , but after 15-20 minutes i didn't give a damn, i almost fell a sleep, half the theater i saw it in walked out before the first ½-hour, i almost left too but i stayed, because i thought no movie can be that bad, but i was wrong this one was!!!!


                
I want my 5 minutes back!.The same old (...) let's say "thing". In a middle of the war, he continue to play on the piano, when in real life, a ordinary person will run like a dog race. He even give as a smile on the staircase when he meet that lady, while behind him the bomb explodes. "how touching"! lol don't care about the rest of the movie, i had enough. The funny thing is that i have to write 10 lines of text to be published, and i have'n got that much to say about the movie. Wait, i have to apologise for my English, i'm not a real English citizen, i'm originally from Romania, country where you don't get the money back for a bad movie. lol Here, 10 line of text lol


                
What?
Why even made it, what the hell is wrong with these film makers. They look like idiotically stupid.Please dont waste you time watching this piece of crap.
Regret the whole time why wasted my time on this crap.Thank You


                
For the 1st half of the Pianist you are presented with the set up and fair enough. The 2nd half is about the main actor hiding endlessly in secret apartments and that's basically it. I didn't really see the point of this film it would have a much better documentary? It also appeared to me it was designed to open old wounds with the Germans?
