I went to see this movie with pretty high expectations. Polanski has quite a reputation. I felt the film was dull, lacked artistic imagination and its trite presentation of history really disappointing. Apart from the scene with the suitcases, I found the whole thing banal, way too heavy handed and very clichéd. If you are interested in the subject of the film, I recommend you read the following couple of pages from a memoir of the son of a Holocaust survivor at the web address below. In the five minutes you will take to read it you will learn more about this period of history than in the three hours of watching this excruciatingly dreary film. http://www.normanfinkelstein.com/article.php?pg=18&ar=1


                
*SPOILERS*SPOILERS*SPOILERS*SPOILERS*SPOILERSWhy this movie was made ? What's so interesting in Szpilman's story ? Nothing . I really mean nothing . They could make this movie with original character and it wouldn't change a thing . What's the point of the movie ? What's this movie is all about ? This is a story of one guy who survived war . That's it. The main hero is hardly a hero in any sense of that world . He's hardly a character. He's more like an object . Instrument that goes from one hands to another hands . This must be the most inactive hero in the history of the cinema . There isn't a single moment when he did something for others ( his family doesn't count). He's got no personality at all . The Oscar for Adrien Brody is a scandal . FOR WHAT ?! For one sad face through whole movie ?! He did convince me that he's a pianist . There's one good scene here when Szpilman "plays" on piano. It doesn't change the fact that ANYONE could play what Brody plays here . Even a guy from street like me. One of the most undeserved Oscars ever. The nomination for Oscar would be too much for his "performance"."The Pianist" wastes time to show us scenes of Nazi's killing Jews and destroying Warsaw . I'm sorry , but it takes much more to touch my heart than showing simply bad people doing bad things to good people . Also , since our hero is an empty character , then why should I care if he's struggling to survive ? I didn't care for him for a moment. In the end the entire movie seems pointless and empty.There is a great Russian movie " Sudba cheloveka" from 1959 . It tells a story about a guy that lost everything during a war. Yet , he never give up . He kept helping other people when he could , even if it could cost him his life . It's a hunting movie about man that survived psychically and emotionally a nightmare of war . It's touching and strangely uplifting . Watch it and then watch Polanski's "masterpiece" and you should notice how empty and lacking heart "The Pianist" really is. One more thing . Some people in Warsaw were against Szpilman , some were neutral , some helped him . It's sad that in the end the movie seems to tell us that a German officer was the person responsible for Szpilman's survival. Really ?! Another "Good Nazi " cliché in Hollywood movie ?! In the ending credits there is only note about what happened to that German officer after the war. There is no information about the Polish people who helped Szpilman . Why ? If there is no information about their post war life , the movie should inform us about it. In the end it seems that Szpilman didn't give a f*** about people who saved him . Talk about disrespect. The German officer didn't risk anything at all . The war was already over . The Polish people who helped Szpilman risked their lives and lives of their families. They should be mentioned here.We shouldn't make movies about people like Szpilman . It's not a bad thing that he wanted to survive. Everybody wants to life . Still , there is no lesson for us – the audience from Szpilman's story. We should make movies about Irena Sendlerowa – true humans , true heroes.I give "The Pianist" 2/10 , because of beautiful music (Chopin).
