It's not that this is yet another film about the holocaust. Hard though they may be to watch, when you have one of the most horrific real-life nightmares perpetrated on a completely innocent community as you had in the Warsaw Ghetto situation, films will be made and should be made about it. This happened just 60 years ago, but it's right out of some dark ages tale of Vlad the Impaler or something -- innocents rounded up and slaughtered wholesale for no reason whatsoever -- just because they could be. Just to satisfy some twisted despot's profane sense of reality. If anything, more films should be made about the holocaust.Unfortunately, when films are made about this most sad episode of the 20th century, the tendency to celebrate each film equally understandably arises. No one wants to accidentally align themselves with the few warped minds who suggest it never happened or that it should have happened by saying anything bad about a film about the holocaust. But, in the hope of encouraging good films about the horror the Nazis inflicted, I will now attempt to do just that.What I loathed about this film was that the Nazis were the most interesting part of it. Our hero is a nice man who plays the piano very well. There are some other nice people who help him. His family is nice. But even the most interesting act of benevolence in the picture is performed by a Nazi officer.What was Polanski thinking? Story! Story! Story!Beware, the following paragraph is a total *** SPOILER ***Honest to God, here is the plot that unravels over two and a half mind-numbing hours: A Jewish piano player narrowly escapes when the Nazis take over Poland and evacuate all the Jews to death camps. He waits around doing very little in particular until the Russians come and "liberate" Poland. That's it. That's the entire plot. True though it may be, truth is not always stranger than fiction. Sometimes, it's downright boring. The truth, for example, is that I got out of bed this morning and came to work. True, yes. But dull, definitely.This film is a total snoozerama! I kept waiting for our piano player to join the resistance and take out a few Nazis; or have an interesting relationship with one of his benefactors; or carve a piano into a hang-glider and fly to Allied territory. Something. Anything! Instead we are treated to long, long scenes of our hero fiddling about in empty apartments or sifting through rubble for a bite to eat or having rather ordinary conversations with his family or those who help him.I mean, on some level, I get it -- he's the penultimate victim and survivor and artist; somehow immune to the violence because of the sublime expression in his fingers. But THAT is a half-hour short subject film AND NOT a two-and-a-half hour feature film. It just isn't. It's just damned rude to suggest otherwise.Damned rude.This movie review by Erik Gloor
With a rating of 95 percent at Rotten Tomatoes and a place in the top 50 at IMDB I was expecting this to be a challenging film about the Holocaust. This however was not it.  All this film says about the Holocaust was that life was tough then, little else.  This is a rather obvious truth for everyone except Holocaust deniers, so why spend two hours telling us this. The film has story that is much too conventional and one that unfortunately lacks any great meaning.The depiction of the Germans is perhaps the most straightforward you are likely to see.  All you get is a bunch of stereotypical cinematic Nazis without any subtlety, until the final twenty minutes, when, SPOILER, Spillman runs into perhaps the only good German in all of Poland, if you go by the depiction of the Germans up to this point, who allows Spillman to escape.This film simply alludes to some major questions instead of going into any depth.  It shows a Jewish character who was from a certain point of view helping the Nazis, yet we do not see why this character is doing what he is doing.  At least not in any depth.One of the most remarkable things about this film is that it is about a Pianist, someone you would expect would have a soul.  However, Spillman is simply a non-character which makes him being a pianist seem rather superfluous.  This, however like the rather brief reference to the Merchant of Venice seems to be Polanski's main tool in this film: to allude to things that are deep and worthwhile, while saying nothing of the sort himself.A brief glimpse through some of the reviews will find that a lot of critics have a rather simplistic view of the Third Reich, which may explain why they liked this rather simplistic film.  One critic wrote that the Nazis were for barbarism and challenged everything that was beautiful and pure.  This in turn would lead them to oppose Spillman and his profession: the professional pianist.  This, however is not a rather simplistic view of the Nazi regime. The music that the Nazis opposed most strongly was modern music, in particularly the atonalism of the sort written by the great composer Schoenberg.  This music was viewed by the Nazis as being crude.  Hitler, himself was Wagner fanatic.  However, the issue of Wagner opens up a lot of major historical issues that I can't go into.  If, as some film critics are implying that this film is saying these things about the Third Reich, then I think this is a sad reflection of the intellectual state of modern critics. Although we may find The Third Reich totally repulsive we must not take the simplistic that it was a place where all great music was neglected, with the same being true for the Soviet Union.  These regimes had a particular view of what was great in music, and a lot of these composers, the German composers admired by the Nazis and the Russian composers who worked within the Soviet regime are greats in music.  The important thing to realise is that these regimes idealised music and other works of art and that is where the problem lies.  The thinking behind this was quite often quite complex, with thinkers such as Hegel leading the way. Personally, I thought that the film made no such comment on the Third Reich, but if it did I find little validity in it.
Contains Spoilers.Roman Polanski committed one of the cardinal sins of the film and entertainment industry: never revisit a topic if the ultimate contribution has already been made.The ultimate holocaust movie is `Schindler's List'. Polanski's `The Pianist' falls way short of it in every respect.The only way `The Pianist' could have made a difference (and covered new ground) is in explaining how the main characters, Szpilman, could life with the fact that while he was hiding, people died on his behalf.He hid during the Nazi destruction of the Warsaw Ghetto. From his room, he could see his fellow Jews fight and die.He hid during the Polish uprising just before the Red Army arrived. Polish resistance fighters died in front of his eyes.People who hid him, died on his behalf. His helpers were caught, handed over to the Gestapo (WWII Secret German Police), tortured and killed.So, how did Szpilman cope with this during and especially after the WWII?Not even an attempt of an explanation is made by Polanski. In failing to do so, he has (in my opinion) completely missed the point of his own movie.The result is an undistinguished Holocaust movie with all the usual trappings. Sorry, Mr. Polanski, but Mr. Spielberg has been there before and has done a lot better.My advice - safe the movie ticket and borrow `Schindler's List' on video/DVD instead. If you feel like a depressing genocide movie in the first place, that is.My rating 3 out of 10.
I have to say that I was left with very mixed emotions after watching this film. On the one hand, we have a supremely talented pianist, forced to endure what the vast majority of us will never have the misfortune to experience, surviving all the horrors of the Nazi regime; and on the other hand we have a man who is prepared to let his family go off to die while he runs away, leave his fellow Jews to fight with the Germans (while he runs away again) and allows everyone else to risk their lives in order to help him. This man did nothing heroic to help himself, and certainly nothing heroic to help anyone else. His indifference to everyone apart from himself was almost unbearable. The only tears we ever saw were for himself towards the very end. No tears for his family, his friends, his people. The only emotion he ever showed was for Dorota, and let's not forget that her character was actually made up for this film, she was never in the book of his life. When you have to invent characters to try and help an audience to sympathise with someone then it speaks volumes.Now, war does terrible things to people, so who am I to judge this man, but surely there are better stories from better people to tell than this one. Does this story justify a film being made, just because he was a good piano player? Is this a man that we can all look up to? I just don't get it.I was left feeling that this man was something of a coward who only cared for himself. What exactly were they were trying to say with this film?
Some irony: every time a director attempts to be visually daring, the public doesn't accept it.  Scott tried in 'Blade Runner', Cameron in 'Abyss', Spielberg in 'Empire of the Sun', and Kubrick in 'Barry Lyndon'.  Why? Maybe because the scripts aren't accepted...This is your only spoiler warning...Here Polanski is visual in a different sense than these.  Spielberg is an emotion-control freak determined to manipulate our every reaction in order to make us accept his vision.  'Schindler' especially relied on this tactic; weaving images, emotions, and especially music together.Polanski survived the Holocaust, so most detail stems from his memory and not imagination.  So, while Spielberg is a Hollywood Jew reminiscing on the Holocaust, Polanski is the real deal.  His impersonal method is intentional since reality doesn't have background musical cues to warn us about upcoming suspense.  Polanski's focus is also different from his Western brethren. Compare his visualization of the ghetto wall to what Spielberg did with the 'Jurassic Park' fence.  The emphasis is not on people, it's circumstance. Brody is keen to surviving in these circumstances after 'Thin Red Line'. The last time Spielberg tried this was 'Raiders'.Here Polanski is darker than Spielberg.  Optimism is beat to death despite the loops the script takes into "made-for-TV" Land.  Compare the "girl in the red dress" in 'Schindler' to the ghetto-runner boy.  It's about comparing imagination to memory.'Training Day' had the same problems, but less insight into getting around them.Film is music though the two art forms are different creatures.  Both rely on pacing, measure, and beat, but film has three dimensions to sort through. This is distant and impersonal, yet understanding.  Thus, Polanski shows he is more human than his Hollywood counterparts that want to amaze. On that note, this sorely deserved an Oscar for Best Sound.  Even if the music is ersatz, the sound design isn't.Spielberg tried this movie earlier to lesser effect: it was called "Empire of the Sun".Final Analysis = = Learn from this...
Quite well-done, though it had nothing new to say. Same old, evil germans and the frightened innocent jews. What can I say? Yet another germans-killing-jews movie ... the only movie in this category that stood up somewhat lately was 'Amen'. There are quite a few slip-ups in this movie and given the extreme attitude of the germans I wonder how come the main character doesn't get killed (the only reason I can think for him staying alive is that HE IS If you haven't seen Schindler's List or La Vita E Bella or you're not familiar with history , The Pianist might pull a few tears from your eyes otherwise ... not. The only truly good part is the begining scene when he plays the piano and the shelling begins. Actually I liked the music so I got that song he plays (Chopin I think?) and that was it. Did I mention the movie is quite boring?


                
Having read a fair amount about the Warsaw Ghetto, this movie seemed to trivialize it to me. I know that I am not stating a popular opinion, but I found that this film, which put so little into character development and so much into plot, was a failure. *We already know the plot*. So what is the point of the film? Nothing, in my opinion, it adds nothing to what has already been established, and pales in comparison to reading memoirs from the people who were there. Even in terms of plot, there are jagged edges in this film and it is generally an unsmooth and uninteresting ride through material that has been covered ad infinitum by better writers. Rarely have I been this bored in a movie. The violence, I felt, was extremely Hollywood--it was meant to portray the evil Germans against the good Jews. Not that I am a Nazi, but such a ridiculous simplification annoys me. More interesting is how an entire nation (Germany) could allow this to happen--a point which goes entirely unaddressed as we watch three hours of another Jew in another awful situation. A member of the Einsatzgruppen who was killing the Jews was as much a person as Szpilman, with emotions and responses just like his.  The fact that they are destroying other humans does not mean that they themselves are not human, although this fact is ignored in this movie and others by portraying them as monsters.  Isn't there some psychological (and as a result, cinematic) ground to break here?  I feel that most people are familiar with the experience of the Jews--if we must revisit this part of history again, why not try it in a different way?  I hope I don't offend anyone with these comments, because I don't mean to marginalize the suffering that happened, but I feel that with distance we get clarity about a situation. Since no large group (to my limited knowledge of the world) still misunderstands the holocaust, this type of emotional drivel is pointless and gets the public riled up over something long dead, without adding anything new whatsoever.


                
Thats all we need, another overwrought, epic length (but not epic quality)tale of the Warsaw ghetto. Sure, it was terrible. But so are many other historical events including the Nazi like treatment of Palestinians by the Israelis. Why doesn't somebody do a movie about that? There probably have been more movies about the Warsaw ghetto than about any other aspect of the war. Quite apart from the politics of it, it's a tedious, predictable, uninspiring and far too long film with endless scenes of shouting and shooting Nazis, starving children and buildings blowing up every few moments. That last part is good because it does tend to wake you up during this class A snoozer.


                
What do you normally expect from a biographical movie about a musician during the World War II and the persecution of Jews? Probably a character who is either likable or non-stereotypical hence interesting, lots of good music, some historical hints for dummies and varied social background. Apparently "The Pianist" doesn't give you too much of any of these.First of all, there is no plot strictly speaking, but a sequence of events in which the main character is involved. The war starts, people get killed, the uprisings break out, the Russians come, the war ends and all the time Szpilman is barely an observer, apart from the threat of being shot or sent to a death camp the history doesn't shape our "hero", nor does he change anything in it. He doesn't fight nor support the fighting civilians, he doesn't save anyone, he barely helps his fellows. His proceedings through the war times are likely to be less interesting than those of any randomly picked war survivor.I cannot judge the real Szpilman and his life, but I could imagine him being less dull and passive than the character in the movie. Szpilman created by Brody doesn't seem to be a musical genius, but rather a self-centered average person. He is awkward and naive in a non-charming way. There is no depth to the character and he doesn't form any relationships with others apart from expecting help. With this help he moves from one apartment to another and stares blankly at the cupboards. I realize that food shortage was a big issue during the war, but how many cupboard examinations can you put in one movie?It's not like I dislike cupboards. In fact I find the decorations and choice of items to be the strongest point of the movie, some very realistic and nicely designed reconstructions. Although interiors and costumes often look too clean and too smart, it is nevertheless a good job done.The reconstruction of the society doesn't work that well. All the Poles plus one Nazi soldier are nice and helpful, all the Nazis plus one Polish neighbor are mean, Soviets are the victorious heroes who bring peace to Poles and Jews. It's a very simple division more typical of a movie from the '60s than a modern one. Besides, even though the main focus is on the Jews, the movie doesn't seem to have any really Jewish elements. Where is the Jewish religion and spirituality, Jewish music and Jewish wit? Of course living in a ghetto makes people lose heart but it doesn't mean there is no need for some characteristics to be shown in the movie.There's absolutely nothing said about the reasons of the war actions. The war is like an unstoppable natural disaster from which you can only hide, but not an international conflict in which the orders come from and are executed by real people. The Nazis simply came to kill both Poles and Jews though the latter with more monstrous pleasure. The scenes are explicit, not suitable for children and sensitive adults. Death doesn't seem to have any meaning in this movie. If so, then without any disrespect to the real Szpilman, why would we want him in particular to survive, while so many others were starved to death, shot in the head or thrown out of a window?I can only recommend this movie to people who cannot tell apart the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising from the Warsaw Uprising - there are dates on the screen to help you remember; and anyone who likes cupboards.I don't recommend this movie to people who like action, multi-linear plot, well developed characters, dislike shallow good vs. evil division and showing more blood than necessary.
It's really unbelievable that a movie as stupid as "The Pianist" can win major prizes and make the IMDb top fifty. (Whenever I catch myself thinking that big no-no, that there must be a Jewish conspiracy in the entertainment industry--as depicted in "The Protocols of the Morons of Sodom"--I must remind myself that plenty of awful gentile movies have also won Oscars and palmes d'or and whatnot.)It's not so much that "The Pianist" is boring or unwatchable. In fact, it's entertaining enough as you watch it--those actors who look more like schoolboys from some prestigious English boarding school than starving Polish Jews, the mean Nazis, those duplicitous, red-cheeked Polacks. Among the many other stupid things about this movie that I've forgotten since I saw it is that everybody is always speaking in English. Now there must be hundreds of holocaust/evil-German movies out there and in most of them all the Germans and their victims speak English! Come on! It's just ridiculous. Let's have a little authenticity, Roman. In short, if you've read Primo Levi's subtle and very readable memoirs about life in the camps in Poland, "The Pianist" will seem one-dimensional, banal, and even as evil as the occupation and persecution it purports to denounce.


                
Honestly, I read all the reviews and thought i had to watch this movie. Needless to say, I was very disappointed. The movie was good at first but then got very slow. The only thing that made me like it was the fact it was based on a true story. I have seen other holocaust movies that were ten times better than this. I do not see how anyone thought this movie was so great. It was so boring towards the end i would have turned it off if other people weren't watching it with me. I am a huge holocaust nut and this movie did not do it justice. It did not even show any other of the important concentration camps. Do not read the other reviews like i did and get excited. The beginning is good but then it gets long and horrible. People need to be warned!! This movie is not good!


                
I was very disappointed by this film.  After reading all of the positive comments, I was expecting a masterpiece and the result was far from it.  I found both the principle character and his brother not at all likeable from the start and this took away from identifying with them later in the film. It was also unnecessarily long in many places.  I thought that it did capture the atmosphere of the time very well and as a historical document, it is probably a worthy production (though I wouldn't know enough about it to be able to spot inaccuracies if there were any).  The performances were also good but not good enough to keep the slow plot interesting.  Overall, I found it unentertaining and predictable.  3 out of 10.


                
The main reason why I watched The Pianist was the fact that it is about a pianist. I myself play the piano. But after seeing it I realized that it has far more reasons to watch it.The different thing from most other movies about war is that it is just about one single person. The struggle of one man. That's why you got more details about war and how people really felt. It allows you to be a witness of the fight of this very man, his feelings, his fears and his happy moments. Sometimes you feel happy for him because he got a new home and people that support him, and in the next minute you want to cry because of this terrible things that are happening to him.You can say about Roman Polanski whatever you want. But he did a masterpiece with this movie. It also was so good because Polanski has been through this horror. He lost his family during World War IIand that gives the film even more deepness.Maybe the title of the movie scares some people. They just thing it's about piano playing and music. But this is the worst reason you can have of this film. The main story is about a pianist, that's right, but it's about his survival because of music. His love and passion for music helped him to never stop hoping. And this is what this movie is about. It's about a person that lived through all that horror without stopping to believe.Never judge a film because of the title. Watch the Pianist and I'm sure you'll will think about things in a different way.


                
