This movie is too long for what it depicts, one Jew's struggle to survive Nazi-occupied Warsaw during the second world war. The movie doesn't cover any new ground, the audience doesn't learn anything new. However, being a personal project for the director may account for its length. I hadn't planned to see it, because if you've seen one holocaust film, you've seen them all. And that is not in any way intended to minimize the horror of the mistreatment of the Jews, but how many times does a person need to see it reinacted to grasp the message? It happened, it was bad, we all need to do our part to see that nothing like that happens again. But I saw it for Adrien Brody, the hawkish actor who won the best actor Oscar for his performance. And, after seeing it, I believe it was deserved. The first hour of the movie established the setting and danger, the middle hour spends too much time showing the protagonist trying to survive, hiding in bombed-out buildings, scratching for food. We know it all happened, but if you show everything, the movie is 6 years long!!  The movie starts with actual black and white film footage of 1939 Warsaw, and we see its residents leading normal lives for that period. Then, cut to the movie, the pianist is playing for a live radio broadcast when bombs or artillery shells begin to explode and all Jewish families begin their fights for survival. Forced to wear identifying arm bands, eventually they were banished to their own ghetto, then the trains came. SPOILERS are contained in the rest of my comments, for my own recollection, please read no further. The last half hour of the movie pulls everything together. The pianist is helped by a German soldier who discovers him, has him play piano for him, then secretly brings him food as the war winds down. When the Russians finally come to Warsaw, the few remaining Jews are out of danger, the Germans are imprisoned, and eventually the pianist is playing again for the radio, and the final scene is his playing a concert before a live audience. The pianist was a real person, this movie is a true story based on his book.
Heavy subject matter frightens people. Few dared say an unkind word about Philadelphia (AIDS!) when it first came out, regardless of the fact that it was dreadful. Folks seem similarly reluctant to find fault with The Pianist (The Holocaust!), though it's a far superior film.Being a survivor himself, Polanski is to be applauded for his clear-eyed depiction of life and death in the Jewish ghetto, but his matter-of-factness had a curiously distancing effect on me. I felt uninvolved. It was also a brave move to omit subtitles from the German dialogue, but getting the gist of what is being said is not the same as understanding and once more I felt left out.Further, many of the events leading to changes in Szpilman's situation remain unclear. On other occasions, Polanski labours his point and I just wanted him to move on to the next episode. He's a very good director, but he won the Oscar amidst a very weak field (and I include Scorsese's work on Gangs Of New York) - remember that this is the same body of people that anointed Ron Howard 'best director' a year previously.Impressive at times, but uneven and occasionally sluggish and frustrating.


                
This is a well crafted movie that deserves some praise, but I still felt the film is a bit overrated. I guess it's cause I was expecting a phenomenal and amazing movie, but what I got was a pretty good movie. It just wasn't as powerful or compelling as I thought it would be. Adrien Brody was almost perfect for this role, his transition from being a prideful musician to a broken down man was done really well. This film just wasn't all that challenging, the plot is basically based on a true story of Wladyslaw Szpilman(Adrien Brody). And his struggle to survive during the Holocaust. The thing is the whole thing seems a bit conventional a lot of aspect of this movie just seemed to narrow at times and straightforward which isn't necessarily a good thing and lack depth. The film also seemed to drag a bit because of the direction it kept going, it's a good movie and I agree with some of the positive feedback this film has been getting. It just isn't a powerful or amazing film I was looking forward to seeing, not one of those movies I feel I need to see again someday after it's finished. It really isn't a masterpiece like come critics claim it to be.7.8/10


                
Although I found "The Pianist" to be a commendable and fairly well-made effort, I did not find it to be a masterpiece. It certainly has the "feel" of an epic but compared to other WWII/Jewish movies (particularly "Schindler's List") it fails. I was shocked to see that the film had generated some fairly bad reviews on RottenTomatoes.com. I can understand where these authors are coming from -- "The Pianist" is a fine movie but uneven and not as great as it seems to think it is.At best I can compliment the good parts because some of them really are touching, but more often than not it's just too purposely sentimental to warm up to -- I never thought I'd say this but even Spielberg's version was less sugar-coated!Don't get me wrong, it's not glamorized and there are some brutal deaths, but it's just a bit too black-and-white and emotionally controlling for me to call it a masterpiece.3/5


                
It's Genius that scene when the German officer detected Szpilman hiding (about, min 200), the stare of fear on Szpilman's eyes was deeply brilliant, this gaze made him as if he was saying: "Please, forgive me for stealing my right of life, which you own, which is between your hands!"(How a stealer could be an owner)this scene showed perfectly. The movie generally embodies the pain suffered under occupation to get the very first rights, and how silence could be the only response to the suppression of faced by the invader, seeing the people you care about the most being taken and nothing could be done except surrender. Also it give an example of the human brutality raised when the human holds a position of absolute control of the other, and notwithstanding the foregoing, a person can find the best in the worst and darkest moments, and how the humanity and respect have no exclusive religion or ethnicity.


                
(no spoilers) This movie displays very detailed the cruelty and inhumane treatment particularly of Jews in Poland during the Nazi regime.  The special effects in the movie are as brilliant as you would expect them to be after having seen movies like Saving Private Ryan, for example.However, when it comes to a logical and interesting story-line the movie really would not have suffered from improvements. I mean, displaying Nazi cruelties has been previously well shown in other WWII movies (Schindler's list for example) and alone it doesn't represent anything original and neither does it add up nicely to an interesting plot. Although it might have been very important to Polanski to stress the war crimes committed, a pure listing of horrifying events does surely not make a good movie, it rather fills you with disgust.The pianist's love towards music, the emotions during the loss of beloved ones and during separation in addition to those horrifying scenes of cruelty and in general more plausible acting rather than a mere run-and-hide movie would have made this movie less boring (if you can describe horrifying scenes as boring).During the first 45 minutes I wondered if I actually wanted to watch this movie at all.  Later in the movie I felt better, though.  In general, the movie shouldn't need to be that long.


                
'The Pianist' is a very much a European film of the Holocaust: shot on location in Poland by a Polish director, French producers from a screenplay by an English writer, the film uses American (Adrian Brody), German (Thomas Kretchsmann) and English (Frank Finlay, Maureen Lipman, Emelia Fox)actors in the principal roles. These polyglot productions productions rarely work, yet 'The Pianist' is a rare exception. However, it never achieve the levels of cinematic tour de force that 'Schindler's List'did. Polanski's direction is restrained and often rather plain.'The Pianist' of the title is Szpilsman (Brody), a middle class Polish Jew who plays concert music on Polish radio before the German invasion. The film is told through Szpilsman's eyes as his family are moved from their home into the Warsaw ghetto, then are deported to certain death at a concentration camp. Through the last minute actions of a friend - one of the Jewish police - Szpilsman is yanked from the row of people being herded onto the train and flees back into the Ghetto.Later, he escapes the ghetto and lives, variously, in empty flats and an abandoned hospital, becoming a bearded, rather bizarre and solitary figure - like the last man alive in a post-holocaust world.The budget restraints are evident in the film. The uprising in the Warswaw ghetto is seen entirely through the window of Szpilsman's flat and is represented by a handful of Germans firing at buildings and what looks like a few CGI shots of the burning ghetto. This is perhaps one of the flaws of Polanski's direction - it has no moment equally to the stunning clearing of the Cracow ghetto scene in 'Schindler's List'.On the other hand, Brody is excellent in a demanding role as the increasingly isolated Szpilsman. Much of his role in the second half of the movie is wordless, and in one scene, he actually conveys an emotional release by miming playing the piano (later, he does it for real in the prescene of a sympathetic German officer - it is the first time in years he has played for real). There's no false 'watch-me' mannerisms of the method school here, and no sentimentality - so Brody's character seems all the more believable.The other strength is Ronald Harwood's screenplay. Harwood underplays the Nazi barbarism - there are a few random executions and Szpilsman Senior is beaten up for walking on a pavement - to good effect. He also conveys the idea that music remains a civilizing influence even when around it looks like the world is ending. It keeps Szpilsman human when everything suggests he should be dehumanized by his experiences.
"The Pianist" is doubtless well crafted and technically and artistically sound albeit naive and conventional. The film parses into one hour of a stereotypical and exploitive regurgitation of the horrors of the Nazi reign over the Warsaw ghetto, where every German soldier is more evil than Satan and every Jew a pathetic victim, and one hour of Brody living like a rat foraging for sustenance amid the Warsaw ruination. Only in the very end does the film introduce a bit of irony and a sympathetic Nazi after countless missed opportunities to breath something fresh into what is just another in a very long list of films about the infamous ghetto (Families torn apart, summary executions, etc.).  Brody delivers a fine performance as a pianist and the film's centerpiece but is not required to perform the range of emotion deserving of a little gold statuette. Overall, the film is worthwhile but shows us nothing new and exploits rather than honors the memory of those Polish Jews who died in the conflict. "The Pianist" will play best with those who have not yet had their fill of Warsaw ghetto films. (B)


                
This is the kind of magnificent filmmaking that shows a director not only being as true to the story given to him (that of Painist Szpilman, based on his autobiography) but to his past as well- Roman Polanksi faced similar conditions as a boy in the early 40's, and has found the best line to show, never crossed or mis-stepped, in representing the characters and the period. There aren't any hints of tightened suspense, no clues as to where the film could veer to, it just is. The big difference to be seen between a film like this and Schindler's List is not just in the people and situations (Schindler's List was a film about two people, Schindler and Goeth, in the foreground while the Pianist is a total first person tale), yet also in the filmmaking qualities being here surely European. And while the accents on the Polish-Jewish actors sounds a bit too British, that is quite forgivable considering the scope of the project (thank heavens he didn't put in English speaking Germans).


                
It's 1939 Warsaw. Wladyslaw Szpilman (Adrien Brody) is a Jew and a pianist on the radio. He falls for Polish girl Dorota. The Germans invade and the Szpilman family expects to live through another war. However, their lives slowly deteriorate as government decrees force them into the Jewish ghetto. Itzak Heller tries to recruit Wlad and his brother Henryk into the Jewish police but they refuse. As his family is put on trains, Wlad is pulled out by Itzak. Wlad joins the resistance and smuggles in material. He sneaks out and finds friends who help to hide him. He witnesses the Germans battling their way into the ghetto from his hiding place. He finds help from Dorota who is now married and pregnant. From his hiding place, he witnesses the start of the Warsaw uprising.Roman Polanski delivers a depiction of a survivor of the Holocaust. He is more or less passive for too long until pushed. He survives due to kindness of others. He does not fight not due some moral stand but rather a lack of proactive heroism. It's a rather disengaging trait although I can see Polanski's point of view. The other annoying aspect is his surprise and constant reaction to the shocking inhumanity. None of this makes him less realistic. In many ways, he's a very human character and flawed not in any evil ways. It doesn't make him an easy, or appealing character. The world is well constructed. The most compelling scene is actually when the family is stuck waiting out in the sun for the train. The train has been done every time but to wait in a holding pen is more unusual. This is a great Holocaust movie but the leading character is unusually not so appealing.


                
Devastating adaptation of Wladyslaw Szpilman's WWII memoirs as a Polish Jew and classically trained pianist in 1939 Warsaw who continually escaped the clutches of the invading Nazis over a 5-year period. Saved from the concentration camps by the Jewish police, he relied on the Underground--as well as on one remarkable German soldier--to stay alive and eventually tell his story. Adrien Brody's sadly quizzical, sensitive face takes the screen like a beacon of light; he obviously put himself through hell to get this role just right, and his Oscar-winning performance is both physically demanding and emotionally rich. Not so some of the overacting supporting players, and Szpilman's close-knit family members come off too soft (however, the scene where the father splits a piece of caramel five ways is a heartbreaker). Roman Polanski won the Oscar as Best Director, however some of his bigger scenes (such as the Russian Liberation) don't pack the wallop expected. The filmmaker does catch the numbing brutality and violence of the time with an unerring eye, and the film is arguably a more lasting statement of Nazi-atrocity than Steven Spielberg's "Schindler's List". Lengthy, but hypnotic; an unsettling, intense dramatic achievement. *** from ****


                
Released in 2002, "The Pianist" is Roman Polanski's account of the real-life Hebrew pianist Wladyslaw Szpilman (Adrien Brody) whose family was banished to the Warsaw ghetto with thousands of other Jews after the German invasion. Szpilman is separated from his family members when they're carted off to be slaughtered and does whatever he must to survive until the Allies defeat Germany. He's dependent on others while hiding out and, like they say, sometimes help comes from the most unexpected sources.Like 1993's "Schindler's List," "The Pianist" is a thoroughly realistic WWII drama that addresses the Holocaust with flashes of violence and atrocities, only marred by the stereotypical boorish depiction of practically every member of the Wehrmacht. Needless to say, you have to be in the right mode for a movie like this and you have to be willing to invest a solid hour before things get interesting; by the final hour you'll be hooked until the end; that is, unless you have ADHD and consume only cartoony "blockbusters."Some have complained that Szpilman's a lousy protagonist for this type of movie because he never does anything heroic and essentially waits it out. Answer: That's why it's called "The Pianist" and not "The Warrior Jew" or "Rambo 5: Kraut Killer." He was a simple musician who did what he could to survive, but that's not all he does; he also smuggles weapons into the ghetto, which are used later in the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising. When he eventually hides out in various apartments he doesn't have a weapon. What's he supposed to do, run into the streets and take on German soldiers by himself with a club or a kitchen knife? Even going out with a machine gun would've been foolish and suicidal. Szpilman's a survivor who does some minor heroic things. For those who demand a more standout hero, look no further than Captain Wilm Hosenfeld (Thomas Kretschmann); he's the hero of the story. The movie effectively shows the pianist's view of the war, which is the window through which the viewer observes the historical events. "Schindler's List" shows the Holocaust through the eyes of a Gentile who observes the machinery of the Holocaust from the top and views both Nazis and Jews from a position of safety. Oskar Schindler naturally had a more panoramic, birds-eye view of the Holocaust whereas "The Pianist" shows the Holocaust through the eyes of a Jew who observes the machinery of the Holocaust from the bottom and sees both Nazis and Jews from a position of danger. The former is a better film for understanding the machinery of the Holocaust while "The Pianist" is a better film to watch if you want to know what it was like to experience the Holocaust first hand as an ordinary Jew.The movie runs 2½ hours and was shot in Poland (including Warsaw where the events in the movie take place) and Germany. GRADE: B+


                
"The Pianist" is among the most regarded and praised movies about the Holocaust. It's a powerful, realistic and shocking movie, like "Schindler's List". However, it is shot in colors and it isn't 3 hours long, unlike that one. Besides, it was directed by Roman Polanski.Although this is a war movie (a type of film which I don't appreciate), there are two things that I liked very much about this: the soft, relaxing and beautiful sound of piano and Adrien Brody's performance (which is incredible and absolutely amazing) as the Jewish polish pianist Wladyslaw Szpilman.It's not wrong to say that this is just another Holocaust film. That is one way to see things. But we can see things in a different way instead. Each war movie deals with the same basic subject, but each one has its own characteristics. For example, "La Vitta è Bella" focus on a character with great humor and colorful imagination. "Empire of the Sun" is about a boy fascinated by planes and the war in China and Japan (Pearl Harbor). "Schindler's List" is about a German who saves thousands of lives. "The Pianist" is about a genial musician. "Edges of the Lord" is about a Jewish little boy who is a fugitive to escape from a fatal destiny. And I could go on forever...Overall, a reasonable film, but not very recommendable for those who are not into this subject.
The pianist...well we watched it a lesson at school and I was nearly in tears it is an really sad film so I'd advise people who get upset easily not to watch this film. Very good but as I said really upsetting. I don't think the title is suitable as it has only a small part about the pianist I think anyway you might disagree. But then again the title doesn't give much away which is good because I really dislike it when films have titles which basically tell you the storyline. A good film but very upsetting as I've said several times, but you have to have 10 lines to submit a comment so I'm trying to fill it up!! The music in the film makes it even more sad! Hope I've helped you Jess x p.s I get quite upset thinking about it...


                
More than a masterpiece on the poetry of wartime, Roman Polanski uses the eyes of an artist in his tribute to the suffering of Jews in Warsaw. Less concrete than that of a soldier, yet more resistant, the experience of Wvadyslav Szpilman expresses his negligence of the gravity of the wartime situation to an unfortunate sudden change of fate. Polanski's picture of WW2 Warsaw is a very deep one, revealing details which characterized the Jewish suffering with an outstanding touche of proximity; a fight over a pan of soup which ends with a man licking up spilt porridge on the ground, a woman gone mad after the disappearance of her husband, another one having herself caused her baby to suffocate as she tried to conceal its cries...This movie goes beyond the details of the ongoing of the war itself to reveal the sad and frustrating consequences on its victims. How can Wadek survive without his family, without food but even more with his ever growing urge to satisfy his wish to play a piano. He follows the sound of playing as often as he is lucky to. In this a perfect repertoire is mounted, involving Beethoven, Bach, etc.Wadek's pure and sympathetic nature seems to call for tolerance in wartime. Funny  and creative, he could eventually be considered a spectator to these events. One could attribute the luck he has and the intermittent support he receives to some providence. Yet the experience is real and his final contribution to building a new nation summarizes the lessons to be drawn.


                
This film wasn't nearly as good as I expected.  It tells the story of Wladyslaw Szpilman, Poland's most accomplished pianist, who escaped the Nazi occupation of Warsaw.  This is not the assault on your emotions that "Schindler's List" was.  Rather, it's pretty much a tale of survival, how one man plumbs the depths of humanity and survives to play his beloved music again.Adrien Brody plays Szpilman, and he does it well.  He has to because one of my complaints is that there's little character development other than Szpilman.  We're introduced to his family in Warsaw and get to know them, but they're carted off to the death camps before the halfway point of the movie.  One of the best lines in the film occurs here.  Szpilman tells his sister as she's about to be loaded into a freight car, "I know this is an awkward time to say this, but I wish I knew you better."  She smiles back warmly at him. Very real and very touching.But after Szpilman is pulled out of the line by a friend and spared, it's basically just him for the second half of the movie.  We meet people on his work crew where he's found refuge and the people in the underground who help him hide from the Nazis, but they're only on screen briefly and are never really developed as characters in the film.  The closest we get to seeing into the soul of another person is when a Nazi officer finds him hiding in the attic of a bombed-out building and gives him food and a coat to wear.  But even here, the Nazi captain, played by Thomas Kletschmann, is only in the film for a few minutes and then reappears briefly in the end where he's about to be shipped off to his death in a Russian prison camp.Adrien Brody plays his part well, but he's not an expressive actor, at least not in this role.  He looks dignified and a bit aloof at first, then develops the mournful gaze of someone who's seen too many bad things, but it's all in the eyes.  There isn't a whole lot of dialogue other than what's needed to advance the story.Not a bad film, but not a classic.  An interesting tale of one man's determination to survive, but it could just as easily been about someone trapped on a deserted island as it was about someone in wartime Poland.


                
I enjoyed this movie very much, and the acting was first rate, but it was a little too long.  Adrien Brody was unbelievable while sitting at the piano, and you would swear he was playing the selections played. His performance throughout the movie was very believable and he did deserve the award Hollywood gave him.


                
Impressive, taut and well made war drama about the life of a Polish-Jew pianist during the World War II and his struggle to survive the brutal Holocaust imposed by the Nazis. The movie has the always present strenght in Polanky's works but in fact does not represent an advance or a special mark among other movies with the same context (as, for example, 'Schindler's List,The'). Excellent performance by Brody. I give this a 07 (seven).


                
The first part of the movie shows us a vivid image of the horror of Nazi domination in Poland particularly in Warsaw and especially over the Jewish people object of daily violence and humiliation. We are spared nothing of the sheer brutality of those butchers and the reproduction of several aspects of everyday life in the occupied city is shown in a very realistic and convincing way. In the second part the protagonist (a renowned Jewish pianist) without ceasing to be a victim manages by hiding himself until the end of the occupation and thus becomes also a terrified witness of all the events which took place in Warsaw between 1942 and 1945 namely the ghetto and the city uprisings and finally its liberation by the Red Army. He owes his survival after all not only to good luck but also to the help of friends and foes with human feelings namely a member of the Jewish police created by the Nazis and a German officer who listens to him playing piano for the first time after the beginning of his ordeal. This is a climax scene which will make you swallow a lump in your throat out of emotion while watching it. It's a scene which will remain in the History of Cinema. This is more a realistic movie than a pathetic one though it has got enough pathos to arouse your deepest emotion.


                
(7 out of 10)  Of all the movies nominated for top Oscars, this one I put off the longest.  I KNEW it would be tough to watch.  I've seen what I consider to be the epitome of World War II films, 'Saving Private Ryan' and 'Schindler's List', and I've had enough.  The movies today pull no punches. Blood, death, war, cruelty.  It's why war is hell. Today's filmmakers can be as graphic and real as they wish.  And I suppose that's the problem I have. It's all so real, it hurts.  One-third of the way through, I considered getting up and leaving.  But like a rubbernecker, I stayed to see the rest of the carnage, and hopefully a glimmer of humanity.I'm glad I stayed.  After behaving fairly 'normally' in the beginning, Adrien Brody as Szpilman gets to act his way to his Oscar nomination.  The camera is rarely off him; the movie must live or die with Brody's ability to move us.  By the end, you see the work that went into the part, the gauntness, the hunger, the pain.  After seeing the other films nominated with the 'Best Actor' category, I believe Brody deserves the Oscar.  It will probably be the role of his life.What I liked best was the 'tunnelvision'.  We could often only see what Szpilman saw, like out of a small window, as if the rest of the world were this vast unknown.  All we knew what was in front of us-- death and more death.  All we knew was what Szpilman appeared to feel-- "Stay alive".  He does, by luck and opportunities taken.  Szpilman is not a hero, nor is he portrayed as one.  His is but one story of the very few that survived the Warsaw Ghetto and the Holocaust. There are others, but what sets Szpilman's apart is his fame and notoriety as a pianist, and the amazing 'good fortune' that allowed him to live past the war.Although I have seen enough movies involving the Holocaust, I felt more informed as to what the Warsaw Ghetto must have been like, day after day; its oppressiveness, its shrinking, its decay.I gave this movie a 7 out of 10 only because of the plethora of scenes of Nazi and wartime cruelty.  Yes, I know that's how it was, and they were only being accurate. It's merely a reaction on my part to having seen ENOUGH of this horror.  Otherwise it would have been 8 out of 10.Kudos to Roman Polanski for bringing his vision to the film.  His childhood wartime memories obviously helped to shape 'The Pianist'.  It is powerfully directed, and the best work Polanski has done in many years.  Although he has tough competition, I can totally see him winning the Best Director Oscar (although not being there to receive it, of course). I will probably never watch this movie again, but I'm glad I saw it.  And I'll be rooting for Brody March 30th.


                
One of the best picture nominees this year about the true life of a Jewish Polish concert pianist Wladyslaw Szpilman, who somehow in the madness of W.W.II managed to elude the death camps.  Yes it is a holocaust film, albeit it does not take place there, but in the ghettos of Warsaw where over 300,000 jews were rounded up and confined to live in a small segregated area of the city in absolute squalor.  I've always said that good films are never depressing, but this one does get there.  And how can it not sometimes. Towards the middle of the film when the audience is aware of the impending doom, the characters still cling on to hope of radio contacts that the allies are coming to save them (not knowing of course they will fail), and the idea that all the moving is temporary..  This is the only slow part of the film, and we're stuck in some powerful yet obligatory scenes,  soldiers whipping and torturing jews, starvation, plagues, death marches, random on the spot executions,  jews turning on each other in the ghetto just to survive, some pretty hellish stuff.  But Polanski manages to bring together a great cast (nazis and jews alike both good and bad) that bring the film to its peak as Szpilman at one point manages to escape and live with the resistance who will protect him.  But life is not easy, and a crushingly good scene involves Szpliman hiding out in an apartment by himself, running out of food and then we watch helplessly as he breaks several dishes accidentally while rummaging through the cupboards and gives himself away to his German neighbors.Thinking of how it must have been to live in that era and not be found out, must have been just pure hell.  And it is when these moments when we know that just the slightest exposure of Szpilman's talents and presence will get him killed in an instant, that the film exceeds tremendously.  While the middle slows down, the last 1/2 hour is a cinematic triumph and for the most part turns the murderous German forces on its head (I won't give the scenes away).  Throw in a cinematographic great look at bombed out Warsaw, and you have some more to entertain you.Remember... War is madness..Pretty good filmRating 7 out of 10


                
The first half hour or so of the Pianist really struggles.  It shows the same coming threat that we have seen in other movies, yet does not do as good of a job of making them as horrific or tragic.  Polanski tries his best, and certainly there are scenes that one would think would horrify. Yet knowing what would happen later, and having seen films such as Schindler's List, the early parts of the Pianist just don't have the same emotional impact that they might have in years past.However, once the film becomes more about the individual struggles of the Protagonist, it starts to take off and captivate the audience.  I particularly enjoyed the way Polanski let us feel what Brody's character was feeling rather than have him overact in reaction to pleasant and unpleasant surprises.  This allows the audience to draw their own conclusions without trying to make them think they have even a remote clue what it would have actually felt like.The sets in this film are really outstanding.  They bring to mind some great sets like those of Saving Private Ryan, The Third Man, and Ran.  It really felt like war came to a beautiful city and destroyed it.  I never felt like I was watching special effects or set engineering.  This for me was the best part of the film.Second best would have to be the actual music.  While it does not approach the level of Amadeus in terms of integrating music with the plot and glorifying great music, doing so would not have felt right in this film. The music also felt more personal and prodigal.


                
A nice supplement to "Schindler's List" showing what happened to some of the victims of the Holocaust who were not saved by Schindler.
The story was interesting, but the movie itself is well short of matching "Schindler's List" quality as a movie.


                
This movie is a good supplement to "Schindler's List" in that it follows one of the many individuals that was not saved by Schindler or some other mercenary, and had to endure all the hardships of WWII in Warsaw.  It gives a good viewpoint of what happened to one of the many survivors who lived through the Holocaust in Poland.While I consider this film good, I feel that "Schindler's List" is much more compelling, and an over-all better movie.  I gave  "Schindler's List" a 10 (1 of only 3 films I have given a "10") whereas this movie I think merits only a "7".Even now, a few years later, I am still haunted and moved by the scenes and story of "Schindler's List", but do not feel nearly that amount of emotion from seeing "The Pianist" just a few days ago.  My feelings for "Sophie's Choice" (another film about one person in WWII and her dealings with the Nazis) that I saw several years ago are stronger than for "The Pianist".
A good film, but not truly great.


                
Ya know...what I liked most about that film was the piano playing. Truly some excellent playing. It was a good film, kept me there, taught me something. Yet it didn't grab me by the balls and yank me in. There was one main thing amongst a couple that prevented that. The lead actor. If not for him, I believe that film could have been so much more gripping.    He seemed so...'relaxed' with everything that was going on. Oblivious, non effected as he struts around town, in his manicured suit while enemy forces steal foot after foot of it. Everyone was effected in one way or another yet I felt and saw none from him.     While on the lamb, with each person that stuck their necks out on the line for him, he thanked only 'once' that I remember. The German officer pianist. Other then that, I didn't see despair, true fear, anxiety let alone horror. Where was his humility? Thankness in his eyes or even a gesture due these people risking life and limb for his safety.     The only time I saw some sort of connection to what was going on around him was toward the end when he was dirty, bearded, hungry and walking as if an old man. This is when I saw 'some' union with the character that should have been there progressively growing all along. And the sad thing about that was it was the time he hand the least bit of lines.
    Roman Polanski did a good job with this film other then casting and directing the lead. Showed some detail of things we've seldom touched in other films of its subject. The progression to loss of rights not only as citizens yet human beings. Comes to mind is when the Father, walking in the street, was degraded by a slap to the face then forced to walk only in the gutter by that hate monger of a soldier.     Without showing the people dying in the gas chambers or starved to death, he showed the step by step process from the identifying arm bands, to the segregation into a small section only to be walled in. To the scene of herding them to a waiting point for the train to ultimately show the baggage left behind, leaving our memories to paint the gruesome picture of what became them.     I liked the film, I was glad I experienced it yet, of all characters, the lead kept me on the outside preventing me to fall within.


                
