Polanski has depicted the gory details of the holocaust without much restraint. But, the most wonderful aspect of the film is that the director has not lost focus of his story and instead of focusing too much on the holocaust horror he has weaved the true-life narrative of survival around devillish happenings.Every single act of escapade Szpilman goes through is depicted like a drop of water on a barren desert. However, the Oasis in the driest desert comes in the end and it is here that Polanski captures the essence of human emotion. I had this very strong urge of jumping into the theater screen and magically adopting a character in the movie and doing something about the helplesness portrayed so convincingly.Overall, Polanski has given a stunning visual narrative of the cold war. Survival indeed is a privilege though it is taken for granted today. Performances by Brody, Kretschmann deserve applause.Pawel Edelman's camera work is moving and he has brilliantly captured the dark sadness in the visual canvas in an effective way. The lighting is amazing. Pre-dawn shooting schedule could have helped a great deal.Hervé de Luze's editing work has ensured that the narrative does not slip away from focus. Most notable is the scene where the human bodies are lit on fire and the camera raises to show the smoke. The darkness of the smoke is enhanced and is used effectively to fade the scene out.The scene where Brody's fingers move as he rests his hands on the bars of the tram handle only goes to show the brilliance of Polanski as a film-maker.Great film that will be in the running for this year's Oscars. I will give it a 9 Out of 10.


                
I remember seeing "Schindler's list" about ten years ago, and I remember how weird I felt for being almost completely unmoved by it. Although it showed the horrors of holocaust quite realistically, somehow it all seemed just a bit too fake and exaggerated. Characters were a bit off (I still can't decide who was more over the top, Schindler or Goeth), fake sentimentalism was all over the place, . While it was a work of art and an important reminder of true events that shouldn't be forgotten, on emotional level it just somehow failed to deliver.Enter "The Pianist". With no Spielberg around to put his trademark sappy material, we finally have a movie that shows the true horror and tragedy of Jewish people in World War II. The story is told through the eyes of one man - Wladislaw Szpielman, Jewish pianist who works in a radio station in Warsaw during the German occupation of Poland. Together with him we watch his world getting torn apart, witness his family being taken away, his existence being reduced to bare essentials. Brody gives a subtle yet spectacular performance, his best work yet. And never once are we reminded that we are watching a movie. Everything is shown from Szpielman's point of view, and it is all very gritty and realistic. While Spielberg's rendition of German atrocities always had a slightly staged feel to augment their dramatic purpose, here they are so true to life there impact is much greater - you watch and are being reminded in horror that this things actually happened.While being very hard to watch sometimes, this is a movie that "Schindler's List" was supposed to be. This movie doesn't judge anybody, or tries to explain anything - it shows historical events as a reflection of one man's fate, making a powerful testimony that stays with you long after the beautiful last shot and the end credits are over.


                
The Pianist is a movie that often gets bundled together with Schindler's List as being "about" the holocaust. But this is a misunderstanding, a simplification even, of this picture (and of Schindler's List). It relates to the holocaust, but it is not the story of the holocaust – it's the story of one man. Wladislaw Szpilman was an artist, with great talent in his hands and his mind, and in him is represented something very precious in humanity. He also appears, as many such people really are, someone to whom the music mattered far more than current affairs. As such, he provides a unusual view on atrocity, that of someone who, rather than actively fight against it, for the most part tried simply to exist in spite of it.This somewhat passive yet dignified stance is ably reflected in Roman Polanski's direction, which has always been characterised by an excruciating intimacy with his subjects and a certain detachment from the world in which they inhabit. Here we see Szpilman glimpsing the war through windows and doorways, yet often himself or his hands in close-up. But Polanski's boldest strokes of genius are in his creation and presentation of the ghetto and its inhabitants, especially as regards how he draws our attention. The soldiers giving a cigarette to an elderly Jewish man and the couple fighting over a can of stew are foregrounded. Seconds later, a corpse lies innocuously in the background. When Wladek's father is accosted by two Germans, we see a couple of Polish women hastily get out of the way. When the shot changes to reveal the officer's back, the focus is suddenly on his gun holster – it draws our attention to things that give a little extra breadth and context to a scene.Central to The Pianist is Adrien Brody's portrayal of the title character. It's an incredibly sedate performance, with everything below the surface, utterly commanding of our attention despite its understatement. His emotions seem muted – when reunited with a friend the merest ghost of a smile plays across his lips, but by now we know the character and understand that this is a deep and sincere expression. Brody virtually carries the movie alone, and one of the unfortunate things about The Pianist is that not one other performance stands out at all, and the inadequacy of some of the supporting players does hurt the earlier scenes a little.But perhaps the greatest thing about The Pianist is in the fine construction of its story. Although most of it is based incredibly faithfully on Szpilman's own memoir, the adaptation by Ronald Harwood gives it a certain dramatic course. There is one intensely poignant scene, and one of the few entirely fictionalised episodes, in which Szpilman is being sheltered by Dorota, wakes to the sound of her cello-playing and, just for a moment, he can imagine what life would be like if she had been his wife. Finally, the scene where Hosenfeld asks Szpilman to play for him seems to be the key to the whole thing. It's as if every moment, every narrative line, points towards that scene. We've seen Germans forcing Jews to dance for their entertainment, which makes us first question Hosenfeld's motives. We've seen Szpilman's desperation to be reunited with a piano, his fingers making keystrokes in the air. In retrospect, this all seems a set-up for that encounter. In effect, The Pianist becomes a tale of a harrowing time, filtered through the beauty of a musical performance.


                
I knew Roman Polanski's talent but was not prepared to this descent to Hell, described in painstaking detail. I'm physically upset after watching this film. The sense of disgust is real. How awful. How awful.I could not help identifying myself with the Jewish Poles in Varsovia. I couldn't help thinking that the paralytic old man thrown down the window could be my grandfather. Couldn't help thinking that the kid savagely pulled through the wall could be my brother. Couldn't help thinking that the girl asking the SS-guard the wrong question and being killed just for that, could be myself.The film describes beastly destruction of any dignity, and yet the struggle for surviving despite everything, even if rationally you realise that, perhaps, it would be even better to end it all at once. It describes the dishonesty of people profiting of this situation to make business out of your misery. It describes your need of believing the words of men NOT of their word, if they promise you life. And affection and courage surviving despite all this.This film could make a good pair with "der Untergang" with Bruno Ganz, which is also such a masterpiece that you may risk feeling sympathetic with the Nazi. Have you had this temptation? Watch "The Pianist".


                
How often do you see a movie that is capable of touching your Heart? how often do you see a movie that will occupy your thoughts for a good while? Roman Polanski's "The Pianist" is one of those rare breed of movies that can actually do that. It's undoubtedly one of the most impressive movies you will ever see. From The Solid Direction Of Roman Polanski to the Flawless acting of Adrien Brody This Movie without a doubt can be called a Masterpiece. The Movie is based on The true story of Wladyslaw Szpilman, who in the 1930s was considered one of the most accomplished Pianist. But the movie is not about his fame, Nor his Glory as a pianist. It's About A Polish Jew, who fought against all odds, Faced situations that he never even imagined and Finally Survived by losing almost everything and everyone he loved. It shows not only a tale of horrific surviving, but also the emotions that many people had to face and fight in order to live. It makes you wonder how people who really faced and Fought against those odd and lived, makes you ask yourself what would i do in that situation? The Cast is great, Whether it is a important character like Fox as Dorota or Minor character such as Ronan Vibert as Janina's Husband. But Adrian Broody Truly proved his worth as an actor in this film, i mean he was so into the character that he will make you believe that he really is Szpilman, He lost over 14 kilograms and developed a unusual body language for some scenes, and an actor of his level deserve much more recognition, but it's a fact that people nowadays prefer flash and looks over true art, however if you are one of those who can appreciate a true masterpiece you must have a look at "The Pianist"


                
This film is an absolute masterpiece and Brody's performance is absolute moving and superb. This film is the true story of Wladyslaw Szpilman's struggle to survive and escape persecution at the hands of the Nazi invaders in Warsaw.Its a true Roman Polanski classic. A Jewish pianist in Poland caught up in the horrors of World War II. The Nazis invade Poland, confine the Jews to ghettos then ship them off to concentration camps.This an excellent look at the Holocaust through a Jewish man's eyes, but I can see how the violence could be upsetting to some viewers. The violence is heartbreaking and graphic with showing the widespread killing, beating and burning of Jews and others, which can unbearable to watch at times. It's still a very touching and poignant movie and a film that should be seen by everyone.


                
They say that the best story you can tell is a true story, and considering World War 2 is one of the greatest historic devastations of man kind, you can understand why there have been so many instalments about this tragic, dark time in human society. Until now, I always thought 'Schindler's List' (by Steven Spielberg) to be the best of the WWII films, but then I came across 'The Pianist', directed by the highly acclaimed Roman Polanksi. The creator of 'Chinatown' and 'Rosemary's Baby' has truly out done himself with this incredibly powerful, visually compelling piece about the Jewish ghetto in Warshaw.The Pianist follows the story of piano player Wlad Spielzman and his constant struggle for survival in the German occupied city of Warshaw, which I have already mentioned. What started out as few new rules (the wearing of arm bands, the saluting of passing German officers on the sidewalk), became a vast series of evacuation orders, transporting, herding, and holding Jewish people as if they were animals. After managing to escape the latest ship out, Spielzman flees to the dead, empty roads and streets of Warshaw, living off only the kindness of strangers.One of the great things about this movie is that the main lead is neither a hero, or a blood thirsty rebel our for revenge, he's an ordinary man who's just trying to stay alive. This I think allows the viewers to really relate to him in some way, making them really care about what happens to him as he wanders the streets of Warshaw desperately look for means of support, food and shelter. It also adds a sense of realism, because when I think about it, if I was in that same position, which I'm very thankful that I wasn't, I wouldn't speak out, or stand up against those who clearly have the power over my life. I would remain silent and still, because under these conditions, being brave is just another word for being stupid.Adrien Brody's portrayal of a man who had his freedom, his livelihood, almost his whole life stolen away from him is so heart- breaking to watch, I'm very glad that he received an Academy Award for that performance (I was a little surprised when I found out that Adrien was the youngest person ever to receive an Academy Award, I mean 27 isn't that young is it?) Roman Polanksi's images of war do not focus as much on the spilling of blood as you may see in other modern war movies, however there were a few scenes of grittiness that added some dramatic effect. I personally enjoyed the pointless shooting of Jewish randoms, where they line up every marching Jew and take a bullet to the heads of a selection of those unlucky bunch. Steven Spielberg showed the same thing in "Schindler's List" and it had a considerably powerful essence to it. But back to my earlier point. "The Pianist" does not focus on bloody, visually enhanced images of war, but rather on the depriving treatment of the Jewish community. The insulting of not being able to sit on public benches, the demeaning humiliation forced by German soldiers for amusement, all add to the heartbreaking sense of helplessness which also creates more dramatic effect.One of my most favourite parts of the movie is the end, or close to it anyway. The scene when the German soldier finds Spielzman in an abandoned house trying to open a can of pickles. After explaining his story and finding out that he is a pianist the soldier asks him to play something, just at top of his head. After a considerably long silence and a beautiful piano solo, the soldier spares his life and hides him in the attic, secretly supplying bread and jam to him. The most enjoyable thing about this scene is that it really reflects the symbolism of the pianist's extraordinary musical gift, because in a dark time such as this, music is the only pure thing that still remains, and in the end it is the thing that saves the pianist's life.This is arguably the greatest of the WWII films. It's intelligent direction and efficiently powerful images are very hard to match and Adrien Brody made history with his wonderful portrayal of the deeply effecting piano player, Wlad Spielzman.


                
I have watched a lot of WWII films, but this is at the top of the list.Don't take my word for it, it won three Oscars, and should have won Best Picture; it did win Best Picture at the BAFTA awards, along with a Best Director for Roman Polanski (Chinatown, Rosemary's Baby). This is Polanski's finest film by far.Adrien Brody was magnificent, and his performance made you feel you were right there with him.It wasn't a pretty picture, the outstanding cinematography notwithstanding. Bodies lie in the streets, and people just passed them by. People were shot for asking a simple question. A man was so hungry that when his attempt to steal a woman's soup resulted in it falling to the ground, he fell to the ground and lapped it up.Amidst all the carnage and deprivation, Wladyslaw Szpilman (Brody) managed to survive until the end. An amazing story.


                
I give this movie a 9. Now, perhaps it is because TP zoomed in on the struggles of one man instead of a nation, I found myself so disturbed I could not sleep. I have watched "Shindlers List"5-6 times, but never was so shaken up emotionally or physically as I was when I watched The Pianist. Oh I saw it once, and that was enough for me. A wonderful movie, so sad, yet exhilarating at the end watching him play the piano with the sympthomy. A wonderful movie of the help of a few for one man, his dark hellish life during this time, yet living through it, a changed man, with raised scars that I am sure criss-crossed in and on his heart. Once was enough for me.. but am glad I finally saw the movie.


                
My Rating : 9/10This movie stayed with me for a long time. It is emotionally gripping and the director has done justice to the brutality of the period it is set in. Adrien Brody's acting is a class above and a rarity.The Pianist is an unforgettable film.


                
The piano which is my favorite musical instrument. After is the violin and the sax. Which is second I can not say. Music – a form of freedom, playing music – of liberation, composing music – special case of the creationist providence.Away from the fact that I saw this movie long time ago I probably will never forget it. A chased piano player in the contrast of the war and the ruined buildings is an image of contradiction which dives in the mind and lay there for a a very long time. The only one ability of man to succeed in expressing and protecting him is something very special. And what if the circumstances are force marjorie? Is it creativity the only one string deep in us that love is pulling to sing its humble messages? Really wonderful movie but not for everyone. It shows human survival which is threatened by man an believing in only one thing when everything around is falling apart. It shows how when we walk in the right direction there is always a new way.http://vihrenmitevmovies.blogspot.com/


                
It is a few years since I saw this movie in the cinema and I remembered how powerful I thought it was. Well at the second viewing on DVD it was still as powerful and haunting - however I say this with a great deal of respect to Polanski - I will never watch this movie again. You know the feeling you have when you just had an awful day at work, had some horrible news from a friend and there is reports about a natural disaster that have devastated the life of thousands on the news. All you want to do is get a bit of escape from reality with a nice movie in the evening. A word of advice - Do not watch the Pianist. Yes is is a masterpiece - but oh so depressing. If however you are in need of some historical realism and a good cry - well I did warn you. This movie made me realize that I like comedies....


                
I want to say the pianist, Spillman, forces commiseration and pathos throughout the whole movie. I don't think you can really finish this movie and not feel sorry for him. The last scenes with his family are so poignant, with just a few lines of dialogue, the director touched on the essence of saying good bye. His love of music, and not being able to play personally touches the audience. As music is his life and passion, not exercising that talent only drives sorrow to the extreme-degree. The look throughout all the scenes of the film express the dread of his character so clearly: the look of holding back tears and not giving up. This only adds to his dignity as someone trying to survive and bring the humanity out of others.


                
What a fabulous movie! Very very touching and realistic. One of Adolf Hitler's first major foreign policy initiatives after coming to power was to sign a nonaggression pact with Poland in January 1934. Poland had received the former German provinces of West Prussia, Poznan, and Upper Silesia under the Treaty of Versailles after World War I. Britain and France deployed their force in poland. However, neither Britain nor France in 1938 was militarily prepared to fight a war against Nazi Germany.During that time, people were in exigency and crisis. This film shows that exact situation. People were inconsequential. I saw how people endured the situation, how they were killed by Nazies . Certainly I'm going to give this credit to Roman Polanski and Ronald Harwood for making this film so realistic. Haven't seen such a worst situation before this. What is crisis? You will come to know after watching this film. This film shows exactly how it was in real. A poor hungry old man threw a bowl of food from being eaten by a poor woman. The poor old man licked the road in order to eat the food that came out of the bowl. The man was deranged though. This one is my best part of this movie. Another best part is, a young boy was selling caramel for 20 zlotys. A caramel for 20 zlotys! Can you believe this? Situation materialized it. Wladyslaw's father intended to buy a caramel. However, he had only 10 zlotys. So he collected other 10 from others around him. Worse part is, he divided the caramel into 6 pieces and distributed to other members of his family. Very very pathetic and regretful. There are so many tremendous moments that touched my heart but I can't mention them all simultaneously.I'm impressed seeing the survive of Wladyslaw.Every film doesn't have a great ending, nevertheless this film has a great ending! Of course the Nazies were vanquished in the end.


                
Succinct and too the point: The Pianist (2002), staring Adrien Brody as the real life Wladyslaw Szpilman (a Jewish radio station pianist) spotlights the brutal efficiency of WWII state-sponsored genocide in Nazi occupied Poland (1939-1945).


                
It's been a while since I've seen a movie that made me think so much about how evil humans can be. War is the worst thing we have in our current world, people suffer without a plausible reason. Being an artist in such an environment must have felt so painful I can't even start to imagine.Oddly enough, this movie represents hope. It'll be stuck in my head for a long time.


                
A great story of war, family and the will to survive. Most know the main points of WW2 And Hitler but not many take the time to dig deep into the real life stories of survivors and their deceased loved ones. A great watch and even better performances


                
Perfect movie with perfect actors.movie like this is very rare


                
"The Pianist" is biographical war drama film, based on the the perils faced and evaded by a Wladyslaw Szpilman, a Jewish pianist in Poland, amidst the Nazi conquest and rule over Poland during WW 2.
There are but very few movies which have been able to depict the atrocities faced by the Jewish community under the Nazi rule with a realistic portrayal of those times. "The Pianist" is certainly one among those. Even though this movie focuses on Szpilman's evasion from a otherwise certain holocaust with some luck and good helpful acquaintances, it skillfully shows some of the most moving scenes depicting human hunger, helplessness and hardships faced by the Polish Jews.
The acting performance is top-notch by the cast, especially Adrien Brody as Szpilman. The focus on the main story theme, without getting didactic and a gripping screenplay makes this movie a master-piece of the genre. The movie is sure to leave the viewer disturbed by the acts of human insanity but also in awe of the craft of skillful film-making.


                
One of the very best movies,but it is very sad full of painful feeling, the actor is more than great he is really a man with great sensation


                
Now this is something classic. A story of horrifying events during the World War-II and the lives of commoners destroyed in the madness. 
This movie will give you goosebumps at few places while make tears trickle down your cheeks at other times. Brilliantly directed and acted upon this movie shows fee good people who try to help others amidst the holocaust.
One of such officer helps the pianist escape but himself ends up poorly. 
The pianist suffers all kinds of pain in his journey only heeling through the power of music and his piano. 
A must watch....
Adrien Brody got the role of his life in The Pianist. It is not difficult to be moved when you see the imminent horrors of you and your family's possible death sentence for reasons you grasp but somehow silently protest to and however lost you are in such situations, you will try to keep your composure and be dignified as a family. As the main character moves in artistic, educated circles, he was able to survive through the help of caring friends and connections. But that is only for a limited period, then rough reality sets in, lack of food, sickness, being locked from the outside of an apartment, bombings, hiding , whatever you might do in order to survive. Thomas Krenschmann is highly credible , definitely he shone in his short albeit crucial role as the high ranking officer who due to his love of music sheltered Adrien during the end days of the second world war . One can't help but agonize with Adrien as he suffers , suffers, suffers and suffers. I was welling in tears as I was so moved until this film ended, only a stone wouldn't.


                
If you haven't seen this movie, take the time and watch it. Acting is superb from start to finish. Easily one of the most compelling WWII movies you will ever see. The film will touch you in many many ways.


                
Amazing movie! watched it several times and enjoyed it each time.


                
Beautiful and Stunning Movie. The performance was breathtaking and just the picture it self created a wide array of emotions for viewers.


                
