Somtimes there are things that, for the sake of human kind,should be deleted from history.Criminals,multiple.murderers should be forgotten.
Then we got this series that makes criminals look like heroes(and ,shame of all shames,a lot of young Italian Do use their words and expressions, just to make themselves cool.
This program is a danger and should be suppressed asap.
Most of all,you could read that it's in Italian language,,,,,wrong .It's the napoletan language,that is not understood by 99% of Italian people.
Guess what?!............this garbage is being payed by my taxes contributions.
Shame,shame,shame


                
Compared to the 2008 movie of the same name, this series is quite poor. I am surprised the author of the book they are both based on has condoned this series. I must assume he sold the rights and is not able to comment on the quality of the show for some reason.The film was one of, if not the best film I have seen regarding the role of organized crime in society. Almost every movie about the mob glamorizes it. Gomorrah the movie was unbelievably effective at countering that sense of glamorization. I immediately fell in love with the movie and idiotically assumed the series would retain some of that quality. I am surprised that every review I consulted before watching this series seemed to draw a connection between the two works and encouraged fans of the film to expect the same from the series, which is completely misleading. I must assume each reviewer had not actually seen the film version, because no half-intelligent individual would say the two are similar. I am appalled that it is mentioned in the same sentence as The Sopranos or The Wire. It lacks the heart and poetics of the former and the complexity and scope of the latter. Do not be fooled, this show does not display the pervasive nature of organized crime as it affects all aspects of modern society as The Wire does. It doesn't even reach the scope of The Sopranos. It is about a few mobsters and that's it.Even barring comparison with other works, this series presents nothing new for the genre or television in general besides perhaps good production value. I suppose the acting is fine as well, but as a document about society, it is irresponsible and detrimental. It does not, in any way, deserve all the buzz it has been getting recently. SundanceTV, shame on you.


                
I just stopped watching this brutally violent show. Enough, basta!They assassinated a little girl, the same girls father killed her mother few episodes previously.
Horrible, disturbing, disgusting, disgraceful!I'm real life; I'm hoping these thugs have more honor, ethics or code.
