This series developed from the masterfully gloomy movie of the same title puts Italian production up close and center. This is very well crafted, with a impressive camera precision even though it's within the Gritty-style of modern cinema. Here and there you'll see some very inventive camera directing (a motorcycle-crash comes close to the best vehicle-scene I have seen since the first "Mad Max"). It is a rough and gray view of mob-crime in a dystopia Italy, but even though the setting is the same ghetto as the movie "Gomorra" the social-realism of the movie is toned down by the producers, in order for a more character-driven narrative to emerge - that is good. This is a brilliant authentic-Italian and promising series, that recalls Sergio Leones "Once upon a time in America" just without wide angel and widescreen. And again it contains some of the technically best non-computer generated action-sequences I have seen since Michael Mann. BRAVO! Forza Italia! from Denmark.


                
This is without a doubt in my mind the greatest show at the moment. You really get a good look into the world of organized crime in Naples and it it comes without any Hollywood clichés. The acting is on point and the scenery consisting of real footage from the Scampia area in Naples gives you a feeling of being there. Gomorrah gives me a TV experience I haven't felt since The Wire and Sopranos. A view into the world of organized crime, which feels so real that you can almost call it non-fiction. Which is something I have really missed in recent years.I'm watching first season for the second time now and have also started reading the book, because the show is just so damn good! Can't wait for season 2!Do yourself a favor and watch it


                
A very well-made TV series about the Camorra mafia in Naples. The director is not holding back on the dirty and gruesome details that classifies this organization. I must say that i'm very impressed with the crew shooting the series at the actual drug-ghetto as their location of choice. It gives a more authentic feel to the viewer. If you haven't seen the movie Gomorrah from 2008 i must recommend that you see it first. But i do feel that the 2014 series is of much better standards. Thumbs up! Alexx


                
In my opinion this is an absolutely brilliant TV-series. In the beginning you get to know the characters and the Mafia business in general, but as the series develop you get a deeper insight into all the personalities, their psychology, the choices that they make and how/why their actions lead to all kinds of different sequences of events that are tragic, sad, action packed, exciting and entertaining. The environment that it's shot in suits the series perfectly and I must say that the series is better than the movie Gomorrah (which is also good). If you're a fan of series such as The Sopranos, or movies like the Godfather and Scarface, I'll guarantee you that you'll love Gomorra!


                
On flicking through the TV one night I stumbled onto this at Episode 8 (I learned later). I'm not a big fan of subtitled series, but I found the lead role's mohawk haircut interesting enough to keep me tuned in for longer than usual. The rest is history. Once you start watching Gennnaro Savastano (played by Salvatore Esposito) you will be addicted. The macho man of all macho men, he looks like he could burst you with one right hook. As if one magnetic actor wasn't enough, along comes Salvatore Conte (played by Marco Palvetti), a suave slickster with an instantly addictive accent and way of expressing himself. The action is constantly moving at perfect pace, the settings are beautifully contrasted. Everything about this series is brilliant, even the bit-part players are magnetic, one such character brilliantly named Tonino Spiderman. This is a must-own series for all gangster movie/TV series buffs, and the great thing about it is, not a lot of people know just how mind-blowingly brilliant it is.


                
This is without doubt one of the best TV series I have ever seen – and that is without exaggeration. Although there has only been one season up to now this by far exceeds The Sopranos, The Wire and dare I say it Breaking Bad. Many a TV series starts off too slow – well this is not one of them. We get action from the get go and this only increases up until the end – where we get a magnificent finish. The storyline is great and the acting is superb. We really get to see the characters develop and the transformation of Genny is brilliantly displayed. I just hope the second season is as good as the first – because the first was great.


                
I began watching this as I remembered watching the film and reading the Saviano book a few years ago. Both are excellent, but I feel the series is quite different and is perhaps only loosely based on the original source material. But that didn't bother me; this is a superb series. I found myself so immersed in the characters, the setting and the whole world that I had to keep reminding myself while I was at work that I wasn't a Neapolitan gangster. Every episode of the series is different, the characters are all so compelling and some of the twists and turns are gut-wrenching. Every episode ends perfectly and each one makes you feel differently - one made me weep with sentiment, another took me to such a dark place that I considered not watching any more because I realised "even the good guys are really really bad guys". But I'm glad I continued watching because the end of the series is phenomenal and makes me hungry for more. I have been truly blown away (excuse the pun) by this series and can pick no faults with it at all...and if you don't agree with me, I know some guys who know where you live and might be able to "change your mind"! Also acting - amazing. All the actors are spot on. Special mention for Vincenzo Sacchettino (Danielino) who has got to be one of the best teenage actors I've seen for a long while.


                
I have just watched episode 2 and I am addicted. Was not sure what to expect, I had not heard of the book or the 2008 film of the same name. After 10 minutes I could tell it was going to be well made, the setting in Naples in Italy ,the home of the camorra crime family,(changed to Gamorra by the author) and the base of the story came from a book written by Roberto savino , who lived in Naples. I say lived because at the moment he has had to move away with a bodyguard for all the fuss he has caused. His book was a best seller but that did not go down well with everyone especially the local mafia he wrote about. According to Savino the camorra nor dwarf"s the mafia of Sicily.In the first episode we get to meet the crew and family and are soon in the backstreet"s where deals are done and beatings are dished out. The story keeps you hooked ,although everything is spoken in Italian with English subtitles I instantly got into the show and remarked to a friend it was like watching a documentary rather than actors.The second episode carries on the excitement mixed with excellent acting and a strong script. I cant wait for episode 3, and would give a IMDb score of 9/10


                
For a pure casualty it happened I've watched this TV series just after I've finished a marathon of The Wire (five season in about a month). I can say the Authors of Gomorra have surely studied The Wire and the narrative in Gomorra in sometimes freely inspired to the BAltimore gangs. The POV in Gomorra is focused from the side of the Savastano Clan, missing the police work shown in the Wire. But Gomorrah offers a deeper experience of how a large criminal organization works, showing the tentacles of the Kraken shaking society, politics, enterprises and elections in the Naples area. The shooting technique is modern and thorough: it is quite evident the shooting crew hadn't all the money involved in a USA or UK serial, but the results are impressive anyway.


                
Make no mistake, Gomorra is no copycat version of some other gangster film or series; it is the evolution of the genre, something we haven't seen perhaps since Un Prophète (2009) by Jacques Audiard.Gomorra makes The Sopranos look as phony as Happy Days. With the feel of a filmed-on-location documentary, in this Italian series everyone looks exactly like who they are supposed to be. The locations in Napoli are grimy and gritty—hardly the Under the Tuscan Sun vision of Italy and definitely not the invented suburban fantasy gangster-land of The Sopranos. The gun battles have an air of realistic mayhem seldom seen in movies and almost never on TV. Gomorra is desperate shootouts, filthy prisons, and a penetrating look at the Southern Italian underworld. What more could you ask for? I didn't mean to disrespect The Sopranos because this series borrows heavily from that American original as well as the works of Tarantino. In the first scene there is a banal conversation between two hoods as one of them complains about his daughter's obsession with Facebook, a matter the middle-aged hit-man and parent knows nothing about. Even in this mundane and seemingly innocuous bit of dialogue we get a glimpse of the vision of Ciro, a mid-level thug. And off we go into the night, both literally and figuratively.Gomorra doesn't fall into the black hole like The Sopranos of going into the lives of the family members, a mistake now made in countless new TV series in what I call the Meadow Soprano Effect. The mafia guys all have families, as we are shown, but they don't bother much with the details and good for that. If I wanted to watch a show about family life I wouldn't be watching a crime series. In addition, there are no half hour blocks of boredom like when Tony talked with his doctor.My big regret is that I don't speak Italian, or whatever version of that language these guys speak in the streets of Napoli. Instead I had to get by on French subtitles. Thankfully, my street French had already got a big shot in the arm with the French series Braquo.The series avoids the gangster movie clichés and instead invents of few new ones which will probably soon be repeated by other filmmakers. Centering on Ciro, the mob boss's top henchman, we get an insider's view of the daily operations of the crime world of this city, sometimes glamorous, other times mundane, but always fascinating.Whoever was responsible for the locations needs a place in film heaven. The portrayal of the family life in the mob is done well without the annoying side-tracks of The Sopranos with episodes dedicated to their tedious children. Just enough for verisimilitude and that's all.Constructive Criticism. I won't back down from my rating of 10 because the series deserves that just on appearance. It looks so real and few movies I have seen come anywhere close to the verisimilitude of Gomorra. With that said there is little or no exposition for most of the violence portrayed. There is simply a paroxysm of gun blasts and someone (or many people) is dead. There is little in the way of "why" for a lot of the action sequences. I'd rather have a lot less violence with a better story to explain what is there. In addition, there needs to be someone approaching the part of likable, someone we actually care about. I gave up on Ciro after the murder of the young girl.


                
A seriously great show. Don't let subtitles make you not bother to watch this. As good as any American show. With interesting characters, Shocking twists and a great story. Based in Naples, The story follows Ciro(The main character)as he works for a Don and is highly regarded. But that is only the start. Later on Ciro has to make choices which effect him, His family and all his friends. By the end of the show you will be shocked and blown away. Nothing happens as you expect it to. Why not try the first episode? You just might be shocked at the quality.


                
Simply put: Gomorra is fantastic.Gomorra is a tale of monsters making money & more monsters. It shows the curse of Naples in as true a light as it has ever been shown. Naples has the best of Italy, but without doubt also possesses the worst of Italy in abundance. Neapolitans are some of the kindest & funniest people on the planet, they remind me a bit of Glaswegians & I know they are embarrassed by the corruption prevalent in Naples. I wouldn't give a Neapolitan official my pish as it would end up in his bank account or some thug's pocket & therein lies the story of this show, as it is about the dark-side of this city.The acting is excellent, there are no hams insight. The storytelling is sublime (although it does have lots of source-material, nevertheless, converting that to the screen is no easy feat). I can't praise this show enough. It holds no punches & doesn't glamourise the life of those it portrays, which in-part, is key to its success. They kill & torture everyone, men, women & children & the series shows this.Well done to everyone involved. There are only a few countries in the world where a show of this uncompromising quality could be made & thank God Italy is one of them. This could not be made in England (nor the US any more) due to the PC-class that tampers away from reality for fear of offence.
At the end of each episode there is a music track which announces the end of that show and it's a hypnotic piece of music which alerts the viewer, not just to the end of the show, but that this drama goes on; the simple melody and beat makes that clear, and in the phrase that Kurt Vonnegut used in "Slaughterhouse 5" , which was 'so it goes', it is a sigh, a refrain for the madness of human action, and for the terrible waste of their lives.This quality is exemplified too in the exteriors of the series: the Giorgio de Chirico exterior spaces, the dogs barking, the ugly 1960s architecture intended to make their lives better, but which is like a brutalist prison for them. No nice tree lined suburban streets for them. For the characters their daily drama is pointless and savage but its their only way to make something of the little they have.To say this series is 'dark' is an understatement; it breathes the worst of human behavior, but the manner is not to exploit, instead it shows the extent of what people endure. In this sense it is akin to 'The Wire' and its journey through Baltimore's underworld.To seek a character to 'root for' is to misjudge the value of drama: it is not a simple parable in which we can attach our aspirations to one character. If it was, Greek drama and Shakespeare, and much more besides, would have no value and most of the dross that mainstream TV and movies serve up would be the paragon of good writing. And it is not.This series may seem to glorify the savagery but it does not: it makes it clear as to the losses suffered, the moral failures, and the social divisions exposed. In this way the writers have done great work as they have with the characters.This series is quite remarkable in all the obvious production areas: it has a distinct look, the actors are all excellent without a miss, the casting choices have a reality too, and the dialect is a real pleasure too, though very hard to follow, it adds texture and depth.


                
IT IS SOOO INTENSE AND REAL THAT EVEN IF YOU WATCH BEHIND THE SCENES IT WONT SINK INTO YOU THAT THIS IS NOT REAL. PURE MASTERPIECE AND ALL CHARACTERS ARE AMAZING, I CANT SAY THIS IS A SHOW COS IT DOESNT FEEL LIKE A SHOW. I STILL DO NOT UNDERSTAND WHAT MAKES THIS PROGRAM FEEL SOO REAL THAT BUGS ME. SHOOTINGS OR ANY CHATS OR INTERACTIONS AS IF BEING DONE TO YOU AND BEING WITH YOU AS A WATCHER, IT IS JUST INSANE CREATION. I CANT BELIEVE ON IMBD THIS PROGRAM RATES 8.7 WHERE AS DESERVE MIN 9.9 BUT THAN AGAIN IT IS NOT IN ENGLISH BUT YOU WOULDNT WANT IT TO BE COS IT WOULD SPOIL ORIGINALITY AND NOT MANY PEOPLE CAN READ ENGLISH SO IM GUESSING THE REASON BEING 8.7, ALSO SOUNDTRACK IS JUST FITS IN BEYOND PERFECT.


                
Maybe this is one of the best TV shows ever made in the history of television. The characters, the tempo, the music, Napoles and the writing is outstanding. This show is a piece of part that almost everybody just found on internet by mistake looking for other movies or something. This show is based in the book "Cero,Cero,Cero" of Roberto Saviano and its represented in the show very well by all the characters. If you're a lover of mob and thriller movies or shows you will not be disappointed with Gomorra. Nothing less, I absolutely recommend this show for all the people that are tired of the empty and unrealistic shows that Hollywood make this days. The beauty of Gomorra is that only few people know about this show and you can recommend the series to a friend and everyone will love the show. Amazing.


                
We have never left feedback for anything we have watched and we have never felt the urge too (even being a avid 24 fans), but having just watched the first series of this, we felt completely compelled to get on our keyboard and share our thoughts.OMG amazing. We're a big fan of 24 with all the twist and turns and big plots. But nothing has compared until now. Don't let the sub titles turn you off, you won't notice them, and they are very brief, we should know because were both dyslexic. I didn't even notice they were there after 10 minutes.This series is so good and full of surprises and good story lines. We tried to guess and guess what would happen at the end but we were so far off what really happened. Everything about series one was faultless, the acting, the photography, the story line, the twists, the writing, the suspense, the build up, all in all 10/10. You try to guess what's happening but then, surprise, you got it wrong and it takes your breath away.We just can't wait for the second series. We were on the edge of our seats all the way.Bring on series 2.


                
This is the first time I've written a review on IMDB but I just had to tell the world how amazing this show is.
If you have even a passing interest in crime drama, the Mafia or just good quality television and you are not squeamish, then you owe to yourself to watch this show.
I have watched all of season 1 and 2 and every episode has been outstanding.
It has everything.....
An amazing story, full of twists and turns. 
A very realistic and incredibly gritty setting, nothing like the American gangster films or TV shows. 
Outstanding acting from every cast member, you will grow to love, hate and mourn.
Beautiful camera work and cinematography.
It reminds of me of The Wire, in it's realistic depiction of drug dealing at the street level. 
Like The Wire, it is not for the faint hearted. The violence is brutal and realistic but that is the nature of the beast.
If you do decide to watch it, please watch it in this original Italian, the performances are too good to be spoilt by watching a dubbed version.A big thank you to everyone involved in the making of this series. Amazing work.


                
After viewing TV series all my life, i can honestly say that this is the best TV show ever made!the story, the music, the cast, the realistic structure, the quality of filming and the scary feeling you get while watching it has won at all!the show is so realistic that i had to watch it again all from the start just to get that feeling again.Based in Naples, The story follows Ciro(The main character)as he works for a Don and is highly regarded. But that is only the start. Later on Ciro has to make choices which effect him, His family and all his friends. By the end of the show you will be shocked and blown away. Nothing happens as you expect it to. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED !


                
I just finished watching Season 2 of Gomorrah, and it is just as good--if not better--than the excellent first season. This has the potential to be as great as Breaking Bad and The Wire, if the next two seasons sustain the dramatic power of the first two.The cinematography, production design, and script of Gomorrah have been justly praised here by other reviewers. But I don't think there have been enough plaudits for the cast, who are uniformly excellent.I am thinking in particular of the end of Season 2 showdown between Ciro and Don Pietro. WOW! I don't know how actor Marco D'Amore did it, but his thousand yard stare and flat, dead eyes were able to convey Ciro's total devastation with a power that chilled me to the bone. His ability to express so much emotion without a single word of dialogue reminds me of the greatest actors of the silent era, and that is high praise indeed.I feel compelled to point out that if you are this kind of viewer who enjoys having "a likable character to root for," Gomorrah is most definitely NOT the show for you. But if you love great writing, directing, and acting in service of a decidedly dark drama, you will be rewarded with one of the best TV series ever made, bar none, if you give Gomorrah a try.
One of the best show i ever watched. Acting is top notch. One of the greatest tv series of crime syndicate and background music is beyond comparison.
This is a very, very dark series that follows a Mafia clan as they do business in Naples. There are no good characters in this series as like the Biblical city of "Gomorrah", the inhabitants and the area of the city portrayed are just full of evil. Father is pitted against son, husband against wife, brother against brother. There is no redemption offered in the series, neither is it sought! People live their lives in evil, and die in gruesome, hideous ways. The series wont do much for tourism like other series e.g Detective Montalbano. The viewer does get very involved with each character, and follows them to their demise. Some of the scenes are beyond belief as it shows that human life has no value in the business at hand. This is not as twisted or cerebral as a Scandinavian Noir might be, it just all about the evil men do! It's worth watching if you have the stomach to do so.
We don't get to see this area of Italy much in films. In Gomorrah, we find ourselves in the ghetto--the projects--towering blocks of concrete crammed with small apartments festooned with the laundry out on the balcony. Surrounded by blatant drug traffic out in the open but protected by lookouts who'll yell "Mario" is they see a cop car. First impressions? Wow! The dealers take care of business without much police interference. You don't see any cops doing stop and frisk or harassing the poor or committing fearing for their lives executions. These criminal gangs have more reason to be scared of rival gang members who aren't beyond burning them out of their homes or cutting their throats. The rewards may be great but you'll have a short life. Season 1 was full of unexpected plot twists and tense moments as two rival gangs, Salvastone vs Conte, duke it out over dominance. The most tragic character is Gennaro, son of Don Salvastone, a pudgy innocent not man enough to fight like his father. We connect most with Ciro, the lead thug in the Salvastone gang whose talents are valued but ambitions are frustrated by the family. I'm not your number one crime genre fan, but this was as good as The Wire if not better, focusing largely on the gangs and their rivalries. Police are there to mainly cart off the dead bodies. One last thing: the music is primo! Italian rap is much more melodic than its American counterpart. The haunting score to each episode's closing sequence is memorable. This takes place in an Italy you won't recognize, and I don't suspect many will want to seek it out the next time they visit Italy.


                
without a doubt the best crime series ever made. coming from a background of being Italian and an intimate knowledge of the inner workings of such a tale,the realism is beyond belief. no sugar coating and extremely raw footage along with authentic dialogue and dialect from the region. if you get a chance to watch it with or without subtitles do yourself a favor and watch it from beginning to end. gritty as the wire and filmed on location in Naples. gives an inside look at the inner workings of a major mafia family ,id say rivals if not surpasses the Sopranos.no other show has the depth of character and realism that the producers and directors have managed to bring forth camera work and attention to detail is second to none2 resounding thumbs up.


                
excellent and well made series,the other one that comes to this level  is breaking bad,where ruthlessness and murder become options in  life.every time you read the newspaper about some murder related to  street crime,this explains that reality.all the characters are well  setup and inclusive to the plot of the series,nothing is left to  chance,every move and action is well thought out,with no holding back  in any situation,from a talk to a murder,you never know what's  coming,and that is what brings a series to a different level.breaking  bad had that,and Gomorrah also has  that.goodfellas,godfather,sopranos...etc,you could see everything  coming,here,not really.who expected malamore to kill ciro's daughter?  not me,but they took it there,when ciro kills don pietro,i was certain  he would wait and kill malamore also,not so.because,if they would've  done that,then they would have made a TV show,now they are making  reality.
The Godfather Trilogy, especially the third chapter, despite the grisly subject matter, revels in La Bella Italia. Brutal assassinations are interspersed with scenes of sleepy Sicilian village life, big bowls of pasta and immaculate tailoring. Gomorrah is the flip of the coin, filmed on a brutalist public housing district in the north of Napoli. The skies are as grey as the flats, tracksuits and bomber jackets are the clothing of choice, and the honour between families has been replaced with a ruthless 'who dares wins' mentality. Gomorrah is tough, thrilling and often upsetting viewing, especially as whilst we may side with the main characters in some situations, they all carry out such despicable acts that we can't empathise with them. This makes the series feel less like a drama and more like an exhilarating and nerve-racking trip right into the heart of Camorra territory. Filmed around the neighbourhood of Scampia (which surely cannot have been unnoticed by the local clans), and with a cast that look as though they're been plucked straight from the local parks and cafes, Gomorrah receives top marks for authenticity. Much of the series is also based on real events that took place over recent years in and around Napoli, and helps illustrate how deep the Camorra have their tentacles in Neapolitan life.I've reached the end of season 1, and judging by the reviews of the next two, there has been no flagging in quality. I'll just catch my breath back before I start with season 2.


                
