I guess a lot of people think this is realistic. I think it is not. The series started out pretty good and raw. But as the seasons pass, it's becoming more and more senseless killing. It's like watching GTA with all those random kills. Also the main characters keep dodging so many bullets that it's hard to believe they are still around.


                
This is definitely worth watching but it's nowhere the level that some of the reviews on here would indicate.The biggest problem is that every character in it is hateful. It's impossible not to want everybody dead! (The way it's going it looks like everybody WILL be dead soon).


                
On a plane ride back home I started watching episode 1 season 1, binge watched the whole first season and some of the second. It definitely manages to capture the realistic sense of the mob, but I felt the show was lacking in some major area's. Characters that you root for! There's not a single character in this show that I would root for, they're all equally terrible human beings. The second thing is, drama, you need on occasion to step out of reality and into some fiction to make a compelling show with more interesting and developed characters. During the first season, one after the other gets eliminated and that makes for thin viewing when it comes to character development. Mostly following the top 3 of the Savastano clan and the rest getting served scraps. This is what makes The Sopranos for instance work so much better, the dialogue, the character development and the writing is much stronger to great a more compelling season after season narrative. This is what Gomorrah lacks to be really outstanding. Still, worth a watch for crime drama fans!


                
I'm up to Season 2. The Sopranos was much more complex and nuanced. Dont get me wrong, I've grown to like these Italian crime dramas. But this just gets too mean. No one is likeable after the first season. Naples is depicted as one big ghetto. Where are the Polizia or Carabiniere- no where to be seen. It makes Italians looks moronic and Italy a failed state. It's a pity because it started with strong threads of relationships but they were all popped off. As for the main protagonist- I lost all sympathy.


                
