A seriously great show. Don't let subtitles make you not bother to watch this. As good as any American show. With interesting characters, Shocking twists and a great story. Based in Naples, The story follows Ciro(The main character)as he works for a Don and is highly regarded. But that is only the start. Later on Ciro has to make choices which effect him, His family and all his friends. By the end of the show you will be shocked and blown away. Nothing happens as you expect it to. Why not try the first episode? You just might be shocked at the quality.


                
This show was a real hidden gem for me. I live in the UK and just happened to stumble across it whilst channel-hopping. Now I own the blu ray and would highly recommend this show.The first season follows a number of characters in an Italian crime family: Don Pietro Savastano, the head of the most dominant clan in Naples and a man who has earned the power and respect he has through a combination of respect and brutality. His wife Imma who is clever and manipulative and would probably make a better leader than Don Pietro. Their son Genny is a typical spoiled kid who, at the start of the show, clearly does not have what it takes to walk in his dad's footsteps. Finally, and perhaps the most interesting character, is Ciro di Marzio, a soldier for the Savastanos who finds himself increasingly disillusioned with the clan and his position on the sidelines. These richly developed characters all undergo change throughout this first season, when a war against a rival factions causes a chain reaction giving rise to an internal conflict which divides the clan. I found this show to be surprising (I guess I'm too used to more predictable US shows) as nothing turns out in a way which I expected. The biggest surprise was the realism of the show. You can tell that this was, to some degree, based around real experiences, it's incredibly dark and has no typical good guy to root for. It also chooses not to shy away from events such as the ruthless gunning down of unarmed innocents as to avoid them would be to sacrifice an element of realism.In terms of the acting, it all seemed top notch to me though I can't speak with much authority as I (sadly) cannot understand the language and was therefore more focused on reading the subtitles. I really feel sorry for those many people who cannot enjoy a quality show due to subtitles, they really are missing out on a lot of great films (such as the Raid 2 which I also loved). There are the occasional phrases which do not translate so well but in no way was it detrimental to my enjoyment of the show.My biggest criticism of the show is that it felt a little underdeveloped in some areas of character development. I would have liked to have seen the process of Genny's change from child to gangster as it is never really shown to us. Similarly, I would have liked to have seen more of Ciro as I feel we only really see one side of him as the show progresses.Overall, this show is of exceptional quality and a real surprise as it seemed to come out of nowhere. If you're a fan of crime shows in general or if you're interested in seeing a very raw depiction of organised crime then this comes with my highest recommendation. I advise you not to let the subtitles stop you watching this show. You won't be disappointed. I look forward to season 2.


                
I watched this show with English subs. The plot was really interesting. The acting was great. The show kept me very interested the entire time and I would binge watch an entire season in one night. Some of the dialogue at a few times felt slightly cliche, only slightly though and it did not happen enough to take away from the show. There were a few times where some of the characters would look at each other with this strange look, almost imposingly and a very intent and serious stare which i found to be strange. Some of this though could be Italians have a different culture so they speak differently and have different mannerisms than Americans. Overall a really good show and I would recommend it to anyone who likes shows like the sopranos, the wire, etc. 8/10 stars


                
