This series developed from the masterfully gloomy movie of the same title puts Italian production up close and center. This is very well crafted, with a impressive camera precision even though it's within the Gritty-style of modern cinema. Here and there you'll see some very inventive camera directing (a motorcycle-crash comes close to the best vehicle-scene I have seen since the first "Mad Max"). It is a rough and gray view of mob-crime in a dystopia Italy, but even though the setting is the same ghetto as the movie "Gomorra" the social-realism of the movie is toned down by the producers, in order for a more character-driven narrative to emerge - that is good. This is a brilliant authentic-Italian and promising series, that recalls Sergio Leones "Once upon a time in America" just without wide angel and widescreen. And again it contains some of the technically best non-computer generated action-sequences I have seen since Michael Mann. BRAVO! Forza Italia! from Denmark.


                
A very well-made TV series about the Camorra mafia in Naples. The director is not holding back on the dirty and gruesome details that classifies this organization. I must say that i'm very impressed with the crew shooting the series at the actual drug-ghetto as their location of choice. It gives a more authentic feel to the viewer. If you haven't seen the movie Gomorrah from 2008 i must recommend that you see it first. But i do feel that the 2014 series is of much better standards. Thumbs up! Alexx


                
At the end of each episode there is a music track which announces the end of that show and it's a hypnotic piece of music which alerts the viewer, not just to the end of the show, but that this drama goes on; the simple melody and beat makes that clear, and in the phrase that Kurt Vonnegut used in "Slaughterhouse 5" , which was 'so it goes', it is a sigh, a refrain for the madness of human action, and for the terrible waste of their lives.This quality is exemplified too in the exteriors of the series: the Giorgio de Chirico exterior spaces, the dogs barking, the ugly 1960s architecture intended to make their lives better, but which is like a brutalist prison for them. No nice tree lined suburban streets for them. For the characters their daily drama is pointless and savage but its their only way to make something of the little they have.To say this series is 'dark' is an understatement; it breathes the worst of human behavior, but the manner is not to exploit, instead it shows the extent of what people endure. In this sense it is akin to 'The Wire' and its journey through Baltimore's underworld.To seek a character to 'root for' is to misjudge the value of drama: it is not a simple parable in which we can attach our aspirations to one character. If it was, Greek drama and Shakespeare, and much more besides, would have no value and most of the dross that mainstream TV and movies serve up would be the paragon of good writing. And it is not.This series may seem to glorify the savagery but it does not: it makes it clear as to the losses suffered, the moral failures, and the social divisions exposed. In this way the writers have done great work as they have with the characters.This series is quite remarkable in all the obvious production areas: it has a distinct look, the actors are all excellent without a miss, the casting choices have a reality too, and the dialect is a real pleasure too, though very hard to follow, it adds texture and depth.


                
This is a very, very dark series that follows a Mafia clan as they do business in Naples. There are no good characters in this series as like the Biblical city of "Gomorrah", the inhabitants and the area of the city portrayed are just full of evil. Father is pitted against son, husband against wife, brother against brother. There is no redemption offered in the series, neither is it sought! People live their lives in evil, and die in gruesome, hideous ways. The series wont do much for tourism like other series e.g Detective Montalbano. The viewer does get very involved with each character, and follows them to their demise. Some of the scenes are beyond belief as it shows that human life has no value in the business at hand. This is not as twisted or cerebral as a Scandinavian Noir might be, it just all about the evil men do! It's worth watching if you have the stomach to do so.
We don't get to see this area of Italy much in films. In Gomorrah, we find ourselves in the ghetto--the projects--towering blocks of concrete crammed with small apartments festooned with the laundry out on the balcony. Surrounded by blatant drug traffic out in the open but protected by lookouts who'll yell "Mario" is they see a cop car. First impressions? Wow! The dealers take care of business without much police interference. You don't see any cops doing stop and frisk or harassing the poor or committing fearing for their lives executions. These criminal gangs have more reason to be scared of rival gang members who aren't beyond burning them out of their homes or cutting their throats. The rewards may be great but you'll have a short life. Season 1 was full of unexpected plot twists and tense moments as two rival gangs, Salvastone vs Conte, duke it out over dominance. The most tragic character is Gennaro, son of Don Salvastone, a pudgy innocent not man enough to fight like his father. We connect most with Ciro, the lead thug in the Salvastone gang whose talents are valued but ambitions are frustrated by the family. I'm not your number one crime genre fan, but this was as good as The Wire if not better, focusing largely on the gangs and their rivalries. Police are there to mainly cart off the dead bodies. One last thing: the music is primo! Italian rap is much more melodic than its American counterpart. The haunting score to each episode's closing sequence is memorable. This takes place in an Italy you won't recognize, and I don't suspect many will want to seek it out the next time they visit Italy.


                
The Godfather Trilogy, especially the third chapter, despite the grisly subject matter, revels in La Bella Italia. Brutal assassinations are interspersed with scenes of sleepy Sicilian village life, big bowls of pasta and immaculate tailoring. Gomorrah is the flip of the coin, filmed on a brutalist public housing district in the north of Napoli. The skies are as grey as the flats, tracksuits and bomber jackets are the clothing of choice, and the honour between families has been replaced with a ruthless 'who dares wins' mentality. Gomorrah is tough, thrilling and often upsetting viewing, especially as whilst we may side with the main characters in some situations, they all carry out such despicable acts that we can't empathise with them. This makes the series feel less like a drama and more like an exhilarating and nerve-racking trip right into the heart of Camorra territory. Filmed around the neighbourhood of Scampia (which surely cannot have been unnoticed by the local clans), and with a cast that look as though they're been plucked straight from the local parks and cafes, Gomorrah receives top marks for authenticity. Much of the series is also based on real events that took place over recent years in and around Napoli, and helps illustrate how deep the Camorra have their tentacles in Neapolitan life.I've reached the end of season 1, and judging by the reviews of the next two, there has been no flagging in quality. I'll just catch my breath back before I start with season 2.


                
Being Italian myself , I would say that this is one of the best, if not the best, Italian TV series ever made. It filled up the void left by breaking bad, at least to me.I really liked how the character evolved, especially Ciro and Genny relation. And almost every character is based on a real person,A very realistic portrait of Camorra and Italian mafia in general,Ironically Ciro looks very similar to Saviano, the author of the book and mind behind this TV show...coincidence?Anyway a surprisingly solid writing here. I am proud of being Italian.Excellent choice for the soundtrack as well.


                
It's about mafia - modern mafia - from the soldiers point of view, and the bosses point of view. And it is closer to French TV series like "Braquo" or movies like "Truands" rather than some romantic comedies with Sophia Loren. No green screen or fake window views - the picture easly swings between outdoor and indoor scenes showing all dirt not only in the scenery but the dirt of characters involved directly and indirectly in the mafia matters. And remember mafia is above family - and some characters personality changes across the series better than Walter White into Heisenberg.


                
1 and 2 are lke 9, the 3rd
like 7.
watch at least season 1 and check out 2nd
took me by surprise how well filmed and soundtracks are,
different arcing of story in each season, even some episodes had some specific characters. chek out Wikipedia for how really screwup Naple and the Gamora is.


                
It's showing the hard life of modern Nápoli of the last decade


                
I think this show is uncluttered and beautiful to look at. The dialog is sparse and punctuates the action. I'm not often surprised by any turn of events. Instead I anticipate the inevitable and then revel in its arrival. 
I find this series similar to the Sopranos and at the same time, it's totally different.


                
I watched Narco
I watched breaking bad
I watched son of anarchy
I watched sopranoThis is the badest gangster show , best show ever !
Best mafiosos show everAction 10/10
Acting , the cast evething flows together


                
Thank god the Italians got to finally write their own story.
This series is magnificent. The camera work !! direction, set design, and all the acting !
Imma, Ciro and Don Savastano are revelatory. This is acting ! This is giving yourself over to the part. The first series is a slow burn but by episode 5 and 6 you dont want to watch anymore because its so good you dont want to see it all too soon.
This is what the Sopranos wanted to be, and it caught glimpses of this real world but it got lost in its own navel gazing. The Sopranos is the American experience, based on the original Italian blueprints.
Holy moley just watch it !


                
I wasn't sure about this show. I heard of it on accident while reading an online article about foreign series shows and it was mentioned as "A must watch" so obviously my first step was to go to IMDB and check what people were saying about it and what the rating was, and I was impressed enough that I started season 1. I ended up watching 4 episodes in one day and binge watched the rest of the season over an empty weekend. I'm now on season 2 and I all I can say is, this show is very addictive. If you don't mind reading subtitles, and love a good mafia story, I highly recommend Gomorra.


                
This show is one of the finest tv works about Mafia of all time.. it shows the real underworld of criminals and crime originization in Italy.. 
good writing , good acting , good direction..if you watched and liked The Sopranos, Boardwalk empire, Peaky blinders , Narcos ..etc you should also watch this .


                
This TV show has exceeded much more my expectations. I heard about it from a friend but never expected it to be that good. It simply puts you deep inside the Italian mafia clans and ghettos day-to-day life, operations, killings etc. It is very catchy that whenever I finished an episode, I was eager to start the following one. It is nothing like a copy of other gangster's series. It is very unique and has its original touch. You get to have an overview of the Italian organized crime scene and I personally found it realistic enough most of the times not to even question if it's still a show. I highly recommend it. Try it, it does not disappoint.


                
From police to politicians to councilmen to developers to ordinary men and women and children you can't escape la Camorra.
Their own power thirst make some episodes so tense, heightened by the superb selection of music.
Can't recommend highly enough.


                
Living in the UK or the US most "Mafia" fiction we come across, whether on the small or silver screen, usually relates to the Sicily based La Cosa Nostra organisation and it's American counterpart. Indeed most people I speak to here in the UK were not even remotely aware that there were other criminal organisations within Italy, or that "the Mafia" as it is so often referred to as is a Sicilian, rather than Italian organisation. Given that I am of Italian descent (I'm half Italian on my mother's side) and have a huge love of the Italian culture, I have spent many years researching many aspects of mainland Italy's rich culture and history including that if the Comorra (Gomorra is spelled this way due to the Napolitano pronunciation of the word) or Mano Nero (the black hand) and as such I was aware of the Campania based organisation prior to the movie and TV series, and for this reason I binge watched the first series as soon as I heard about it. The cast and crew have done a truly fantastic job of portraying Italy's gritty, often unseen underbelly, and the characterisation the show has achieved is amazing. We have reached a point now where the market is saturated with strong, silent, anti-hero types and I for one am pretty bored with this character type. In Gomorra there are no heroes, there are no anti-heroes (at least not in the Hollywood definition thereof) there are just criminals doing criminal things. You don't have to love them, or even like them to enjoy the show, and I found this refreshing. These are just bad people doing bad things because that's what they do. Gomorra is filmed in a way that makes it seem like a documentary with actors in certain roles, rather than a run of the mill TV show. It is bleak, almost depressing at times, and at times it is uncomfortable to watch. Yet with all that having been said, it really is must watch TV if you are a fan of the genre, or excellent TV drama shows in general. One of the tag lines I have seen for the show is "Italy's answer to Breaking Bad" and while I don't disagree with that, I'm not certain that the comparison works. For me this was more of a grown up version of the Sopranos and Goodfellas, or a modern, slightly more realistic The Godfather. Though whichever comparison works for you, I still recommend that you watch it. The only real complaint I've heard (beyond the normal gripes by prudes regarding Gratuitous Violence claims - which I personally disagree with as I didn't find the violence gratuitous at all, in fact I felt the violence was a necessary part of the realism) was regarding the subtitles. The fact is this is an Italian language TV series made and filmed in Italy. Therefore the only options for English speaking audiences is either subtitles, or an often poorly done over-dub by English actors. The over-dub method would have ruined the show so subtitles were the only viable option, and personally I don't mind reading subtitles though I do understand that some will find it distracting. I have given this 9 out of 10 and feel the show has earned every one of those stars. In summary this is a great TV show, and an excellent Box Set Shelf addition for fans of Crime shows and Drama TV alike. Wes Fazzani - London, England
