I wonder how many gave 10 stars without seeing this serie.If someone would ask me about how about binging on narcos for sure i will recomend him only the first three seasons.Narcos Mexico has a very slow pace story.
I'm at episode 8 and i don't like any character, i don't care if anyone dies and i am reading all of the spoiers about the upcoming episodes withouth having any regret.don't be like me. don't watch it


                
I loved the first 3 seasons. The characters were awesome. The stories were really good. This Narcos is boring as anything. I've seen paint dry on walls faster than this story develops. The characters are so 1 dimensional and I simply do't care about any of them. Don't waste your time.


                
This is very boring and slow, nothing like the original Narcos.Could hardly watch first two episodes.The acting is also not good doesn't even feel like suspense or plot, all characters speak as if they are going to buy the milk, horrible


                
If this is a good v. bad guys series, it's a miserable failure. The grotesque failure of this type of "it's their fault" drug presentations is their overall failure to focus on the shortcomings, including criminal behavior, of the "good guys". This series barely brushes the US government's involvement in the Contra atrocities committed by this country, guns for drugs scheme of the CIA which resulted in the crack epidemic first in LA and spreading out originally to marginalized communities, the crimes committed by the DEA and other three-letter agencies in their efforts to subvert justice under the dirty flag of Nixxon's failed War on Drugs and on and on. The series attempts to attribute the War on Drugs (People- especially non-whites) to Ronnie Rayguns when, in fact, it was Tricky Dick who started this mess as a diversion from his continuation of the failed and illegal Police Action in Vietnam and as a means of running heroin through Air Amerika ultimately to Oakland first as a means to control the Panthers and then throughout the marginalized, "dangerous" communities. The series attempts to make a hero of a DEA agent who regularly violated law and policy for his personal gain- ego or otherwise. This series is typical Reefer Madness fare in which the US government is again not taken to task for their crimes against humanity in every single aspect of the failed War On Drugs/People. With marijuana legalization now becoming the norm, it would be a perfect time for an unbiased presentation depicting the involvement of all involved in the genocide which has resulted from the failures, crimes and human rights violations that always were and still remain symptomatic of prohibition. A system which remains in effect today as US troops are used to protect the opium poppy fields in Afghanistan.
Narcos Season 1-2-3 (Excellent)
El chapo (Good)
Narcos Mexico (Very Boring)


                
Boring, slow, and mediocre. Don't waste your time and don't hope it will get better because it won't and you won't see any action until the last episode. Narcos Mexico is rubbish nothing like Narcos Colombia.


                
Nothing beats Narcos 1 and 2.
Narcos 3 was ok but the characters were not interesting.
I've watched El Chapo so I am already familiar with the Mexico cartel characters and I was expecting Narcos: Mexico to be as good as Narcos 1 and 2. Unfortunately Narcos: Mexico is a big big big big disappointment. The only factor that kept me watching till the last episode was the super cute Diego Luna. Casting is not good at all. I suppose Diego was able to portray the characters calmness but still, even his character development feels like it was written in haste. There was a scene where we cough blood while he was in hiding, which will make you think it has something to do with the next events, or his next decision-making but no, it was just a scene, not connected to anything. Tsk. Such a waste of a big budget!!!
