Narcos is back to its roots, Diego Luna steals the show! Just go watch it and enjoy!


                
I loved Narcos season 1-3. As for Narcos: Mexico, it is excellent...funny (Don Neto), well acted, and at times...educational. Just watch it and if you like it or not...move on to other great Netflix series like the Crown, Daredevil, lovesick, crashing, etc. It's not the end of the world.Narcos: Mexico may not win any Oscars but it is entertaining. Can't wait for next season where probably all hell is going to break loose (Cartels vs Mexican Government).Netflix got another great series....I loved Narcos


                
Well only just started with the first episode, but the quality and pace are plainly evident. Pena is excellent and I love his toying with humour but solid with the dramatic too. Netflix has another hit on their hands. I must agree with another reviewer when I thought Columbia would of been the end of Narcos, but how wrong I was.


                
This is my first review on IMDB, i saw all the seasons of Narcos earlier and today i saw Mexico Narcos, believe me i am dreaming of Narcos dealers from last 7 days. And after Mexico, i just cant stop thinking of anything else but Narcos....it is mind blowing, get prepared for some mind blowing stuff. Also it is not required for you to see the previous seasons, to understand Mexico, just watch it and you will not regret it.....Every character is chosen wisely and no words for them, every minor or major character are superb in their role.


                
I only have one bad thing to say about "Narcos Mexico". They shouldn't have cast Diego Luna as the bad guy. He's so captivating, its difficult to root against him. Otherwise, my addiction to this series continues unabated. Don't miss it.


                
Seasons 1 and 2 of Narcos were superb, Season 3 took it up a level and now Season 4 has blown all out of the water. What a fantastic season!!!


                
This series has a difficult task. . . Although I do not consider myself a fan of the Mexican accent, as a Puerto Rican, I believe that this series generates great expectations for me. Diego Luna, in the main role of Gallardo, and Peña in the role of Camarena, two actors of world caliber and well known in Hollywood for their excellent interpretative quality, are one of the causes for that expectation. The purpose of these series should not be to get affection or respect to these drug dealers, but to expose the reality of our Latin American countries, blurred from a perspective for the general public that hides many nuances and will never tell us the true story 100%. Probably does not exceed the prestige of Narcos: Colombia, and if it does, it will fall back on what Luna and Peña can do from their performances. Brutality, realities, murders, blood, shots, mafia, politicians, money, betrayal, infiltrations, all the realities that led Miguel Angel Felix Gallardo to become one of the most reckless. smart and ambitious narcos of all time; and the role played by Kiki Camarena in this story, in a role and a character that you can't have affection, because we know exactly what will happen to him. And as they warned us in the first minutes of this series: it's not going to end well, in fact, it never ends.


                
Just finished Narcos Mexico.. Everything is perfect . Character , storyline . And of course acting . Diego Luna done great job . Just watch it guys ...


                
All my childhood I heard those names on the TV news: "the police is after Rafael Caro Quintero", "the Mexican army is in a manhunt after the Arellano Félix brothers", "Miguel Angel Felix Gallardo has been caught", "El Chapo escaped from jail for the third time", "the police killed Amado Carrillo Fuentes, but they believe he went under a plastic surgery to change his face completely". Now, seeing all these characters together as a band and played by such a fine array of actors is like watching "The Narc Avengers". And this moment when Escobar appears on the screen is pure bliss! The greatest cross over ever. Like Iron Man meeting Wolverine.
Brilliantly put together series that slowly draws you in with evolving characters and great acting. Draws upon emotions as a viewer which is part of the appeal of this series...Top 10 binge worthy viewing...And i say binge because you need to qualify your emotional involvement in all that unfolds


                
Seasons 1 and 2 was excellent. 3 was ok but this narcos its so bad.. note 1 from me.


                
Loved it from beginning to end. Diego is fantastic. It's such a tragic ending but that's the reality.


                
This one is absolutely fantastic!Keeps me up all nightPlease make Narcos: Manila


                
I loved the first three seasons, don't get me wrong, but it's 3am and I cannot get myself to go to sleep and I'm tired! Love this so far and past "friends" make appearances. Bravo!


                
Best of Best really netflix and authors do thier best to bring out this masterpiece.
hat off for the crew


                
It's great to see all actors from other seasons including Pablo Escobar and the Cartel the Cali. Also showing El Chapo and others. Just amazing!!!!


                
When I first saw there was another season of Narcos I was excited. When I learned that it wasn't another season of Narcos but something of a spin-off my expectations dropped precipitously. Boy was I wrong. The storyline is gripping and the acting it top notch. For Narcos fans it is a treat to revisit the worlds of Pablo Escobar and the Cali Cartel. To see familiar faces and strong characters that in our minds were either dead or imprisoned. Netflix has undoubtedly missed the mark with some of their programming but I am continually impressed with their number of homeruns.


                
I was sceptical about Narcos Mexico. But after watching first episode I couldn't stop. I think it is as good as first season of Narcos. Well done to everyone working on this series.


                
Series is very addictive. 10/10. 'El Padrino' - Diego Luna..


                
In our lives we are said to say that drugdealers are bad people. Thats what you have in your head all the time. How does Diego Luna does it? Because in the show, you get empathy for him. Of course you get also "empathy for the good guys" and you end up hating "the system". You end up hating the mexican government (for its corruption and ambition) but also the american government (for its steadyness in order to preserve a status quo and lack of support for a tragedy that could be avoided). It leaves you with a desire to make things better.
Lets not forget that this is not only based on a true story, it is now "Part of the history itself" and will be studied in the years to come. And guess what? It hasn´t been finished. Netflix has managed to create such an intriguing, funny, sad at times, even educational series to leave a message to all of us, and in this fourth season is just setting things up to tell us why things are like this "TODAY". What an amazing fourth season and they havent even get into "Drug War". Cant wait for the next one. You cannot dismiss this one!


                
A journey started with Pablo (i mean Wagner Maniçoba de Moura), a very beautiful, amazing and stunning journey it is.


                
Excellent series, although slow to start it builds the back story and yiu find yourself totally immersed. Right up there with Season 1 of Narcos.


                
First time watching an entire series with subtitles, it was so good I could stop until I finished it


                
Tenoch Huerta is a new actor I never seen before great actor! made a really great Rafa Caro Quintero


                
Great, loved it, it's another great season from narcos , its gripping and addictive as hell... hurry up and make the next season please lol


                
