This is like a B rated version of the original Narcos. I guess most of the positive reviews are fake. I like Diego Luna and Michael Pena but they are miscasted here. They and most other actors lack the intensity required, I mean Diego Luna comes across like a confused teenager having an identity crisis, and not like the boss of a ruthless drug cartel. The writing and screenplay are also nowhere as gripping as the original. And they have taken a lot of creative liberties, so this shouldn't be considered a factual account.


                
Everything is subpar. Actors are uninspiring, characters are not interesting, dialogue is B movie quality, storyline is utterly boring, violence scenes are completely forced and not well developed with the story, and character development is nonexistent.I watched it only out of respect to the 1st-3rd glorious episodes.


                
People giving this 10 stars shouldn't be allowed to be on here or they're fake reviews. Narco's Mexico is barely watchable. You keep waiting for the action but the few scenes that have it are a huge let down. Seems they didn't want any action but some drawn out drama. Bring back the first two seasons of Narcos!!


                
I'm truly surprised at the high rating this show is getting. Other seasons were topnotch. Whatever happened w/ this season, I don't know. The production values are high, cinematography, casting - all great. The writing is atrocious; laughable. It seems that what happened is what happens to alot of the better shows: you get some success, and they bring in the hacks.


                
I started watching this new season expecting the Narcos Mexico to be par or maybe slightly under par of the first 3 seasons. Now I will admit I had two edibles on that Saturday when I binged watched the season... but in the middle of the season I kept asking myself "is this good? why am I watching this? Why do I care about this?" I really enjoyed seeing the Columbian Cartels in the middle of the season. Well done and there are three long tracking shots that made me go "WOW thats good camera work." I was curious if other people where experiencing the same as I was, so I looked on the IMDB reviews and I saw the majority of the reviews were 9s and 10s. I was stunned and I wondered if it was me. So I watched it again, but slower and took my time. Yeah..... This season sucks. Good camera work, but not casted well, the storyline was not well written. I felt I was watching Michael Pena get angry over and over again and watching Diego Luna go through the whole series confused and insecure. The best two things about this Season is 1. 3 good tracking shots and 2. Don Neto. He was the best character with good development, story and just fun.
Firstly, this series has very big shoes to fill. Which makes the task a daunting and very challenging one. However. "Narcos: Mexico" uses the same modus operandi but unfortunately fails in all aspects to reach the same level of brilliance as the original series "Narcos". Sad to, but everything is of significantly lower quality, not least the acting. No character has the intensity and nerve seen in all of the 3 seasons of "Narcos". Unfortunately, Diego Luna is not even close to convincing as protagonist. Waiting for him to actually start acting, to see the development of the character of growing into and becoming a cartel leader, turns out to be futile. For a stark contrast, the scene in episode 5 with Wagner Moura returning as Pablo Escobar (and several other characters/actors from the original "Narcos") and Diego Luna is very revealing. In short: the "Narcos"-crew in general and Moura in particular inexorably and hands off just steals the show... The contrast is quite embarrassing. The juxtaposition of "Narcos: Mexico" with its predecessor brings clarity; making top notch programming is no joke. Points for effort deserved- but this killed the magic of the series. At least for now. Also...... the overwhelmingly positive reviews are obviously mostly fake. To all of you who sell your morality and write fake reviews for money - Go to hell, all of you. Without ethics and morality, humans are nothing but apes. What world do you wish to leave behind?


                
It was really annoying to keep looking at the subtitles, Every minutes they stars talking in different language. At least they should have made a full English dubbing.


                
