In before you found this review not helpful just hold your horses. I'm not saying the series is bad. I'm only focusing the weak sides of the show so that you have some insights to understand why it isn't as good as the original and why it feels a little bit off.First, the things happening too fast, and the time perception is confusing. When did our main guy go from nobody to the boss of the bosses? They didn't put enough developments in order for him to turn into a boss. He just killed some people and suddenly became a Godfather. It's almost unbelievable. One minute he has all the controls, next minute some people torturing him. One minute everything's fine, next minute everybody's got a problem.Second, the characters are lacking, or their arc isn't believable enough. For example, the main guy. He doesn't have moments. Even if he did have some small moments, it was all poorly executed. I really don't know why the writers didn't do the same thing as what they did with Pablo. We knew that that guy is the guy. He had at least one moment to shine in every episode. They even gave him enough screen time to explore his mental status. They actually managed to turn an evil man into a lovable character. When he appered in this show I lost my sh<U+2757>t. But now this guy, Félix Gallardo, feels like a side character in his own story. He doesn't even have a normal human interaction. In the first episode, he said he used to be a cop, but I forgot about that until he reminded it us again in the last episode. I felt like he was in his own show because he just had to. The only interesting thing about him was his idea of ''Now it's my turn to build an empire'' And that idea faded with his poorly developed arc and dull characteristic. But I have hopes for him in next season. The last episode really did set his actual foundation that needed set a long time ago.


                
Demasiados clichés, algunos agujeros en el guión y alguno que otro personaje vacio. Pero demasiado atrapante, muy pochoclera! No está a la altura de la primera temporada pero se le acerca. Se nota la falta de presupuesto, aunque se hizo lo mejor que se pudo


                
Narcos Mexico is a very entertaining, well acted, and dynamic show. There are many action scenes, moments full of tension, and great surprises sprinkled throughout the show.However, Narcos is far better than its Mexico version. Wagner Moura, who played Pablo Escobar, was able to maintain an amazing screen presence, but I do not feel the same way about Diego Luna. His portrayal of crime boss Miguel Ángel Félix Gallardo comes across as too much of a slick, nervous, and thinker rather than the head of a major, dangerous cartel. There are however many supporting gangsters that surround him that I find far more terrifying and decisive. Tenoch Huerta's portrayal of Rafael Caro Quintero is amazing and he has an uncanny similarity to Scarface.While the bad guys, or main big bad, might not be as appealing. Michael Peña absolutely shines as DEA agent Kiki Camarena. Camarena is a complete hothead who wants to get things done in corrupt Guadalajara. Peña is able to use his sharp wit and acting abilities to make the audience understand the futile plight of his character.I am not saying by any means that the show is bad, but if you are expecting it to be better than the past two seasons, I assure that it will not be. The writing and the action is slower and I really do not like Diego Luna's portrayal, but that is just my opinion. I definitely recommend to watch the show, but for me, it is not a runaway hit like its predecessor. If interested, be sure to check out my Narcos review. Lastly, please watch the show!!! Just go in with low expectations and I am sure you will be blown away!


                
Narcos Mexico is definitely better than lots of series available right now. But it does not meet the standard set by Narcos original series all seasons. So donot have very high expectations while you start watching this series. But i will still recommend you to watch it . It has been shot on Grand scale but not very great acting good cinematography good background music. Directors have been successful in bringing the old era on celluloid very beautifully.


                
A very interesting season and in line with the Narcos series as a whole. However, Miguel Felix Gallardo isn't a particular interesting opposite compared to the Medellin or Cali cartel. He is a very precise and effective man, until he ruins it for everyone by diving into the coke business, casting out his own wife and not managing the members of the cartel very well. Considering this is based on real events it obviously gives context.


                
Nice but not as good as tge second season in Colombia


                
A very interesting season and in line with the Narcos series as a whole. However, Miguel Felix Gallardo isn't a particular interesting opposite compared to the Medellin or Cali cartel. He is a very precise and effective man, until he ruins it for everyone by diving into the coke business, casting out his own wife and not managing the members of the cartel very well. Considering this is based on real events it obviously gives context.
As we are used to another catchy show from Netflix. For myself is also a great piece of story, to learn more about the Cartels in Mexico.


                
For me to started a bit slow. But give it an episode or two and you will be sucked in. If you didn't watch the first two series of Narcos in Columbia that's okay. But after watching narcos Mexico you'll probably want to watch the first two narcos Columbia. Looking forward to next season


                
Narcos Mexico, has a bit slow start but after second episode everything is up to the speed and its just fantastic. From visuals, micro stories, main plot and very satisfying yet unpredictable ending. There is some category of those movies where you think about it few days after you saw that movie.


                
I haven't seen the parent show, but "Narcos: Mexico" has to be seen to be believed. A look at the drug trade in 1980s Mexico, it's got some shocking stuff. The point is that none of these people have any loyalty to each other; they're out to preserve themselves and take down any perceived threat. As the drug war has continued over the years, Mexico has become a nearly ungovernable country, with the cartels controlling entire regions (just like Colombia in the '80s).I hope to see the parent show.PS: John Gavin (played by Yul Vasquez) is best remembered as Sam in "Psycho".


                
Every Spanish cuss word is translated into 10 different meanings, 2/3 of them wrong. A pendejo must have been in charge of translating the word pendejo into 10 different things he didn't know anything about or is just lazy. The uses of the cusswords in the original Spanish is dead on, but the translation is lazy.


                
Clearly, Pablo Escobar and Felix Gallardo were entirely different beasts. While I enjoyed this season, I felt that it could have explored Felix Gallardo's psyche more. His rise to prominence, and his reign, for lack of a better word, was not nearly as organic as what had been done for Escobar. (Season 3 benefitted too, because the principal characters were already introduced and developed throughout the first 2 seasons). The same goes for the DEA's existence from the start of season 4 to what appears to be 4 years later, several episodes in. Perhaps the writers didn't have a lot to go on...Who knows?!The supporting cast was excellent, although I have some reservation about Michael Pena's portrayal of Kiki Camarena. Admittedly, I haven't watched a whole lot of movies with him in it, but for those that I have, he appears to have the same expression and tone of delivery. I liked the subtlety that Diego Luna imbued into his character.This is a worthy addition to the franchise, but personally, I may not necessarily agree that it's better than seasons 1-3.8.5/10.


                
The season starts off slow but it gets better. The only thing that makes me mad is Michael Pena's acting. He's normally a decent actor but he completely fails in this season. It's hard to watch his scenes. I can't take him serious at all. The original Narcos is much better.


                
Unlike it's earlier three seasons which push up the rhythm quite quickly , narcos mexico spends some time to lay the foundations of the plot in the first two episodes and can feel slow . But once it picks up pace , it is just brilliant . The acting and the lolcales are too good . There are nerve biting moments , there are moments that confuse you and moments that make you a realistic . Narcos Mexico is also is a story about betrayal , saving oneself even at the cost of your closest friends who always remained loyal to you . IT is about why if you don't grow your business , you will die . About understanding that when people are put to most tempting tests , they give in . Watch narcos to understand and experience the Mexico cartels and the extent of corruption .


                
I just need to let it out.What a great show, Narcos is back.
I watched the hole show in one week... Good acting and great cast.Can't wait for session two.


                
Diego Luna was great although I can't say the same for Michael Pena.Really bad casting choice giving him a leading role.Also whats the deal with the casting of narcos and the real unsympathetic characters playing the dea agents and their wive's the past 4 seasons?Except for Pedro Pascal of course.


                
This season is pretty much just as excellent as all the others. Luckily, they have stuck to the same shots, formulas, soundtrack, gritty scenes, and historical footage cuts that make the series what it is.The only things they might do better are adding more documentary footage and funny narrations. I feel you go way too long without hearing the commentary that breathed life, social studies, and irony into the previous installments. We still have a good guy/bad guy(but which do you prefer?) formula, where we follow Kiki and the DEA, then switch to the Cartel, back and forth-- this works pretty well, but I think they jumped away from too many original characters that could be showcased from time to time. The timeline is a bit confusing at times, inserting random characters or places that leave you wondering exactly how it fits together.However, overall, I am not disappointed, and I feel you could not give this season less than a 7. At times it is right back up to a 9, with its predecessors. I am excited to see if there will be a fifth installment, as I end up binge-watching all of them within a week or two after the Netflix release.
I was wondering what it would be like after the new subject and the new faces.
I like it better than the third season. The acting and the script are very good.


                
I found the show ok, but they may have done a better job finding more relatable characters for the people who play the good guys. Also, I've got a feeling that the new Obama management for Netflix may have a hand in the increase in moralism in this show and other recent ones.


                
Yes, we don't have Pablo Escobar... and now we are in Mexico! The show is good, watchable... sometime slow but really interesting. At the end is very sad.. but that's the story. I hope to see the sequel soon.
Narcos Mexico follows Diego Luna playing Félix Gallardo's rise from unimportant weed peddler to the world's (second) biggest cocaine kingpin, and the freshly founded American Drug Enforcement Agency's frantic efforts to swim against the tide of Mexico's widespread corruption to stop him.For starters, it's a little off to hear the same narrator from Narcos Colombia in a series about Mexico. You sort of half expect Agent Peña (Pedro Pascal) from the first series to step into view at some point. The casting agency must have found it funny that this season's main protagonist, agent Enrique 'Kiki' Camarena, is played by Michael Peña. But what a fine choice it was. Peña's acting makes you sense Camarena's rising despair when with each episode his hands are tied tighter, while he's all the more bent on tackling Gallardo.The show is beautifully shot, capturing that sweaty, dust-layered grit of the scorching Mexican desert climate. The supporting characters' dialogues and antics are guaranteed to elicit a few smiles every now and then. Especially Joaquín Cosio's exquisite version of Don Neto, Gallardo's personal advisor and external conscience, deserves a mention. We all have that one unruly uncle who can't behave at parties, which makes him all the more fun to be around. Though he is still a criminal, he is also a father figure who - up to a point - keeps Gallardo and his wild weed farmer Rafa (Tenoch Huerto) in check.That said, the show's plot develops lightning-fast, sometimes at the cost of crucial character developments. At one point, Gallardo is just a Sinaloan ex-copper turned fairly innocent marijuana farmer, looking to provide for his family. The next moment we see him shoot up someone in public in cold blood, without a shred of remorse. His initial humble abode in the Sinaloan mountains is (a little too) quickly replaced by lavish sea-side palaces. And while the narrator explains that the Mexican regional drug organisations are extremely difficult to reconcile, Gallardo manages within one scene, when he gathers all the heads around a big round table King Arthur-style.The show is well worth the watch, especially when you know its plot twists and characters are fairly true to real life. It is all the more gripping when you realise the events in this series depict a drug war that has been raging for nearly forty years now, at the cost thousands of innocent people's lives. If you want to understand what caused the current Mexican drug mess, this provides a compelling start.


                
This show is still good, almost as good as the previous narcos. Some of the timeline is off and feels a little rushed. Also there was a few goofs on the making of the show. For example in episode 8 there's a song by the Tigres del Norte ( contrabando y traicion ) release in 2011. But this show is based in the 90s.


                
