In all fairness, this Belorussian-made World War II picture detailing Nazi atrocities, holds a special distinction in world cinema: it is by far the most brutal and emotionally draining of all - in fact, a viewer whose senses have not been properly trained would most likely find it unwatchable. Those brave souls willing to be put through an ordeal of almost 2 1/2 hours will find themselves deeply immersed in an absolutely horrifying experience that will not easily subside whether they want it to or not.The title, "Come and See", taken from the frequently repeating lines of the book of Revelation, clearly dares the audience to assume the role of St. John, witnessing the Apocalypse, or rather one of the darkest periods in the history of humankind. What we are assaulted with, plays somewhat like a demented version of "Modern Times" transpiring across the panel of Brueghel's "Trimuph of Death", if such a combination is possible. The camera is consistently filtered through a murky, slightly unfocused gaze, and the sound is often heard through shellshocked ears. This tends to eirly distance the events, yet make them even more frightening and unsettling. Much of the dialogue lacks specific meaning or even concrete sentences - it is replaced by subhuman growling, wailing and other spine-chilling, gluttural sounds of the war. What the director prepares is something Spielberg would never even dream of - no sign of compromise with the audience. A crowd of civilian villagers locked up in a barn by Nazi soldiers is not spared at the last minute like "Schindler List's" Jews- they are burned alive, and we get to watch all of it.Unlike most of the films in this genre, "Come and see" relies mainly on images and sounds instead of a coherent plot, which is not necesserily a weakness, since the sheer terror distorts time and space into a kind of hallucinatory blur, clearly intentional and understandable. But this incredible level of bleak intensity in the long run, has a negative effect on the film: the viewers have to desensitize themselves just so they can keep watching, so the most harrowing scenes are sat through in numbness.Another questionable move on the director's part is his occasional use of surrealism. While some visuals are painfully believable, while others are simply baffling: crazed villages consructing an effigy of Hitler, a pensive German commander with a pet slender loris (a rare African primate) on his shoulder, a female Nazi eating raw red lobster, not even mentioning a bizzare final montage wich is both inexplicable and obvious, ending with a real-life photograph that is perhaps the most terrifying of all in its implications. Yes, at times the movie overachieves its goals and seems almost like the footage in "The Clockwork Orange" that they made Alex watch to cure him of "ultraviolent" behaviour; yet other times it delivers the kind of jolts those accustomed to mainstream cinema could only wish they had. The face of a youth who had lost all sanity and aged many decades over several days, will be etched for an indefinite amount of time into the memory of anyone who has seen this film.
Come and See is one of the rare films that I can remember being emotionally drained upon its conclusion. The expression on my face as I sat there watching the credits scroll by seemed as worn and broken as that of the protagonist, Florya.The film follows Florya as he "joins" (i.e. obtains a gun) a partisan group resisting the German advancements in the forests of his native Byelorussia during World War II. What he witnesses at the ripe age of 12 changes a once open-eyed, smiling face into a weathered, traumatized one that has experienced the unimaginable.And of course the unimaginable were the Nazi atrocities committed during the war. Come and See does not focus on what the German Army did to the Jewish population but rather what they did to the native Soviet population. The Nazis were not only concerned with the utter destruction of the Jews but of the Bolshevik Party as well. And to Hitler that meant any man, woman, or child living under communist rule. And this "cleansing" fell into the hands of the SS who, as depicted in the movie, literally destroyed every sign of life.Florya is able to escape death, unlike the rest of his family, but serves as a witness to the destruction and in this sense "dies" as his innocence and youth is lost. Klimov does a masterful job and depicting this slow death by concentrating on the facial expressions of Florya versus that of the Germans and both of their transformations over time. Klimov's Hitler montage at the end is especially moving and puts an interesting spin on the whole "what if" question.This is the most historically accurate war movie I have ever seen and would highly recommend it to any war/history enthusiast. But I would also recommend it to any film watcher that realizes the goal of the medium which is to evoke emotion in the audience, and Come and See does just that.


                
Elem Klimov's COME AND SEE is a film best remembered for one scene and it'd probably be wrong to say it should be remembered for more that since THAT scene is one of the most disturbing and harrowing ever committed to celluloid . It also means the rest of the movie struggles hard to make up for it even though it tries . In many ways it's a throwback to the Soviet Home Front type of war movie mixed with Tarkovsky . Nature in all its imagery features prominently throughout the film . Forests are beautiful , green and silent on the surface but feature filthy , stinking swamps where a human can drown in . Man is also a hostage to the elements where rain soaks the skin and causes a human being to shiver . Man is not as fortunate as a bird who evolution has blessed with feathers and can sit on a swamp without sinking Like Andrie's Tarkovsky' 1962 film IVAN'S CHILDHOOD the story revolves around an older child - Florya - who finds himself caught up in the insanity of war in Byelorussia . While nature is cruel there's nothing more cruel than human tribalism coupled with unthinking ideology , a lesson Florya and the audience will find out later in the film . Until then the film concentrates on Florya's almost naive sense of adventure . The partisans leave him behind as they go to fight the Nazis so Florya wanders through the deep forests with his companion , an older girl called Glasha , perhaps blissfully unaware what the future holds for them both The film climaxes with an atrocity brought upon a village occupied by a Nazi death squad Einsatzkommando unit . People often use SCHINDLER'S LIST as the one film to show the brutality of the Nazi regime but to be honest the impact of Nazi atrocities may have a stronger impact here . There's a clinical ,impersonal feel to humans being murdered by zyklon B in gas chambers but to watch people being burned alive while the perpetrators laugh and treat the massacre as a nice day out does chill the blood . Worse still it's all based on truth . COME AND SEE finishes with a caption that 626 Byelorussian villages and their inhabitants were burnt to the ground . This was only in Bylorussia . This isn't counting the towns in Russia , Ukraine and other places in the USSR that was visited by Nazi murder squads . Disgracefully Mel Gibson recreated this very scene in THE PATRIOT where the British red coats committed an identical act even though there's no record of anything similar having happened during the American war of independence In conclusion COME AND SEE is a film that deserves to be seen by everyone even though it's sometimes distressing . It's this nihilistic and horrifying , brutal impact war has upon people in general and the young in particular that makes it a must see movie . It's also the last film director ElemKlimov ever made which is possibly just as well since it's the one one film a director should be remembered for . Such great talent going to Hollywood making romantic comedies and action blockbusters would have been such a waste
I needed to have two hours and twenty odd minutes to watch this with out interruption. I didn't want to break it for any real reason or for any real length of time other than to change the disc (more on that later).I had the time so I watched the movie.I could argue that with two small flaws this is one of the greatest anti-war films ever made.This is the SUBJECTIVE story of a boy who joins the partisans during the German invasion of Russian and his decent into hell.This is a tough movie. its in your face and everyone else's, literally as we see everyone and everything that our hero does even to the point that if he's talking to someone the camera will hold on them as they speak with no cut aways. We learn everything about people by their faces since we have the time to study them. This is simply one of the few times where even if the film had had a different aspect ratio other than 1.33 (tv shape) I would rally to have it full screen rather than letterbox simply because for this movie you MUST lose yourself in what you see and hear. Having someone facing you, looking at you is more powerful when all you can see is their face. Faces are a landscape in this film.This is especially true of Floyra, our hero who's stunned expression at all that happens around him is a constant source of wonderment.As we as shocked and rattled by what we see we know that he is even more rattled because he is there and he is expressing it on his face. Its said he was hypnotized to be able to get the right expressions, and seeing the pain on his face I believe it since you could only express what he is by living through it... Wide eyed numbness his mouth sometimes agape we watch as he tries to just get on...The film as I said is subjective and we see and hear, literally, what Floyra does. When his hearing is thrown askew by shelling what we hear becomes less distinct. Sound will drift in and out and we get a sense of being there. The camera also holds on some scenes at times Not cutting away for better angles simply because Floyra doesn't have them.This film will rock your world and then some.I want to tell you everything about the film but at the same time fear that doing so will set up expectations as to what happens. Reading the material on the film and seeing the trailer set up some expectations in my mind, some of which was right and some was wrong. I would like to have you see the film knowing as little about what actually happens as possible so you experience the film straight. I lost my expectations the minute the film began and I was wondering what was going on... I was hooked as the long strange trip took over. I'm certain that once the film stats you will be free of expectations too but, at the same time I think if I told you too much it would ruin the what happens next.This is GREAT film making.That said there are two small flaws.First, as some reviews have said the Germans, when they finally show up on screen are just a tad cartoony. menacing but slightly cartoonish...I could be wrong... but regardless through it all Floyra's pained expression cuts the cartoon away and reminds us this is bad stuff going down.The second flaw is a montage of actual footage used near the very end. I know why it was done, or can guess, but its too long. It breaks the spell in some ways... I think it would have been more apt had the film had the original desired title of "Kill Hitler".The last point I want to make is the fact the film is on two DVDs. Released two years ago there is no logical reason for the film to be broken into two parts, the tape is a single cassette release, except that like many films from the Russian Film Council its loaded with subtitles, 13 languages and three audio options. There is also other extras like an introduction by the film maker that runs 20 minutes, documentary footage and an interview with the lead actor. But I digress....I'm certain that the film doesn't really need to be in two parts for any reason other than a technical one... except that in a strange way the break sort of works for the film if you watch it straight through taking only a break to switch discs. Call me crazy but the break is perfectly placed at the mid point to the story. Not only that the film changes from first half to second half. The tone , even though continuous in action, is different as the second disc begins. Its almost as if we are back at the beginning of the film at a peak that slowly slides downward. Time wise the two halves are different with the action taking place over a couple of jumbled days while the second is one continuous series of events over two days.In the end all that matters is the film.And here the film is absolutely great.See it and be moved.----------------------------------- random thoughts In its way its comparable to grave of fireflies The film that many people compare it to, Destiny of a Man, is a relation but not direct ancestor of it simply because the films are very different, Destiny taking place over years in Flashback, Come and See is happening here and now over weeks. They share themes and elements but the thrust and points are different, especially in the end...


                
First off - I will readily admit my "ignorance" to the actual historical facts of the state-of-affairs in Europe and Russia during the time-frame in which COME AND SEE is set. I do know "some" of what was going on during WWII (as I'm not a completely illiterate moron...) but I won't even begin to try to come off as erudite as some reviewers who obviously know FAR more about world-history than I do. Instead - I will approach this review strictly from the viewpoint of a film-fan. That said - COME AND SEE is definitely one of the most harrowing films that I've ever come across. Being mainly an "underground" horror fan - I've made it my life's work to seek out the most sickening, disturbing, twisted, nihilistic films that could possibly be laid to film - and honestly - the few films that have actually "touched a nerve" with me, typically are not by definition "horror" films at all - but then again - if these types of films can't be considered in the realm of "horror" - then what truly can??? COME AND SEE revolves around Flor - a young boy living in Beylorussia during WWII. We learn early on that Flor is eager to "fight the good fight" of his countrymen against the pending onslaught of German invading soldiers, but unfortunately for Flor - he is unexpectedly thrust into situations that he could not have possibly been ready for - as I'm sure is the case in reality for anyone who experiences war first-hand. To avoid spoiling any of the truly memorable scenes - I will just say that the rest of the film is spent following Flor as he single-handedly escapes his own death numerous times until the conclusion, where he meets back up with his comrades...I don't even know where to begin with all the good points about COME AND SEE. The acting is INCREDIBLE by everyone involved - more-so than I would have ever thought possible from such young actors (particularly) portraying such complicated and devastating roles and situations. The cinematography is incredibly bleak and perfectly captures the hopeless and helpless environs of war-torn Russia (at least I guess they do - as I wasn't there...) - there is not one second in the film where you question the authenticity of the surroundings. There is really no "gore" to speak of - but the more "horrifying" scenes are captured so perfectly, that no amount of "blood-n-guts" could have really made the film better (and this coming from a certifiable gore/sleaze-head). If I had to pick ANY negative issues with the film - I would say that there are scenes in the beginning that are SO haunting, that towards the middle the film loses a bit of momentum, causing even some of the stronger end-scenes to not have as much "power". I also feel that the very last sequence (shooting the Hitler picture mixed with actual Holocaust footage) was a bit of propaganda-overkill that was unnecessary as I felt that I had already CLEARLY gotten the message. Those two aspects alone drop COME AND SEE a half point in my book. But regardless - this is an ABSOLUTELY incredible film that I can't recommend enough - just understand that you will most likely come away from it emotionally drained - which to me is one of the highest achievements that cinema can provide...9.5/10
Gripping, harrowing portrayal of Nazi atrocities in Belarus during WW2 - a film full of startling imagery and sound (the buzzing of flies when Alexei returns to his village with Glasha), the sound of German folk music and accordions amidst manic laughter as Nazi soldiers (and their Belarussian collaborators) torch a barn full of desperate villagers.The film's greatest achievement lies in conveying a hellish world with a nightmarish poetic quality (Alexis & Glasha struggling through a marsh bog, dolls lying grotesquely on the floor of a hut as if they have been machine-gunned) but our horror is only intensified by the fact that what we witness - through the eyes of Alexis as he journeys from wide-eyed recruit to a young man aged by what he has seen - actually happened.Too many films take an almost 'pornographic' PlayStation view of war - WW2 was a war waged against civilians and 'Come & See' is a grim, savage as well as truthful account of man's inhumanity to man.


                
""Come and See" is an astonishingly unforgettable, nightmarish vision into the reality of war. We the audience, watch as a young boy, a civilian, transition into a soldier. This change, makes this 12-13 year old boy<U+0085>age about 40 years in a matter of a few days. To endure such horror and atrocity, would definitely create such a drastic distortion to anyone. To have a film, that has the ability to even convey such profound and surreal emotion<U+0085>making us, the audience, able to feel, hear, smell and perhaps taste.. is quite daunting. One must realize, that the story line perishes, and we literally feel as if we are trapped in a nightmare, in which there is no escape. Klimov's micro cosmic approach to this specific war, was quite intense; to even think he only showed one village, out of the 628 that were brutally executed<U+0085>to put simply<U+0085>is incredibly agonizing. I recommend this movie to all, because it will truly leave an imprint on your views towards war, and violence or humanity overall.


                
I've seen my fair share of films about the first and second World Wars, but none quite like "Come and See." This film tells the story of a boy of fourteen years, Florya , who joins the Russian army in their efforts to defeat the Nazis. His excitement at going to war in the beginning of the film is enough to make you want to get out of your chair, somehow penetrate the screen, and slap him into realizing what he's about to have to witness—and worse—do. Florya's excitement, however, doesn't last long. Over the remaining two hours, we (the viewers) watch as the hands of war reach inside his very core to steal what's left of his innocent soul. With every image of Florya's perpetually aging face, we are reminded that he is just one of thousands of young boys who faced the same fate—fighting to survive. Klimov's film only depicts the fate of one Byelorussian town—there were six hundred in total! Truthfully, after watching the film, I was speechless. I didn't want to talk to anyone and I didn't want to think. I wanted to go home, crawl into my bed and hope that the ruthless brutality that had played out in the film wouldn't terrorize me in my dreams. Intense, I know.This film is a must-see. Although very difficult to watch at times, it's important that we expose ourselves to that which makes us uncomfortable; to that which we sometimes just want to forget.


                
This is probably the most haunting movie I have ever seen. The 20 minutes long village scene is something else. Unique. It makes you understand that the expression "ethnic cleansing" is just a politically correct expression that takes you away from reality. In fact the expression is cleaning the conversations. This scene shows you human nature at it's worst. And you sure don't forget. Yes, it's propaganda as the "Rise of the third Reich in reverse" scene clearly demonstrates. But the film was made in 1985 and depicts events that happened in 1942, so I can live with that. This movie will change you. This is how powerful it is. Don't expect action packed spectacular scenes, you'll be sorely disappointed. Like a lot of Russian movies, this is more intellectual. It makes you reflect on your set of values and the state of the world we live in. The sad fact is that such events are still happening somewhere as you read this. Potent stuff.
Come and See follows a young Belarusian Flyora who wants to join the army and fight in the war. From then on Floyra's life and whole universe change to a point of no return.This won't be a very long review but this film had me going. Truly one of this most terrifyingly realistic war films i have ever seen. A child soldier who wanted to willingly fight, and all we do is watch as war takes everything that makes a young boy innocent away from him.This film extremely captivates the reality of war. I was left silent through out the whole film almost horrified by some of the incidents occurring on the screen. The Directing, Acting, EVERYTHING is just extremely captivating. There's so much i could say about this film but i want to try and leave this film completely spoiler free.All i can say is when you see this film, you will never forget it and though this film may be extremely horrific with some scenes its definitely a great piece of cinema. Truly Powerful.


                
Drive-ins & youth. Today Google's opening page honors Drive-in's 79th anniversary with a bubble-gum pink 'Admit One' ticket see-sawing in front of a sign that reads oogle. Last night I saw one of the most unforgettable films of my viewing life, which got me to thinking.The power of film! I am still reeling from an unconventional movie made in 1985 called "Come and See." Not since my younger brother and teenage me saw Jaws at a Galveston drive-in (double-billed with Capone) and next day had to build courage to step into the Gulf, has a film disturbed me so.I gave the film a chance because 1) It was on the AFI top 250 list and I never heard of it, 2) The filmmaker tells the story of a young boy. Ever since Mark Twain and Harper Lee, I'm a fan of stories told from a child's point of view about adult experiences. Come and See is a startling tell.After a vile runt of a boy shouts invectives to his tall likable friend, the camera rolls with two excited Russian boys as they search for a forgotten battlefield. They pull up war gear and rifles deep from the sands of an overrun Russian position of the unstoppable German invasion of 1941. The runt dons found Nazi battle gear, imitating a meanness that he believes will suit the German occupiers he later meets. The eldest boy carries home a Russian rifle to join the Partisans. He charms away his little twin sisters and anxious mother to run off a meet them. The Partisans reject the hopeful lad along with their favorite pretty girl mascot. Sending the innocents home from their forest camp, the Partisans head for the front. The boy and girl share disappointment of their rejection. The next day, left alone, they enjoy an idyllic time until the look to the sky. Strange parachutes open, the SS descend, and the boy and girl face their helpless fate together.At first it is uncomfortable to see actors and actresses emote deadpan, full frame, directly into the lens. But the director does not want you to be comfortable with the subject - and focuses us on this - one extermination of over six hundred villages in Belorussia. The focal length is short, making the actress cross-eyed, adding a sense of idiocy to her naivety of the world.You can forgive the film for some too-long takes because the pacing sets you up for a final thirty minute run which is perhaps the most breathtaking, non-stop war scene ever filmed. The uniforms and obscure gear are entirely authentic of 1943. Some of the scenes are genius - a flash that we see with the girl that would mean everything to the boy as they are fleeing. After some courage, she utters the image in short words. The rolling camera has more juice than the napalm & helicopter Ride-of-the-Valkyries vertical assault in Apocalypse Now!, or the terror of the Omaha Beach landing in Saving Private Ryan or Band of Brothers. The camera rolls and floats with the endless victory of cruelty, shear madness, and horror that a few actors actually experienced in the invasion of their homeland in World War Two.There are few predictable moments. Sometimes you get stuck in a scene with a Quentin Tarantino cruelty we must endure. At other moments there is a Fellini-esque vitality of raw moments that I have never seen in a Hollywood depiction of war. There is no stand-out villain Nazi like Christoph Waltz in Inglourious Basterds, the entire mixed-German platoon wheels an invisible zeal of distinct beer house characters - except they are dead sober, being at war for years. The film is a marvelous intertwining of direction (Elem Klimov), writing (Ales Adamovich), and cinematography (Alexei Rodionov). The actors may have been over their heads, for how can a boy credibly act, react, and emote such witness. The unsettling soundtrack and original music complete the film's psychological pacing. I admire a film shown from a young boy's point of view that avoids the easy way out of first person narrative overdubs. Raw images, raw acting all the way. This is a cinema experience no US teenager will ever experience from a car seat. And that is unfortunate, not because this is one of the early heroic uses of a steadicam when they weighed 100 pounds, but because you walk away feeling in your gut the horror of something that really happened to us, the human race.


                
Wow. This film was the best depiction of War I've seen so far, in no way at all did this film glamorize it, if anything it gave the audience the closest look into what a country under attack goes through. Unlike other war films Come and See really depicted the life's of ordinary civilians in the time of war. The small town of Russia were Flor was from resembled the country itself, it was micro-cosmic view of the point of view of the Russians during world war II. The director Elem Klimov did an amazing job in getting the audience involved with almost your five senses, we can practically smell old meat when the cow that Flor was trying to take to the group dies for example. The sound of the constant Nazi planes watching over haunted us as much as Flor. I was recently part of a house fire and the scene when the German officers terrorize the Russian city and burn the building with all the townspeople was unforgettable, it gave me chills to remember my own close experience with the fire but seeing it in this film took it to another level. A few minutes ago before the fire we got to see the inside full with people who had done nothing wrong. The flames were no CGI which made the scene that much more intense. One of my favorite scenes was when Flor finally got to use his gun that he carried through out the film, poor kid he had started out so cheerful and full of joy to become a soldier but to his dismay war was nothing like he thought it'd be. Like we said in class, he started off looking 13 years and ended the film as a 40 year old. The reason I really loved that scene was because it had so many images and symbols in one scene, to me it really summarized WW II. Going back through time every important step that lead to Hitler in power was so powerfully showed, with Flor shooting many times at Hitlers picture at the same time. Much like life if one of those things had gone slightly wrong it would have made a world of a difference. But at the same time it made me think that even if it wasn't Adolfo Hitler, maybe it was have been someone else? If his mom would have had that abortion, and had another child what guarantees it wouldn't have been that other child to become the next "Htiler" the world is full of crazy lunatics, but it is our job as society to try and stop them. Going back through time with Flor in that scene really for me showed All the people that could have Stoped it before it happened! I'm sad to know this film isn't as known as it should be and deserves to be! I'm glad to see all of us who commented really inspired us to write a review and share our thoughts about this incredible film.
There is this one shot in "Come and See" where Florya, the movie's main character steps on a nest of eggs and we are shown this short shot of dead wet chicks in the middle of the mud moss. This tiny maybe 3second shot was so unbelievably powerful I felt sick for the next ten minutes. I watched an interview with Director Elem Klimov after I watched the movie. There was no way that the male actor that played Florya was mentally stable after such a horrific journey of war in this movie - Klimov explained that he used hypnosis during filming to make sure the actors were not affected. It made me think how different the movie would be if it was made in now time - there would be restrictions, laws and Klimov would have probably had to restrain his creative urges. The other thing Klimov mentioned in the interview was that the movie was originally going to be called "Kill Hitler" - Hitler standing for your inner demons. This theme that every one has a Hitler inside them that they fight constantly every day. Each person with a different battle. "Come and See" is literally a descent to hell. It is the only war movie where I have wholly felt like I was there - experiencing this horrific real war time of Nazi hell. Klimov gives us this microscopic view - He shows us the scale of things and the reality check that war is for small villages. By the end of the movie we are shown that it is the rag tag armies of these villages who are the ones that defeated the Nazis. It was bizarre to me how I felt a sense of hope through this revelation at the end. When Mozart's "Requiem" is playing at the end and we are shown this shot of just snow I felt this huge sense of relief. The fact that there were no humans or any man-made object in the shot, just snow, made me feel like finally I could breathe. Rebirth. A new beginning. Another chance at life. My favorite aspect of the movie was the use of sound. The music was an interesting choice - Mozart is most often looked at as beautiful and calming which is the complete opposite of what is depicted in the movie. My personal association with Mozart was also peaceful and it bothered me when I realized Mozart's music was being used through this heart-wrenching sick war movie. About three quarters of the way through, I realized it was probably Mozart that got me through the movie - That helped me through war. There was also this very small and constant sound of a buzzing fly - I was constantly irritated by this. I know this is what Klimov was aiming for and so I applaud him for the effect but I felt like shooting someone myself! Klimov's bravery as a Director was phenomenal. There was no fear of the truth and there was no fear in shoving the truth down the viewer's throat. We are taken on a journey with Florya - Klimov gives his character a huge arch and by the end we too like Florya feel a reason to fight - a reason to join - an explanation of what victory is. I would recommend this movie for the tough-hearted or anyone that is searching for the truth of our world.


                
I heard this was a great anti-war film and that it was brutal.Compared to a slasher movie not at all brutal. And I'm not sure it was anti-war, but more a grim picaresque story in the middle of conflict.I loved the stumbling from one bizarre scene to the next. That makes it better than Private Ryan - in that film there's one scene where the soldiers come across a family living on the top floor of a house that's been cut in half, open to the elements, and I remember wishing there were more scenes like it. Come and See is stuffed with that kind of detail, including one with a cow and tracer bullets.Plus there's quite a lot of humour. One brilliant scene is of a group photo near the beginning full of laughter and energy, then a weird sequence with an effigy of Hitler made from a skull, a German police officer who basically acts like a rodeo clown, a dotty old woman who smiles when the killers leave her alive for breeding, and plenty of earthy jokes.So it comes across with a touch of the hallucinations. But then the action scenes are obviously very dangerous for the actors, so that creates a sense of reality. You can see that in the next group scene, when an einsatz squad emerges from the mist to burn down a village. This is the cruellest part of the film, but even then there's great energy and enjoyment amongst the killers - a strange effect.The story is told entirely from the POV of the young hero, and I'm not sure he carries it off completely. There's an awkward scene between him and Glashsa in the first act, where they really force the laughter. But that's OK, doesn't harm the overall effect.The soundtrack is mostly excellent: a constant background of eerie, scratchy noises, and some very effective music.Pity it wasn't shot in widescreen (or did I see a pan & scan version?). The final sequence, while interesting in its reversal of historical scenes, didn't do it for me (although it answers the question, Would you strangle Hitler at birth?), so I should mark it down a point but I won't.This is powerful, and the humour and the two group scenes will stay with me. So it's a 9.
This movie invites you to see, or witness the atrocities of WWll. The story is about a young boy named Floyra who witnesses the events that happened in villages in Russia. The young boy comes of age in a very hell-like way. He witnesses many, or all of the things that happened in the war. He returns to his village after being taken to be part of a resistance and finds nothing there. Throughout the film, he stares at the camera inviting you to keep watching; an invitation that everyone takes but doesn't like. Personally, I felt very disturbed by all of the events that the young boy goes through. His face is one that is not easily forgotten. His lips are dry, his eyes look dead. The last scene shows news reels of the Nazi troops and people cheering and Hitler; all going backwards. That scene alone makes you wonder how could people allow something like that happen and how could a little boy grow up to massacre so many people?


                
Klimov's "Come and See" is the one of the greatest World War II films that has been released to date. The film begins with the young Florya ( Aleksei Kravchenko ) searching an old battle ground for a discarded rifle that he hopes to use in the fight against the invading Nazi army. His dreams are nothing more than a child wanting to play soldier. His innocence warms our hearts and yet frightens us because we know this inexperienced young boy can't stand against Hitler's ruthless regime.Klimov's direction not only makes us sympathize with the young Florya, he makes us become Florya. When a bomb explodes next to Florya, the audio dampens, causing both Florya and ourselves to lose our hearing. When Florya returns back to his home village, we know just as Florya does, that his entire family has been slaughtered but we both refuse to mean it. I am sure we have all read in our history textbooks the atrocities that the Nazi party brought down upon Europe. We have watched documentaries, gone to museums, perhaps have a relative who lived through the war. But, I guarantee you, nothing will cause your blood to boil and anger to rise up in you than what you see in Klimov's "Come and See". But also, there is a more important message of hope in this film. Florya witnesses countless horrors, and he still refuses to lie down. This film reminds all of us of that (as cliché as it may sound) evil prevails where good people fail to act.
Recently I have read the book of Alexander Dukov "What Soviet people fought for". I think this book will never be issued in the West. I think Europeans (not only Germans) killed 15-20 millions civil people in the Soviet Union, including 5-7 millions children. But some children survived, like Flera and here is their recollections, I took from the book of Dukov.Me and my father drove on the cart, then he stopped horse and told me «I must take a look». Germans killed his cousin near that place. So, he walked into the forest and I followed him. Suddenly my father turned to me, trying to not show me the grave: «Do not go farther. You should not». I am only noticed, that the water in the creek was red and crows flied up<U+0085> There was so many crows, that I shouted<U+0085> And my daddy can not eat for several days. And if he spotted crow, then he run home and he was all trembling, just like he had some fever... Nina Yaroshevich, 9 years old«German truck stopped near our home. I think it was made not intentionally, but because of some fault with the truck. Soldiers got into our home and send me and my grandma away and they compelled my mother to help them... Night fell and it was dark. Suddenly my mom breaking into the room, took me by the hand and run from home. Our yard is empty, and we did not know, where we can hide. And we crawled under the truck They came from home after us, but they did not find us. Mom was lying on me and I heard her teeth clattering... In the morning we returned to our home, after Germans leaved it. We entered home and found our grandma on the bed. She lied, tied to it<U+0085> Naked! Grandma... My grandma... I shouted in fear and mom expelled me from home. And I shouted and shouted and can not stop...» Luda Andreeva, 5 years oldThey took 13 children, everyone they managed to find and set us in the head of the convoy because they were afraid of the mines, set by partisans. We walked and they ride after us on tracks. If they need water, they send one of us. Boys were not afraid, but girls cried. I remember it was early spring and we were barefoot<U+0085> Germans walked around the village, entering all homes in turn and they herd all parents, they suspected that thy have children fighting as partisan... And they behead them in the center of the village... They ordered: «Look». They did not find anyone in one house and they caught and hanged their cat. It pouched like little child». Luba Alexandrovich, 11 years oldThere were 6 persons in our home: grandma, mom, my olden brother, me and my two younger brothers... I looked in the window and found that they were heading to our neighbors. Me and one of my brothers run into the mud room and fasten the door by hook. Then we sat on to the chest near our mother. The hook was feeble and German broke it in one moment. He overstep the threshold and shoot at us salvo fire. I had not time even to discern, is he young or old. All of us fell onto the floor and I fell behind the chest... When I came back to consciences, I feel something dropping on me<U+0085> It was dropping and dropping, just like water. I raised my head and found that it was my mother's blood and mom is lying killed. I crawled under the bed and all the floor was covered by blood. And I was wet of blood... Leonid Sivakov, 6 years oldThey did not shoot outdoors, they entering homes. We stayed near the window, watching: — Here they go, to shoot Aniska... — They finished with Aniska family, and coming to aunt Anfisa... And we stayed, waiting, when they will come to us. We do not cried, no one of us. We just stayed... I remember, how my mothers hair burned and napkins of my little brother... We crawled from them with my olden brother, in to the yard, then – in to the bushes, in our kitchen garden. And only there I started to cry....» Tonya Rudakova, 5 years old«I saw something, the human being can not see. He must not... The previous night someone throw the train off the rails and in the morning Germans put the people, who worked on railway on the rails and set another train to go on them<U+0085> I watched, how they knocked children from the hands of their mothers by bayonet and throw them into the well... I watched our neighbor's dog crying. It sat on the ashes left of their home. All alone...» Yura Karpovich, 8 years oldWe lived in the Mehovaya village in Orel region. They took us from there and make move afoot to Byelorussia. They punch us from one concentration camp to another. When Germans wanted to take me to Germany, my mom made a false belly for her and gave me my little brother. So they crossed me out of their list... There were children, torn by dogs. We just sat over the one such baby and wait, when he or she stop breathing. Then we cover baby by snow and here is the grave until next spring... And we go to the next baby, to check is he still alive or not...» Anya Pavlova, 9 years old


                
This is one of the first films that truly shocked and scared me, as it is really terrifying in its plain brutality and stark portrayal of the second world war from a very human perspective. The shell shock scenes are some of the most poignant that I can remember seeing.An excellent but harrowing film, highly recommended.


                
"Come and See" is unique in style, particularly the use of sound, as in the first half of the film when the boy is shell-shocked and deafened and hears a surreal mixture of the natural world and his own thoughts and memories. It was haunting to say the least, especially as it is counterpointed by an idyllic interlude with the girl in the forest before the Nazis arrive in earnest.  What is not unique about the film is its "How bad were the Nazis?" portrayal of the casual evil of atrocity and murder.  It is shocking even as it is trite, the horrendous violence that was perpetrated with an almost incomprehensible and unanimous joy.  The whole world seems unable to get enough of the recreation of this time of plague of human evil, even after 60 years, and some things should never be forgotten, the sacrifice and nobility of the martyrs and resisters especially.  "Come and See" has plenty of that spirit, of the outnumbered rag-tag Russian fighters, and its nationalist pride is understandable.  But it is the nihilistic, crushing aspect of war, no matter who the combatants, that make this and all films about war so meaningful, regardless of the historical setting.


                
Belarusian boy is thrust into the atrocities happening during World War II, fighting with a hopelessly unequipped Soviet resistance movement against ruthless German forces. Witnessing scenes of abject terror and surviving horrifying situations, he loses his innocence and then his mind.......Come And See is one of those films that is essential viewing, but you will never want to experience it again, much like our protagonists experience throughout the duration of this movie.The film has a heavy sense of dread from the word go, and to say its uncomfortable viewing isn't justifying the films content. It's a harrowing portrayal of war, and every single frame of this film is haunting to the point of it potentially damaging the viewer.But it's not the on screen atrocities that affect the viewer, it's also a terrifying aural experience too. Dogs barking, strange Polka music, laughter whilst killing, and a strange buzzing sound depicting deafness assaults the senses as much as the visuals.The final third is almost unbearable to watch, but what I found really disturbing was the use of the actors looking into the camera, right at you, as almost to say, 'are you seeing this?'. When Floyra first meets Glasha properly, they are both crying, but then the crying turns to laughter, almost maniacal laughter, and it reminded me of a piece I saw at the Tate Modern, two faces saying the same words, but in ever going states of emotion.It's not an easy film to watch, and some may even call it propaganda, but unlike some exploitation films that are unbearable on the verge of offensive, this is an important piece of cinema, it really puts you in the middle of a losing battle, knowing that major atrocities are happening all around you, but all you can do is watch.It's a beautiful piece of cinema, everyone should seek it out, but I have no intention of seeing it again.Heartbreaking.
Come and See comes off almost like a post-apocalyptic film, far more than what you typically may associate with a world war two spectacle. Of course director Francois Truffaut once said that you can't make a war film as 'anti'-war because of the excitement of the violence. Aside from many other examples refuting this, Come and See isn't simply anti-war, that would be too easy. Director Elem Klimov (in what turned out to be his final film) lays on the brutality and the barbarism so thick and with such force and magnified wrath that you'll never want to watch another war film as long as you live - and really, how can you go back to watching a regular ol' shoot-em-up-let's-kill-bad-guys war flick after this? You're basically put in the position as the audience member of the main character, the boy Florya (Kravchenko), and you are witness to see ALL of the devastation that the Nazis levy on the Belarussians. In other words, if you find this 'exciting', you may need to check your head.I should note the filmmakers don't go right away into the horror and death. They do give a few moments at the start to show how Florya gets into this - he gets brought on to fight in the army (against his mother's wishes, and at this point Florya hasn't gone through anything yet to feel either way about it). He gets left behind by the troop to guard the base, what little there is, and we get a moment to know this character alongside a young woman named Glasha (Mironova). It feels like from this scene the doom is already pending - what do these two have really, at this moment, but each other - and characters address the camera head-on (think how Demme does it), and it's startling. But then come the bombs and explosions. For a good long while, Florya thinks he's deaf. It's just the beginning of his troubles.No family (all dead), no hope, no future except for the struggle to survive. If one weren't thinking that this was set so squarely in 1943 Eastern Europe, one might confuse the backdrop as the bleakest post-apocalyptic drama ever made; The Road looks nearly weak by comparison to Come and See. Florya, as played by this actor, spends practically most of the rest of the film in a state of shell-shock - it also appears he's ages older as it goes on, looking like an old man by the moment he plugs bullets into a particular painting - and while it may not allow for the greatest 'character development' or whatnot (and early on a scene where he's cleaning a pot that'll be used to cook meat by the troops is a little on-the-nose metaphorically), we're with this kid all the way. He's meant to be us, and really if there's any purpose to something as unrelentingly bleak and punishing as this film it's to get us to feel SOMETHING from scene to scene.And what makes the film so effective in large part is that the filmmaker doesn't, much as he can, look away from destruction with the stedicam. Shots can go on for a while if you got a good guy behind leading away on the camera, and in Come and See the epic vision of apocalypse comes thanks to a composition that doesn't waver to another cut when it doesn't have to. By following along we get caught up more in the action (think back to The Shining, which was another film that masterfully utilized the stedicam for such an effect). And what happens because of this is that when it comes time for the filmmakers to really unleash it all - a sequence that seems to last a half an hour in the second half of the film, where the Nazis gather up a village and, well, guess what Nazis do - the effect is tumultuous.I had the feeling near the end of almost, just a tiny bit, being exploited by the filmmakers; not that I was looking for a ton of nuance with, you know, foot soldiers of a Jew-hating mass-murderer like Hitler, but the tone is so relentless in what it's set after it leaves little room by to be distraught. I found myself saying out-loud more than once, "Jesus Christ!" One may want to criticize a young actor like Kravchenko for having the same pained expression through much of the film, but can you blame him? Is it even acting after a certain point? The soundtrack, too, I should mention, adds to the uneasiness and surreal nightmare of the production, making moments like crawling through mud or watching a cow's last moments via its eyeball all the more horrific - it even brings in some Mozart, at one point sort of (I think) ironically, and then by the end it's just good ol' Requiem.Come and See is not something you'll "Want" to watch, but as something to "Need" to watch, it's not dishonest about its intentions. It doesn't wave false patriotism, and through all of the images of the Nazi machine in the final reel (most notably a black and white montage of backwards propaganda film), this could be any people being subjected to murder and warfare. I don't know when I'd watch it again, but I'm glad I did for its artistry and the simple fact that it shows what 'Things That Go Boom' *really* do to people . 9.5/10


                
es all good mang, send it to all you know if u want da best, here it is es all good mang, send it to all you know if u want da best, here it ises all good mang, send it to all you know if u want da best, here it ises all good mang, send it to all you know if u want da best, here it ises all good mang, send it to all you know if u want da best, here it ises all good mang, send it to all you know if u want da best, here it ises all good mang, send it to all you know if u want da best, here it ises all good mang, send it to all you know if u want da best, here it ises all good mang, send it to all you know if u want da best, here it ises all good mang, send it to all you know if u want da best, here it ises all good mang, send it to all you know if u want da best, here it ises all good mang, send it to all you know if u want da best, here it ises all good mang, send it to all you know if u want da best, here it ises all good mang, send it to all you know if u want da best, here it is


                
What a stunning film.. Brutal, ever so realistic, a long painful glance through the eyes of the casualties and victims of the Third Reich's evil, ultimately naive inhumane campaign of annihilation in the East. To witness a boy age visibly and lose his innocence and mind faced with such madness, hysteria and desperation was disturbing and touching and forged an empathy with the protagonist from start to end. A tribute to the true warriors and brave partisans who opposed the onslaught of the delusional evil nation, once you savour this highly underrated masterpiece, you won't want to ever waste your time again with all the omnipresent, mainstream "glammed up" surreal cinematic fodder. This is right up there, nestled amongst my top 10 films of all time..superb.


                
I saw this movie in TV sometime in the late 80's. Never dared near it since. The most harrowing war movie of all time.


                
My Rating : 9/10THIS IS THE REAL THING! (Not Saving Private Ryan).Apocalyptic. Visceral. Horrific. Powerful. Emotional. Poetic. Expressionistic.These are just some of the words and feelings that come to mind when I think of 'Come and See' - the title is taken from the Book of Revelation.The destruction caused by wars as you've never seen before, from a different point of view. Often counted in the list of ONE OF THE GREATEST WAR FILMS EVER MADE.


                
