A man seeks answers about life, death, and the existence of God as he plays chess against the Grim Reaper during the Black Plague.That fooled me.The movie is not that interesting. Some people might analyze each and every scene and dialog and come up with their own interpretations of what Bergman wanted to say. Jacksh*t.Now usually i love such kind of movies. I am not a fan of commercial craps like fast and furious or the recent man of steel. I am a sucker for good stories, script and character development but this movie had nothing.The dialogs were so darn lame a 14 y.o. could have written them. The pace was so slow the movie felt more like 150 minutes instead of its 90 minute run time.This is the second Bergman film i have viewed, the first being Persona which i also felt was overrated but at least kept me interested and concerned with it all along.I am sure this guy knew his movies but one doesn't make movies only for their fans but for a wider audience. How could you call this guy an artist. All he ever does is try to make a deep engrossing movie that asks its viewers certain important questions about life and the idea of a god but what he ends up making is a sh*t sandwich that should never be viewed under any circumstances.1/10


                
I truly love black and white films and this is certainly one of the best. One of the best looking, that is. Yeah, lots of really cool looking images but they just don't add up to anything. "The Seventh Seal" is the very definition of what's known today as "Independent Film". It looks good enough that people believe that there just has to be some substance floating around in there somewhere, but I'll be darned if I'll ever be able to point any of it out. Because of Bergman's recent death, I once again had a chance to see it on TCM. And once again I barely made it past the "famous" opening scene with Death playing chess on the beach. I finally do have one thing figured out though. The opening scene is the best known scene from the film because hardly anyone can get beyond it. Oh sure, the Black Leather Art Crowd will tell you they watched the whole film, but don't believe it. They watch that stupid Death plays chess on the beach scene, rate the film a "10" and then post a glowing review here on IMDb to prove they know art when they see it! When it comes to Bergman films though, I'm simply too stupid to "get" them. So please don't flame me for my obviously ignorant opinion. After all, my misguided views DO give the whole artsy black leather wearing community someone to shake their collective heads at while muttering "He just DOESN'T get it!" BTW, there's a great parody of the chess scene in "Bill and Ted's Bogus Journey" with Death challenging the boys to a game of Battleship. Very funny indeed.


                
When I read the plot of The Seventh Seal years years before, I sured that when I get a chance to watch it, I would be definitely impressed. The idea of playing chess with death is very inventive, brilliant, but if you put it in a good story. Ingmar Bergman was the best director to do that in the best way, but this time, impossible to accept, he could not turn the idea to good account. The movie's content is not about playing chess with death, this is very important. This is just a sub story. Yes, the film is not about the fellowship of two chess players anyway, but when I read the man who plays chess with death, I supposed that the story would be like: one day, a crusader encounters death. Death requires a chess game, if the man wins, he is set free, if the death does, the man dies. The chess game continues for months and till the game ends, his questions about life, death and God are answered. In the end, the man loses. The whole movie focuses on this deadly chess game with certain intervals. In these intervals, you also can show us the villagers who are suffered from plague. It might sound weird, but this had been my expectation. After the first thirty minutes, the story is scattered, collapsed, then we loose our attention, because the movie changes its route. As a result of this, the potential of the story gets out of hand. We are forced to forget the crusader, the crusader's situation. Bergman is not interested in this character enough and also the chess game that seems the heart of the movie, but it is not and it should have been. The chess game cannot be named as a metaphor, because, this is not the point, thus the image which the man who plays chess with death exists as just an image. The crowd make a celebration, they start to sing a song, there is a husband and wife, I mean we see pictures desultory from each other. Those pictures are like theater, but in contrast, not dramatic, not impressive at all. This is the story of 'black death' more, not death. As for direction, only one sentence can summarize the film: the way of storytelling is not powerful. By the way, the crusader encounters the death and the death says I am death, look at the reaction of him; nothing. He is like OK, what's that to me? Sorry, but the name of this is not art. It is stressed that he is a nihilist? However, it looks unconvincing at the end. This is not so important, but this scene deserves to be dramatic. I watched The Virgin Spring and Smultronstallet after The Seventh Seal in order to rehabilitate and I did. Lastly, almost everyone writes the same thing: the film questionnaires the meaning of life, death, faith and the existence of God. Some films have a repetitious sentence and The Seventh Seal's sentence is this. Another commonly used word for the film is symbolism. I cannot give a movie 10 out of 10 owing to only its symbols and themes.


                
I will keep this as short as possible - Boring. Do not waste your time watching this rubbish. Seriously, I can not think of one good thing about this movie.I am not going to waste time by going through the details of this movie which where bad because I would be here all day. I'll tell you why people rate this thrash though, this movie is yet another case of 'The Emperors new clothing', it makes the movie Citizen Kane look entertaining or somewhat interesting in comparison. At least Citizen Kane used (at the time) innovating cinematography. This has zilch going for it. i bet you people only say they rate it because they are afraid of looking like philistines by the snobs, who I doubt even watched the full 90 minutes - And I don't blame them.DO NOT WATCH.


                
It actually pains me to give this film a rating of 1/10. It truly deserves a negative number of stars. I did see a lot of potential, but it was simply not executed well. Most of the film is not at all interesting and the exciting scenes of interaction between Block and Death are very few and far between. I suspect that had I been high on every drug known to man during the time when I watched this, it probably would have been good. Perhaps I am not enough of a hipster/artist in order to truly enjoy this. I just thought I should post my response since I felt misled by the reviews, which were overwhelmingly positive. Also, I had issues with the quality of the film itself which repeatedly stalled and became pixilated. This did not affect my review in anyway, however, I want to give a heads up to all the Netflix users out there because I know that I am not the only person who had an issue with the quality of this film. Don't waste your time.


                
I've just finished watching this film. Well, finished watching what I can remember of this complete and utter pretentious pile of twaddle. If you want to be bored to sleep, and I certainly was, then i recommend this film. Maybe your kids are crying and you're starting to fizz a bit. Well, pop on this bad boy and they'll be out before you can, 'Black Plague'. If you want some real entertainment, why not rent Eddie Murphy's 'Boomerang' from your local library. At least you'll get a laugh and your mates won't fall asleep at your terrible choice of film. I nearly cracked my back after I woke up during this film. it's the kind of film you put on to impress a foreign lady and then both of you get drunk and realise it's just philosophising for the sake of it. I did not feel better after this film and it has kind of put me off chess as well, and any film that can do that is pretty much a no-brainer. Avoid, like the Black Plague. That's unless death wheels up to offer you a game of chess. Also, death looks too much like 'Robocop' with his mask off for me to take this film seriously. If you watch it, then enjoy your sleep. If you don't watch it? Enjoy any Eddie Murphy film you've wisely chosen instead.


                
I watched this movie after reading the synopsis which sounded very interesting. A man playing a game of chess while trying to answer philosophical questions seemed interesting enough. But boy, it was a misleading synopsis, because the movie was nothing like that at all.Firstly, this movie has no plot. It's just some random people washing up the shores of something that the movie doesn't tell you about. I'll admit that the beginning looked interesting. But then I was waiting for something to captivate me, or make me curious about what's gonna happen next. None of those. There were just more random scenes with random characters which I didn't get their names... well to be honest I didn't even got the protagonist's name. The only character whose name I got was the Death. That should tell you a lot about how this movie handles it's characters. What I love about a movie is it's characters... characters with whom I can connect, understand what they're going through and care for what they go through. Here were just random characters for whom I care little or none at all, that just died or were tortured because of religion and that should have made me feel for them or ask myself philosophical questions about existence or God?(again the movie didn't have any philosophically believing dialogue that could make me ask myself philosophical questions). No they didn't because I couldn't connect with them. It was so simplistic that maybe that is why all the critics and reviewers here say this is a great movie. Well for me just didn't work at all.PS: I don't have a problem with the movie for being old. I've seen older movies that had quality. Oh, and speaking of quality the score is very good... but that is maybe the only good thing that I found in this garbage.
After watching this film I thought, given the praises it has received, the entire production might have been out of my league intellectually --still a possibility. But even those with highly developed intellects have to examine and observe what they have been presented with in order to form opinions and draw conclusions; and, since I really didn't get much out of it the first time, I would have to watch it again. And this is not a film I would watch twice, nor wish to discuss at any length, since I don't feel my life will be enriched by understanding it better. I found it irreligious. I found it to bear a very heavy one-sided agenda. And, now that it's behind me, I don't care to look back.Had Bergman not proven himself already before writing and directing this dark tale, I seriously doubt anyone would have been knocking his door down to produce it. Unlike what many others say, I also found the cinematography lacking, the score at best forgetable, and the lighting as amateurish as a home movie.Let me add that I have great faith in God and His Son, Jesus Christ, so that definitely affected the way I reacted to this movie. I wish I could understand fully those who do not believe or have faith; but, regardless, what I can say to them is, unless you consider yourself a true intellectual, I would recommend other ways to explore the meaning of life since this film definitely doesn't reach the heights it aims to reach. And, if you want to see a beautiful movie written by Bergman, see Best Intentions, a fine film about his parents and their life before he was born.


                
Oh my God!I watched this movie a few days ago and I think this is the worth movie I've ever seen. I can't believe that someone gave a 10 to this S*it! Awful! And I can't believe that only 883 people gave 1. In my opinion everyone have to give a 1 to this film. Here is my list about the movie:Actors: Not bad! 10/7 Story: Play chess with the death?? I'm notstupid 10/3 The best scene of the film: the end credits--I was so happywhen it's ended.I hope that I will never again see a movie (Is that a movie? I think that's more like s*it)like this. And finally here is a little joke for you: -Where do horses live? -In neigh-borhoods


                
this is one of the worst movies i have ever seen. i watched this with high expectations years back since it was rated incredibly high(above 8.5 i think). but it turned out to be crazy boring. BORING, LET ME SAY IT ONCE MORE B-O-R-I-N-G. oh my gosh, this movie was so boring i was stunned, i mean, oh my gosh. OK so there was a plague in Europe in ancient times, what of it? it's like the director is an opera director and is having trouble adapting the thing on film, hello, you're suppose to make the film interesting and emotional. horrible horrible. i get it, people are falling like flies during the black plague, is there anything else you want to show? death? a guy with a black robe? DON'T WATCH THIS, PLEASE DON'T. horrible! nothing happens, absolutely nothing.
