Middle Ages: Antonius Blok, a Swedish knight, returns from the Crusades only to find his country dying of the plague, religious fundamentalists taking over and Death himself wanting him to come along. Antonius challenges Death to a game of chess and is meanwhile driven to desperation because of the absence of God. This description sounds like a very serious, philosophical and dour film, and actually it is serious, philosophical and dour; but there is also a little warmth, hope and humor, maybe not for Antonius, but for the viewer.When Blok and Death interrupt their game of chess (due to the plague, Death is very busy), he meets two actors, Jof and Mia, with their little son, the most human characters of the film, and I don't think it's a coincidence that there names sound very much like Joseph and Mary. These people may be a little dim, but they are good at heart and you can see the happiness in Antonius' eyes when he is together with them for the first time.
But the main aspect of Ingmar Bergman's arguably best film are Antonius Blok's grim encounters, as the young girl about to be burnt at the stake, as a scapegoat for the plague. And the haunting image of a huge crowd of flagellants interrupting a play of Jof and Mia and trying to convince the crowd thery are doomed; hardly any other film is that direct in asking controversial and essential questions about God, religion and mankind as The Seventh Seal.Another reason for the impact this almost 50-year-old film has still today is the acting: Max von Sydow's face always seems to reflect what Antonius Blok is thinking, Nils Poppe's performance as the naive actor and caring father is priceless and Bengt Ekerot's Death became a part of film history and survived all its spoofs (the best one being in Woody Allen's tremendously funny "Love and Death"). But the best performance is done by Gunnar Björnstrand as Antonios Blok's misogynist squire, dryly commenting all their encounters even in the face of death.The Seventh Seal is not subtle in raising it's questions, that's for sure. But it makes you think about these questions nevertheless. It's disturbing and grim most of the time, but at the end it gives you the hope that it might become better.
Antonius Block - "Who are you?" Death - "I am Death." Antonius Block - "Have you come for me?" Death - "I have long walked by your side." Antonius Block - "So I have noticed."The Seventh Seal, considered by some to be Ingmar Bergman's greatest achievement, is the desperate prayer of a sensitive, introspective, and insightful young man confused by the horrors of the world around him. Ingmar Bergman's films are often very deep, full of symbolism, philosophy, spirituality, emotion, and thought. The Seventh Seal is classic Bergman. Expressing his fear of life with no meaning, death with no understanding, and faith with no validity, Ingmar Bergman takes us deep into the well of his mind.As the Black Plague ravages the world, a Antonius Block and his squire, Jons (Max Von Sydow and Gunnar Bjornstrand, respectively), return from fighting in the Crusades. They find their homeland devastated by the plague, their countrymen mad with fear, and their cause lost. Antonius Block is confronted by Death (Bengt Ekerot). Block challenges Death to a game of chess to provide him time to seek answers to the questions that plague his mind as Death has plagued his country. Death accepts, knowing that Block cannot escape his fate, and the two begin their game. As the story continues, Block and Jons meet with several testaments to the agony that the Black Death has brought upon their land. They find a young girl who is to be burned at the stake for having been with the Devil. They find madness in the eyes of all they meet, as everyone is convinced that God is angry and is punishing the world with the plague. They also find a small group of travelling actors, who appear to be the only souls to have remained sane in the midst of all of the death and fear. Block and Jons move across the countryside in the hopes of finding safety in Block's castle, but Death is always around the corner, biding his time.Brilliantly conceived, and stunningly executed, Bergman's vision is brought to the screen through Gunnar Fischer's powerful cinematography creating images that will likely remain with you for the rest of your life. Strong performances from everyone involved bring humanity to the film. Max Von Sydow's brave and conflicted Antonius Block matching wits with Bengt Ekerot's sinister, omnipotent Death is a microcosm of the forces at work in this breath-taking interpretation of the mortal struggle.A masterpiece!


                
One thing that can be certain after watching the Seventh Seal, outside of being thankful for living in this century, is that Bergman knows his film-making- and imagery.  He uses subliminal and not so subliminal techniques to convey a dying, frightened world, where making a living is almost impossible and the debate of god's control over life is discussed like un-rhyming yet fascinating poetry. The result is beautiful cinema, capturing the always foreboding fear and allure of the almighty and for the waiting death, appropriately staged in post-crusades, mid dark age Europe.  Max Von Sydow gives an excellent showing as the opponent of Death (in a clever and meticulous chess game), yet the character of Death, played by Bengt Ekerot with chilling conviction, steals the show, if only for the alluring quality of the character. 
Even if the story veers it veers in good and interesting territory, focusing on people who convey Bergman's point and or style.  I can't reveal what the bottom line point is (many newcomers to Bergman's work won't either, especially if you're not in the mood for soul searching), but one thing is for certain, an allegory on life and death is shown perfectly in the second to last shot of the reaper and his minions following in a dance across the field.  This is one of the most pure of cinema's masterpieces and certainly Bergman's best cine.  A++


                
What makes The Seventh Seal - an apocryphal and uncompromising fable of medieval Sweden - one of the masterpieces of Cinema ? Ingmar Bergman creates a believable world of dark happenings, wherein Death can play chess with a Knight, witches burn at the stake, with flagellants, and plague ever present. Through superb black and white images, each carefully composed for maximum effect, sets and costumes, his fine actors seem to truly inhabit this frightening world. Max von Sydow, Gunnar Bjornstrand, and Bengt Ekerot lead a marvelous cast. But its not all doom and gloom, as the Knight tries to determine in his quest, the meaning of life, and if God exists at all. There are moments of sheer happiness and peace, such as the sequence of the milk and strawberries at dusk, and a number of bawdy comic moments throughout the film. Which balances the darker side. It is unforgettable and I still remember seeing it on its first release, being stunned by the quality of the photography, and the performances. A restored version on DVD is recommended. Bergman is one of the great film makers of our time. Seldom today do we see such precise and considered images on the screen. Not to be missed.


                
A compelling contemplation of death and the nature of Man's existence, Ingmar Bergman's `The Seventh Seal' is uncompromising, riveting drama that is every bit as striking conceptually as it is philosophically.  In the Fourteenth Century a knight, Antonius Block (Max von Sydow), and his squire, Jons (Gunnar Bjornstrand), have returned after ten years away at the Crusades to their native Sweden, and are beginning their journey home.  For Block, it is a pensive time; he is troubled by what he perceives as God's silence, and thirsts for knowledge and some meaning to his life, as well as a resolution of faith, which has deserted him.  Jons, meanwhile, is a study in jaded indifference, who believes in nothing beyond the present and whatever his senses and current circumstances dictate.  Shortly after their arrival on the coast of Sweden, Death (Bengt Ekerot) comes for Block.  But Block strikes a bargain with him, challenging him to a game of chess, to be played as they continue on with their journey.  As long as Block prevails, they will go on; if he wins, he will be released.  And though Block knows what the outcome must inevitably be, he welcomes Death's acceptance of his challenge, for the game affords him perhaps enough time to fulfill his quest, while adding purpose to what promises to be an arduous trek through a land being ravaged by the Black Plague. 	Von Sydow brings a commanding presence to the screen as Block, his very countenance bespeaking strength and poise.  His subtle, stoic approach to this enigmatic character is captivating, and lends a depth and dignity that makes Block truly memorable.  By contrast, Jons' strength seems born of his indifference; he takes things as they come, and is governed by a somewhat fatalistic philosophy.  Bjornstrand, a gifted, eloquent actor (and veteran of numerous Bergman films), invests an earthy, gritty quality to Jons that plays effectively opposite von Sydow's more ethereal portrayal of Block.  It is significant that in the closing scene the final speech, in the presence of Death, is accorded to Jons; for it elevates the character to a station equal to, if not surpassing, that of the protagonist, Block. 	The supporting cast includes Nils Poppe (Jof), Bibi Andersson (Mia), Inga Gill (Lisa), Gunnel Lindblom (Girl), Anders Ek (The Monk), Ake Fridell (Plog) and Erik Strandmark (Skat).  Written and directed by Bergman, `The Seventh Seal' is a thought provoking, earnest meditation on faith and mortality that is filled with stunning metaphoric and visual images that will forever be indelibly inscribed in your memory.  One scene in particular, in which the players link hands and, silhouetted against a twilight sky are led by Death in a dance across the crest of a distant hill, is breathtaking in it's simplicity.  It stands (as does this entire film) as an example of why Ingmar Bergman is one of the greatest directors in the history of the cinema.  I rate this one 10/10.


                
Seventh Seal (1957) is one of my favorite movies. I have to rank it up there with A Touch of Zen, Seven Samurai and Battleship Potemkin. If there ever was such a thing as a perfect film, this one would have to be a nominee. I've never seen such a picture (and I probably never will) that was so moving, well shot, written, acted and directed. The chess game between the knight and death is an all-time classic. Words cannot describe how great this film is. There will never be another one like it. Truly amazing piece of celluloid.A knight and his squire are returning home from the crusades. For the past few years he's been in the middle east fighting for Christ. On his trip home he notices a familiar face, one that he has seen many times on the battlefield. It is death and it wants him to come with him to his new home. The knight strikes a bargain with death, they'll play a game of chess if he can defeat death then he'll spare his life as well as the squire's. Death is amused by this unusual challenge and accepts it. But as long as the game is on the life will continue to live. So he uses this time to look back at life and realizes how precious it is. Along the way he meets a young couple, they're from a performing troupe. They have a baby and are content with life. The husband has visions and can see interesting things like the Virgin Mary and little Jesus. He can also see the darkness that lies ahead as Black Death ravages the countryside. Will the knight defeat Death? Can the couple weather the storm of chaos that lies ahead? To find out you'll have to watch The Seventh Seal, one of the finest films ever made.If Bergman never made another film this one would have made him a legendary film maker. But he continued to make even more classic cinema. This one however is his finest work.My highest recommendation possible.


                
Spoilers herein.Bergman is much loved because of his sheer passion, its intimate rawness and the ability to present it visually. He was able to sustain that uncomfortable ability for decades, but this film also has something else -- unique in his work -- a particularly complex narrative architecture.Ordinary stories are just there, with no recognition of being told: but those are remarkably uninteresting. Nearly everything worth reading, hearing or seeing has some sort of the recognition of telling, often by putting the telling explicitly in the story as in `Hamlet.' Sometimes it gets turned on its head when the telling element becomes the focus, as in `Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.'But here that notion of one fold in space becomes seven. The story we see is: a game, a collection of visions, a mural, a book of the Bible, a performance by players, an obsessive religious ritual, and the movie itself (the seventh seal). Each encapsulates the other. We have seven characters that advocate or represent each of these, apart from the `crusade' of real life.This is so complex and so finely woven it changed the entire world. Everything that came after sees it as perhaps an unwelcome spectral visitor, perhaps a template (see `Ninth Gate'), perhaps as a stack of parts from which one borrows. But everyone sees it and is changed.My favorite working filmmaker is Greenaway. He says of this, that when he saw it, he knew he had to be a filmmaker. I believe most of us who actually see this will be similarly changed. Bergman was never able to weave as fine a narrative lace again.
I first saw this movie when I was 15. I didn't get it, although I still thought it was amazing. Every scene stands out, but I was really blown away by one showing a procession of flagellants, whipping themselves while a priest shrieks at them, telling them they're worthless sinners, damned to hell. If Brueghel had been born in the 20th century, and made movies instead of painting, maybe this is what he would have created.It's a deeply depressing film. The main character, a knight home from the Crusades, tries to find God. In the end, he learns there is no God, only death. The only happy person in the movie is Jof, and the only time the knight finds any comfort at all is when he contemplates the family life that Jof enjoys. The movie hits you over the head with the message that God will never be found because he is not there. We cannot escape death. All we can do is have children and hope to live on through them.
I remember seeing this for the first time in Los Angeles and emerging from the theater shocked, scared, and thrilled, as if I'd just viewed my first autopsy. There had never been anything like this allegory before, although there have been imitations and parodies since -- Monty Python, Woody Allen.A thoughtful knight (Max von Sydow) and his tough, cynical squire (Gunnar Bjornstrand) return from the Crusades to find their Scandinavian state in a terrible mess. The plague is sweeping the land. The plagues all seem far away now, but one of them knocked off about a third of the population of Europe. That would be more than a hundred million Americans today. The deaths were horrible.Death comes for the knight and squire, dressed in a black cloak and hood, with a pasty white face. (Only Ingmar Bergman could pull of a cliché like that.) Death is proud of his talent at playing chess and agrees to the knight's challenge to play a game over the next couple of days. If the knight wins, he goes free, and if Death wins, the knight goes with him. Of course, at the end of the game of life, the same player always wins. Or, as Walsh McDermott put it in a slightly different context, "the dice of the gods are loaded."Along the way, the knight and squire pick up some fellow travelers, including a family of cheerful itinerant players, a blacksmith and his unfaithful wife, and a young lady of the village who may or may not be retarded. They witness flagellants parading through a village lashing themselves and lugging crosses made of heavy logs, smothered in smoke from swinging iron censers. They watch an insane girl burned at the stake for a witch. Some of the incidents are comic, some are violent, all are revelatory. You know, kind of like real life.What a movie. It begins with a vulture almost stationary against an overcast, and it ends with a dance of death. In between Death saws down a tree in which a man is trying to hide. We see the trunk fall and the camera fixes on the raw white stump, then a squirrel with hairy ears leaps onto the stump and begins to chatter. I can't imagine that you'll ever forget some of these images.But then, I don't know. "The Seventh Seal", like the Bergman films that flooded the theaters in the following years, was a product of its time. I'm not at all sure that many of today's viewers would have the patience to sit through a black-and-white movie with subtitles. In the 1960s Stanley Kaufman wrote an article predicting that future students would know the history of film the way that they had always known literary history. Twenty years later, he took it back. Maybe too much MTV, too much immediate gratification, too low a threshold for boredom. In another comment, the complaint was made that Bergman didn't supply any answers, just questions. That's an example of what I'm getting at.
"The Seventh Seal" is a fable and, as all fables, encloses an allegory and a final message. The allegory is: life on this earth is precarious, harsh, aimless. People err, fight against elements and each other, hesitate between religion and profane, look for God. The movie explores different reactions. The knight Antonius searches for a purpose, questions his faith and God. His squire Jons became atheist and cynical. The former devout Raval profits from ambient chaos with theft and violence. The silent girl is mystical, as we eventually discover. Priests impose a radical version of religion (see below). The artists enjoy a simple life.The message is: enjoy as the artists a life of love and simple pleasures. While the context is pessimistic, the ending is optimistic: Jof, Mia and their son survive and in the last image walk quietly towards the sun. Note the additional religious symbol: Jof's full name is Joseph, Mia's is Mary and their baby appears as the young Jesus. This echoes the vision Jof has the beginning of the movie, when he sees the Virgin with the Infant. The underlying point seems to be: revert to the authentic learning of Christ, do not follow religious propagandists who impose their power with fear, useless crusades, masochist rituals, purification by fire and executions.Religion is omnipresent: scary frescoes, clergy, procession, dialogues, rules and, of course, the biblical quote repeated at the beginning and the end that gives the movie its title. Death also is omnipresent: at the beginning on the beach we think Antonius and Jons are lifeless; Death appears in person; people succumb; Skat's death mask shows at different moments; in the inn there is a live pig, while a dead one roasts in the middle; when Skat seduces a woman, they eat chicken, before a live chicken appears.The artists overcome both death and the drastic version of religion. This opposition noticeably shows during the village feast. Jof and Mia stage a ludicrous and blasphemous song that is actually quite well performed and funny: we are sometimes unsure if animal noises are coming from actual animals or humans; the images of Skat seducing a plump woman, while the song unrolls, add a peculiar comical element. A religious procession then interrupts the song; a monk frightens and insults the crowd; the procession resumes. This moment constitutes one of Bergman's most powerful scenes. We are shocked by the image, impressed by the music, can almost smell the thick incense. Berman's view on this ritual is obviously negative: at the end, the procession is filmed in despising high-angle shot where characters are reduced to miniatures and shadows, then dissolved leaving an empty image on a dusty road.Conversely, the view on the artists is positive. They trigger all good moments in the movie. They are generally associated with bright lighting, while other scenes are mostly dim or hazy: the beginning on the beach; inside the church, the inn and houses; the procession; the forest; the execution at night. And even though Jof is somewhat ridiculous, he is the only one to have meaningful visions: the Virgin Mary and Death.Scenes with the artists are of simple poetic beauty, for instance at the beginning or when they share fresh milk and strawberries with the knight. All five senses are fulfilled: the food is delicious, the sun is shining, Mia says the baby and the strawberries smell good, Jof plays calm music, characters feel the evening breeze in their hair. The artists manage to expel Antonius's dark thoughts: when he asserts that "To believe is to suffer", Mia proposes strawberries and he relaxes. Dialogues are poetic: "I will remember our talk and carry this memory in my hands, as if it were a bowl of fresh milk", Antonius says as he drinks from the bowl. He is transformed after meeting the caring family. Thanks to them he eventually finds a purpose: saving them. At the end he scatters the chess pieces so Death will not notice they are going away. Probably, he even loses intentionally so Death will take his life and not theirs: he is willing to sacrifice his meaningless life for their happiness.To show he is on the artists' side, Bergman does more than exalt them: he adopts their style. Notably, the movie has a burlesque humour that resembles the artists', for instance when Skat elopes with the blacksmith's wife or when he dies. Even Death is ridiculed: it is outplayed by Antonius at chess and has to use a subterfuge in church to discover his plans; it has to physically saw the tree on which Skat is perched to kill him; it does not notice Antonius's ploy to save the family; when Antonius asks for the truth, it confesses: "I know nothing."Another illustration of the complicity with the artists: some scenes are filmed as in a play, for instance when Skat and the blacksmith argue about the latter's wife. The rest of the group is watching and commenting as for a performance.Staging the story during Middle Ages allows Bergman to inflate allegory, farce and detachment. As such, it is a unique movie in his extended filmography, and one of his best. ("The Virgin Spring", shot three years later, also is a medieval fable, but it is much darker.)Moreover, Bergman introduces references to our modern world that increase the impact of the fable. Jons says about the procession: "Is this what is offered to modern men? Do they believe we will take this seriously?" Deaths and the looming plague are references to WWII that ended just 12 years before the movie and the cold war that was at its height. There is a universal message about finding scapegoats (the alleged witch) in dire periods.Yes, we can prevail in this sombre world, provided we have love, humour and a poetic vision.
This is one amazing film, and in my view Ingmar Bergman's best. Visually, The Seventh looks wonderful, the bleak scenery adds much to the mood, the cinematography is beautifully composed and skillful and the lighting is atmospheric. It also has many memorable images like with the flagellates, the hawk flying in the cloudless sky, Jof's vision of the Virgin Mary and the milk and strawberries in the dusk. Bergman's direction is superb, Erik Nordgren's score is resolutely haunting and the dialogue is some of the most thought-provoking I've heard with some nice bawdy humour with especially the squire that doesn't feel misplaced. The story is like an allegory and meditation of life, death, love and fear(amongst other things), and it is dealt with in a very intelligent and careful manner. Again there are some timeless scenes like the ending, the scene of the girl about to be burnt, Death being challenged to a game of chess and with the jester. The acting is also exemplary, Max Von Sydow gives one of cinema's finest performances, stoic yet always commanding with a face that speaks volumes about what he's thinking. Bengt Ekerot evokes chills as Death, while Gunner Bjornstrand is suitably dry as the squire. All in all, a really amazing film, fully deserving of its reputation. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
This simple precept for this flick is confounded by the abstruse questions such a subject is forced to face. Fighting in God's name for a decade, our heroes return home only to find that death and despair have infested their homeland. The contradictory nature of man, wickedly intelligent and self-aware on the one hand, a stupid, superstitious and easily manipulated idiot on the other, is what makes the plight of our heroes so simple and yet so profound. In essence, we are asked to respond to God's silence in assured faith, a contradiction to common sense that has somehow has manacled our essence from time immemorial. What is more, this flick flirts with such conundrum by account of the simplicity of not seeking answers but instead a purpose. Indeed! This flick is at times a cacophony of relentless imagery punctuated by wonderful humor and witty dialog. The acting was simply aces on all accounts. Ingmar Bergman's direction hits the bulls eye here, crafting an impossible concept into a convincing and highly enjoyable flick that cannot help but move any human with breathe still gracing his lungs. How our players accept their fate, and the final image of that fate, leaves an indelible stain that only the commerce of celluloid could faithfully employ. Merci beaucoup.Genruk of Evil Eye Reviews


                
Welcome to my blog. It is not without reason that I have chosen this film as the first post ever, certain it will bring good vibrations our way. In any case, what a better way to start, than with a master!The Seventh Seal is Ingmar Bergman's 1956 gem of a feature. I don't think I am really suitable to give an impartial opinion on this movie, because I simply love it in an almost morbid way. Maybe because of its landscapes, barren and desolated; maybe because of its close-ups: paintings, section-views of a human's spirit; maybe because of the beauty, angelical, yet full of vitality and passion, of the female interpreters; maybe because of its hieratic stillness, alternated with the utmost dynamicity, the timeline blurring at the edges, both in the movie, and in real-time; maybe because of Antonius Block and his obsessive quest, exemplar of the struggle we face against fake spirituality, and his all-consuming receipt of the final strike of the scythe.Block is a noble knight, returning to his native Sweden after ten years spent fighting in the Crusades, with his faithful squire, who shares the same whole-heartedness, only to find a country ravaged by the Black Death, and people trying what they can to save themselves from what they think is a divine curse. We come to identify with him, and we come to love the simple goodness of Jof (Joseph) and Mia (Mary), and their symbolic role in this allegoric tale, which grabs us by the throat from the start, with the scenes of desolation in a plague-ridden Sweden. The realism of the small countryside village where the story first develops is proof of Bergman's mastery with the alternation between wider frames and close-ups, between general and particular, between society and inner individual life, and their collision, a theme dear to the Swedish master, as we can see in later films, such as Persona.But I'm digressing now. It's time for you to enjoy the show: whether it is for the first or the tenth time, I know you will...


                
This is the kind of movie that requires attention from the viewer. It is metaphoric, not about medieval times but about all human beings, at all times. The story is simple, a Knight (Max Von Sydow) coming home from the crusades to a land ravaged by the plague. He encounters death and challenge him to a game of chess. He is not really seeking to prolong his life instead he is really seeking answers. He has seen death in the crusades and he is facing more death as he comes home.The scene with the Knight and Death playing chess by the seashore is one of the most haunting scenes in this movie. There are many of them. Ingmar Bergman really pulled out all the stops to create a movie which will haunt you and at the same time make you ponder. It's not just about a Knight on a pointless game but about all human beings. The Knight represents all human being asking the same questions.The scene that affected me most is the scene when the knight arrives at a monastery and is confessing to who he thought was a monk or a priest. The questions that the knight asked are the kind of questions that we all have asked and the response that he gets is pretty much the response we will get. The movie delves into the question of mortality and the meaning of existence. Anybody who has thought about it will understand the Knight's frustration and despondency, for the answer is perhaps nonexistent. For me the brilliance of this film is that it asked the important questions early and left us with no real answers. By asking the questions, scenes in this movie are not just images but they have underlying meanings. Meanings that we the viewer then create for ourselves. What was the scene with the strawberries and milk mean? If it had any meaning at all. I find myself thinking that that scene is about joy of simple pleasure and being with pleasant people providing us with good feelings and memories that we will treasure. I have to admit I have rarely seen a movie that affected me as much as this movie. It was one of those movies I personally would like to have seen again back to back. The movies that I frequently would watch back to back were light weight stuff comedies or action films. Rarely do I wish to see serious drama again back to back.Right now I will have to admit it barely missed being in my top ten greatest films. I have a feeling that the next time I see it again I will have to move it very high.


                
As has already been stated by numerous cineasts, the Seventh Seal is a marvelous film in many respects. However I find it quite amusing that so many american observers compare it to mainstream Hollywood movies, defining it as being "...not Lethal Weapon 3!", and generally referring to the Seventh Seal as an anomaly, almost underground. As a Swedish person, though admittedly co-bombarded by american/Hollywood "culture", I see the tradition in which the test-audience screened Hollywood type movies are the epitome as a special class of movies. Investment type flicks which serve the explicit purpose of making money. The Seventh Seal on the other hand represent what real, honest movie making is all about. Something which of course Hollywood is not unable of!A am truly happy for all of you who have managed to see beyond your often highly explosive "mainstream"!


                
A knight returning from the Crusades finds a rude church still open in the midst of the Black Death, and goes to confession there. Speaking to a hooded figure half-seen through an iron grill, he pours out his heart: 'My indifference has shut me out. I live in a world of ghosts, a prisoner of dreams. I want God to put out his hand, show his face, speak to me. I cry out to him in the dark but there is no one there.' The hooded figure turns, and is revealed as Death, who has been following the knight on his homeward journey.Images like that have no place in the modern cinema, which is committed to facile psychology and realistic behavior. In many ways, Ingmar Bergman's 'The Seventh Seal' has more in common with the silent film than with the modern films that followed it. It is considered to be one of the masterpieces of cinema with its stark imagery and its uncompromising subject, which is no less than the absence of God.Films are no longer concerned with the silence of God but with the chattering of men. We are uneasy to find Bergman asking existential questions in an age of irony, and Bergman himself, starting with 'Persona', found more subtle ways to ask the same questions. But the directness of 'The Seventh Seal' is its strength: This is an uncompromising film, regarding good and evil with the same simplicity and faith as its hero.All of Bergman's mature films, except the comedies, are about his discontent with the ways that God has chosen to reveal himself. But when he made 'The Seventh Seal' he was bold enough to approach his subject in a literal manner; to actually show the knight playing chess with Death, which is a brilliant metaphor for man's attempt to defy mortality's gravity through his accomplishments, perhaps most vividly in the idea of artistic genius, the need to create a vital work which will survive the author's death. And he had the confidence to end his film, not with a statement or a climax, but with an image. "The strict lord Death bids them dance," says the young actor, directing the attention of his wife to the horizon, against which Death leads his latest victims in a macabre parade. Ingmar Bergman's dark masterpiece effortlessly sees off the revisionists and the satirists; it is a radical work of art that reaches back to scripture, to Cervantes and to Shakespeare to create a new dramatic idiom of its own.10 out of 10.


                
A fine and deep meditation on life and death. If there were more of such movies on this planet, humanity would be more than just one step closer to enlightenment. Great, fantastic, true art. If you compare The Seventh Seal with all that p.c.-crap of our present days, you see easy what kind of mediocre minds today write and make movies and fill all kinds of arts with their "output". The Seventh Seal: outstanding and best of the best - one of the few movies that I would shoot into space so aliens (not Ridley's ones of course) could watch them too ;)


                
A Bittersweet story of humanity, self sacrifice and humor set during the black death.A Knight, very young Max Von Syndow, returns from the crusades with his faithful squire in tow. They run into numerous encounters in a very changed land. The fear of God, the Devil and the black death has warped the countryside into a surreal and dangerous local.The Knight plays an ongoing game of chess with death all the time questioning his beliefs and asking question about the existence of God.I fell in love with this movie in when I was about 16. I'm twice that age now and still consider this one of my favorites.


                
Swedish director Ingmar Bergman needs no introduction at all for a cinema fanatic.It is ignominious that today's young generation is hardly aware of his great works.He will be hailed as perhaps the only genuine cinema artist whose films changed the way films are watched. Most of his films have provoked heated discussions from cinema fans regardless of the fact whether they have liked them or not.If one observes Ingmar Bergman's career closely it would be revealed that almost all of his films were based on themes which were close to his heart.No artist in the history of mankind has efficiently tackled death,faith,religion,male-female relationship,memories,suffering etc as it was done by Ingmar Bergman.Det Sjunde inseglet is one of those eclectic films which give hope,joy and trust in human faith.The Seventh Seal has been called an existentialist classic.This is true to some extent but for Bergman it was simply an affair of reaffirming his faith in the influence of religion on ordinary mortals.His influence was so great that even death had been given a human face.


                
With The Seventh Seal, Bergman is taking movie realism to whole new level, something he started with Wild Strawberries, which already was quite realistic movie if you ignore the cheesy ending, and some other bits.The movie does lack some elements which might be considered standard like no comic relief, but it is essential to leave out these elements for Bergman to achieve his vision as to what The Seventh Seal should be, a sexy, sleek, intense action movie that in should no way parallel Bad Boys or Lethal Weapon. Yes there is less action, but all the action in this movie is much more satisfying than in a ordinary movie, I don't recall seeing so realistic gunfights in any other movie. There is no real beginning or ending in this movie, the viewer is just dropped into middle of it, and it's just seamless realistic experience. No vaporous comedy.I'm not sure why there is so much hate in reviews for this movie? This movie takes you on a slow ride, a very subdued slow burn that never goes over the top. If you went expecting over the top, say like some people would think "BAD BOYS" you will fail to enjoy this film. This film makes Hollywood action films look like cartoons compared to this its dark and gritty realism - at some points I felt I was watching an uncensored episode of COPS gone bad-ass.Believe the hype, this movie deserves its high spot in the top 250.


                
"Det sjunde inseglet" (or, as the English-speaking world knows it, "The Seventh Seal") is one of those movies that doesn't have any clear purpose; in a way, it's not supposed to. More than anything else, it looks at the questions that surround people in their lives, and shows that they don't necessarily have clear-cut answers. The ever-imposing Max Von Sydow plays Antonius Block, a Swedish knight returning home after having fought in the Crusades. He and his squire Jons (Gunnar Bjornstrand) meet Death (Bengt Ekerot). The not-so-Grim Reaper is of course planning to take the men to the afterlife, but the knight makes a most unusual deal: he and Death will play chess, and he will get to stay alive as long as he wins.Whether or not Antonius wins is not the point. The movie is a philosophical look not only at how the Bubonic Plague was affecting Europe, but probably also at how certain things are always creeping up on us. The final scene affirms this, and the movie affirms Ingmar Bergman as a director unlike any other.


                
My first taste of the work of Ingmar Bergman came late last year, when I first saw The Virgin Spring.  My initial reaction to that film was one of bewilderment; being new to Bergman, I just wasn't sure what to make of it. The second Bergman film I saw was Persona; again I just didn't fully grasp the film and in my naivety, belittled the staggering work of art I now hail it as by saying that it needed to make sense.  I know understand Bergman's work a little better, and understand that The Virgin Spring was Bergman's least personal film, and one that he accepted as a director for hire. Persona on the other hand is often credited as the director's most complex and experimental film, open to interpretation and definitely not a film for all tastes.  Now I have seen my third Bergman film, the classic of art-house cinema that is The Seventh Seal.The Seventh Seal is everything a great film should aspire to be, a joy to watch from start to finish and filled with a mixture if wonderful performances and haunting images.  It was also nice to see a much more simplistic story after the mind bending Persona.  Here Bergman's key concerns are not psychological mind games and disintegrating personalities, instead he looks at the themes that would in later years become synonymous with his cannon of work, religion, and death (or waiting for death, as illustrated in Cries & Whispers as well as here).  The film follows knight Antonious Block (Max Von Sydow) and his companion Jöns as they return from the crusades.  Death has long since walked besides Block, and now the hooded figure believes it is his time to go, Block however has other ideas and challenges Death to a game of chess, if he wins, his life will be spared. This gives us the first iconic image of the film, possibly the first major iconic image of art-house film-making, as Block sits by the sea playing chess with the apparition of Death.As the film moves on, Block and his companion make their way to the nearest town, where a religious procession enter and warn the villagers of the plague.  This is another key sequence in the film, and the way Bergman films the entrance is nothing short of genius.  The cutting and camera angles (together with the naturally beautiful black and white film stock) evoke and convey the growing sense of dread that has been following our hero's from the outset.  The key theme in this film seems to be not only religion, but also loss of faith.  Antonious spends much of his time condemning the crusades for the pointless loss of millions, all in the name of god, and later it becomes more apparent that Block believes god to have abandoned him.  This truly is a classic film, and a true work of cinematic art.  10/10


                
I genuinely feel sorry for people who can only describe this film as "boring."  No, there are no explosions, car chases or sappy romantic scenes. `Lethal Weapon 3' this film is not.  But that fact is only one of the many virtues for this film!  I think that people really deny a part of their own humanity when they cannot look past the surface of things.I can't believe that any thoughtful and feeling human being who allows him or herself to recognize the passionate and profound themes in this film can help being somewhat moved by them.  If you have ever pondered questions about life deeper than "What are we having for dinner tonight?" or `Should I wear white past Labor Day?' this film is for you.  And the story is told with excellent imagery and symbolism that combines into an overwhelming experience for the senses and the intellect.Of course, some may be disturbed by the "answers" this film provides.  I guess for me, I identify strongly with Bergman's thesis, that perhaps everything we utter about what lies beyond death is a mere projection; that, in the final analysis, we know nothing.  But I also identify with the `silent protest' of the squire.One of the lines that sums up the film for me is:"I want knowledge.  Not belief.  Not surmise.  But knowledge." -- Antonious Block


                
I'm writing this review after the death of Ingmar Bergman at the age of 89. It's fitting then that I should now return to a particular work that the legendary filmmaker wrote and directed fifty years ago, which expresses in explicit and philosophical detail, his overriding fear of death, and how this particular fear is one that is has been used and exploited for centuries by the Church for it's personal and ideological gain. As a result, The Seventh Seal can be described as an abstract allegory pertaining to the notion of life and death, as an expressionist horror film rife with iconic imagery and a foreboding atmosphere of Medieval torment and savage, plague-ridden doom, or as an almost sardonic satire on the catholic church, on war, and on organised religion in general.I suppose at this point in time the film is most famous for it's central motif, in which a noble knight returning home from the crusades plays a series of chess games with the black-clad figure of death in an attempt to win back his life and return to his family. The games appear at different intervals throughout the film, which is structured episodically, taking in a scene of tranquil reflection and eventual performance from a group of travelling actors, the appearance of a religious procession marking a disease ridden town as unclean, and a scene in which a young woman is burned at the stake as a heretic. Thusly, the film is structured to become darker and more foreboding as our central character and his assistant make their way closer to home; taking the travelling actors along with them and trying to cheat death at every single turn.Even without that central motif and iconic series of shots in which the knight, Antonious Block sits cross-legged across from the grinning, white-faced visage of Death and tries desperately to best him with every trick in the book, the film would still be a completely fascinating experience from beginning to end.Speaking personally, I first saw the film at the age of 18, having already seen Bergman's more difficult films, Persona and The Hour of the Wolf. Both of these films confused, confounded and greatly irritated me on first viewing, almost turning me off Bergman before I'd even been turned on. Later, I saw the underrated Virgin Spring and my faith was somewhat restored. Regardless, I came to The Seventh Seal expecting the worst; expecting some sort of seemingly ponderous bleak essay, filled with all manner of alienating cinematic tricks and a detached quality to the writing. Instead, I found a film that told a fascinating story, had marvellous characters, and was beautifully shot, edited and scored throughout. Above all else, though; the film was entertaining. It's still as bleak as Bergman is known to be, but the story never drags, and the moral of the piece never becomes too obviously. It is simply a great film; one that I could watch again and again and still find elements to enjoy on a number of different levels.Even after my first viewing I could understand how it's legacy had endured over forty-so years; with the ideas behind the plot, the power of the imagery and the integrity of the performances creating something that is entirely universal. This isn't one of those films that you can consign to the rubbish bin marked "art house extravagance", or even as being part of the ponderous pretentious image that many people have of Bergman as the stereotypical, black beret, polo-neck wearing intellectual who crafted bleak, expressionist art dramas in retina-scorching black and white, and ladled with bursts of torturous religious guilt and searing personal angst.For me, it's one of the greatest entries into the pantheon of twentieth century cinema you could ever hope to find (and that definitely isn't hyperbole). A continually beguiling, rewarding, interesting and sympathetic drama that weaves numerous strands and sub-textual layers of personal reflection, satire, philosophy, performance and the art of cinema itself without ever becoming preachy, affected, or disappearing up its own back passage. As I said before, it is simply a GREAT film; one that should be experienced by all admires of cinema in it's purest form, and not simply as a two-hour diversion while you forget the complexities of life. The Seventh Seal, like all great works of cinema, asks its audience to approach with an open mind and to actively question the philosophical and satirical points that it raises throughout, whilst rewarding you with a great drama, with great performances, great direction and a number of seriously unforgettable images.INGMAR BERGMAN (1918-2007)
Death (as flawlessly realized by Bengt Ekerot) "plagues" Block (Max von Sydow), dogging his heels through a land being ravaged by The Black Death. When first he comes face to Pale White Face with Death, Block tries to gamble his way Out. But, try as he might to outwit Death, He will not be denied. ("He can run," Joe Louis said of Billy Conn before their first fight: "But he can't hide.") "Whichever way you turn, your backside's behind you," Block's squire offers: "That's the only Truth." (Death, at one point, literally picks up a saw and "cuts down" a man whose Time Has Come.) In the end, the Plague's the thing... (One can only wonder what a director like Werner Herzog could've done with an idea like this...)
