What could have been the best movie of the 1950s is mitigated by not sticking with what it did right. Bergman could have documented the effects of the plague on citizenry of Sweden with a harsher, more real tone and had the religious issues be discussed, but instead he reversed that, and a much weaker movie is the result. (The hideous plague is simply not established strongly enough: one corpse, while a nice quick scare, doesn't establish enough since so many other people just seem to go about their business fine, never mind that roughly one fourth of them are supposed to be dying) The extremely moody opening: waves, rocky beaches, barren, a a knight drained of strength sprawled on the beach, a great attention grabber. And then, the appearance of a dark caped, white faced man, and BANG, the movie hits a huge snag.This death character, which seems to be the most memorable aspect to the movie for most, is a grave blunder. He might resemble some folkish rendition from Swedish tales and icons, but that doesn't make him totally wrongheaded. His face makes him far too human, and too obviously an actor walking around. Concealing his face, if nothing else, until the very end to show that perhaps death is not a thing to fear, works much better, and embarrassingly, the Monty Python Meaning Of Life presents a much more interesting rendition of him, and it's their worst movie. YThis character is also far too clean: death is decay, the rot, often very slow: he shouldn't look like he just took his rob from the store this morning.Also a great problem is the fact that this totally wipes out any ambiguity: death is revealed to be a force that actually takes you somewhere, hitting the audience on the head that there is some aftrelife, as opposed to just a body that doesn't function and decomposes.A voice or a similar device would have served such purpose, since it might potentially just be the Knight's own cynicism working against him.Then the knight and Death begin playing chess. Even if you don't count the fact that Death said five seconds before they start playing that he grants no reprieves, this is a transparent McGovern, just a way for us to know that this movie has a structure and is going somewhere.More problems spring up as more characters make their way into the movie. There's the Knight's Sancho-type assistant, whose character simply isn't as interesting as Von Sydow. We get a travelling troupe, who are supposedly very important because of their biblical names, but frankly, do little more than stop the movie for a painful, irritating performance which is then paralleled with a bunch of wandering, chanting Christians in a scene so staged and pompous it seems to be begging for you to be glib about it. There's Odious comic relief in the shape of a woodsman and his cheating wife, which just goes to show, as good as Bergman is, the man is not capable of putting comedy on screen.There is one subplot that struck me as really powerful: the girl said to be a witch who will be executed. Here is more of Bergman showing the skill that he is so famed of: we (well, certainly I) pitied the girl, and the fact the Knight doesn't seem interested in her except as someone to ask questions makes him seem more like a cold, layered human than just a whining agnostic. She is the only one who doom is believably hanging over her head.If only Bergmna had made more of the movie in this vein....
I just laugh out loud when I read national critics gushing over Swedish film director Ingmar Bergman and his films, particularly this one which they love to label "his greatest work." Do you know why? It's because Bergman liked to show God and Bible believers in a negative light. Since almost all critics are Liberals, they love this kind of thought so, like Martin Scorcese, he can do no wrong. It's as simple as that.Basically, this story is nothing but one man's diatribe against faith, and why the man lost it. He lost it - get this - because God didn't audibly answer his prayers. Since he didn't hear a booming voice from a burning bush answering his prayers then, he surmises, there must be no God. Unbelievable. Anyway, all of this sounds good to atheist/agnostic film critics. However, I believe Bergman might have been more of a believer than he let on because God was a topic in a number of his films. At least, he was wrestling about His existence, and that's not unusual. Too bad that in none of his films does he come up with a pro-God answer.Even if all the "religious" talks means nothing to you, I think most people would find this film way too boring so the entertainment value is not going to be there. For honest questioners of Faith and those who would find the visuals and direction intriguing, I have no problem with it. I just think it's overrated because of the reasons I stated above, and the fact it IS a boring movie with unappealing characters.


                
I sat through three other films by Ingmar Bergman: the girl in The Virgin Spring was a spoiled brat; the old man in Wild Strawberries was a whiny fart; the adults in Fanny and Alexander were selfish a**holes! Yet the critics' were beside themselves, Bergman had so defty tapped into their egos. Hence, every time Iggy took a dump, the critics raved like a bunch of Pavolvian dogs!So when Death, looking like a Marilyn Manson fan, makes his grand entrance, I wasn't expecting any profound insights from Iggy, and I wasn't disappointed:Block: Who are you?Death: I am Death. (duh!)Despite his claim that he is "quite skillful" at chess, The Grim Reaper blows chunks. "Beating" Block centuries before "The Mad Queen"? LOL! And his "I'm just doing my job" shtick when asked about the Divine was a total cop-out! When Block didn't bitch-slap Grimmy and give him a weegie, I knew I was in for a long night!The confession scene was a hoot! Block whines about how God doesn't answer him, wishes he could purge Him from his heart. Now you know the "monk" is Death, but because Iggy isn't half the filmmaker he thinks he is, he lets us in on it before Block (who's a few fries short of a Happy Meal to begin with) realizes whom he just blabbed his "brilliant" chess strategy to!If Block not trying to save the girl was supposed to get us to relate to his world-weariness, sorry, all it did was make me lose all empathy for him. Block's filthy, God-hating sidekick is the real hero of this opus. In his one act of heroism (unintenional, I'm sure), he saves a girl from the man who talked Block into going on the Crusades (huh?), then tells her that she better come with him because he hopes his wife is dead by now and he could have just raped her! How sweet!Jof was just weird, and not because he has a vision of Mary teaching her Baby how to walk. He's a juggler, but can't keep two balls in the air? All I kept think was how did a dolt like that land a hot babe like Mia?Dentistry back then was non-existent, yet the peasants have perfectly pearly choppers. The girls' faces are scrubbed clean, and have no unsightly body hair! And shouldn't the horses be sick from drinking sea water? But I digress.
Positive things: Well acted, nice beginning, great performance by ''Death'', interesting plot, good initial idea, good medieval atmosphere.Negative things: Boring as hell, not well executed idea, almost like random scenes that are not connected. Chess game seems like central theme, but it gets distracted during the film with other events, so you can see maybe 3 min of total game and dialogue during the game. I expected that to be the main thing, the main philosophical talking about all the things that movie suppose to be about. You can call it art, whatever.. Maybe I am too dumb to understand. But in my humble opinion this is just an attempt to make an art. Nice attempt to make Death figure in a man-like form, I get that part, personification of death is a good idea.. But nothing more that that here to see.


                
The Seventh Seal is about a Knight ( Max von Sydow, who later went on to greater fame playing Father Karras in The Exorcist), who returns home from the crusades. The black Death has ravished his homeland, so in disgust he challenges Death to a chess match. If he wins Death will stop killing people. If he looses Death will take his sole. Death foolishly gets cornered into a zugzwang position and is defeated.This movie has very Kierkegaardian themes on death and thus is quite existential. It also can be viewed as a metaphorical allegory of the Vietnam War. This is an truly amazing piece of cellulite. This film was Directed by Ingrid Bergman, who was Swedish and is dead. Co-starring Loni Andersson, who was a regular of Bergman's and was his ex-wife. Also recommended: :"Wild Strawberries", "The Dark Knight", "Searching For Bobby Fischer", "Andre", "Last House on the Left (1972 and 2009)", "Hostel 1&2", "Texas Chainsaw Massacre Saga plus 2003 remake and The Beginning", "Videodrome", "Grindhouse", "Poultrygeist: Night of the Chicken Dead", "Vampire Hunter D", "Tetsuo: The Iron Man", "Making Contact(a.k.a. Joey)", and "The Beyond".
