The Seventh Seal is a very difficult film to review, it is a very powerful film that raises a lot of questions for the viewer to consider and it achieves that aim very well, but it doesn't really do much else. The Seventh Seal has a large cast of characters who all come together within the film's vague plot (a Knight returning home from the crusades, who plays a game of chess with Death along the way), it does feel as though some characterisation has been lost somewhere as a result of the little screen time given to each one, personally I would have liked to have got to known these characters a bit more, but it is not really necessary for the viewer to do so for the film to achieve it's aims. Which is basically for the viewer to examine himself and ask questions about what will happen when we die. With the main character of the Knight taking to asking most of the questions, as he is desperate to find out where he will go when he succumbs to Death's checkmate. As, ultimately, these questions are not answered in the film, it means that a lot of the impact The Seventh Seal has takes place off screen, in it's prompting of the viewer to ask this for themselves. Can it be that all that's waiting for us is nothing? One of philosophy's most asked questions, and to be honest, one that most human beings have asked themselves from a young age, so most of the dialogue on this subject can hardly be called especially profound. The dialogue is quite philosophical heavy, as you might expect, and does help provide a good amount of interest in the film, the cinematography and acting too, are very good, most notably Max Von Sydow's performance. Not one to watch to entertain your mates, The Seventh Seal is a well made philosophical piece that will give the viewer something to think about, ultimately they have thought about it before so it's nothing new, but more a cold reminder that Death is waiting.


                
THE SEVENTH SEAL (Ingmar Bergman - Sweden 1957).Max von Sydow is the weary knight Antonius Block returning from the crusades in plague-ridden Sweden. The knight's time to pass has come and "Death", a black-clothed figure, has come to collect him. Antonius delays his own demise by challenging "Death" for a game of chess , and over the next several hours, Antonius is confronted by some who are unconvinced of God's existence (a Knight's agnostic Squire, played by Gunnar Bjornstrand) and some who are (a wandering band of performers).The initial encounter with "Death" is still overwhelming, and when Antonius Block suggests a game of chess to "Death", he answers with a kind of wonderful understatement, I've never seen in any other film, 'Yes, I'm actually quite a skillful chess player.' This was instantly hailed as a masterpiece at the time and was perhaps one of the first true "art-films", but fifty years later I can only watch this film with a certain detachment. Its qualities and innovations in film-making are obvious. Bergman's gives us one breathtaking image after another and the acting is top-notch, but no matter how astounding some of the images in this film may be, this is very inaccessible material.Camera Obscura --- 7/10


                
"The Seventh Seal" would strike me as a better film today had Ingmar Bergman not gone on to remake virtually the same film countless times over the rest of his career.In "Seal," Max von Sydow sits down to a game of chess with the Grim Reaper and seeks answers to the meaning of life, existence of God, and so on and so forth. If you've seen one Bergman film, you've seen them all. The poor man put a lot of effort into exploring life's BIG issues but never seemed to get any closer to an answer about any of them. As I've become a more sophisticated movie watcher, I find Bergman's style nearly intolerable. His films are airless and stifling, and hopelessly pretentious. It's been a long time since I've seen "The Seventh Seal," and maybe I would have a better opinion of it on a second viewing, but frankly, I would rather watch "Snakes on a Plane" than watch this film again.One of the famous images in this film is the shot of the Reaper leading a dance of death across a stark hillside. Woody Allen aped it in his 1975 film "Love and Death." Grade: B


                
I must confess I expected more of this film. I had read and heard many good things about Ingmar Bergman's movie, so I thought it would be wonderful. It's not wonderful, but it's worth watching. There's an interesting mix of adventure, fantasy, fiction and drama in this movie that is about a knight who has recently returned from a battle and finds his land hit by the Black Plague. He then meets Death and challenges it for a chess game where he intends to make his life longer. "Sjunde inseglet, Det" is full of symbols and facts that make we think about life values. Not to be missed.My rate 7/10


                
It's strange for such an exalted film to have such a left-field plot. A medieval knight literally plays chess for his life with death, and while the game goes on, falls in with a travelling troupe of actors, death stalking them along the way. If it was not for Bergman's quite undeserved reputation for austerity and solemnity, it would be clear this is a playful, comic film.This film is the best representation of Bergman's middle style, stressing theatricality and pictorialism.Bengt Ekerot is suitably striking as death, and Max Von Sydow is about as close a modern actor can be to a medieval knight, towering in masculinity, a natural intelligence and stature, with his unworldly distraction. And Bibi Andersson is both beautiful and striking too as the actor's wife.Still, apart from being a good, high-value romp, I can't quite see how this was so lauded at the time.


                
There are some films that become legends. Few people see them, but many people know of them. The Seventh Seal is one of them. Full of images and iconography from medieval frescos, it tells the story of Knight and his squire returning from the crusades and their journey home across plague ridden medieval Sweden.However, death has come for the Knight, but is challenged to a game of chess.So gloomy and full of despair.....not!!! This is a movie full of life. Life is children, beautiful women, death, pain, evil, sex, singing, fear and so on.This not a movie about death, except to say, death is part of life. The knight has a desperate desire to beat death, but in truth he knows all he can buy is time. This is the great truth of life and of this movie. (Of course Bill and Ted beat death in Bill and Ted's bogus journey by challenging death to a game of twister, me I would go for Rock Scissors Paper).In modern terms it can be seen a good little movie, brilliant in its time, but perhaps nothing too special today. However, any wanna-be film maker must see this movie.


                
This film has not aged well, doesn't look remotely medieval. It looks like a low-budget production in modern Sweden, which of course it is, but it shouldn't *look* like it. All the actors are perfectly clean with (especially the women) lots of makeup, flawless faces and teeth, perfectly coiffed hair, plucked eyebrows (only the women); the clothing includes 20th-century halter tops. The pigs and chickens are obviously 20th-century breeds. The musical instruments are ridiculous.There's too much of this stuff; it's very distracting. And there are other things that are merely poorly thought out. Why are the horses drinking salt water at the beginning of the film? Why is Jof having trouble juggling with two balls? How do the tavern customers manage to drink out of empty cups (the cups are cracked all the way through, so must be empty)? One commentator here suggested that the story isn't supposed to be literal, that the Knight might be dead at the beginning. Some parts are obviously allegorical - playing chess with Death - and the movie works better if the entire thing is view as an allegory or a fantasy or a hallucination. But it can't be a medieval fantasy; the most charitable explanation is that it's the ravings of a modern (and possibly dying) "knight" (whatever that means) about a Middle Ages that never existed outside the movies. A less charitable explanation is that the film was made too cheaply and quickly to make any visual sense.
A road unlike any other road movie, I guess. An infamous scene that you have heard a lot about (I'm guessing, especially if you like and have seen quite a few movies). Characters that are weird (to put that mildly) and strange religious tones that I'm quite sure didn't fare well with the church ...While dialogue is a strong point (as has been said by other reviewers already), it's also the imagery that Bergman puts on display. Not really an easy film to follow (though might still be considered as pretty straight forward), this really has quite a lot going for it. Even if it is only the idea itself you like, there is undeniable attraction to this film. And something you should watch (despite how you might feel afterward about it) ...


                
As much as I enjoy the idea of playing chess with death and the dialogue between the two, I can't ignore the plainness that I felt in the gaps between the chess games. It's an interesting insight to Ingmar Bergman's mind and it is well done but it is also a bit dragged out and IMO not as incredible as the mass of 10/10 reviews would point towards.If you historically contextualize it, it is no doubt addressing philosophical questions in a far more open and poetic way than many would dare, all while maintaining a dark & lovely feel buttt it's a little rough watching it in 2018.


                
Okay, so the headline above makes it seem like I liked the film more than I did. I do think that it makes its themes mostly relevant and effective, and states them well. I think the final act is easily the strongest, but I also think much of it is sort of silly (even for that time) and it meanders way too much. The pace isn't too slow, but the plot summary of the film had me really excited for it, and maybe because my expectations were just too high was I disappointed. This isn't bad though, and it's still solid. I think the performances are fine and it does have some truly great scenes (most of them are the ones that are now iconic). Still recommended.


                
Ingmar Bergman's career of brooding cinematic successes was practically borne here, in an amazing study of doomsday travelers in 14th century Sweden confronting their mortality. In the age of the Black Plague, the streets are filled with pagans, drunks, artisans, performers, religious zealots and volunteer witch-burners; a knight and his squire, home from the Crusades, stop at the ocean, where a most benign Grim Reaper tells the knight he has been at his side for a long while. They engage in a winner-take-all game of chess, though the knight is just biding time to save the friends he has made from Death's clutches. The barbarism and cruelty aside, writer-director Bergman does show a streak of pithy black humor, resulting in some amazing sequences (such as the juggler cut down from a tree by Death and his scythe). The overlay of brutality in the name of Christianity, the torment of faith and the heavy symbolism are often tough to wade through, while the metaphor of the chess game has left the picture open for parody. Still, "The Seventh Seal" is a must-see film, matching its iconic imagery with themes of the eternal struggle. *** from ****


                
Too bad they don't make movies like this anymore. Ingmar Bergman profits immensely from medieval iconography, traditions, events and beliefs to draft a wonderful example of existential cinema. It's a pity that Death as a character is so underused nowadays; there's so much strength in the image of the Grim Reaper talking with its victims, trying to decipher the meaning of all of this.The Black Plague provides an excellent scenario for the exposition of the very contemporary questions about the existence of God, the meaning of life, the fear of death. This seemingly apocalyptic event must have really seemed like the End of times, and the horrific images of infected people whipping themselves, of supposedly witches being burnt as scapegoats, do an amazing job in telling without the meaninglessness of life, the darkness that wraps us all once we know we'll eventually die. Unless we have faith, of course. But, as Antonius Block says: "Faith is a torment. It is like loving someone who is out there in the darkness but never appears, no matter how loudly you call."This movie is full of memorable quotes. It's one of those movies where the dialogues have no interest in seeming realistic, but rather, like in a theatre play, aim to show the language skills of the scriptwriter. I shall keep many of this movie's lines with myself, "I shall try to remember them. I shall carry this memory carefully in my hands as if it were a bowl brimful of fresh milk. It will be a sign to me, and a great sufficiency."


                
It's the middle of the 14th Century. Antonius Block (Max von Sydow) is a knight returning to Sweden from the crusade with his squire. The land is ravaged by the black plague. Death approaches him on the beach to take him but he challenges Death to a game of chess. Block can win back his life . He continues on his journey back home playing the game. He is disillusioned and encounters various people.I really love the idea of Death as a character. Max von Sydow has superior presence that elevates his character. The strict Christianity and the intense stuff are very compelling. I'm not as interested in the other characters and I wish the movie stays with Block. It's a bit uneven and slow at times. Nevertheless, it has some fascinating aspects.


                
This is my first full Bergman film even though I have seen a couple of scenes of Cries and Whispers. The Seventh Seal is all about death. The only certainty in life is death and death escapes no one. I have been scared of death in my childhood, wondered even more in my teenage years and now I am numb about it.The question of what happens after death is intriguing. The main actor asks - what happens to those who believe, what happens to those who don't believe, what happens to those who want to believe. In the end, he hopes and hope is all he can do.The narrative style is excellent. A lot of stories are mixed in but you never feel lost. It is perfectly coiled together. You see various people of different levels of intellect, insecurities and lives. Every one is overcome by death in the film except the actor who sees visions and his family.The movie is perfectly edited, with brilliant camera work and shows what a true master Bergman is. I am truly in awe of his direction and the way in which he handles the narrative. The last half hour of the movie is a bit depressing as death encapsulates people.Death itself has no answers for the main actor. Is there life after death? Is there God? Is there Devil? Death doesn't have the knowledge and the protagonist is kept in the dark about what happens after death. The family which escapes death is the part I didn't understand. Is Bergman trying to some how be optimistic in all the pessimism? I thought the film asked a lot of questions about death and areas surrounding it but it could have explored more. Half an hour more with more questions and I think it could have been deeper. I am okay with the length though as the film passes in a jiffy. Well edited as I said. I can't wait to watch more of Bergman. 7.5/10
Ingmar Bergman's 1957 The Seventh Seal follows the final days of a knight, and an accompanying band of his squire, actors, and a blacksmith, as he plays chess with Death, his life hanging in the balance. Ominous and foreboding, Bergman steeps The Seventh Seal with existentialist philosophy akin to Sartre's atheist existentialism found in "Existentialism is a Humanism." Much of the knight's journey through the film mirrors Sartre's atheistic existentialist notions of anguish, despair, and abandonment. Sartre, unlike others, states that the lack of a God is not simply met with mere acceptance; rather, the person experiences these three feelings. The knight exhibits the anguish, which Sartre suggests is a consequence of one wondering "What would happen if everyone did what I am doing?," early in the film when he ponders "Through my indifference for people, I've been placed outside of their society." The abandonment, similarly, is shown through the knight throughout the film. Having realized his inability to find God, the knight requests to meet Satan, who the knight believes "He if anyone" must know God, via an alleged witch waiting for execution. Despite the witch's insistence that Satan is all around her and easily seen, the knight, alas, sees nothing. Finally, in the closing moments of the film, as Death presents himself to the knight, the squire, the blacksmith, and their accompanying women, the knight tries one final time to beseech God. However, the squire asserts that "In that darkness where you reside, where we probably all reside, you'll find no one that listens to your complaint or is moved by your suffering." In addition to showing the knight's abandonment issue, the squire implies Sartre's final feeling, despair, in that the squire understands that, in the absence of God, man must "limit" himself "to reckoning only with those things that depend of (his) will" and not that of others.
THE SEVENTH SEAL is Ingmar Bergman's meditation on Christianity and death, told through the tableau of a medieval setting and a mixed bunch of players on the stage. Max von Sydow headlines the cast as the Crusader knight who famously challenges Death to a game of chess, and the film follows his ruminations as well as the lives of others caught up in the same time and place.This is certainly an original film, I can't think of one quite like it, and one that's tough to describe. It has an almost episodic feel in places, and there's no real thrust to the narrative; instead it's more of a depiction of everyday life, exploring interactions between various folk. But despite the lack of obvious focus, it's never less than utterly watchable. Melodrama it might be, but it's good melodrama.Bergman has a way of directing that reminds me of Kurosawa; he doesn't do anything obvious but his film nevertheless looks stylish and carefully composed throughout. The Swedish cast members are all very good and there are lots of powerful moments, from a jester being bulled in a wayside inn to the ultimate fate of a hapless witch. The ending employs a classic bit of imagery that left me feeling chilled.


                
the movie strangely has attractive cinematography--- especially strange for a 50+ year old movie.a very unique presentation of death keeps you thinking and wondering about the helplessness of medieval times.the presentation can be boring and absurd at times trying to be too poetic and such but it is acceptable i suppose.humor ( may be not intended) but its there all right.it tries to perhaps pretentious at certain points ....making it funny in a sense. in a certain way you will enjoy the personification of death bringing both depth and yet a certain creepiness.
Existential angst from Bergman; and a somewhat entertaining story of a knight (Max von Sydow) and his servant returning from crusades. A story which doesn't advance much but merely serves as a medieval backdrop for the protagonist's spiritual journey - in this film Bergman asks if God exists.The film is supposed to take place in 14th century Sweden during bubonic plague (aka The Black Death), which fits the theme perfectly. However the costumes and props are rather low quality which doesn't make the film credible outside of its metaphysical introspection. Camera work is mediocre at best; the scenes consist mostly on static one camera shots focused on narrow view. The lack of production values is quite apparent while it was shot in one month, mostly inside a studio and with a budget of 150k dollars. In other words you can't make great panorama takes if there are only two medieval mock up shacks inside the studio...The story is somewhat entertaining, not as boring as I expected from essential art cinema. The dialogue is often intellectually interesting and some images are very artistic, mainly on the scenes where the protagonist struggles with theological issues. So those are strong points of the film: dialogue and occasionally impressive, haunting, images.On the meaning of grim reaper and chess, the talking point of the film... I wasn't quite convinced with grim reaper following Sydow's knight in first place - he seemed in perfect health to me, as did other characters. Yes, the knight had cheated death when returning alive from crusades but still. Perhaps the point was people seeking answer whether God exists from death while the grim reaper doesn't have the answer either. If this was the meaning then that would make it an atheistic film, or agnostic the very least. 7/10


                
. . . loved to throw Oscars at Swedish director Ingmar Bergman back in the day, but even they couldn't bring themselves to appease the "arty" crowd by awarding him a Gelded Gnome for the SEVENTH SEAL. Though Revelations is a favorite Bible book for many rich people, coupling it with a real-life plague that is killing off the poor and wealthy alike might not be the smartest ploy to win the mogul vote. While the Muggles apparently burn a "witch" mid-film, the famous chess match between Max Von Snydow's knight and Death is a big let-down. Even the James Bond series has done chess better than this. The "medieval" felt costumes look like they've been put together by a home economics flunk-out mom for kindergarten Halloween. Maybe all the philosophizing about God and mortality here is epic in SEAL's original Swedish. If so, it's mostly lost in translation (which is a significant negative, when less than one per cent of movie watchers are fluent in Swedish). Perhaps SEAL can be enjoyed best by turning off the sub-titles, and constructing a story in your head to go along with the occasionally interesting pictures. (That way, you won't be driven to marry your own daughter as dictated by SEAL's "anything goes" mantra.)
Spoilers withinBergman made a movie about himself here, or about someone like him. A man with a very real fear of death who desperately seeks the truth ultimately surrender to the ignorance and sacrifices himself to save others. Although Bergman hasn't surrender himself - or perhaps he has, he obviously has a great fear of death. This stands clear when watching other of his films, 'Saraband' for example. To me it seems that this has been a subject of torture to him. In the film, Antonius makes us understand that he's been searching everywhere for the truth, but hasn't found it. A bitterness towards Christianity, religion and the society is portrayed. It seems as 'intelligents' are quick to answer as to why Christianity doesn't work, but they never dig into it, they never search for the source. This i found interesting.
