Bacheha-Ye aseman (Children of Heaven)It was with some trepidation that I popped this DVD into the player - it was, after all, my first venture into Iranian cinema, so I was a little unsure what to expect. I am used to, and for the most part, enjoy foreign films. They open up an incredible world of cinema that one would otherwise miss. After five minutes, it was fairly evident that this film was something a bit special. The story is simple. While at market shopping, Ali loses his sisters school shoes. After desperately trying in vain to find them, he decides that he and his sister will share his sneakers, meeting her after to school each day to recover them from her, in order to get to school himself. That is pretty much a synopsis of the entire movie. It doesn't end there however...This film is played with such beauty and innocence; it is a true pleasure to watch. Mohammad Amir Naji plays Ali with such incredible depth and passion, one is completely drawn into his plight. From the start of the film, we see the relationship between brother and sister, played with equal warmth by Bahare Seddiqi, strained as he explains how he lost her shoes. The sorrow on Ali's face, and Zahra's tears at the news, are truly heartbreaking to watch. The expressions on the faces of the children are so genuine, it is clear that spending a cinematic hour and half will be a pleasure, albeit not an easy one.We see Ali and his Father looking for work as gardeners. From the outset it is clear that Ali's Father is strict, but it is also evident he loves his son dearly, and the simple exchange of smiles as they find their first job is heart-warming, and totally believable. Cycling through the city, it is very striking that there is a clear division between rich and poor. We are watching a boy, to afraid to tell his father of the loss of a pair of shoes, riding through streets with billboards advertising cell phones, into rural areas where houses with swimming pools, ornate architecture and luxury are rife.There is so much in Western civilisation that we take for granted. What to us are simple daily belongings to others is pure decadence. Aside from anything else, this film is a window into a world so many of us do not understand. Simple things bring Ali pleasure, blowing bubbles, swinging on swings with his new found friend, the smiles and laughter of the children is absorbing.Later in the film we see Ali enter a race in order to win a pair of brand new sneakers for his sister. To win them, he must come third. Again we see the division of wealth, as Ali races through the streets, the thoughts and images of his sister swirling in his head, and on screen, while at the same time, parents of other children film the race on camcorders, all the time Ali running, fighting for the shoes he needs so desperately.The film is directed perfectly, and the credit for this goes to Majid Majidi, whose films have won acclaim worldwide. There are no special effects, no luxurious settings. There are times when the film feels like a documentary in the direction, and that works in its favour.  This film would make an excellent introduction into the world of foreign cinema. Throughout the movie, the expressions and emotions displayed by the children speak far louder than any dialogue ever could.The film is not dialogue intensive, and one could easily watch the film, and understand the story, even without the aid of subtitles. This film was nominated for an Academy Award, and it not difficult to see why. Ignoring for a moment the subtitles and language barriers, since they are not overly crucial to the film, this is a story of true innocence, and tugs hard at the heartstrings, sometimes to breaking point. The portrayal of the children is gentle, warm and absolutely believable, and one cannot help but be drawn into this tale, as it gently unwinds. It is sometimes tough to watch the emotions played out, but ultimately, worth every second.Missing this film, particularly if simply put off by the fact it is foreign language, would a sad deprivation of the senses and the heart. It is not just a film, it is an experience, and one that is completely passionate, and totally unforgettable.I truly cannot recommend this highly enough. It is widely available on DVD or VHS - rent it, borrow it or buy it - you will be glad that you did!Reviewed by Ollie


                
............................................................from Pasto,Colombia...Via: L.A. CA., CALI, COLOMBIA and ORLANDO, FL It's easy to understand why there are over 100 reviews of "Children of Heaven". Normally, that simple fact would have dissuaded me from adding a review of my own. But, as I'm sure others have felt, this film so overwhelmed me with joy, I feel obligated to share my feelings with all who would listen! After watching "Children", it occurred to me that I have, perhaps, never seen an Iranian film I didn't like. This film celebrates the essence and innocence of youth, with an unencumbered intensity, with such unpretentious panache, that any comparison to American films that make an effort along similar lines, regrettably, seem rather empty, almost laughable in comparison. The fierce sibling rivalry so familiar in the majority of American movies is replaced here by a warm, caring fraternal relationship based on love, consideration, self-sacrifice and mutual respect. These little Muslim children demonstrate the most exemplary of true Christian behavior in both word and deed. I hope that here, in America, this opinion can be stated clearly, in a review such as this one, without fear of provoking a mindless outpouring of reactionary negative clicks. I feel more than a tinge of remorse, even embarrassment, when I think of the millions of Iranians who see far too many American films where children are portrayed, more often than not, as selfish, wise-cracking, foul-mouthed, bullying, disrespectful, totally inconsiderate little brats. To make matters worse, this abhorrent behavior is too often viewed as copacetic, or worse, even exemplary, something that kids today often strive to imitate. Some have commented that "Children" seems incomplete or leaves them feeling somewhat bewildered or left them hanging in mid-air. All I can say to them is just reflect carefully for a moment on the value systems of the kids in the movie...maybe then you will be able to feel much more satisfied with this great cinematic experience.10*....ENJOY/DISFRUTELA!Any comments, questions or observations, in English or Español, are most welcome!.....KissEnglishPasto@Yahoo.com


                
What a marvelous thing film can be. It can touch us and open our hearts to a culture that is both different and familiar to ours. CHILDREN OF HEAVEN, a film by Iranian filmmaker, Majid Majidi, takes us into the world of a little boy and his sister, letting us feel the love and trust that they have in each other. The boy, through no fault of his own, loses his little sister's newly repaired school shoes the day before she needs them. It becomes their secret. They try sharing a pair of his sneakers -- the girl wearing them in the morning and he in the afternoon to school. The wonderful, innocent faces of the beautiful Iranian children and their code of honor, even in poverty, provides the bases for a very uplifting tale of children trying to overcome a crisis. The direction, cinematography, music are all outstanding -- but it is the children that you will fall in love with. Well worth picking up on DVD (though there are no "Extras" to speak of).


                
Majid Majidi is a genius. He is a director and actor of great talent. This film presents a sweet story of a brother and sister, their bond and their unique solution to solving the problem of a pair of lost shoes. The child actors are adorable and utterly convincing and the production of the film is of such quality that you get lost in watching it. The story itself is humorous, at times, and inspiring. Though the premise may be simple, each scene is infused with such passion, beauty and emotion that the experience of viewing this film is anything but simple. To all who have yet to view the film, take note of the very last scene.


                
This translates to MUST-SEE! It's a credulous incredible storytelling of a young brother and sister in Tehran, and the adventurous saga around one very important pair of sneakers.The two young actors are amazing -- they play their guileless naïve sensitivity with such earnestness! Central character, Ali, the 9 year old brother, is Mir Farrokh Hashemian, who really carried the film with his legwork, and the younger sister Zahra is Bahareh Seddiqui, who contributed her restrained share of screen presence. The pair is so natural: those furrowed faces, anxious knitted brows -- the range of sad faces the two came up with! The bond between the brother and sister is so warm and joyful - in spite of misfortunes.The storyline is seemingly simple. Such story-weaving knack writer-director Majid Majidi has -- he can make chasing along a streaming gutter into an intense dramatic episode! The story has the texture likened to a Thomas Hardy novel (poverty setting, episode after episode, turn of events), yet such a relishingly simple delivery. He doesn't have to tell it all on the screen -- little nuances and observations suffice.It's heartening to see young children who are polite and respectful to their elders, responsible and caring in dealing with their everyday problems, and not give up -- such quiet fortitude in spite of disappointments, such tolerance of their circumstance yet still able to find joy in little things. We catch a smile here and there, e.g., when they enjoy the impromptu soap bubbles, or when he encouraged his sister by giving her small tokens.This is an absolute gem of a family (value) film. Children's emotions untapped, yet adults are not left out -- touches of  grown-up connections: the parents, the elderly couple next door, the shop-owners, all made this world very real.The camerawork, and the well-designed use of sound mixed with accompanying music (different tonal quality instruments were applied) complemented this cinematic experience. A poetic ending -- there's a serenity about it all.I hope "Children of Heaven" will win this year's 71st Academy Award Best Foreign Film Oscar -- it will receive its due exposure and more people will experience this gem.Along the lines of poverty and shoes, I thought of  the Italian 1978's "The Tree of the Wooden Clogs" by writer-director Ermanno Olmi. And, on a story with substance and good acting by an Iranian young boy, there's 1989's "Bashu, The Little Stranger", by writer-director Bahram Beizai. Both are movies to be appreciated.


                
I just saw this film in South Korea at a church.  The film is spoken in Farsi, the subtitles were in Korean.  It didn't matter that I couldn't understand a single word, because the cinematography and the faces of the children, their parents and the other cast members did all the talking. A wonderful film that dispelled my notions of Tehran as a dark and forbidding place - actually it's quite beautiful!  We Americans have not seen Iran since 1979 and it is my hope that soon we can restore relations again.  I wouldn't mind visiting.


                
this movie is one of the best movie i have ever see in my life...it was beautiful, it was well directed and the camera movements were pretty good, its just a small story with a big adventure, this movie shows love, happiness, and the poor people lives in Iran can't even afford to buy a pair of shoe..its a great movie...this whole movie is about the kid who lost the pair of shoes when he kept the shoe outside the store and the garbage man picks it up with all the other garbages, without knowing what to do, brother and sister lies to their mom and dad. the brother struggles so bad to get the shoe back somehowfor her sister, so she wouldn't be ashamed and hide her shoe before her friends.this movie is beautifully directed and itshould be rewarded 8.6/10.


                
Majid Majidi's CHILDREN OF HEAVEN (2002) exists in radical opposition to various media representations of Iran Western viewers are most familiar with. Subversive politics, oil, female repression, terrorism, and hostage-holding irrational crazy people are not displayed in the film, images that pop into the average consciousness of a Westerner (i.e. the masses) when thinking of Iran. Quite the opposite is displayed alongside refreshing realizations that Iran is not entirely what Western media organizations have etched into the collective Western social unconscious. The value of Majidi's film for such Western viewers is its assistance in the mental decolonization process that might enable viewers to experience Iran absent from damaging Eurocentric stereotypes.CHILDREN OF HEAVEN is a beautifully simple film. Given the main characters are children, the film is set up from their perspective. Alongside Majidi's covert filming technique using hidden cameras to bring out the highest possible realism from his actors, the children are in an impoverished situation with the burden of acute familial responsibility that prematurely matures them. These children, although improvised, are not miserable as various media would suggest, but happy and contented. The narrative circles around a pair of lost shoes and the strive to attain a new pair that are sought not out of a materialistic need but a fundamental need reflectant of the culture's attitude towards possessions, an attitude different from the goals and desires of the spoiled, obscene American brat of Hollywood. Although the spoiled, obscene American brat might likewise be a stereotypical representation, within the context of discussing representations, it is significant to discern the contrast.Ella Shohat and Robert Stam note in UNTHINKING EUROCENTRISM* that Eurocentrism (or the belief in the supremacy of European culture and values whilst demonizing non-European or non-Western cultures and values as subservient) is "endemic in present-day thought and education<U+0085> (and) is naturalized as 'common sense.'" From this limited perspective, it is common sense to believe that people of the "Middle East" (a Eurocentric term) are suffering, crawling through the dirt, looking for the remnants of their families that had been blown to bits in a terrorist attack as a blood-stained Koran looms in the background. One might not venture too far from a film such as THE EXORCIST (William Friedkin, 1973) where a demonic spirit spawns from an archaeological dig site in the Middle East, possesses a white American girl, then is repressed and conquered by means of a Catholic priest to understand Eurocentric representations in Western culture and view the Middle East as mystical, evil and worthy of fear.What is scary, though, as Shohat and Stam note, these sentiments are accepted and normalized, etched into the fabric of the social unconscious. Just as the sky is blue and the grass is green, Eurocentricism elicits normalized depictions of Iran (or other countries in the Middle East) as a nation that births evil terrorists. But Ali and Zhara, the children of CHILDREN OF HEAVEN are anything but evil -- they are, rather, transcendent, "of Heaven." This is brought to fruition at the end of the film in the famous scene of the goldfish kissing Ali's feet in the circular communal pool in his village. Quite the opposite of a destroyer of peace, Ali IS peace.This goldfish image serves as a powerful device within the narrative, but more importantly, for Western viewers, serves in the mental decolonization process, a process that must be engaged to replace negative perceptions of a culture with truer renderings. The goldfish leaves viewers in an extremely calm space, almost meditative, a malleable ending hinting that there is much more to Iranian culture versus the ugliness presented via various media -- there is even beauty, emotion, and harmony. Such intense emotion yields great enjoyment, and, in CHILDREN OF HEAVEN, great enjoyment (and liberation) is gleaned for the sake of a culture previously thought of as demonic and regressive.While it is true Iran, like any country, has issues, it is important to remember these issues do not encompass the entirety of Iranian culture. When viewers focus only on what is bad, the beauty and value of Iran is forgotten, submerged beneath much negativity as unthinking Eurocentric beliefs are perpetuated and passed down to subsequent generations. CHILDREN OF HEAVEN reminds viewers of the unthinking thought-process Western minds so willingly accept -- the film helps humans realize there that the talking heads on their television sets might not be representative of absolute truth.*Shohat, Ella & Stam, Robert. UNTHINKING EUROCENTRISM: MULTICULTURALISM AND THE MEDIA. London and New York: Routledge, 1994
Finally I've gotten my hands on a copy of Majid Majidi's Children of Heaven (not illegally of course, but from the library's collection), and have set aside some time to viewing this much talked about masterpiece. And I couldn't agree more that the film is of great quality. I've often selected titles for my pop to view since he's retired, and have gotten a call from him during a working day that I MUST watch this film. Of course I had to clarify that Jack Neo's Homerun is an adaptation of it, given that he found some similarities in plot, but I must say, any movie is worth its salt if it can move my pops.There are so many things I like about Children of Heaven, and basically, the children Ali (Amir Farrokh Hashemian) and Zahra (Bahare Seddiqi) who play the siblings, will definitely tug at your heartstrings with their innocence. The story goes that Ali happened to lose his sister's shoes during an errand run, and coming from a poor family, that spells disaster. Not wanting to be punished for it, given that both understand the predicament they're in, and not wanting to trouble their parents with yet another expenditure, they devise an ingenious, somewhat mad hat plan, to share their shoes - Zahra goes to school in Ali's, before running back to exchange them so that Ali could attend his classes. And this leads to many comical moments and accidental scenes that will surely make you go "awww", culminating in an exhilarating foot race which will put you on the edge of your seat.But the skill here that Majid Majidi possess, is not to sledgehammer these emotions down your throat. Children of Heaven doesn't need to, but has in itself this magic that comes forth through its simple yet meaningful story, and through the strength of both children's acting. I was pretty amazed that both Amir and Bahare have this very charming and natural charisma in fleshing out their characters, their banter being excellent, and at times, without a need for words. Truly, they are the stars of this film, and their abilities will put some established big name actors to shame too. Majid Majidi has created characters that endear, but yet not out- of-reach fictional, as they are easily identifiable given that hey, these are the kind of sibling love, or blood being thicker than water, that almost everyone would have experience, or heard about.Being my first Majid Majidi movie, I'm definitely piqued to want to watch a whole lot more of his films. The movie has superb production values, and like any other foreign movie, opened my eyes to the cultural and physical landscapes of countries that I've yet to visit. What I liked about it also is its showcase of the family, how both Ali and Zahra show this strength in maturity with their helping around the house, and being sensible, well-liked kids. It justifies the number of awards that it has won in festivals everywhere, and if you haven't watch this, please do. It's definitely highly recommended stuff!


                
This is one of the most touching movies I have ever seen so far. It has to be seen by everyone, who wants great cinema with great messages. Nowadays there are very few films which combine these two. You should watch this beautiful example of modern cinema with your whole family (especially with your children) and not only once, because it will change your view on life, on property, on family and on friendship! This is the first movie by Majid Majidi I watched. Therefore I can't say anything about other films he has made, but I can say this about "The Children of Heaven: "Mr. Majid Majidi Thank You very much for this masterpiece of cinema!"


                
Nobody like Majid Majidi has recreated poverty and suffering of millions of people all over the world. His films show in a very natural, but dramatic way how poverty and culture and domination, both work together to cause social pain.He is a genius in the way he shows peoples feelings.The flower pot in the kitchen of the film Baran shows a clear example of his enormous power to show feelings.I hope the people in the industrialized countries learn more about other countries and poverty and suffering through films like this one.The color of Paradise is also a master piece of art.


                
Already 91 reviews for this movie, so why am I writing one. You'll know the answer if you have watched it. Children of haven is the pinnacle of story telling. When we are bombarded with star-studded high budget sagas, there are very few movies which leave an impact like this one. And Hollywood, beware, because Asians can tell stories like no one else in the world. The movie is gripping throughout, especially the last 15 minutes. When Ali tells Zahra that he'll come third in the race to get her those sneakers, I literally had tears in my eyes. And there was no stopping them once the race began. No background music, no special effects, but you could still feel the excitement and anxiety of Ali running for the cause. At that moment I realized, they truly are the Children of Haven. Its amazing how two of the most beautiful foreign films of all times got nominated for Academy in the same year (and eventually Life is Beautiful got the reward). But I can say Children of Haven must have given it a close fight. In all, it was a complete pleasure to watch Children of Haven. Don't miss it for anything.
I know it may sound hokey, and I hope it doesn't put you guys off, but I was on the verge of tears from the very beginning. Only because of the very sweet and innocent relationship between the characters. Many times they are gruff, and difficult with each other, but you can't mistake the love. Your heart just completely opens and cheers on the two main characters, and I was really crying at the end. Only because it really touched my heart. I would have liked to have seen the ending a bit different. We are given a hint as to what was to come, but I would have preferred to see it, rather than just imagine what was going to happen.Wonderful movie, great for everyone who can either read the subtitles or know the two languages it's in. The two children are absolutely breathtaking in their emotional portrayals.


                
Children of Heaven is a beautiful film that deals with a boy (9) and his sister (7) and their adventures over a lost pair of shoes. The film scores in the simplicity of the plot, executed with supreme performances, art direction and cinematography. The characterisation is wonderful; one can actually empathise with the siblings and their desperation to keep the secret. The chemistry between them can bring tears to your eyes. Majid Majidi has used basic elements of film-making sans glamour or loud background music or other tools of emotional manipulation, to narrate the story. This movie will be loved by one and all. Go grab your DVD!


                
Before I ever set eyes on Children of Heaven I was told that it was an Iranian film that contained a clandestine layer of social criticism. While I watched I searched all over for signs that could help reveal this to me. Hidden symbolism of a corrupt and immoral power, purposeful ignorance, even Michael Moore. I could find none of these things. Now I knew it would be difficult considering that the movie was made to pass the conservative censoring that was in place to prevent such criticism from being displayed. I was beginning to think that all the talk of criticism was fabricated by imaginative literature teachers and film critics to make the movie more interesting. After reading others reviews of the movie on the Internet I found that I was not the only one who had difficulty in finding any hidden agenda in the movie. While this made me feel slightly better I knew I had to keep trying to find this movie beneath the movie. It came to me after a second screening of the movie, the title itself is a glaring sarcastic criticism of Iran. Calling Ali and Zhara the Children of Heaven is like naming a movie about modern day Iraq Uneventful Peaceful and Stable Nation. The fact that this name passed censors means that the decision must have been in the hands of a prideful, and arrogant censor.The title was not the only thing that stuck out at me the second time around. Comparing attitudes between the children and adults in the film you could see that the children when faced with a problem took it upon themselves to solve it, while circumventing any adult inclusion. To include their parents in the problem at hand would mean getting beat, and among other things adding to mounting problems. What was interesting was that the parents, unaware of their children's predicament, cared less about rectifying their problems than the children did about rectifying theirs. It is thought to tell if the children recognize this, and are working to become less like their parents to improve their condition in life, or their motivation is purely not to get beaten. Either way this situation opens up some pretty interesting thoughts on how Iran deals with their problems. Are setbacks, and problems the will of god and something that is meant to be, or are they the will of Iran and dealt with only under threat of punishment? Could the younger generations understand that problems are there to fix and pursue rather than mark down as a way of life?Overall I thought the film was very entertaining without the social commentary, and became transformed into a very meaningful, and surprising piece with the commentary.
This movie is wonderful. I teach drama in an elementary school in PR and I showed this movie to my students.I wanted them to be exposed to a movie acted by children from a different culture. Language was no barrier for my students to enjoy and appreciate this movie. My students speak Spanish and the movie was in Farsi with subtitles in English. At the end they concluded that children from different cultures are all alike. Majid Majidi is an artist. With out the $$$ of Hollywood he makes movies that are far superior to all the silliness we have to see. I wish there were more movies like this one. It shows that true CINEMA does not depend of big names, fancy studios, digitalized effects, sugary plots and lack of imagination.


                
This is a beautiful film, with the special poignancy that comes from seeing the world through the eyes of a child. The viewer is privileged to share in the innocence, hope, and beauty of these children, and also in their struggles. It is a film that portrays the universal truths of childhood and family and human brotherhood in the tradition of Padre Padrone and To Kill A Mockingbird. The acting is superb, the pacing is perfect, the images are haunting, and the story is full of emotion, but without sentimentality. Don't miss this film, and be sure to share it with your friends. If we embraced the Ali and Zahra in all of us, the world would be a better place.


                
I am not able contain myself from commenting on this master-piece. My vocabulary fails me to praise this movie. The performance of Ali and his sister is unprecedented....marvelous....fabulous.....(English is a poor language!!). I could not shake of Ali's image from my memory for long.....the scenes that stands out are: When he informs his sister that he has lost her shoes....When he pleads for pardon from his school headmaster when he is found coming late to the school (because his sister comes late from her school to deliver the shoes)....and Ali pleads with his PT master to include his name for the running race... On the whole Majid Majidi has given a master piece to the world cinema. Kudos to the director and the cast. Note: Don't wait for an opportunity to watch this film......run to the near by VCD store, buy one and see it right now. What are you waiting for.....RUN.


                
One of the best movies I've ever watched.It's interesting how such a good movie can be made using a simple plot.The whole movie is a play of emotions. Actors were fantastic through out the movie. You could really feel what they are going through, you could feel their pain, love and disappointment. It was all very well reflected on their faces.


                
This movie is amazing.  Every character is fully dimensional, which is a rarity and it's a smart trick to keep the audience fully involved throughout.  Majidi does this with our young protagonist and his sister, and he does this, amazingly, with those with smaller roles. His technique for making the kids speak volumes (tho they are obviously not "trained & accomplished" actors) is the use of their facial expressions, Parviz Malekzaade's attractive cinematography, and the musical score. What captivated me most about the film was that the story was told so well.  It's hard to find a good story teller, and it seems that we can trust Majidi with this.  The story is of a boy and his sister struggling with diffrent problems, but they become each others saviors. I can't think of ONE person who would dislike this wonderful gem.


                
Children of Heaven with a simple humor and simple actors, show us the hard life of two siblings and their family, the importance of a single pair of shoes, the concern for the economic situation of the family and the affection between the two children that it's shown when the boy removes sky and earth, so his sister can have a pair of shoes. Really beautiful and well done movie.


                
This is my favorite movie because no movie was able to touch my heart as this movie did.This is the best children movie ever made.I had seen it four year ago in television and after this i have seen it about 10 times and all the time i found it amazing.this movie is for family viewing and nothing is negative in the movie, but on the other side itis a very realistic movie.The best part of movie is it simplicity,even Hollywood should not be able to reach such level of film making. every character of the movie is very well portrait.the plot of the story was so simple and beautiful and very hearttouching.this movie is a masterpiece and should be in IMDB250.


                
Now this is certainly the film that should have got the Foreign Language Oscar. A shame that the winner was "Life is Beautiful", by far the worst of the nominees.The story of the brothers that help each other in their small difficulties is extremely touching. Here we have a film that shows us real life and also remind us of our childhood and all the problems we had then, that we just forget with the years. Even the kid's race in the end is excellently made, making us cheer for the boy as never before.The cast is great, specially the brothers, and the director has certainly given us a lesson of directing. Congratulations to everyone involved in the making of this great movie.


                
I had been postpone of watching this movie so many times,but once i was checking movies randomly as which movie i have to watch today?then accidentally i have seen this movie. OH majid majidi, i had fallen in love with your kind of story telling, this CINEMA has changed my perception about the CINEMA , the best move i have ever seen in my lifetime as<U+FEFF> i can say with no doubt.i smiled when the children had smile,i cried when they cried instinctively, i have experienced it as it should be. cinema doesn't need big budget, computer generated images,stars when this kind of director is there...there is nothing to say about story,it has just one line as the boy lose her sister shoes,until they get new pair they should be adjust with one pair of shoe in daily bad circumstances at that age.love you majid majidi.


                
I write as someone who not only loves this film, but as someone who understands how much a pair of shoes is worth.As I write this, I have about $25 in the bank. I have no other money. I struggle each day to find meaning... and stable work. I have worked all my life... until recently. And now my pair of shoes is at least 2 years old... and I make sure I don't wear them out.Watching this film again, I can appreciate this story as being more than allegorical. There is symbolism in the film but its literal meaning is as potent as its often poetic images.So, to anyone who believes this film to simply be a modern analogy... it isn't. There are definitely people living in our world today living under weighty consequences of losing their protective sole. I am one of them. What I hope this film does for me... and for anyone else who loves this movie... is to help keep our spirits buoyant when life hands us over-sized hand me downs. I know it has reminded me that my shoes look a darn sight better than the ones in this story and yet the characters managed to still keep striving in life. The one thing they never did, was give up.I hope this ode to love of family, devotion to hope and having a forgiving heart will be one of my beacons, giving me direction towards light when the dark bleak nights of the soul smother me.This work of motion picture art seems dedicated to all of us who don't have much left in the world except our human hearts. Our need to live for better things. Our desire to hold on to love and the people most dearest to our souls. This is a film about being brave in a world that can easily run us over. If these 2 small children can hold on to hope, perhaps all of us can too.
