Wow, what can I say? Every bit of this film is so warm! It really looked at the world from a child's perspective. Every single scene is inundated with sweetness and the innocence of children. How they share one pair of shoes was amazing...and heartbreaking. How the little sister had no confidence in her brothers shoes was shown in such a warm and effective way. The ultimate despair Ali felt when he won was also so heartbreaking. Ali and his sister are both so cute and they can really act. This film can easily move one to tears. Do watch it!


                
Children of Heaven, which is Iran's selection for best foreign film at the Academy Awards, is a very good movie mainly because anyone in this world can relate to the topic of family and showing love to each other no matter the living circumstances. As an Iranian film, it is definitely played safe but a film with such an universal theme and elegantly told as here should really not be missed, especially by movie-lovers.Majid Majidi's film is about a young boy named Ali who accidentally lost his sister Zahra's shoes. But their family can ill afford to buy new shoes, Ali decides to share his shoes with his sister until he can get new ones for her and so he can avoid punishment.The acting is pretty good, and pretty heartfelt. There is no questioning the chemistry between Amir Farrokh Hashemian as Ali and Bahare Seddiqi as Zahra. Reza Naji who plays as their father is also good as the man who is trying to do all he can to provide food for his family.Overall, Children of Heaven is a simple film but it displays a strong message about the bond of family. There are some talented films from the Middle East and this is one of them. It's a strong film about courage and about doing what's right. My favorite scene is where the father and the son leave their poor slums as they head uptown to the rich neighborhoods. This film shows how American kids are vastly different than kids from these parts of the world.....and not exactly in a good way. This film is a little too simple for me, but there is no denying how powerful this film is. I rate this film 8/10.


                
The story of Children of Heaven can look fool and too simple to be a good one. But it's really good! Majid Majidi did a film about one poor family where the little son (Ali) lost his sister's shoes. As the family is very poor, Ali tries to keep it as a secret with his sister and doing this he would save his father from paying for new ones. In fact he was afraid of being beaten by his father too.
During almost one hour they show the pranks of the child. This part is very funny. Some scenes show Zarah (the sister) looking at other girls' shoes and then being shamefaced because his brother's were very large in her feet. One that is very beauty is when they are cleaning the shoes and they start to play with the bubbles. Then Ali discover that there will be a challenge where the third prize would be shoes. So, he enter in the challenge to get the third position. As many other Iranian films it's a little bit slow and not audacious. But the best is that it show us Iran as it is and not as the USA want us to believe. Everybody know that they do a lot of things with the woman because of the religion but it's not so exaggerated as American films show. If you see 'Not without my daughter', an American film, you may think Iran is the poorest, ugliest and worst place to live in the world. But when you see Children of Heaven you only think that they live in a different culture, in different ways. Now that I saw it I only think that Iran is a country as many other. The unique difference is that woman have to hide their hair. Only this. (Extreme generalization!)Watching Children of Heaven is a good and different experience. It's a delicate and ingenuous movie but it's touching in the same way.


                
This film, which put Director Majid Majidi on the World Cinema map, is a piece of gem. The story revolves around a pair of shoes, or rather its absence; never did I imagine that a pair of shoes can sustain my interest for 90 minutes. Writer/Director Majidi tackles issues like poverty, necessity, selflessness, purity of childhood, sibling-love, perseverance and determination with such aesthetic and charm, without being melodramatic.After five minutes into the movie, the kid Ali confesses to her sister Zahra that he lost her shoes and he couldn't find them; the innocence and sadness portrayed in this scene draws you into their lives immediately. The two kids are the heart and soul of the movie, and carry the movie forward with their range of genuine and varied emotions; the director draws out such powerful and sublime performances out of them. Even the supporting performances of Ali's father and the-small-girl-in-school are quite commendable.Losing something you're entrusted to, getting into trouble at home/school, asking your sibling/friend to cover up for you, sharing responsibilities when someone you care is sick, determination to win something with a larger goal in mind - these themes are so universal that a kid or adult from any place could easily relate to. The story might seem too linear and optimistic to some, but it portrays a world of love and selflessness. People, especially kids, with lesser means are often more selfless and helpful than their fellow beings with more riches; they appreciate and understand the value of even the simplest and smallest of things.The incidents, the adventures, and the whole running around due to the missing pair of shoes teaches them a lot of things. All the running around eventually pays off when Ali gets selected into the school race team; we never really realize how we acquire certain talents.Other than the brilliant acting, the artistically shot scenes and the remarkable background score add to the beauty and feel of the movie. The seven-minute kids' race sequence towards the and is quite craftily shot and directed. There are so many scenes which are memorable, and stay etched in your mind for a long time.


                
When my college professor chose this film to show, I was a bit skeptical as to whether I would enjoy this movie. This was my first time watching an Iranian film. I was surprised to find myself feeling so many different emotions for Ali and his sister Zahra. This is the type of movie that brings happy tears in the end. This film provides you with a story of compassion and love for one another. In the Children of Heaven, a brother shows concern and guardianship for his little sister. This type of behavior towards siblings in the United States is less likely to happen. Therefore, I was surprised at how thoughtful people of Iran treat others they care for. After learning about the Middle East and their relationship with God, I was able to see the symbolisms that the director was portraying. The actors based outcomes in the movie as their belief that the will of God is more powerful than any other belief. Ali coming in first place in the race was a will of God. This might be why Zahra was not upset with him when he returned home empty handed. The director chose to capture the sense of being a child. His film angles were set low at a child's level so the audience could follow along with the kids and relate to them. In addition, the movie shows that the younger generation of Iran seems to be more in control with changes and are willing to change. The older generation of Iran seems to be set in their ways and change is not comfortable with them. This might be why you get the sense that the children are more knowledgeable and clever than their parents and elders. This film is a must see for anyone who is a sucker for tearful happy endings. If you appreciate different cultural beliefs and ideas, chances are Children of Heaven will make you smile.
Love and Irony in a setting probably unfamiliar to most Westerners. You'll feel the characters pain and their love! The film print is a bit tortured but this lends to the realism of the plight these people are going through. Shot in Iran (Persian mono comp with English Subtitles),the scenery is something most of us in the U.S. have never seen (Mostly due to the sanctions imposed after the embassy hostage takings in the 70's). All the special FX in the world could not have conveyed better, the terror of going down a hill on a bike with no brakes. Word.~sct


                
One of the new Iranian cinema's most accessible films, this is actually a very worthy movie, if a bit on the sentimental side (while Iranian movies have a strongly humanistic bent, they usually reject maudlin sentimentalism). Directed by Kiarostami's disciple Majidi, this story tells the tale of a brother and a sister from a poor neighborhood in Tehran. Problem comes when the boy, through no fault of his own, loses her sister's shoes. Since their family is too poor to buy a new pair of shoes, they have to share their shoes in secret, trading them off in a rush every day. The boy eventually comes up with a plan to solve this problem: entering into a race that gives a pair of shoes as a prize to the third-placed runner. The climactic race is a bit on the sentimental side, but the movie is very much worthwhile watching. And it has some nice side plots, as when the brother goes with his father to a rich Tehran neighborhood to find work as gardeners.


                
Every time I watch an Iranian film I am amazed, it's not only Kiarostami, also Asghar Farhadi and Majid Majidi delight us with that special taste of simplicity and beauty. This film is so simple, the conflict is so childish, the approaching is so innocent that you find yourself sharing the anguish the little characters have to deal with, even when the problem is not such a big one. If you side this with a superb photography work and with the great work of all the actors involved (How he managed to reveal such natural emotions on those kids???) what you get is a genuine piece of charming cinema, with images and emotions that will follow you long after the film has concluded. Watch this film if interested on how other cultures face day-to-day, and how children see the environment they're surrounded by. Simply beautiful.


                
The most amazing thing which I found about this movie was it was just based on a pair of shoes which a boy named Ali loses it unfortunately. With that simple base, a master piece has been created by Majid Majidi. Emotions depicted to its best. The depth of love and understanding between brother and sister has been portrayed perfectly. The blend of comedy in between the hard fought life of Ali's family was more than welcome. You very easily get reminded of your childhood memories which binds you more to the movie. Though being kids, they have acted to perfection. A very simple but a beautiful movie to watch and would suggest other users to watch as well.


                
From Iran comes a wonderfully unique and family friendly film. Unique in the portrayals of it's children characters, children who act and feel like real children. Their acting is great and their emotions pull you right along with them. This film is a great example of simple storytelling that works in a grand way. This would be a great film for younger kids to see, much better for them and their young minds then some of the Hollywood trash that's pumped into their face. The subtitles are relatively easy to read and the story is simple and easy to follow. The camera work gives you a great feel for the area of Iran and it's people at the time. All said a unique and original film and in all the right ways.


                
This Iranian film depicts the love a young boy named Ali has for his younger sister named Zahra. Early in the film Ali loses his sister's most prized possession, a pair of shoes, and spends the remainder of the film doing his best to make it up to her. The fact that the family is extremely poor and the feared wrath of the father if he were to find out about the lost shoes add to the tension of the film.One idea that helped me to appreciate what I have a little more, was the poverty portrayed in the film. The family is very poor. They live in one room apartment and shoes are the most prized possessions the children own. Even though this family is extremely poor, they still find it in themselves to give soup to a nearby family even worse off. Zahra desperately wants to find her missing shoes but when she finds the little girl who has them.... The disparate in living conditions from the poor areas to the big cities and higher class neighborhoods is very vividly pictured. I believe the director was also hoping to provoke a response of compassion in the middle and upper class citizens along with the government in Iran with the reality of poverty in some areas.The director's use of settings and atmosphere pulled me into the story. The young actors did such a convincing job I could begin to feel the emotions they were portraying on the screen. I would recommend this film for anyone who enjoys foreign film or for anyone who would like to gain a slight bit of insight into middle eastern culture.


                
The Children of Heaven is a great foreign film that follows these two children through all their ups and downs and journeys. I believe that this movie does a great job of symbolizing the ideas of modernity vs. tradition and the values of Islam.For instance, the will of God was presented through out this movie and shown in a good light. In the movie Ali and Zahra were very effective in changing their lives and having an effect on what was going on and how they were going to do things. This was also done better than the parents because they were not shown in a very leading light like the children were but more in the background and shadows. This also demonstrates the idea that the younger generation is more open and willing to change than the older generation.An example of this effect that the children have would be when Zahra finally finds her shoes. When the two of them chase down the girl and see her family and how they live they decide that it is not worth taking the shoes back since the family seemed to be much poorer than they were.Another effect would be when Ali went with his father to find work in the uptown city; he showed more backbone than his father did. Ali found a way to ask others is they needed any gardeners and eventually he found someone they could work for. In this effect Ali was able to get his father the job which in turn earned them quite a bit of extra money. And in a round about way this money eventually gets the two children gifts that they would enjoy.These are just a few of the examples throughout the movie that show a lot of effect from the children that from the parents. This is a great movie and it depicts a different culture in a very interesting light.


                
"Children of Heaven" is a very heartwarming movie. It is a Middle Eastern film from Iran and therefore is subtitled and very different from American movies. It does move rather slow and has many scenes with little or no talking. I believe this is good because it gives you time to think about and recognize what is going on in the movie without relying on the characters to tell you. Many things in the movie are implied rather than stated outright. Very few, if any, of the actors were professionals, however the cast is brilliant. The main character, the young boy Ali, is especially convincing. The movie has heavy Islamic themes which you should be able to easily pick out if you have knowledge of the religion. I believe the overall theme of the movie would be that God will always take care of you, even if he does it in a way you did not expect.Ali is a young boy who accidentally lost his younger sister, Zahra's, shoes. Their family cannot afford to buy a new pair, so Ali and Zahra race back and forth from school to share one pair of sneakers. At the end of the movie, Ali participates in a race to win a pair of sneakers for his sister. He must come in third place to win the shoes, but through his determination he accidentally comes in first. He is very disappointed and extremely exhausted after the race. He goes home to Zahra knowing he has let her down. The movie then cuts to a scene of his father at the market and shows new shoes for Ali and Zahra on the back of his bike. Then it comes back to Ali and we watch as he soothes his tired, blistered feet in a pool of water.Ali and Zahra worked very hard to share one pair of sneakers and to keep their parents from worrying about Zahra's lost shoes. Although it was hard, they worked together every day. Ali was very excited when the prospect of new sneakers came up. He knew he could win them and tried his hardest. But in the end, he did not get what he wanted. He felt like a failure and knew his sister was disappointed. However, the viewers see that everything is taken care of; both children will get new shoes. This clearly shows the author's belief that God will give his people what they need. He gives Ali a cool, refreshing pool to soak and cleanse his aching feet in. And even though He did not give Ali the shoes from the race, He still provided shoes; a pair for each child. So God provided even more than what was needed. So in the end, God will take care of you so long as you work hard and care about others.
Well not many movies touch you to a level that this one did. I can count movies which made me cry.This is one of the rare few. And the best part was that all the moments that brings a smile on your face or the ones which make your heart sigh are so honest that when in the finale race ALI is gasping, you gape at his desperation and pray for him.Linear storytelling, average cinematography, but then probably that was deliberate to give the movie,the simple feel that it had. Music was very minimal, again an attempt probably to keep it real. Have seen juts two Iranian films and both of them made me cry.Well that's a good record. Unlucky for this film that it was nominated alongside the classic Life is Beautiful. Else this movie might have had a chance.What stood out for me in the movie were the performances of the kids. Both of them were exemplary, especially the boy. Awesome!!The movie has its share of moments, but at times i found it a little slow. i mean in a similar setting you could have had more moments which stay with you after the movie ends.It's only after 1 hour that the movie begins to grip you. before that its too slow and very little is happening.But anyways, it made me CRY.. so it must have something great about it.


                
Well i feel everyone must have felt an urge to own some or the other thing in life , but how many of us would have really understood the value of it? So as that it might have become something you were forbidden to have by fate , no matter how much you try , and it comes directly to you after you have struggled for it as much as u can.The movie starts from a tale of two children which could have been transformed to just another story telling tale but in reality it transforms into a tale guiding your inner spirit to enlighten you see for yourself that what you desire is not whats important as there can be many to keep you wanted but its the aisle you walk on to the end so that u can have it is what it counts.


                
"Children of Heaven" looks at a poor Iranian boy (9)and his quest to be responsible and deserving of the love of his sister (6) by replacing her shoes which he has lost. Demonstrating that less is often more, this sweet film speaks volumes with simple actions, thoughts, and feelings.God bless the child who's got his own.


                
This is a great movie especially for children: the plot is simple, there is no real villain, the main characters are children, and it's an excellent eye-opener about how life is lived in a very different society.It suffers a bit because it is too simple, and doesn't have quite enough tension to keep adults fully interested; but since it is fairly short, it doesn't really drag either.The story illustrates the story of a very poor family in which the brother (Ali) manages to lose the only pair of shoes that his sister (Zahra) has. To avoid the wrath of the father who is behind on rent and is unable to make ends meet, they work out a scheme whereby they take turns with Ali's sneakers: Zahra takes them to school in the morning, then Ali in the afternoon. Eventually Ali enrolls in a race hoping to bring home a new pair of sneakers as the prize.There is much of great value in this film. The two children really shine: they are endearing, tender, kind, almost saintly. It's particularly touching to see Ali's concern for his little sister, knowing that it was his fault the shoes were lost, and how he does so many things to try and cushion the loss for her. The father is the one character with some depth or complexity. He's easily angered and gruff, yet he clearly loves his children and wife and is doing his best in spite of circumstances. Another weakness of the movie was the ending, which left a lot to be inferred by the viewer and did not have the tidy, clear conclusion one would expect. Then again, the art of film-making lies in subtleness, but I thought this might have been too subtle.This is an excellent didactic movie for children: it promotes decency and goodness and it teaches the value of self-sacrifice and caring for others in one's family; that even when one is poor, one can perform acts of charity towards others even less fortunate; that the greatest nobility in human character can be found among the poorest and most destitute, but also among the rich (e.g., the grandfather who hires Ali's father as gardener). These virtues and values are universal and transcend nationality and ethnicity and religion, which is why this movie has such a broad appeal.


                
Very brilliant film, with (not only) children acting very naturally. A simple story of brother and sister hurrying up to lend each other the only pair of shoes they have, after the brother lost them. It's also a story of material poverty of the children, but richness in feelings and beauty between a brother and a sister.
It reminded me of some neorealism italian cinema movement.
It's a wonderful example of cinema based on feelings and acting rather than budget.


                
CHILDREN OF HEAVEN
Majid Majidi
 Iranian film marked with lot of classics from undisputable craft and theme which organized and conducted by some power packed legends including Abbas Kirostami, Majid Majidi, Asghar Farhadi, Jafer Panahi etc. These legends just show off something simple atmosphere and outlook that engaged with commons. There themes were so close with the ongoing simple aspects of human beings. Basically they are the subjects of things and beings. Their movies will also often open us to the marvelous world of unknown (but common) that we can read in daily press and in the streets. (So far from Bunuel's view about films).
 As far as, for me Majid Majidi looks astonishing about the depiction of downtrodden concepts and ideas. He just portrayed the basic plot of low class people around the Iranian outskirts. Children of Heaven mesmerized me because of the subtle representation of low class people. It is not about anything which marks calamities and atrocities mainly associate with common people, it's just a simple opening to the world of kids or children. This movie opens up to us two siblings of age around 11 or 12, a brother and a sister. We could understand their family appearance from the initial sequence of the movie when the title cards going on. A person repairs a shoe of a small girl. When we look close and analyze we can find out the shoe gets more damaged and there is no worth to repair it. Going back to home after it gets repaired Ali (the brother) lost the shoe and their turns up the beginning of the movie.
 Majidi's class can be seen at every course of the movie. He just put the camera to a brother and sister and captured their interactions in a candid way. In the initial part, because of the afraid of his father they both convey the absence of shoe and the consequences associate with them when they do not have a shoe and everything, they just scribbled through the notebook. They can't talk anything about the topic because their father will hear this. So while they are studying they just share their dialogues through writing which is so vast in its context. The audience gets to know more about their complex stage and the problem relate with them and everything through those writings.


                
A masterwork of heartfelt grace, endless warmth & soulful compassion, Children of Heaven is an affectionately crafted, tenderly structured & wonderfully performed coming-of-age drama that not only paints a beautifully evocative portrait of siblings relationship but also offers a very captivating glimpse into the lives of lower-class Persian society.Set in an impoverished neighbourhood in Tehran, Children of Heaven concerns a young boy whose routine is thrown off-balance after he misplaces a pair of shoes that belonged to his sister. Promising to make up for the loss and requesting her to not mention the incident to their parents, the two devise a scheme to solve the problems on their own in the meantime.Written & directed by Majid Majidi, the film features a very simple premise which is then brought to life in a very humane & humble manner. Despite the poor neighbourhood setting, the story doesn't have an ounce of cynicism in it, for all Majidi is concerned with is illustrating the siblings bonding & their shared predicament after the shoes go missing. It's pure, kind-hearted & delightfully sweet.Set pieces are kept to a minimum, plot is firmly rooted in reality, and there is a very naturalistic feel to how its events unfold. The two kids play their part very convincingly and are finely supported by the rest of the cast. Pacing is steady throughout its runtime, and keeps its childhood spirit alive till the very end. And its blissful tone & adorable quality is further amplified by its mesmerising score.On an overall scale, Children of Heaven is an exquisite, nostalgic & intimate cinema that captures the essence of childhood in full-fledged fashion and brims with heartwarming themes that reflect the goodness in humanity. An adorable, innocent & refreshing delight that begins on an arresting note and culminates on an emotional high, this Persian gem is absolutely worth your time & money. Thoroughly recommended.


                
The film's poster has a bright, dream-like quality, as though it has been etched from a child's imagination itself. But the stories within are not daydreams, but real issues that a young brother and sister have to face at a much too early age. When Ali takes his sister's shoes to be mended, they are mistaken for trash (which tells you as much about their condition of living) and taken away. This would be a hard sell in a western setting; it seems inconceivable that such a mundane loss could propel a family into such desperation. We take the very material that protects our feet from the ground for granted. For Ali's family there is no such fortune. When he returns home crestfallen, he can barely believe what he has allowed to happen and cannot face breaking the news to his sister. Zahra's anticipation is along the liens of the poster; her eyes are wide, bright, and innocent, and she has the type of face that is impossible to disappoint. He breaks it to her slowly, gently. They silently pass notes between each other because the father would beat them if he found out. But I think there is also another reason for this. We underestimate the feelings of children so often. They do so in secret because they have enough sensitivity and awareness that they do not want to heap yet another problem onto the pile for their parents. The film is full of moments which give them the opportunity to open up about their poverty and domestic issues. But they carry with them a fierce pride that prevents them from doing so. There is a very real and realised scene where their father explodes because of all their misfortune and the lack of control around it. Ali and Zahra see this and respond; they want to minimise, and they want to resolve this issue themselves. And later, there is the heartbreaking moment where they track down the user of Zahra's old shoes, but see the recipient's misfortune for themselves, and slowly shuffle away with this realisation. This is maturity beyond their years.There are a few brief moments in which they are allowed the freedom to act their age. As the father toils hard in the garden, Ali is allowed to play with the similar aged son, and we are reminded of what a child should be doing. Their laughter is little more than gurgles, like a newborn baby. And when Zahra and he are afforded a moment to blow bubbles, the soundtrack, which has been strictly diegetic for almost the entirety of the film, chimes in with this soft, tinkling tune. It is an alien sequence, seemingly from another film with another subject matter. But it works because the audience and both Ali and Zahra are aware of the juxtaposition, and know how precious and fleeting the scene is. Majidi crafts the film in the tradition of the great Italian neo-realist films, which prioritised authenticity and realism above all, and examined the plight of the working class. The camera observes like a fly on the wall, never quite staying still, with no audacious movements for aesthetics' sake. The soundtrack places us within the scene, and allows us to hear what the characters hear, the bustle of many families with their own struggles. Majidi makes what could be seen as contrived (bicycle brakes failing at a crucial moment) into something heart-stopping and fearful. We have invested so much into Ali's family that we understand that such a fall could ruin them beyond repair. And yet Majidi does break this stylistic convention at the most pivotal of times. Besides neatly sidestepping the previous obstacle (the father is shown to be healthy and walking soon after), the narrative conveniently forgets about the substantial payment of the gardening job if only to heighten the tension of the cross country race. Majidi inserts garish and heavy-handed reminders of Ali's struggle as he huffs and puffs, as if he does not trust the audience enough to remember. The sound is muted and voice-over recalls what he is running for, and each step is magnified in the slow motion. These techniques belong in a lesser film. But there is a poetic sentiment about it; Ali wants to right his own wrongs, and Hashemian expresses every last spasm of regret in those eyes. The film gently assuages...that for today at least, he does not have to do it all himself.
Children of Heaven The main focus of this movie was on the children. The setting you see is what you would see as the child. (From a child's level) The adults are seen in the background, but have little to do with the action going on in the movie itself. Even when Ali is running through the alleys trying to hurry and get to school the camera is still at his level showing what he sees. The pace of the shots also depends completely on what the kids are doing. This movie does a great job of showing how a kid in this area lives.I like how the film shows how close Ali and Zahra are. He feels terrible about losing her shoes and is determined to get her a new pair when he knows he'll never find her old ones. Zahra tries to threaten Ali by saying she is going to tell mom or dad, but he promises if she just gives him a little more time he will work it out. He allows her to borrow his shoes for school and meet him in the alley go exchange so he can make it to school. He is late multiple times because of the exchange, but still won't tell his parents he lost her shoes. He becomes determined to get into the race to win her a new pair of shoes that he cries and begs his teacher to let him try out even though it's past the try out date. He promises him he will win, but he doesn't mention he only wants to win third place. The whole movie revolves around the guilt Ali feels for losing the shoes and his determination to get her some new ones.


                
Children of Heaven is an extremely symbolic movie. The exact purpose of the movie is not exactly clear until the final shot of Ali's battered feet in a sweet pond of innocent fish. It is not until then that the tenderness and irony in the movie regarding God come clear.During the entire movie, the parents come off as having the typical "if God wills it, it will happen" attitude that really means "I'm too lazy to do anything about my pathetic life", at least in this case. Ali and Zahra are two young kids who physically and mentally drain themselves over a pair of shoes they've lost, and it's ridiculous they even have to worry about that. It's not ridiculous because I'm just a spoiled American lucky enough to never have worried about it, it's ridiculous because their parents wait until the rent is far past overdue to try to do anything about it. It isn't until then that the father finally goes into town to make ends meet. However this amazing father is sure not to do it alone, he has to bring is child along too.The parents, or at least the father, is no doubt a loser, but the children are quite the opposite. There's something wrong if your 9-year-old son is better with talking to a person than you are, and in the case of going into town to get money, this is how it is. Ali certainly wins your heart over every time you see his little face getting teary-eyed because all he wants to do is win his sisters shoes back. You can clearly see that although he believes in God, he pours his heart out into that final race just to right his wrong. However, because if God wants it to happen a certain way, it will happen that way, he didn't get those shoes in that race that second, but he did get them.Some may view the Dad getting shoes for the little girl in the final scene as a sign that it really is in God's control. However, I believe that it is indeed in God's control; however the extent of how fast the needy are willing to try is the key. God helps those who help themselves. Although it seemed like a long time, Ali's wish got answered fast in comparison to Ali's father's wish of God helping them out of their rough time. It should also be noted that it wasn't until after Ali's father went into town to really help his family out that God helped the man. It is indeed in God's hands, however that is no excuse to sit back and do nothing when things aren't going the way you want. The display of this belief makes the movie truly respectable.
"There is beauty all around when there's love at home. There is joy in every sound when there's love at home<U+0085>In the cottage there is joy, hate and envy ne'er annoy<U+0085> Oh there's One who smiles on high, when there's love at home" (LDS Hymn #294). When a brother and sister do not fight it brings joy to the parents. There is a sweet spirit that can be found with in the walls of that home when there is love. It does not matter if people are rich or poor, black or white, American or Iranian, what matters is the way people treat one another. Among children there is a certain loyalty to one another, especially when these children are siblings. There is nothing a brother wouldn't do to help his sister, keep her happy, and keep her safe. The portrayal of love, loyalty, and caring is wonderfully depicted in Children of Heaven. In a typical family you might expect to observe bickering, back biting, and children acting out against one another. At other times we see the total opposite of this example, a home filled with family members expressing compassion and sympathy in how they feel and act towards one another. In this fairly simple story Ali loses his sister's shoes, tries to find them and fails. He must then go home and tell his sister what has happened, and as children often do they try and hide from their parents the truth that they will be reprimanded for. After Ali tells his sister, Zahra, that he lost her shoes he pleads with her not to tell their father. There are two reasons I see for this fear, it could be because Ali fears he will be in trouble and will be punished for his carelessness, or it could be that he knows that the burden his parents have is already too great and that his family does not have the means to buy new shoes for Zahra. It is out of love rather than fear he does not tell his parents. The relationship that Ali has with his sister is more valuable than all the material things of this world. In effort to console or keep his sister quiet Ali gives her a new pencil and later a golden pen that he is awarded for doing well on a test. Ali shares his shoes with his sister until he can figure out how he will get her shoes back. This makes for some interesting action where they must quickly meet up to exchange shoes so Ali can try to make it to school on time, which he seems unable to do. He is caught a few times by a school administrator, yet even when Ali is in trouble, we see something that seems to be not so common in America anymore. A young child who is courteous and respectful to the elders he comes in contact with, always raising his hand to speak. In doing a little research on this foreign film the use of children actors in Iran is more than just showing innocence and child like love. In Iran there are rules in the film making about using adults. They cannot use a beautiful woman if she is over the age of nine she must cover her hair and womanly curves at all time and if there is a love scene with in the film they cannot touch or even kiss, unless in real life they are husband and wife. When using children they are able to still show these same ideas and are able to use the children in adult situations and give them the characteristics of adults. At the age of nine the father feels his son should be able to help support the family, and that he should be working as well, just like the father had done at his age. There is a tremendous pressure and responsibility put upon a young child, but it is only because of the love of the parents wanting to help prepare them for the rest of their life.
At the Iranian film academy de Sica's "Ladri di Biciclette" as well as Ozu's early films like "Tokyo no Yado" have been studied closely. Not in all cases the results have been convincing.In this film the allusions show the impact of the above-mentionned directors. But in this case the result has been excellent (though not superb). Unlike other Iranian films it is not depressing and sinister but tries to show the effects of poverty in a comical way without forgetting its disastrous effects on the human mind, thus reminding one of Chaplin's "The Tramp" (I think it is no accident that shoes plays such an important role).The film does show the bitter reality of a large part of the Iranian population without compromise. Thus it unmasks the pretenses of the revolution which was fought in the name of the "mostazafin", the disinherited.


                
