I have never been a big fan of police serials, but this is my all time favourite. I have nothing to add to the earlier comments, other than that in a time with complicated racial conflicts, poverty induced crime and the problems stemming from social inequality, this show tried to comment on the real problems facing the modern society.And it was exciting too.


                
Set in Baltimore, Homicide: Life on the Street paved the way to The Wire. No car chases, shootouts or clichés: this cop show focused on character development and on the psychological duels between detectives and criminals in scenes full of suspense and depth.Writing and performances are superb. Braugher is phenomenal as clever, smug ace investigator Pembleton. The underrated Secor makes Bayliss a multi-faceted individual, a sensitive man capable of appalling bursts of violence. Johnson is likable as Meldrick, Belzer hilarious as Munch; Diamond has one of the best character arcs, as he portrays Kellerman's downfall; Kotto imbues the potentially clichéd role of the grumpy officer with humanity, humour and a volatile sense of threat. And Melissa Leo is still the best female detective seen on TV. Among guest stars, Robin Williams, Steve Buscemi, Elijah Wood and David Morse.Homicide was not afraid of providing existentially disquieting closures: many cases were never solved, sometimes because they were "stone-cold whodunits" from the start, sometimes because the detectives messed up. In what is possibly the best episode (Three Men and Adena), there is a scene where you sense Pembleton and Bayliss are THIS close to getting the suspect confess, but they are so angry and exhausted they let the occasion slip... and you suddenly realize along with them that the moment is gone, beyond recall. It's terrific stuff.Homicide had a seven seasons run. The first two feature some of the strongest episodes, like Black and Blue and Three Men and Adena. Seasons three, four and five found were also excellent: best episodes are Crosetti, Colors, Hate Crimes, Stakeout, The Hat, Prison Riot, Have a Conscience, Double Blind, Partners and Other Strangers.In the last two seasons the series suffered from weak writing and new characters who were not on par with the original cast, like Falsone (Jon Seda), Ballard (Callie Thorne) and Sheppard (Michael Michelle). Character assassinations or departures of fan favorites like Pembleton, Lewis, Bayliss and Kellerman did not help.Overall, Homicide was a brilliant show, something quite out of the ordinary. It's a pity it did not maintain the same level of quality to the very end, but the first five seasons (and a handful of episodes from the last two) were remarkable.9/10
No doubt, the most realistic police show ever made.Mean we all saw a lot of cop-shows in our life, most unrealistic, but this one is entirely different. Great characters, great acting, its more intellectual then all the rest.no car chases, no gun-firing all the timeand, no high-tech computers.cause that doesn't exist in real life.and yet the show is still entertaining.the difference is this show is not really about the murders. well it also is, but most of the characters are psycho-log. very deep. all with their own personal problems. the writing is fantastic, cause the dialogs, they just talk ass we all do - day by day.


                
Note: this is a copy-&-paste review from my Metacritic account since I didn't see anyone covering this, so...comparisons between the two are unavoidable due to the shared link in Simon's book, but this is a tonally different series with different writers. Some people (including me) find this better while some fans of the former find it inferior, but these opinions tend to be pointless anyway (no one wants to stoop to the level of the 'best show ever' ppl).
But in comparing, the clear differences between the two shows are Homicide's approach to characterization, commentary, and music. It deals episodically (for the most part) with murder cases investigated by hardened, but well-meaning cops. Corruption is rarely a factor here (I read that it's featured in Season 5 but I'm actually still on 4). The humor used is self-aware & sometimes dark, but it doesn't go into the nihilistic & vulgar territories of the Wire. Drama is often punctuated by 'soft rock' melodies & ambient instrumentals as it focuses on both the cases' moral elements & the character's personal lives.
It does have a soapy quality to it at times & some of the characters can get rather overheated & shouty, but these qualities combined with the uncompromising lack of ideal endings make a nice watch. (Btw, my opinion on the purported realism of the 2 shows is mixed. Homicide is more believable in depicting how a healthy police organization works (without exploring deeply on corruption issues) while the Wire (or at least the half I watched) focuses on a group of mostly dysfunctional, low-class cops surrounded by a crooked bureaucracy (with hardly a morally-driven officer in sight). Maybe a balance between the 2 would be nice, but I guess I'd go to police corruption documentaries for that.)


                
This is a superb television show and one of the most memorable ever presented by a network. Intelligent, fascinating, and powerful, Homicide had characters of substance portrayed by some of the best actors to ever work in the medium. The writing is stellar and many of the episodes are literally unforgettable. Episodes such as the subway one with guest actor Vincent D'Noffrio (forgive my spelling of the actors' names in this review) and another titled All Is Bright with Kathryn Erbe as an AIDS victim (before their Criminal Intent success) are deeply moving and beautifully done. With the exception of one season, when abominably untalented and intensely unlikeable actress Michael "I got my gun took!" Michelle almost single handedly sank the program with performances so horrible they were beyond comprehension, the high level of quality was maintained for the entire run of the series. For all involved with this show, this was a remarkable accomplishment and their work (with the exception of Michelle and her irritating, bizarre, and invasive "contribution", one which I feared would be repeated when she appeared in two episodes of House. Fortunately, House fired her for being stupid and inept, a judgment that surely could be applied to her acting abilities, and something that caused millions of viewers to cheer jubilantly in relief until their throats were raw) represents the finest television has ever presented. One star is deducted from what should be a ten star rating due to the catastrophic decision to inflict Michelle upon loyal viewers and turn an entire season into garbage by giving her character an unforgivable amount of screen time with a plot about her being beaten up and relieved of her gun. It was painful to watch something so badly done and such truly terrible acting. What were they thinking? She was nice to look at but even her personality was repellent. No one had ever heard of her before and little is seen of her since but tragically, her unrealistic image as a whining, wailing detective is burned into memories because nothing so horrifically awful had ever been part of such an excellent program before. When she suddenly showed up on the superb series, House, viewers felt their blood run cold and stomachs turn as she threatened to curse another fantastic show with her presence, as short lived as her presence was after an unprecedented outcry from viewers alerted creative forces to the senseless and potentially disastrous mistake made! It is a blessing that since she is older, her looks can not get her many roles and those she gets are on programs no one watches, so when she destroys them no one really notices. However, that one star must be deducted for the reason her casting was so egregious an error that it can never be forgiven and will remain one of the most inexplicable and downright brainless creative choices in television history. If the producers wanted an African American female as part of the detective force, many great actresses were overlooked, talented women who would have made a very positive addition to the series and deserved the role. A dozen come to mind, yet the beauty of Michelle seem to have blinded the producers to her complete and utter lack of talent and the terrifically negative impact her casting would make. It is sad to think of all the truly gifted black actresses turned away in favor of someone who is more a vapid model than an actual actor with any skill at all. Otherwise, those nine stars are well deserved indeed.


                
in general, there were several characters played by certain actors were quite memorable. the first one is Yaphet Kotto who played Lt. Al Giardello. Andre Braugher who played Frank Pembleton, Kyle Secor played Tim Bayliss, Ned Beatty/Stanley Bolander, Clark Johnson/Meldrick Lewis. these mentioned above were all great casting jobs and all well performed realistically: ~the most pathetic character created in this series was Beau Felton, played by Daniel Baldwin, this character spent more time dealing with his domestic marital problems instead of detecting. ~Melissa Leo played the character as Kay Howard, she performed pretty well, but she's too tiny and short for being a detective, her hairs were always messy, wearing jackets or coats 2 sizes larger and longer, and the way she spoke when she delivered the dialog was often blurry, incomprehensible.~Isabella Hofmann, another dubious character who didn't look convincingly like a high ranking officer, the affair she involved with Beau was shallow and unfounded. but after naming these characters played by these actors, i have to point out that the most disgusting and inappropriate character created in this series as a 100% unqualified detective was that John Munch character, played by a quite disturbing horse-faced and the most dis-likable Richard Belzer. i didn't know how this kind of lowlife sleazy scumbag could become a detective, because most of the time, he was just messed around in the station, did lip services and non-detective jobs, nosy, privy and gossipy, meddling other detectives' personal matters, dodging duties, wisecracking with self-righteous excuses; a very inappropriate, out-of-placed character created carelessly or, purposefully(?) to make the viewers feel disgusted whenever he appeared in the series? a character created maliciously.but i have to say, the most memorable character in this drama series is: 'Lt. Al Giardello' and Yaphet Kotto just being superb playing that role!! and the runner-up memorable character is Frank Pembleton, played by Andre Braugher, an arrogant but smart and dedicate detective, although Braugher performed perfectly, the character he played was respectable but not likable. again, i have to repeat my most hateful and disgusted feeling against the John Munch character, simply couldn't believe such cockroach-like person as being a detective; a completely unnecessary cast.then, when the series ran into season 4, it gradually lost its shine and attraction, new characters such as Det. Lennie Briscoe played by the droopy eye-lids Jerry Orbach and Det. Rey Curtis by Bejamin Brett; two definitely unlikable and unconvincing enough characters in addition to the disgusting character, John Munch, who later shifted into "law & order", i simply could not care less and less.the worst part of this series is it was inserted with several "law & order" episodes that didn't fit in at all.


                
As of late I've been into cable dramas which have really taken the genre of TV up more than just a notch in quality. Shows like The Wire, Breaking Bad, and The Killing are top notch.With this in mind, I thought of Homicide: Life on the Street. I remember when it came out. It was intense and like nothing else on TV, especially network (NBC).I went back and watched the first season and this is where it all started. This is where all the camera work began, the quick editing, the in-depth character development over meaningless action (shooting and chase scenes).The writing and directing in the first season made a lasting impact on how we now see TV drama, and in a rare moment TV impacted cinema here.The episode that made its mark in the first season and thus got the ball rolling was Three Men and Adena (1993). This will blow you away today much less than 18 years ago!!! I can't imagine sitting in my living room 18 years ago and watching this episode. No wonder it scared America in its time. This show was way ahead of the curve.Watch it today...outside of the haircuts and a few cultural references, it is as fresh as ever.


                
"Homicide: Life On The Street," which remained on the air for almost six years by luck and a miracle or two, is best appreciated as a whole. In the first episode, Tim Baylis joins Homicide, the elite of Baltimore's police detective units. In the last episode, he resigns greatly changed. Throughout the series, he is haunted by the first investigation he led, the case of a murdered young girl which went unsolved. Not only Baylis but each of the "murder police" becomes obsessed in the course of the series. They try to put things right by "speaking for those who can no longer speak for themselves," but every time they solve a murder (or cannot solve one), someone else is murdered and they must begin again. Det. Mike Kellerman becomes obsessed with stopping a murderous, smirking drug trafficker named Luther Mahony, but this obsession destroys his career and leads to death and ruin for many others as well. And Kellerman loses precisely the thing for which he had fought hardest: his honor. In the end, none of them can save the world, but Homicide will continue its grim mission without Baylis, Kellerman, Frank Pembleton, Kay Howard, and the other detectives who are gone. In spite of its serious subject, "Homicide" manages to have a sense of humor. Some of it, of course, is gallows humor. Other moments of comic relief arise from the relationships of the detectives who are a peculiar collection of personalities from a wide range of backgrounds. Uncredited but important characters include the BOX, the FISH TANK and, last but certainly not least, the large, glossy, white BOARD hung prominently on the wall of the squad room with the names of murder victims written in felt pen under the name of each detective who is the "primary" (the one in charge of that case). If a name is in red, the case is still open; black means it is officially solved; blue means it is more than ten years old but has been solved during the current year. (The oldest case solved is that of Clare Slone, a girl murdered in the 1930s whose killer's son comes forward sixty years later.) Each case has a number, evidently representing the number of homicides in the city for the year to date. Mercifully, Baylis does not have to look at the name of his first unsolved case forever because the board is wiped clean every January. The rest of the time, the television-viewer can see the names of victims from previous episodes above the names of current open cases. To be sure, there are disappointments such as the unceremonious transfer of Sgt. Kay Howard to another detective unit, never to be heard from again and replaced with overly glamorous female homicide detectives who, to their credit, eventually fit in. The worst disappointment, however, is the three episodes done in collaboration with "Law and Order." These efforts were taken over by "Law and Order" and become weaker with each installment. The final one might as well have been directed by the Clinton White House, and is complete with a cartoonish stand-in for Ken Starr who lacks only literal horns and a pitchfork. Previously, "Homicide" had been above such petty partisan politics and rose above them again when this collaboration ended (though Machiavellian police department politics is a frequent theme of "Homicide").


                
