I really don't understand the obsession with the Godfather trilogy, brought up with society around me proclaiming it to be a classic I rented the first and found it just bearable! Determined on my task of watching all three I rented the second, I barely made it through, i found the storyline confusing and didn't see any of the quotes used in 'You've got Mail'! Please don't think that the only films I watch are chick flicks, I do like more serious, older films but ... oh dear... maybe I just can't relate to Italian mafia families, I must have wiped this film from my mind as I can hardly remember the storyline! I do not which to be stereotypical but maybe this really is a film for men! Please tell me there are other people out there who feel this way about these films! I can't understand how they always get to the top of 'Great film Lists'! If asked by a friend whether to watch this film I would say no, unless I wanted to punish them!P.S I still haven't watched number three!!


                
This movie was painful to finish. I felt like I was watching paint dry. Sure you can give it credit for getting the historic periods accurate but do set design, costumes and props make a great movie? I think not.This actually could have easily been two movies and made each more bearable to watch though not anymore exciting.The public's fascination with organized crime is very disturbing. These are hollow, morally void movies. So what the godfather was a "family man" that justifies his brutality? Just like people's attachment to the Godfather in the first movie because he didn't want to get into drugs and showed "loyalty" to his family (so long as he was king). You cannot sugar coat depravity and thuggery. They are what they are, pathetic and empty excuses for criminal behavior. Maybe people's lives are so boring they become mentally disturbed? I don't know, I am simply trying to rationalize this behavior. Idolizing criminals who get weak-minded people to fear them and then pretend themselves to be "emperors" among their "subjects" is downright pathetic. I suspect people pretend in their own minds to have this control over others, this fake respect and false sense of self-worth.This is how I imagine they envision it,"Hey look I'm a dumb Sicilian who says stupid phrases with double meanings and then brutally murders others. But it is OK because everything is about the fake "family" not the narcissistic personality disorder. Play some crappy music from the old country and drink some bad "vino". Make sure to speak in broken English gibberish with an Italian accent. Yes you too can be a loser thug." <U+0085>is your life this pathetic? Don't answer that (we know it is).All I wanted to see was Michael Corleone die and he never died. He just kept brooding on and on and on for 3 hours! For some reason Michael can just kill everyone he wants in the last five minutes of every movie yet no one can kill him? Apparently he always wears full body armor and drives around only in a tank? Yet in the movie he frequently goes all over the place in just a regular suit and car. How is this so? Maybe his magic fear aura just repels anyone who would ever think of killing him! The fans of these movies miss the obvious because they are so into Al Pacino brooding around posing for the camera and fantasizing of being the Godfather.What a waste of time.


                
While the first movie had a lot of freshness and intensity, this movie is explaining the rise of Vito and Michael with more detail and explanation, so that it is taking a much longer breathing to say it. The mixture of past and present may work for some, but it didn't work for me. I had the feeling the film was repeating itself constantly with past and present, even when the scenes with Vito Corleone weren't that good and a bit too cliché and strangely comical. I don't understand why this film is rated to high.


                
SPOILER: THIS MOVIE WAS TERRIBLESeriously? I don't even get how he is anyone's Godfather. Is he? And more importantly do I care? I don't even know if they wanted this movie to be good. There was this part with old people talking quiet and I didn't know or care what they were talking about. Oh whoops I mean that was the whole movie. Seriously I think they just puked all over a roll of film and accidentally shipped it to me. I was keeping count and there weren't any car chases. ANY! The stuff with time travel was just weird and didn't fit in to the premise of the rest of the movie. Francis FORD Coppola? More like Francis BORED Coppola. Get a real job, guy.
The first Godfather is a very good movie.  Great acting, some action scenes to releive the slower parts, and a good musical score.  The only thing I can say in favor of this one is that it has good acting.  Other than that, I'd rather take a nap than watch this three hour bore-a-thon.


                
I just watched Godfather Part II and now I must take a moment to gather myself. It's all too much. My mind and body have entered what seems to be a state of shock and awe. I feel like just collapsing into a chair and staring into blank space. A blank stare of contemplation: Much like Michael did throughout the whole three hour duration of the movie. If you'll excuse me I have to go now. I need to get a grip on the life shatteringly staggering events that I have just witnessed. I really need to lie down. I must recuperate. You see, my knees have turned to jelly. I may have to support them with my plastic kneecap. Movies this powerful should be banned.


                
even worse then the original and that is saying something! firstly this film suffers from the fact that it is not American gangster and the film makers should have thought twice about making a film like this after the fantastic American gangster set the bar so high for every other gangster film that would be made in latter years. I guess you can detect the sarcasm there but I have read the reviews of the afore mention movies and am getting pretty ticked off with every gangster film that gets made being compared to this and its jerk off predecessor, this is over long, boring and confusing rubbish with very little substance I don't know how the director of Your a big boy now and Finnians rainbow ever got to adapt the first film in the first place probably because he was an Italian American it is a shame they didn't wait around for Scorsese he's been making these kind of movies for the last thousand years. I don't know what it is about short badly dressed street thugs going around saying badder bing and shooting someone in a pizza restaurant is so appealing to everyone who happens to be a film buff I guess it's a hero worship thing you have to look up to somebody so why not some idiot who makes poorly adapted films from boring source material or dick heads who go around inflicting torment and anguish on normal people, I won't reviewing the third movie as it is just as bad as this probably not so bad because it doesn't go on for four years like this film does and Coppola did an interesting thing at the end of that one when he had Pacino screaming like a girl on the steps outside the opera with the music lifted from raging bull


                
Please do yourself a favor, and don't watch this movie. It was long and very boring, in fact I only got to the part with the kid singing to himself before I had to turn it off. This movie was awful, which is surprising considering the leads were Al Capachino, and John Calzone, both highly regarded actors. But they couldn't save this crap movie.I then woke up to the part with Boby Nero talking about a Roman empire which I found funny, bc Nero was an emperor. Overall this movie was a complete waste of time, and I was jealous of Frank Panini, in the tub killing himself, because that was what I wanted to do during this movie. I thought that the killing of Ross was stupid, as there was no way Rocco could've escaped Horrible 1/10
This film is so bad it made my knees burn !! I could only sit through 2 hours of this, and that was the worst part of my life. Ever. Although Godfather 1 was good this was not and I don't know how they got a third film out of this. Instead of watching the film i wish i would have made a daisy chain. I really wish i didn't watch this and i wish i could unwatch this film. The film is too long and boring and the storyline is blown way out of proportion. On the other hand i really enjoyed dumber and dumber and i would recommend watching that or anything with Will Smith in especially I am legend that is a great film. Overall i think the be who made this film should really question what they was thinking. PS. Death race is good the one with Jason Statham


                
O.k so I used to think the Godfather was the worst gangster movie ever I stand corrected. The Godfather II is even stinker. Why do people who say they don't like violent movies like this piece pooh pooh I will never know. Ever one is a bad guy. And they all kill each other. Pooh pooh. Pooh pooh. Pooh pooh. It same thing as the first one. Stinky stinky pooh. Pooh pooh. Pooh pooh. Pooh pooh. A fresher pile of pooh then the first one that does make it better. Every one knows that manure is better then fresher pooh. Don't wast your money. Don't wast your time. It is long and boring just like the first one. I seen better movie in my toilet. Stinky stinky stinky pooh. All movie are better then is except of Godfather III. The is a real stinky one.


                
Because the unintelligible duo of Marlon Brando and James Caan were left out of this film, that alone makes this an improved version of the original travesty. As usual, Al Pacino and Diane Keaton had good performances, and the addition of Robert DeNiro strengthened the cast. I still don't like gangster films glorifying crime and terrorism in the streets of America, so I didn't like this film, but at least the screenwriter and director did it better than the first one. I recommend you don't waste your time on this film, there are much better ones around, unless you have this uncontrollable urge to see Al Pacino, Diane Keaton, or Robert DeNiro in anything no matter how bad it is.


                
This is what happens when a director's first movie is a huge hit. All stops and restraints imposed by the studio and producers disappear. Coppola was constantly told to put "more action" in Godfather I so he reluctantly did it. Not being forced to in Godfather II resulted in this snooze-fest. It might have been an entertaining 90-minute movie if the prolonged "I'm a big filmmaker" mood shots, pensive looks, silly symbolism (enough with the oranges already) had been curtailed by someone. The best part of the movie was a reject scene from Godfather I - that about says it all. A couple minutes of actual energy.
