If you must see a Godfather film, see the 1st. Like #2, it's overrated and over-hyped, bot not nearly as much. Both are long films in need of more cuts, but 2 is like a film by a man who can't stop talking about himself and his friends.The massive failing is the director gets far too much respect, as if he's a mafia godfather himself, so not nearly enough cuts are made, like Diane Keaton's awful acting. While it's easy enough to follow the 2 timelines, it's disappointing that because of the sloppy excesses of the main timeline, the 2 rarely tie together. Had it been up to me, I would have done only the early timeline as a prequel.Pacino and DeNiro both deserve the acting credit they get. The whole film is filled with interesting, well acted male characters - probably what deceives many people into giving it excess credit. Unfortunately, great acting performances and characters don't add up to a masterpiece.


                
Why would anyone, anyone, ever tell Michael Corleone that she aborted her latest pregnancy? Did she not know he's vindictive, violent, and dangerous? Did she not know he's Catholic? Did she not see the first movie?Diane Keaton's character in The Godfather: Part II is a complete idiot. Diane Keaton's "I had an abortion!" monologue is grating on the nerves, in part because of her poor acting and in part because of her character's stupidity. However, in reviewing the second installment of one of the most overrated franchises in film history, I have to mention that scene. The other, much more famous part to the film is Al Pacino's "kiss of death". You can take ten seconds and watch that clip, or you can sit down and watch the entire three and a half hours.Robert De Niro shows up in this movie, in an oddly-lit, hazy saturated, flashback to Vito Coleone's youth. I don't know why anyone cared so much about Marlon Brando that they wanted to watch scene after scene about a younger version of him and why he became bad, how he became worse, and all in Italian. Sure, you can watch a very young Robert De Niro speaking in a foreign language and killing people, but you can also rent any number of other Robert De Niro movies and turn on the subtitles.Kiddy Warning: Obviously, you have control over your own children. However, due to violence, I wouldn't let my kids watch it.


                
Never saw it i dont know anything about it so i don't know if it is nice or not
