The second part of the family crime saga about the mafia of the Corleone clan was an event that was widely celebrated in the cinema. In particular, six Oscar awards and a recommendation of prestigious cinematographic universities where our VGIK enters, but the main thing is not this, but that after forty years this film is watched and is still being revised, and in terms of staging a frame and accents, many contemporaries have much to learn from the maestro The Corypoles. As far as I heard, the director was not going to be engaged in the second film and the studio had to make concessions, in particular in the history of Vittorio it was partly to address the source, and the story of Michael's becoming as Godfather had to be fully compiled. I finally looked at the second film and I want to share my impressions and thoughts on this matter.The second film was no less a legend than the original, not only having earned a well-deserved viewer's success and recognition of the members of the American Film Academy, but also entering the history of cinema as the best "sequel" of all time, in a number of polls - even bypassing the brilliant first picture. It was with the "Godfather, Part II" began the general fashion of assigning continuations in the headings of serial numbers written in Latin or Arabic numerals.Coppola and Puzo deliberately sacrificed the dynamic development of the plot, placing a stake on "epic breathing", amazingly conveys the scale of personalities - a special kind of titans, from each decision whose lives depend. Even the Griffith principle of the "cross" installation comparison of the vicissitudes of the fate of the founder of a powerful family who fled from his native Sicily and with great difficulty conquering authority in America, and his heir does not contribute to an increase, so to speak, the speed of rotation of the flywheel of History. The denouement is constructed in such a way that, inevitably recalling the final frames of the original, holds, rather, the opposite thought. The next cycle does not end, when you almost physically feel the change of the "spiral coil", which knocks everyone: from the exiled Coroleone rivals to the last close person, eliminated for the committed treachery. On the contrary, everything returns to its own place, as if an unperformed prophecy is being fulfilled, or the Fate enters into rights, allowing for the time being to be illusions about free will. The final turns into a start, the ghosts of the past briefly come to life at a festive family table, and Michael's strong words sound even more dramatic and naive, outraged by his father's agreement with Tom Hagen: "I have my own plans for my future." Further - silence ...At the same time, the first and second (as well as the third, released after a decade and a half) parts are not so much refuted as complement one another. The authors, as if expanding the initial socio-philosophical premises, are no longer limited to analyzing the actual functioning of the mechanism of the mafia "family", even significantly increasing the scale: forcing Michael to defend honor at hearings in the Senate and acquainting himself with the international interests of Corleone, as if it is a full-fledged transnational corporation. The opening of the sources of the power of Vito Andolini, on the one hand, based on the centuries-old patriarchal traditions of Sicily, proved to be stronger and more effective than modern state institutions, and on the other hand acting under pressure of circumstances, adapting to the brutal realities of the poor New York quarter. However, it can not be considered a coincidence that a memorable musical leitmotif permeates inexpressibly disturbing notes, accurately warning of the omnipotence of Rock.
From the interesting is also the concept of unfolding two plot layers, where in parallel with Michael is shown also the history of the formation of Witto, in order to better show us the father's features in the son, and the son could show the paternal character. The evolution of the mafia is visible in a huge conglomerate that has engulfed the whole of America and many infrastructures are in their hands, these people have a huge influence on politicians and other power-holders. From the philosophical point of view, this film is about how difficult it is to become an independent leader, how to show that you do not attach yourself to the glory of the Father, but you yourself are able to make weighted and complicated decisions. In this respect, the drama of Michael Corleone, whose marital status at first was shaky, and the other clans conceived the evil, worked well ...Actor's works leave no doubt that before you the screen life, when the human pain is reflected on the faces of the actors. Al Pacino is great in the role of Michael, the warm heart gives way to the pragmatism inherent in the Head of the Mafia clan. Young Vittorio performed by Robert de Niro was able to show charm and become the future of Don with him, too, there were many events that change character. All the actors here are in unity and show how it is necessary to plunge into the role, in all to see a lot of work for what each of the actors thank you very much.Verifying: A great movie that is recommended to watch everyone as an example of clear, competent and well-coordinated work of the creators' team, the whole mechanism works like a clock and as a result of hard work we get no less legendary film, somewhere even ahead of the original. Timing mastodon (202 minutes) does not interfere with perceiving history and imbued with the content of the saga. Such films are not at once to understand their greatness and strength to be reviewed and analyzed, but this film (like the whole trilogy) should not pass you by. All good and pleasant viewing!


                
An excellent follow up to the original, The Godfather Part II continues where the first film left off and explores the rise of Vito Corleone in a series of flashbacks that, for the most part, correlate with what is presently happening to Michael Corleone (Pacino) his son and successor. This is a beautifully produced piece of film, and while I still prefer the first installment, simply because of the story content, it is every bit as good.  This film is best when watched together with the first film <U+0096> if your body can stand it.  Even better, watch the third one as well for a little closure and so you can argue over whether it's a good film or not.  (I myself personally like the third film, but not as much as the first two.)--Shelly


                
What else can be said about The Godfather series? One small gripe: The storyline shows young Vito Corleone (Robert Deniro) murder the local boss, then basically take control of the neighborhood. Historically, there would have been a dozen other guys in line to take the boss's spot -- young Vito, with no real connections outside of his petty thief neighbor, would have been disposed of immediately. In real life, bosses were bred into the position or it was taken hostilely from the inside. By the era that this movie portrays, Sicilian black handers and Neapolitan Camorra (among others) were fairly organized -- But, hey, its a (great) movie :)
It's baggy, wholly unnecessary and doesn't hold a candle to the original but yet is also an example of one of the finest sequels of all time and a phenomenal piece of film-making regardless of its few flaws. The 'Godfather: Part II (1974)' is an oddity in more ways than one, since it simply shouldn't work but totally does. There's almost no way you could believe that the piece powers past the three-hour mark, which it does thanks mainly to its unneeded and honestly less interesting flashback plots seemingly disconnected from the main story. There's not a moment in the foremost narrative I'd suggest cutting even for a second, and even those flashback bits are breathlessly entertaining (in a much more instantly gratifying way than the slow-burning main narrative.) Every second of the picture adds up to an experience that seems sweepingly massive yet strangely intimate, an effortlessly engaging examination of the fall of an empire and the nostalgic sadness at the heart of a man who's soul is slowly turning to stone. 8/10


                
The problem with Godfather II is that it goes a bit too far for the sake of false drama. It is like a kid who gets hit by a parent, cries and as he is crying he keeps thinking about how sad his life is and how everyone would feel sorry once he is dead, and the kid keeps getting a kick out of this self-made drama.Without spoiling much, the main protagonist, crime boss Michael Corleone, eventually starts making moves that feel unnecessary, unless you view them as a means by the writers of the story to create more crime drama.The story of Godfather II has some weak and some strong points. If you retrace the steps of the storyline after you finish watching the film, they are not necessarily illogical but they do sit kind of loose in the plot. These plot points feel more like vehicles for specific dramatic scenes than a natural story. On the other hand, the story does provide some great historical perspective on the history of the mafia and also general commentary on certain social aspects of life.Everything else about this film was pretty good. It is understandable how this film reached its position as one of the top films of the last century.The acting is top notch. In fact, it is what serves as the main course and the desert. You do not go to Godfather movies for action; you go to them for the interaction between all these great actors. These shots are up close and personal, with strong dramatic shadows on characters' faces. The experience is sort of like eating a good steak, no salt or pepper needed.


                
Indeed a classic ever green movie.
Great story of Don entering USA.
I liked it better than the first one, but I still think it's overrated. It is unfair that Pacino didn't win an Oscar for the role of Michael, because he definitely deserved one. Brando won it for the first movie and De Niro for this one, but, in my opinion, Pacino was better than both of them.8/10


                
Michael never truly followed through on his earlier pledge to lead the family business into legitimate enterprises. When Merle Johnson who was dating Connie wanted to discuss a business opportunity with Michael he refused to talk with the man and ordered Connie to break up with him. Although we'll never know Merle's opportunity might have been a good legitimate business opportunity for the Corleone family. Sad that Michael never gave Merle a chance to tell him what his idea was. There might have even been a place for Fredo in such a business.


                
Its a wonderful movie, i loved it. the cast and characters is very gud. picturization is purfect.
I really enjoyed watching Part II, but I would not say it was as good or better than Part I. In Part I, there is the story of the descent of Michael into the "family business". Part II is more like a good mafia story without much more. Only at the end, does Michael see the consequences of his choices but is so deeply trapped that he no longer cares. I liked the ending of the first story, leaving us only to imagine Michael's future. I was also much more confused by the Hyman conspiracy plot. On the plus side, I appreciated the flashbacks much more. It was a great insight into the man that was to become Don Corleone. I wonder how great the movie would have been if they merely expanded on that storyline.


                
This is film is excellent.  Don't get me wrong.  I just found myself far more entertained with the first.  Deniro's scenes as a young Pacino were brilliant, and I wish more time woudl have been spent detailing his rise towards superiority and the highest respect of all who surrounded him. I certainly recommend watching this film, but unlike the first, I don't feel it the kind of movie that I would want to watch over and over again.


                
'The Godfather, Part II' is often considered the best sequel ever made. Although it is a powerful and moving story, the film has deep flaws that are not revealed upon initial viewings. First of all, the movie has many of the fine qualities that made the original movie a classic. All the performances are incredible and emotional; Al Pacino give one of the best performances I've ever seen. The complex story is slowly and subtly developed by Coopola's nearly unmatched talent as a director. Certain moments are so haunting and unforgettable, they have become classic moments in the history of film-making. I don't need to tell which sequences these are because so many people are already familiar with them.With all the great things the movie has going for it, 'Part II' has a lot of flaws that reveal themselves after careful viewings. The flashbacks nearly ruin the movie. Although they explain the beginnings of the Corleone family, they greatly deter the on - going struggle of Michael with his enemies and his own family. The flashbacks also make the movie way too long. The failed murder attempt of Frankie Pentangeli is so confusing I couldn't figure out who was doing what. The film should have done a better job of explaining the pre-Castro Cubian situation to the viewer; the actions of the rebels and the rioting are also confusing. Kay (Michael's wife) and Fredo (Michael's brother) has sudden bursts of anger that come out of nowhere. The film does a poor job of showing beforehand why the two characters were so mad at Michael.Nonetheless, 'The Godfather, Part II' has many positives that outweigh the negatives. If anything, one should just see the movie for the performance given by Al Pacino. Al Pacino commands the movie by stealing every scene he is in. His character is frightening, untouchable, cold, calculating, and invincible. It is one of the most awesome displays of acting ever put on film.


                
The rise of a great man is set against the fall of his son in this powerful second installment of the "Godfather" franchise. "The Godfather Part II" is an eminently worthy successor to the classic first film, not nearly as accessible but entertaining and gripping in its own right.When we reconnect with Michael Corleone (Al Pacino), he is firmly established as head of the Corleone crime family, now based in Lake Tahoe, Nevada and as lethal as ever. As Michael asserts control over his dominion, we occasionally go back in time to see his father Vito (Robert De Niro) finding his own path to criminal power.Michael speaks with more authority than honesty, we learn right away. "Senator, we're both part of the same hypocrisy, but never think it applies to my family," he says. The irony and tragedy of "Godfather Part II" is how that hypocrisy is in fact never stronger than when it comes to Michael's family, which is all but destroyed by Michael's iron grip in service of evil ends.As sequels go, few are regarded as measuring up to the magnificence of "Godfather Part II." It's everything you expect from the first film, building on the final moments we saw there of Michael accepting his destiny as Mafia don and developing what that all means. Weighing in at over three hours, with lengthy flashbacks, it manages to hold your focus as director-co-writer Francis Ford Coppola plays cards you didn't know were in the deck. The pacing is deliberate, never ponderous.Like the first "Godfather," I found I enjoyed "Part II" more with repeat viewings. Occasionally, as in an opening sequence set in Sicily that is revisited late in the movie, the drama gets a bit strained as the revenge theme is overplayed. Otherwise, the same subtlety that makes the first movie so great is in ample evidence here.Pacino is fantastic as the older, harder Michael. We don't quite root for him anymore, the way we did in the first film (another weakness of "Part II" as I see it), but his command in the role is startling to witness. In the first movie, we saw him get bloody; this time the wounds are more internal as he plays his scenes with dead-eyed calm. "I've already made my move," he tells his brother Fredo (John Cazale), regarding his latest venture in Cuba with a suspect business partner named Hyman Roth (Lee Strasberg).Cazale and Strasberg give the most memorable supporting performances (De Niro is more a co-lead even though he has less screen time than Pacino). Cazale is more of a hot mess than ever, entertainingly so until the stakes get too high. Strasberg is so low-key and charming you almost find yourself trusting him, until a key scene when his mask slips regarding a former associate named Moe Greene.Other performances, many by returnees from the first film, are accomplished if somewhat superfluous, particularly Robert Duvall as Michael's adopted brother Tom Hagen, Diane Keaton as Michael's wife Kay, and Talia Shire as Michael's sister Connie. All of them have big moments, but are also left in the dust, somewhat by design as the theme of this film is Michael's loss of family ties.The Vito sections could have been deadly, but Coppola here is at his peak as a director, working from a section of the source novel by co-screenwriter Mario Puzo that was left off the first film. Taking his cues from Marlon Brando's original characterization, but lending his own unmistakable spin, De Niro plays Vito as coy, gentle, but highly dangerous.I love how Vito speaks almost entirely in his native Sicilian dialect, except at certain key moments when he uses English, depicted here as the language of power. He handles the problem of a don who wants to "wet my beak" in Vito's business with cold calculation. It amounts to a power play not only against the don, but his buddies Clemenza and Tessio, who soon find themselves taking orders from their former underling.The film climaxes, as the first movie did, with a trio of interconnected sequences showing Michael's brutal effectiveness against his enemies. This time, however, there's no sense of triumph. Michael's revenge is too excessive, his "enemies" too reduced or ambiguous to merit their ends in our eyes. That of course is the message of "Godfather Part II."Ultimately, "Godfather Part II" is a masterful if muted examination of the price of family, how the ties that bind too often strangle. I don't think it packs the same punch as the first film, but hardly any film does. What it does well is bring the themes of the first film into sharper focus, so sharp they leave one feeling the scars.
My opinions on this movie are a bit mixed. The opening for the film was brilliant as it delves into the early life of Vito Corleone and then flash-forwards to the story of his son Michael Corleone following the events of The Godfather (1972). It was all interesting up until it started faltering during the lengthy middle portion of the film, when Michael travels around to various different places meeting different underworld figures. The pacing and editing was quite bad during the middle portion, so much so that I even found it somewhat boring to watch. It could have been better if Francis Ford Coppola was willing to trim some bits here and there during the middle portion. Nevertheless, the final portion of the film was back on track and largely made up for the weak middle portion. Like the original Godfather, the last 80 minutes of The Godfather Part II were very gripping and moving, with the ending probably being even more powerful than that of the original. The film had the potential to be just as good as, if not better than, the original Godfather if only if it wasn't for the overall inconsistency and the weak middle portion of the film.As for the performances, Al Pacino was again brilliant as Michael Corleone, while Robert De Niro was also very believable as a young Vito Corleone. The other cast members were also impressive, with some of the more minor characters from the first film, like John Cazale (as Fredo Corleone) and Diane Keaton (as Kay), getting more major roles this time around. Although I have criticized this film quite a bit, those criticisms are only relative to its predecessor, as The Godfather Part II is still quite easily among the greatest crime films of all time in its own right.9/10


                
Both The Godfather and The Godfather part II are really good films. Both have excellent performances, and both films move at that same leisurely pace that never becomes boring. But the film I prefer is the first, even though the second is more detailed about what the Corleone family does. I guess I prefer it because it was more original, and Marlon Brando, who doesn't appear in the second even though Francis Ford Coppola tried getting him to reprise his role at the end of the movie, isn't there.With The Godfather part II we have two stories going on. And that is the other weakness of the second film. One involves Michael Corleone (Pacino)as the new Don maintaining his power and pushing to keep his control. The second involves the early life of Vito Corleone and how he became the Godfather of the first film. Robert DeNiro, in an exceptional performance, plays the part of the young Vito Corleone. Both stories are played back and forth, and as big events happen in one the plot shifts to the other, which is a little distracting. I would've preferred that Copolla stuck with one story instead because it would've worked a lot better. Of course I can understand why he did it. He wanted to get two of the biggest stars of their generation together in one film, and both Pacino and DeNiro were up to the challenge even though Brando was still irreplaceable.DeNiro looks really young, and Al Pacino looks much older than in the first, even though both films were only separated by two years. I don't know if it was clever make-up or just Pacino's phenomenal acting that made it so.The ending of The Godfather part II is incredibly strong though as it shifts back to a time when Michael was certain he was never going to be part of the family business, only to shift back to the present as he sits by himself in his home after key events have happened. It was like a realization as Pacino's character completely accepts what he has become. Strong movie definitely, but the first film, in my opinion, is still better. However both films still should be seen. You can't just watch one and not the other. Godfather part II may not be the greatest sequel ever, but it is still one incredible experience.


                
This film always manages to lose my interest during its second half. The deterioration of the Corleone family structure is unfortunately a very complex task to portray. With Al Pacino's superb turn as the man who loses his soul, the film hits amazing highs. There are moments in the first half, where we understand the roots of what later became the Corleone empire. Robert De Niro does his best to convey the essence of the young Corleone, but its the reenactment of an era through the loving art direction and touching score that provide the soul of the period.The story line sets up the decay that destroy Michael Corleone. Sadly, following the road to its devastating resolution can prove to be a rather arduous task. There are unforgettable moments, as the more seasoned performers use subtle gestures and deliver lines that point to the overall tragedy surrounding the different characters."Godfather II" ends with a much darker version of "Godfather I". All seems lost because this time, the Don lives on, and manages to keep his dynasty going. The question is at what price?


                
What's the point here? Michael distrusts everyone and again have most of everyone killed. Michael turned darker and darker as if he wasn't sinister enough already. I like the DeNiro segment much better. At least he demonstrated a person we can empathize with. Not so with Michael. I know of no one (thank God) like him and same for most of us. His is a totally disgusting,inhuman character without redemption. Why should we even watch over half of the movie with him in it if we don't like the character? It was at least interesting in the first movie that we get to witness the transformation of "that's my family (not me),Kate" Michael to cold killer mastermind. Since he had become that, what's the point of watching this character losing more of his humanity as if he had some left. Good thing must be said about the production thought, it was even more sumptuously filmed and choreographed than the original. But that's the only credible thing. By the way has anyone notice Diane Keatin never appear again after getting slapped (a single great shot to the cheek) by Michael?


                
*spoilers* I recently decided to give Godfather Part II a second try (no pun intended) and I still must say that I like Part I more. There are several reasons for this and normally I would avoid talking about a movie's predecessor in reviewing it, but it is a *sequel*, and it's called Godfather PART II, not Godfather II. This, of course, implies a direct connection not only to the characters, but also to the story of the first one. So - the second part is both a prequel and a sequel merged into one movie. It's a great prequel in that it tells the story of the rise of Vito Carleone so naturally and realistically that the metamorphosis from boy to gangster is seamless. De Niro is phenomenal as Michael's father, a role performed almost entirely in Italian (hardly a handicap for De Niro whose first language [I believe] is English). He has the emotional range that Al Pacino had in the first Godfather. From extreme benevolence, even grief (Fredo gets sick vs. old Don Carleone in the first movie gets sick) he turns to cold-blooded, calculated murder. However, Godfather Part II focuses primarily on Michael, telling his story as both a continuation of the first part's tale and as an antithesis to Vito Carleone's rise to power. In that, Godfather Part II is one of the best sequel's ever made, it fleshes out the original story and it adds more plot and character depth to the original. The movie doesn't serve at all as a money-making scheme, but rather a second part of a book that's already got you hooked. Still, I belong to the group of the purists, those who enjoy the first part more than the second. While Godfather Part I portrays Michael's almost unknowing (definitely subtle) takeover of the family, Godfather Part II already finds him knowing his way around the family, capable of doing anything to his enemies. It's about Michael's complete collapse - he murders or gets rid of virtually every person in the movie, including (most tragically) his own brother, ultimately alienating himself from the family he seeks to protect. The tragedy here, however, is in some sense less subtle and nuanced than the tragedy of Godfather Part I, which is about a deep and complex father-son relationship that foretells its own ending. There exists an element of love and responsibility that naturally leads to and cannot escape from Michael's return to his family. Godfather Part II re-examines these themes (which detracts from some of its originality - but that is hardly a complaint), but Michael's character has somehow shed any notion of mercy or restraint. In fact, he does not change in any significant way, but merely continues down the path the first film set for him. The murder of his brother is simply yet another point of no return, much like the scene with the doors closing on Diane Keaton's character ending the first film. In any case, my point is that the Michael Carleone section of Godfather Part II is mostly an entertainingly told story that expands on what was already introduced in the first film, which I believe is much stronger. The best part of Godfather Part II is De Niro's performance, and its contrasting role in Michael's descent into continuing alienation and violence. (And of course it is remarkably directed by Francis Ford Coppola, with a good performance by Al Pacino, but it remains in the shadow of the first Godfather - inevitably so.)
This is when Pacino still tried to be human, though right after 'Serpico'. This is in his pre-DePalma days.That and the plot itself are needless in this case.  As with the original, crime drama plots follow similar story topics.  The differences lie in the acting, editing, characters, and camera.The editing here is less refined, trying to be Kubrick when this is Coppola. It isn't ponderous, but it's a contradictory style--much like 'The Thin Red Line'.The camera is the same as before, not trying to do anything we haven't seen. Even Frankenheimer's 'Manchurian Candidate' contains more visual fluency than this effort.The characters/acting are where the giant U-turn occurs this time.  This has no basis on Puzo's book, but is completely constructed in Coppola's mind and in the actors' presentation.  Are these rational steps being made?  Most aren't.The biggest surprise--DeNiro as Brando.  In a context like this (instead of vice-versa), the range is almost unlimited.  Coppola is one of few directors to use Brando effectively, as 'Apocalypse' would prove, and here DeNiro does his best work.  Everything after this (Scorsese's works, 'Deer Hunter', 'Heat') becomes useless.  In those cases he is bored.  In 'Untouchables' he's energetic.  Here--he's duplicating a master.For that reason alone you should see this.  See 'Apocalypse Now' after this to see Coppola do the real cinematic deal.Final Analysis = = Midrange Material


                
Sequels are rarely good.  Even more scarce is a great sequel.  This is one of those special sequels that equals, if not surpasses, the original work. The acting is, of course, superb and Robert De Niro is brilliant in his supporting role as the young Vito.  What is perhaps the most remarkable aspect of this great movie is that it is almost entirely fresh.  In other words, it was not tied directly to a book like the original and afforded the script writers room to be even more creative.  A masterpiece.


                
While I can appreciate its moral complexities, the absolutely brilliant acting, which includes Pacino's most subtle and nuanced performance, and Coppola's fine directorial work, "The Godfather: Part II" doesn't have the narrative drive of its predecessor.Also, the split narrative, bouncing between the history of how the Corleones gained power, and Michael's continuing moral decline, doesn't quite mesh for me. I'm open to the idea that I'm missing something, though I've enjoyed other films with multiple narratives, but Part II seems glued together instead of fitting organically.It's still a fine film, and though I'd rank it lower than it is currently, it would definitely be in the top seventy-five.


                
Two years after the original Godfather was released, the Godfather Part II came out. This time, it scored Oscars for Best Picture, Director, Adapted Screenplay, Supporting Actor, Best Original Dramatic Score, and Art- set direction. It has been labeled by many fans of film and critics alike to be the only film that actually is superior to the original. It also remains in Oscar history the only film sequel to win best Picture as well as the original. I beg to differ with the critics and fans. The sheer beauty of the Godfather is lost in this film. It plays upon images that have already been seen before instead of catching the eye of the viewer with better photography. The musical score is a stand out job, really adding to the effect of the film. Al Pacino is good here as the now corrupted Micheal, but his acting seems a bit less focused then it should be and it doesn't seem as if he's really acting. In support is Robert De Niro, who took home his first Oscar and didn't even speak a word of english in the movie. He shines in this role as his life leads onto from being a peasant to being a crime lord. The flashback sequences are frustratingly too organized, and instead of giving the viewer something to ponder about it rather just shows them the images. Coppola's direction is arguably a lot more confident and realistic, another thing that adds to the effect. The script is rather good as well, focusing on each character as specifically as possible, but it's not quite as good as the original. The Godfather Part II loses itself in time, making it over three hours and feeling a bit stretched with the entire Cube sequence. Unfortunately, Roman Polanski's Chinatown was released the same year and lost a majority of it's Oscars to this movie. In my opinion, Chinatown should've taken Best Picture and Best Art- Set direction. The Godfather Part II packs in a lot more stuff then the first one, it tries hard to really knock the message in tight. It does, but the movie itself feels too overdone. Good sequel, nowhere near the original however. 8.5/10


                
I like this one waaaay more than the first one.  This movie is both the sequel and the prequel to the original.  That's a neat trick in itself.For that reason I highly recommend it.  Unfortunately, you have to watch the first one, as well.  Darn!  It makes it worthwhile, tho.Robert Deniro is particularly effective in his role.


                
The Godfather ll is a great film , although i'm not sure about it being the 7th best of all time as rated by the IMDB revewers. The most striking thing about this film is not really the story line because i'm not sure that is as good as it could be , the thing that stands out is the acting. In my opinion Robert de Niro and Pacino are the world best actors( De Niro just shading it)and this just proves my point. De Niro takes on his first real Major movie part as a young Vito Corleone taking on the characteristics of role that Marlon Brando started in the first film and Al Pacino carry's on his role as the son Michael Corleone therefore the two greats never meet in this film. 3 hours 10 minutes is maybe a little to long but never the less this film is still a great sequel. 8 out of 10.


                
nearly a milestone as the first part of the-godfather-trilogy. The lack of OUTSTANDING Marlon Brando is too huge to get compensed by the (extraordinary) appearance of Pacino, Garcia et al. Want to see a breathtaking movie which impresses by the directors courage of "taking all the time the story needs" but do not want to see Godfather#1 again? then choose this masterpiece and spend yourself app 3h of real artwork!


                
