Never written a review but Prisoners got my juices flowing – in a bad way.The film is way too long, a lot of unnecessary shots, no real emotion, no saving the cat moment (Blake Snyder) on Hugh Jackman's part and one of the most significant fatal flaws in my mind – absolutely no humour, not a pinch. It's a gritty film (and I get it), but please give me a break! An experienced writer would be able to lighten up the mood and that is a must from time to time.Now, the inconsistencies, silly red herrings and just plain stupidity: Why would the child killer go to confess to a priest when his faith dwindled after his son died and they waged war against God? The priest confirmed that the killer was "bragging" – so what is exactly the point of going to the priest? Does not sound like a confession issue to me. Fail Why didn't they get the priest to do a photofit and connect the dots that way? If you kill a man you sure remember at least something of him? Why didn't the maverick detective think about the old Auntie's husband going missing all those years ago and perhaps make some sort of connection? Nah, it's not good for the plot. Fail The same maverick detective-solved-all-the-cases finds everything out by chance – by chance he sees the cable sticking out from behind a cupboard which (surprise, surprise!) is hiding a secret entrance to a secret basement and the priest never even thought of getting rid of the body. Then, by chance again, the maverick detective shoves all the stuff on the floor from his desk and voila! – A clue again! Fail Why did Hugh Jackman's character need to beat the retarded Alex – when the genius detective interviewed him, it seemed the phobia of human touch did the job? Plus, Keller never got anything out of Alex although Alex's capable – when the plot requires – to utter a completely coherent and revealing sentence. Also, everybody would of course believe the retard but not the father trying to find his missing child. Where was surveillance? Oh, my next point – the whole police force consists of the genius detective, his superior with an office, a couple of administrative guys and a forensic team of 2 – get outta here! The genius detective does not only seem to have no training but lacking in common sense as well – why would you not close the first snake box and let the snakes get out whilst you're opening other boxes? This is just idiotic. Fail Everybody seem to be talking in riddles – the girl that escaped utters "you were there", everybody seem to hear it, see Keller run out like mad, but for the plot purposes, nobody reacts. Instead of questioning the girl (who, we've just witnessed, can actually speak!), they just stand around in a friendly circle. Fail Keller goes to the auntie's house knowing full well that she's a serial killer and (one in such extreme situation would gather) – very dangerous. He TURNS HIS BACK to her and mutters a threat. For what I know, she could have knocked him out with a frying pan at that point. Fail The evil Auntie, weirdly, seems to be repeating every command twice – open the drawer x 2, get in the car x 2, everything's repeated twice – are the writers short of words? What's going on? Fail Oh, and a note to the director – try cutting the scenes down or eliminate the ones with people just walking down the hospital corridors – may add urgency to the pace and people would not doze off whilst watching a 2.5 hour film the story of which does not warrant this length.The list goes on. Yawn... Enough now, otherwise I may write into the early hours of the morning.
There's basically 2 types of movies: In the 1st type you create a world that is so fictional and different from ours, that the viewer knows to turn off his challenging and logical mind and just go with it. Superman, Avatar, etc.The 2nd type is set in the real world. Sure it's fiction and I understand that to make this type of movie interesting you have to compound coincidences that wouldn't likely all happen in real life. This type of movie, however doesn't get a free pass on the impossible, just on unlikely.So here we have a modern setting in suburban small town New York state where 2 girls go missing. So the entertainment value here is watching how people interact and cope with the situation. Here's a few of the things that's hopelessly unreal: Cops don't go to possible dangerous places alone. Instead they call the SWAT team, or call for backup or at least have a partner.Alex Jones, the kidnapped suspect can do a 10 hour interview with Detective Loki, but can endure days of torture before he says anything to Keller Dover, the crazy father torturer. Doesn't make sense since he's hot the bad guy.Franklin and Nancy Birch, totally unbelievable. Franklin is led to the torture chamber and voices his disbelief several times before joining in. Franklin tells his wife who doesn't call the cops, no she goes to the torture chamber, tells the other 2 how bad they are and they co-operates with them.Bob Taylor, another traumatized grown up child victim, acts normal, holds down a job, but collects clothes from current victims, puts blood on them and stores them in locked boxes full of snakes on his property.So all we have is a story that is not just improbable, but impossible, scene after scene. Much more believable is Obi Wan Ken-obi getting a free pass by wiggling his fingers and saying, "these aren't the Droids you're looking for." That was entertaining. What's entertaining about an impossible fantasy of something so real and horrible as child abduction?
Let's make a crime caper where we have an excuse to show a mentally disabled man get tortured beyond reason. Even if he might be the suspect we are subjected to the overzealous rage filled attacks carried out by the kidnapped child's father. Let's also throw in some religious rhetoric to situate villainy in Christians , elderly widows, depraved sickos and handicapped people.Why were all of these vile charges crammed in just one movie? It leaves me to respond with affirmation that this movie intended to anger, upset and disgust any unsuspecting movie goer. But along with making a crime caper that involves a kidnapping, we are also given a slow moving plot filled with misleading clues, uneven continuity, numerous twists and red-herrings that don't make much sense. Many questions will be asked as you labor through this torturous drama and it only gets more aggravating and confusing. Why would a police department be so incompetent as to have the parents be committing vigilantism without any surveillance? This is highly unlikely in America, even in rural Midwestern towns. Did the writers bother to consult Law authorities on investigative and forensic procedures? Because they seem non-existent in this unbelievable tale.The most unforgiving and unsympathetic performance is Hugh Jackman's character who completely absconds any sense of responsibility and regard for law, humanity and common sense. As we see him emerging into madness and sadistic rage we quickly lose any empathy for him. How is it that any person can enjoy or be fascinated with the brutal torture of a feeble and mentally incapable simpleton? It's just an exercise in ugliness and perpetuates into the extreme. It was overdone. It would have been more believable if the torture was attempted and later foregone, realizing the method of debriefing wasn't working. Jackman's acting is way over the top and fails to draw any sympathy. Perhaps it was bad acting or a faulty script. It's as if the director was pushing him in a weekly actor's workshop to go the limit with unconstrained rage. It doesn't work.I also was annoyed at Gyllenhall's sleepy performance. For a detective who is supposed to have a stellar record, he sure missed much of the insanity going on with the people involved. This movie is also anti-authority and rebellious in its stance. Showing cops get maligned and disrespected is commonplace as the parents just freely go about their neurotic business of vigilantism.Many times I asked myself, 'Why is this happening? What did that mean? How is this guy involved? How did this old lady ever orchestrate such a kidnapping spree without getting caught? She seems a wee bit too old and frail to be carrying out such a demonic feat with grown men. Why did the other suspect break into the house while the mother was there? What exactly was he after? Why would he show up at a Candlelight vigil and make a spectacle of himself? Lame and stupid plot making. Why wasn't the priest ever a suspect before the kidnapping? You would think the police would be led to clues as to the dead man's whereabouts. Why would the old lady wait for Dover's second visit to constrain him? Was she so certain her demonic plan could rebound after losing one hostage? Most reprehensible is this movie's conviction of wallowing in its own depravity. It fails to make a distinction between what we can assert as truthful and moral behavior and what is incomprehensible behavior. This cheesy tag-line, "How far would you go?" only ushers in a weak excuse for someone to go ballistic on anyone they suspect. Even if the person in question has the wrong look in his eye. The question is so bad that it doesn't even deserve to be dignified with an intelligent answer. The question that should be asked is "How much effort does a caring father need to put forth in order to assure the safety of his family, himself and his daughter?" By committing abduction and torture he puts himself in jeopardy and his family.I could go on with more questions, but Prisoners doesn't have any redeeming qualities. A plethora of weird clues such as snakes stuffed in crates, the numerous scenes featuring a maze, weird wall paper, bloody clothes add up to nothing in this labyrinth of trash. It's all shock material that is poorly crafted and handled. And it isn't even believable.
I sometimes wonder if I live on the same planet as critics on IMDb. This is easily the very worst movie of the year and one of the ten worst of all time. Poorly written way way way way too long and so filled with lies clichés and stupidity it boggles the mind. I admit as a lawyer I am biased against these kind of movies where suspects are tortured beaten senseless and arrested with zero probable cause. That Jackman would make this movie after his magnificent performance in Lez Miz could only have been for the money. His role is a one-dimensional idiot without intelligence who gets it wrong from the beginning. Jake G has the worst role as stupid numbskull cop who hasn't a clue as to what is going on. I didn't give a fig about the parents, or their kids. There was zero background on what kin of parents and kids they were. This was not even a bad TV movie, it was a waste of time. Its length is inexcusable, its plot beyond idiotic and its actors were like very bad run of the mill nobodies. They all should be ashamed of themselves--the writer, director actors and everyone else. Don't see this film. Boycott it, and if not tell your friends to forget it, God it was awful!!


                
To anyone who misrepresented this movie as being worth more than 3 stars simply because it had a decent cast... I'll make the wild assertion that you don't know what a decent "crime-drama-thriller" is. It wasn't thrilling. It wasn't drama. It was just a crime. You could have bigger thrills holding your breath until you pass out from lack of intelligence. It was like Three terrible episodes of Law-and-Order without the good parts, topped off with a weak ending. I hope Hugh Jackman hates this movie. {PAD} {PAD} {PAD} (Attempts to pad the comment with junk words can result in your account being blocked from future submissions.) This movie wasn't worth 10 lines of text.


                
The first 15minutes are rather good and gripping, then the plot becomes weaker and stupider by the minute, it made me think they made up the story as they went along filming.You've got one implausible fact and character after another, for one the detective works alone, fails repeatedly to call for backup. The many violent scenes seem purely voyeuristic and don't bring much to the table.Jake Gyllenhaal's acting abilities are terrible (and not only in this movie), he's got two facial expression either the doleful look or a kind of smirk. I watched this movie after reading the NY Times review, please someone fire the journalist who wrote it!


                
I figured out the most of the plot after the first 45 minutes of this painfully slow moving painfully wannabe suspense movie. 'Prisoners' is self-indulgent mind-numbing fare. It parodies the film noire genre without intending it.The audience is treated as a fool, and the director apparently gets away with it--if the praise showered on this con-job of a movie on IMDb is a reliable indicator. Hugh Jackman out of the Wolverine character is what the audience wanted to see in this film, and he tries hard but he totally wasted in this 2-1/2 overstretched and subdued melodrama.Watching Andy Warhol's slow motion movies at a further half speed would be more entertaining.


                
This is the worst movie I have seen in so long I can't remember a worse movie. Perhaps there was one that was worse in the past but this movie is the new champion of "worst movies I have ever seen in my life". If you believe that suspects can shoot themselves while under custody at police stations and torturers can stay out of prison after being found out, then this movie might be for you, especially if you enjoy watching torture. They even throw in a pedophile priest who murders a murderer. After all Hollywood can never resist a slam at Catholicism given Hollywood's high moral compass. I rarely write reviews but this piece of crud is such a waste of time that I'm writing it for those people that enjoy Hugh Jackson (I like his stuff) and want to see a movie with him in it. Even the acting stunk the place up, including Hugh's (I guess torture really isn't his bag). If I could give this movie a minus 1000 I would.
a complete waste of time, full of errors and nonsense e.g. what value do the teenage boy and girl add to the movie?, is Jake gyllenhal the only cop in town?, the guy locked up in that little prison is bleeding, without food or water for over a week and he is alive?, underestimates the audience's intelligence. initially i thought this was all about getting the two little girls ala "taken", but the movie goes nowhere. It is painfully slow and runs on a really poor scenario. the birch's don't take any initiative to get their daughter back? they just follow Keller's approach?! instead of screaming HELP, Keller uses his daughter's whistle?! really?!absolutely ridiculous...seems like people had money, threw it together with big name actors, and voilà, a motion picture for the masses...not impressed!i do not know how it got a rating of 8.1!!! totally misleading.. 


                
If I could give a rating of less than 1, I would. The best part of the movie was the trailers of coming releases.Had I left after the trailers, I would have been better off.After a good suspenseful start, this movie drags on and on with no clear connections between events.The characters are not really convincing in their roles, except for maybe Mr. Dover.Unless the story is deliberately trying to convey ineptness on the part of the characters, there are far too many missed connections between elements introduced early in the story.As Lisa Simpson says, "it is just a bunch of stuff that happened."A better crime drama can be seen on any syndicated police story.It is a major disappointment. It is as if the writers or actors just got tired and called it a day when they hit to 2:30 mark.


                
Wow, I should have put a clothes pin on my nose before sitting down in the theater because the "Prisoner" just plain stank.And Hugh Jackman is supposed to be better in this than in "Les Miserables?" Good God. Lock up the screwballs who actually tell you this nonsense.Of course the story line is about two young girls taken while their parents whoop it up in the next room but in no way can this film come close to "Taken." The only one taken is the guy who spends an admission price to see this "Prisoners" bomb. And so with Jackman's daughter and Terence Howard's daughter kidnapped, Terrence keeps cool while Hugh go bonkers beating up everyone in sight. Screaming, effing everyone, banging heads, beating people to a pulp, locking people up in makeshift closets...I mean it's as if Hugh had lost big time at a roulette wheel in the Mirage.The superior acting belongs to Jake Gyllenhaal, the head detective assigned to the case. He's kept busy as all hell trying to keep a lid on Hugh's head about to explode and on the analyses of data that offer clues to the whereabouts of the young girls. He blinks and twitches during the film but I'm not sure if it's part of the act or fear of wild man Jackman beating him between takes.The movie is OVERLONG by at least 30-45 minutes. It drags unmercifully. The plot is complicated but I figured out right away that the popcorn was too salty. I'm a BIG Hugh Jackman fan. I've seen him in person on the Broadway stage twice.He's enormously talented but oh how this picture conceals it. SAVE YOUR MONEY or have a clothes pin handy.


                
So the film starts with a promising air to it, the pace is good and you're thinking oooo this is gonna be good... That's short livedThe rest of the film is just long drawn out randomness... It was 80/90% predictable throughout.There are tons of wtf are you doing moments too...There are a couple scenes where the director must have said to the editor "whatever, do whatever you want". The story seems all chronological and then There is a random leap forward which suggested that they had way too much footage and had struggled to squeeze into an already extra long movie...I mean if you can tell the story in an hour and half you're not doing it right..,seems these days 2 hours is standard but this goes into 2.5 hours! And then instead of ending where it should have and throwing in the culminating scenes all together they drag it out some more and try to be clever with an open ending roll credits moment where you sit there for a second in disbelief than they could have the audacity to do that to viewers.. Then you look at the others in the room and everyone sighs and huge wtf kind of ending was that.
A movie about an old lady kidnapping small kids and giving them drugs with a needle... Wow!!! and a parent losing it and torturing a guy with a deformed face in an abandoned property of his, which he cannot repair due to economic problems. I think that movie adds to the mission of cinema and cinematography in general. No wonder why there are so many weirdos overseas... And I have to write ten lines the least for my movie review to b posted. So I'll start say awful things about this movie... Don't even try to press play on this movie it doesn't worth it. The Spiderman guy tries to act as a detective and the Wolverine guy tries to act as a family guy. The first has a tick and I believe that's why this movie is having an 8.1 average in IMDb and the latter has a problem with alcohol and he can't be convincing for even a second. Ahhh my ten lines (or more) are complete. Go Away from this so called movie. GO AWAY!!!
This movie implies the idea that torturing someone for days is forgivable in response to a supposed kidnapping. It seems that it is OK to do justice with your own hands.Besides, throughout the movie, Hugh Jackman's character keeps breaking the law numerous times. He drives recklessly, "drink and drive", etc., again with the implied message that it is OK for this matter.Moreover, the boy who drives the van (Alex) clearly had mental issues. He should have been sent to a mental illness hospital, which would be able to better understand him. Movie is full of mistakes and the message sent is against the law.
This film was on cable one night. It lost steam quickly as the story became bogged down with pointless silly situations. The plot meandered so much that I had to read the synopsis as the story progressed. If you have a PVR and your recorded it, feel free to stop it and check other movies on cable. That's what I did. However, I did finish watching it. If this movie had been quiet throughout, it would have helped insomniacs to finally get a good night's sleep. Watching paint dry is a better alternative. One of the ironies of this film has to do with one of its producers - Mark Wahlberg. Wahlberg was one of the leads in Peter Jackson's, "The Lovely Bones." Prisoners is a poor ripoff of that movie. The Lovely Bones was a superior film in every respect. Prisoners isn't a film that's worth watching more than once. The Lovely Bones is.
It's very troubling that this movie was even nominated for ANY award. The actors were fine but the script and directing was just ridiculous. The director had no idea how to connect the dots. I'm not making a spoiler here because there are so many loop holes in this it's like Swiss cheese.I did get a screener for this but it's insulting that Warner Bros. should send this out to even be considered for an award. People who "thought" they had a handle on this garbage should watch it again because you screwed up the 1st time. The director needs one good swift kick in the pants.


                
what was this maze all about? i thought at end there could be something about that maze. what was that bob taylor story about? the captor knows one of her captives has escaped yet makes NO EFFORT to leave, clean up evidence, DO ANYTHING AT ALL, just stays there. HOW did the black girl escape! Her & her friend were drugged all the time? Oh, she just "managed" to get away -- she's in a locked room! Drugged! But she "manages" to get away . . . and another oh! her captor couldn't catch her! But the captor managed to get them the first time in broad daylight -- which is never explained! guy gets beaten & imprisoned in a cube of pain for a week, yet can't manage to articulate "my aunt did it." He was coherent enough to say "They only cried when I left them" to Hugh Jackman when Hugh Jackman grabs him by the throat in public; but he can't manage "after my aunt took them away" when Hugh Jackman beats him nearly to death? bad ending.several things unfold
This film has absolutely no redemptive value. Filled with great actors and yet the story is full of plot holes, unbelievable dialog and disrespectful to the audience's intelligence. How did it ever get made?!? Do NOT watch this film. AND, the snake scene is absurd! There is not one character in the entire film who is someone that draws you in or evokes sympathy or empathy. By the end of the film I was hoping a meteor would fly out of the sky, hit the town and blow up the entire place! Two and a half hours and $6.99 (Amazon.com) gone from my life! By the end I felt like I was the one held prisoner and tortured. I really hated it.
I will not go too deep into the movie, but this is a movie that should not take place, past the discovery of skilrex in his RV. The children would be found at his aunt's compound almost immediately; there is nothing she would be able to conceal in the face of a search warrant for missing persons. The story would end right there, as the children are found, and are reunited with their parents.They had to make detective loki the worst detective in the history of movie detectives in order to continue the story. Here are some more silly contrivances. -Loki drives at high speed, the child to the hospital, suffering severe vision problems after being shot in the head upon the discovery of the aunt's dead husband -skilrex and the wannabe snake guy are past abductees, obsessed with mazes.. but the backstory of mazes is not explained in any way, shape or form -skilrex is supposed to be mentally retarded? I've never met a mentally challenged person that acts like that.. why couldn't he just be autistic? -loki sees the dead pig head in the sink, but has the parents identify the clothes, leading to the parents believing their kids are dead, ahead of receiving the lab report on the blood -loki for some strange reason dismisses the B&E from the wannabe, despite there being an open window.. only later does he find clues left by wannabe .. I can't remember the rest, but there are moreIn any case the acting and atmosphere are pretty good, so if you ignore the gaping plot hole, you might enjoy it.. 5/10
The movie was so suspenseful that i had to deal with it by going to sleep multiple times while it was running. In fact, my whole crew was sleeping while it was still on. Save 2+hours of our life and watch something better instead. With such a wonderful cast, the whole project was badly executed. Bad bad bad, too much time span to deliver such a useless and unbearable story line. I hate it to my guts. Don't start with giving time to pick up, I gave it a chance and believe me this was the worst movie i have ever seen in my lifetime or hopefully will ever see. I have never written a review before but this one really deserved my Oscar.


                
Any movie so grindingly long and dull needs to be a documentary about something important, like WWII. For fiction, it would need to be an epic historical drama. For a thriller like this, the pacing and length are totally unacceptable. Even worse, I wasn't all that surprised by the ending.There were some good performances, some bad writing (much of the police work, and the relationship between Officer Loki and his captain, couldn't be less realistic), and lots of wasted talent. Maria Bello and Viola Davis should not have lowered themselves to take such lousy roles. It took me two attempts to get through this film -- it was on HBO -- and I'm sorry I made the effort.


                
Sometimes I like watching low budget horrors or trashy comedies or feel good movies. but when do so, I know that I should not expect much, only some cheap fun, scare or two, and maybe not even that, but that's fine, because, I know what I was in for. But when the movie gets over 8 on IMDb,with class A actors, my expectations get higher and I KNOW i will see a great thriller/drama. Except not! Instead I get over 2 hours of lame, slow drama that insults quality movie directing, story writing, because here motifs are predictable and not placed properly and narrative seems to be filled with plot holes, redundant characters and dead end situations. Unnecessary delays don't build good suspense, but rage and disappointment of the viewer. In this case 29-year-old mum, that somehow found enough time to watch good movie on Monday evening. What went wrong with the world where suddenly movies like TWILIGHT SAGA, HUNGER GAMES....and books like 50 SHADES OF GRAY and series like SLEEPY HOLLOW (what's up with that!?) became right measure for quality and good smart entertainment!? Are good thrillers/dramas on the same road to idiocracy!? Don't watch this, instead go for Mystic river /drama, or Taken/ thriller


                
Please, if you're reading this as you consider seeing this awful excuse for entertainment, run away! DON'T DO IT! My only consolation was that I saw it on HBO rather than having wasted $10+ at the theater. Pointless, virtually plot-free, full of idiotic red herrings, derivative, BEYOND gratuitously violent - need I go on? I will go on - I created an IMDb account just so I could warn people away from this atrocious mess. I kept mentally comparing this movie to "7even," which in spite of the violence had an actual plot, made sense, and lent us some insight into the characters' psyches and motivations. The red herrings in "7even" were woven into the movie and not just thrown in for - what? - effect? Distraction? Shock value? I think they were for distraction - to distract us from the fact that "Prisoners" just blows.


                
The plot is so unrealistic and badly written, I really regret my time. My advice is not to waste your time watching this movie. I'm surprised to see it in the top250.There are so many questions that arise when watching it, it is even not funny.The worst movie I've seen since quite long time.First plan roles are plaid stupid, they act illogically. Second plan roles are very bleak. I hope even the youngest public is able to see that.Once more, I'm surprised to see such a high rating for this. It is absolutely not worth even 1 point.


                
This has to be one of the worst movies that I have seen this year, only second to Iron Man 3. The storyline was everywhere and didn't make much sense. Somehow the director expected the viewers to connect with this psycho dad who brutally beats up a retard that gives him no information about the case whatsoever. Considering I've met a few retards in my life, I could only imagine how one must feel about interacting with little kids after watching this movie. All games aside. This movie had potential based on the concept. It lacked in every category that you could think of in reviewing a movie. The lead detective has a big Mayan tattoo on his neck, the black family did little to nothing to contribute to finding their child, the mother of the white girl was sedated the entire movie, the white dad was enraged the entire movie and yielded little results after his actions, and the little black girl was obviously the smartest character in the movie. She was the only person that did something relevant enough to even talk about. Now I'm just rambling kind of how this movie rambled on for 2hrs.
