This was one intense movie-going experience. Throughout the entire running time of the movie, the suspense never lets up.The director masterfully weaves the haunting atmosphere, and I was at the edge of my seat. The plot is a wonderful puzzle, unraveling slowly to reveal hidden layers of depth and complexity. The acting was wonderful, emotional and nuanced, with some unforgettable moments (The two leads - Gyllenhaal and Jackman - give their career best performances, but the biggest achievement in my opinion is Paul Dano's). The musical score contributes to a sense of dread, as well as the rich sound design and the chilly color palette of the breathtaking cinematography.All those parts add up to a rare, gut-wrenching, dark and fascinating masterpiece - the kind that lingers with you long after the credits roll.


                
Prisoners movie reviewPrisoners is a Mystery/Thriller film starring Hugh Jackman, Jake Gyllenhaal, Terrence Howard, and Paul Dano. Prisoners is a film about two families who both of their daughters get kidnapped and both of the families with the help of the police, investigate and look for their daughters. This is a very dark, grim, and at times is a hard film to sit through. That being said, I have created a PainOmeter scale out of five (five being the worst) to inform you guys if you simply cannot take very violent and painful scenes. This will be addressed along will the film's final score. I loved this film! Hugh Jackman plays Anna's father and is the protagonist of the film. You can see how Jackman really loses his rag and does a great job as Keller Dover. There is one scene that involves Jackman doing something that I won't spoil but you will notice it and go WOW! The story is also very thought provoking and will keep you on the edge of your seat because of the direction and character building involved with this movie. Also Paul Dano who plays Alex Jones, is this weird adult with the IQ of a ten year old and is the main suspect of the investigation. I thought he nailed just the right tone of the character and was hard to "look at" at times. My favorite part of the film was surprisingly Jake Gyllenhaal's performance as the detective looking for the missing girls. Gyllenhaal still plays the role of a cop very well after all of that training for End Of Watch. Another great part of the film is that it manages to never take a rest on character building and story development. I hate when films give you time to take a break then start all over again and this film really avoids that entirely. I really have no problems with the film except for the runtime. Even though this was a great movie I just couldn't go for a perfect grade of an A+. I will give Prisoners an A solid.


                
If you think of someone being a prisoner, you automatically might think of someone behind bars. But apart from a physical prison, a prisoner can also be trapped mentally, either by his own doing or by someone else. This movie that starts off pretty light gets very heavy. And it is carried by its actors. Gyllenhalls characters might seem odd and out of place at the beginning, even like a cardboard cutout. But he does have more to do as the movie progresses.Still front row seat is Hugh Jackman. And while some might argue that a female should have a bigger role in this, you only have so much time to tell a story. And this is perfectly told and cut together. It might not fit your description of entertainment (and I don't think the filmmaker would love it described as such), but the movie is really great. If you like dramas in general you should be cherishing this .... and you will.We have a few grey areas that we visit and the ending did not satisfy everyone (I know from friends). But the movie could not have ended any other way (in my book). Superb movie one of the best released in 2013


                
Prisoners is as close to perfect as a film can get. The cast add so much to this already intense and dark film, especially Hugh Jackman who gives an absolutely harrowing performance as a broken and deeply furious character. The musical score is slow and adds to how mesmerising the film is. It's hard to stop watching despite how dark, relentless and raw the story gets, due to the incredible directing, unpredictable characters and the mystery that keeps you guessing even if the answer is right in front of you. Despite being two and a half hours, nothing feels unnecessary, and the pacing never drags despite the length. An utterly perfect thriller with an incredibly compelling collection of broken characters and a mystery that will keep you on the edge of your seat right to its final, armrest gripping moments.


                
After a disappointing summer of lame movies, the autumn looks more promising, with a bunch of great movies that haven't been as forced upon us. "Prisoners" is the best of them I've seen so far, and is in fact the best movie i've seen at the cinema in a while. Though that wouldn't be hard.With a promising cast, and controversial storyline, "Prisoners" looked great to me, and it is. The Plot is actually better than I expected. With great twists and turns throughout what is actually (as everyone says) a thought provoking story.Plus the cast do the best job possible in bringing it all to life. In Jake Gyllenhall, Terrence Howard and Paul Danos Case that won't be that much of a surprise. But the main draw of the movie is watching Hugh Jackman act his socks off as the grieving father. I always liked Hugh Jackman, so its great to see him actually act his a** off for a change and put away those shiny "Wolverine" claws of his for a while to make a proper dark and interesting thriller.


                
Prisoners was absolutely one of the best films I have seen in a while. Ranging from story line to acting, you can't find a dull moment in this film to sit down and say "I'm actually not enjoying myself". This movie will keep you at the edge of your seat through it's 2-hour length and you will began to actually use your brain to follow the case along with Detective Loki (Jake Gyllenhaal) and Keller Dover (Hugh Jackman) to find the two lost daughters. Going into this movie, I honestly didn't think I would like it. The previews looked suspenseful and I wanted to see a nice crime movie that I had never seen before, but once the credits started rolling I really had to sit back in my seat and think about what a mind-blowing experience it all is. This movie will keep you up at night just thinking about it, whether it gives you the creeps or a quick laugh over something that happened, this movie really impacts your life when you sit down and watch it in that dark room with your friends, family, or even by yourself. This is a dark movie, not one where you feel for the bad guy or where the good guy gets taken and you hear the life story of the villain, this movie shows just what happens out there when you have no idea what is going on. Humans will do whatever they have to just to find what has happened to whatever you are looking for (objects to people) and this movie shows just what a father would go through for his daughter. Of course, it doesn't show you how to cope with the loss of a loved one, but it does show you a lot of dad's points of view when they think about what they would go through to get their son/daughter back. Hugh Jackman shows this really well throughout the movie by showing us just how angry he can get. I would recommend this to everyone that likes the actors or likes a good story line and I hope you guys can see this first hand in the the theaters for yourself.
It's not the genre, it's the "edge of your seat" aspect. The technical aspects of this film have been covered throughly by most of the other reviews here. So I won't repeat what has already been written. But, if you want see my kind of movie, find this film and see if you even notice the time the film takes to lead you through the myriad conundrums, emotional tailspins, and a screaming desire to yell at the screen. I didn't and mine had commercials, grrrr. Fast forward! Hurry!


                
The first time I saw this film I thought "well lazy writing of how a case is solved through chance". 
I watched it again. The brilliance of this film is in its realistic take on chance, and the presentation of the film and the godlevel acting of the actors. Two characters, jake a detective and hugh jackman a father who's sworn to protect his family from the cruel world, now has lost his daughter. Jake and Hugh discover clues on their individual quest which could solve the case logically if they work together and know what each other found, but Hugh is a rogue detective, a father. Even though they don't work their clues together , but because of each other's actions affecting where they're supposed to be at the right time they are led to the ultimate ending of this beautiful film.
The film starts with a peaceful and perfectly ordinary celebration among a couple families and their kids. But when two girls go missing the tension slowly builds leaving the audience wondering without actually seeing what happened to the girls, so the audience identifies with the characters as the clues unfold. And the opening of the film has many obvious religious symbols and references that foreshadow some later reveals, but it doesn't become heavy-handed.With perfect casting the mystery unfolds and eventually the true perpetrators are revealed with a well-written and satisfying conclusion. The film actually operates at least partially as a comment on morality, how far is it really okay to go in order to find kidnapped victims and in the final act it also is a meditation on what it means to believe in God or not, especially for the fully committed believer. In the Bible Abraham was asked by God to sacrifice his son, but is that really a reasonable thing to accept as a test from a God? What if God mercilessly and pointlessly took your child? What possibly lesson is there to be learned from such torment?Or maybe there is no ghost in the sky and the universe is just indifferent. Great film from a stellar filmmaker, Denis Villeneuve. If you liked Arrival and Sicario, then you'll enjoy this. Highly recommended.
It was unique and amazing, had my attention the whole way through. One of the best movies I have seen in a while. Brilliant acting and directing. Intense and wonderful. Definitely should and will win numerous awards. I strongly recommend seeing this film. It was a masterpiece and captivating. Acting by Hugh Jackman and Jake Gyllenhaal was inspiring and chilling. It it was very clever and creative. Deserves a 10/10, it was one of the greatest movies I have ever seen and who ever made it should be knighted and presented with the most highly regarded awards. Spectacular and so good and great just the best ever and wow so good


                
This is a movie about two families and their two little girls that vanish unexpectedly one afternoon. This story will make you experience one of every man's worst fears. Loosing your child. You will feel compassion, pain, quilt, doubt, conflict. The acting is amazing and i must admit, i had a long time to enjoy a movie purely for its acting instead of its visual effects or the complex story. The plot is simple but interesting, with a few twists that will keep you on edge until the end. Despite the length of the film, i did not get bored at any point. Both Hugh Jackman and Jake Gyllenhaal do a terrific job and i can not imagine anyone better for their roles. The rest of the cast is evenly good and the actor playing the prime suspect fits perfectly the part. All in all, it is a movie that will make you feel sentiments to the extreme and that is quite rare nowadays. I recommend it undoubtedly!


                
While watching this film, you will imagine the parents who desperately struggle to protect their children from the evil of the outside. And you will see how the children vanished right before their eyes. The worst fears are let out and the families are facing cruel reality: someone took their babies and hided them. None knows "why": why children, why they're not telling where, why to kidnap anybody at all? Maybe it's because of their sickness, maybe because of money, or there is no particular reason, who can tell? Aren't they're prisoners of their own sick mind, desperately wanting to catch an innocence, a freedom, a symbol of it? And the parents are in pain, in enormous fear, like in a black hole, doing everything: possible and impossible, imaginable and unseen and unheard, only to find them. This film is rising up some questions, maybe they're old ones, but in a whole new perspective, and you only have to take the look... You will not be disappointed.


                
Prisoners is a thriller which achieves a rare level of intensity and resonance thanks to the director's ability to invest the story with authenticity, emotion and originality. Compared with, say, 'The Silence of the Lambs' this slow-paced (a compliment, as the usual hyperactive pacing of Hollywood is almost a sickness) bleak mainstream film is hands down a better movie, making Demme's seem trivial, in hindsight. What I loved about Prisoners is the way that it was all about the story and the characters; the visual style was invisible and never imposed itself on the viewer. It was wonderfully directed in a manner that recalled classics by Nicolas Ray(They Live By Night), William Wyler(Desperate Hours), Billy Wilder(Double Indemnity) or John Ford (The Searchers). You could just walk into this terrifying film and feel the emotions portrayed flawlessly by the cast. The best example being perhaps Maria Bello who is my choice for best supporting actress this year with special mention going to Gyllenhaal whose idiosyncratic performance is at the heart of this film; his effortless charisma and skill place him among the very best, he is also a natural audience favorite capable of earning a very high level of empathy for his work.


                
Narrative that follows the 'whodunnit' approach often relies on the climactic twist. Herein lies the craftsmanship of the filmmaker to keep you on the edge even if there is nothing but a simple conversation is going on the screen. You can feel the Hitchcockian bomb is there somewhere. David Fincher showed us how to hold the suspense throughout the film in his early works. Dennis Villeneuve here pretty much did a similarly splendid job.Two families see their worlds go upside down, when their two very young daughters go missing, presumably abducted. When the adept detective has to let the primary suspect go, due to lack of evidences, the father of one child takes it to himself to find the daughters. Sounds familiar? Yes, the premise is quite similar to that of a Mystic River or a Zodiac.But, the defining feature of this film would be that, every now and then it justifies its title and asks you question about who the real prisoner is. For it is us who put ourselves in the most impregnable prisons. As we see the father, Keller (Hugh Jackman) shredding his values one by one; the obsession, the pain are felt by the audience.Like mentioned earlier, it is one thing to build a premise that promises suspense; and, I am going a bit Jerry Seinfeld way here, it is a different thing altogether to 'hold' the suspense throughout the film. Credit goes to Aaron Guzikowski for the always-engaging and compelling script. Villeneuve hardly mismatches the pace of the story or loses the grip in the screenplay. Some might disagree, but I think the plot is divided in two sub-plots. One that follows the premise where the detective Loki, played by Jake Gyllenhaal, relentlessly pursues the kidnapper. The other is where Keller is the protagonist; that always makes us wonder how far people can go for the love of family.When you get a cast like the one this film has, you get the chance to explore various ranges of emotion and actually get to build characters, which is not very regular in typical thriller films. The support cast was stellar with the likes of Maria Bello, Terrence Howard, Viola Davies, the astonishingly refrained Melissa Leo and Paul Dano, who not surprisingly revels in his almost-silent, reserved character. Each one of them showing their acting prowess in turns. But, it is the leads that will sweep off your feet with their performances. Both Jackman and Gyllenhaal give knock-out performances as theirs were the more layered characters in the film.The final punch of the film comes from Johann Johannsson's haunting compositions and Roger Deakins' masterful work. Just sets up the grim mood of the film. Deakins' craftsmanship's best moment would be at the end, where he creates magic on screen with the city lights.5/5


                
Prisoners features a pitch perfect cast with Hugh Jackman, Jake Gyllenhaal, Viola Davis, Maria Bello, Terrence Howard, Melissa Leo and Paul Dano, among others. Mostly every performance in the film was great but I loved especially Hugh Jackman, Gyllenhaal, Melissa Leo and Paul Dano. Jackman as the father of the missing girl is really believable and he delivers a performance that is truly Oscar worthy. My favorite scene with Jackman is when he meets Gyllenhaal for the first time in his house, you can really tell he is committed to the character but pretty much every scene he's in is great. Gyllenhaal as the detective investigating the case is great and he just continues to prove to me why he's one of my favorite actors. He's so versatile and can play a very wide range of roles. Melissa Leo plays the aunt of Paul Dano who plays a very troubled young man who is treated as a suspect in the film. Both of them are great and Paul Dano delivers a pretty odd and kind of disturbing performance.Prisoners is the kind of movie you think is going a certain way and it mostly does but it shakes it and twists it along the way enough to keep you guessing. From the opening shot you feel the tension of the film that endures until the movie is over. This is mostly thanks to the beautiful cinematography and the smart direction of Villeneuve. He knows exactly where to put the camera in exactly what situation, especially given the talent he had on this production. So prisoners is pretty much an excellent movie, the tone of the movie is defined very early, there is a clear structure and everything is executed beautifully. Everything that happened advanced the plot or developed the characters. It reminded me of a David Fincher film. This is a very different film than Enemy, which was also directed by Villeneuve but they're both amazing films and this is definitely worth a watch.10/10


                
Now, I move on to PRISONERS, directed by Denis Villenueve from a script written by Aaron Guzikowski.I am going to try to keep this review a short one because I know this movie is very dark and serious and can get very disturbing and emotional in a few areas during the 153-minute feature running time. There will be a few spoilers in this review, so if you haven't seen the film, you may want to.PRISONERS just blew me away with it's story. Aaron Guzikowski wrote a screenplay that is just really amazing with great dialogue and a great plot in this film. The story focuses on the abduction of two young girls in Pennsylvania and the police's subsequent search. Keller Dover and his wife Grace attends a Thanksgiving dinner at the home of their neighbors Franklin and Nancy Birch and both families' younger daughters, Anna Dover and Joy Birch goes missing. Detective David Loki arrests and questions the driver of a suspicious vehicle, Alex Jones and Dover attacks Jones after he is released.Loki is doing different cases, but Dover decides to take matters into his own hands and tortures Alex Jones for answers, but he denies that he is Alex Jones and claims that he escaped from a maze. Dover visits Jones' aunt, Holly and she tells that she and her husband were religious until their son died of cancer. Joy Birch is found drugged but alive. Dover visits her in the hospital and Joy tells him "You were there".Loki searches for Dover and discovers Jones. Dover goes to the Jones' house to get information, but Holly pulls a gun out on him. She makes him put handcuffs on his hands and drinks some kind of poisoning, but I'll get to that in a minute. She explains that her and her late husband abducted many children as part of their "war on God" after their son died. She shoots him in the leg and forces him to get inside a concealed pit and imprisons him in the pit, where he finds a whistle belonging to his daughter.Anna is found with Holly, but Anna is taken to the hospital and Holly is killed. Outside the Jones' house, Loki hears Dover's labored whistling from the pit that he is imprisoned in.I thought the pacing and dialogue was a little confusing, but also really amazing throughout the movie and that is an incredible but hard and challenging thing to pull off, but a lot of movies has done this really great.***SPOILER ALERT!*** Like I said in the plot, Dover is imprisoned by Holly and this was the main issue I had with the film. Because for two reasons: <U+0095> 1. She imprisons him in a concealed pit, makes him drink some kind of poison. I don't know what it is, but it's all black. She makes him put handcuffs on his hands and shoots him in the leg, forcing him to get inside the pit. I think this could have been done better with music in the scene at least.<U+0095> 2. The ending was a little confusing and I only watched this movie once, but I think the end is there just to set up a sequel.The acting is just amazing. Hugh Jackman deserves a lot of credit for his performance as Keller Dover. Jake Gyllenhaal plays Detective Loki wonderfully. Terrence Howard, Viola Davis and Maria Bello are all great in this film. Paul Dano plays Alex Jones and he is great in the part that he had to play and he was an amazing casting choice for the film.The only performance that I had trouble with was Academy Award winner Melissa Leo's character, Holly Jones. She had to wear make-up for the part, but she is just scary as heck in the part that she plays and what she did to Hugh Jackman's character did not seemed like a very good idea at all.This is the reason why this film appeared on my Top 10 Overrated Movies list is because of the ending, which I just mentioned. This movie really deserved the Oscar for Best Cinematography and Best Picture, but the Academy only chooses great movies.PRISONERS is a great film, and I will forever be angry that this did not win an Academy Award, but Frozen wins two Oscars? That is just crazy! This film was originally rated NC-17 for "substantial disturbing violent content and explicit images", but was re-edited to secure the R rating for "disturbing violent content include torture and language throughout". I am so glad that this got the R rating because I would not have been able to watch this film if it was NC-17.The music is just amazing. The cinematography, editing, production and costume designs are just amazing.Overall, I love PRISONERS. Even though the ending got on my nerves a little bit, I still love what this movie does and what it shows. This is one crime - drama / mystery - suspense thriller that I don't think gets enough credit.My rating is going to be the rating of 10 out of 10. It's a perfect movie and you should see it. Sure, it is graphic, disturbing, emotional and violent in some areas, but if you can look past some of that, you may be able to find one great drama that will satisfy you.PRISONERS is a great film that will blow you away and the performances of Hugh Jackman, Jake Gyllenhaal, Melissa Leo, Maria Bello, Viola Davis, Terrence Howard and Paul Dano in this film will certainly blow you away from beginning to end and you will not be able to take your eyes off your television screen from start to finish once this movie begins and once it ends after 2 hours.
Everything about this movie is just amazing. Hugh Jackman gave away one of his best performances, he was so good in playing the complicated character that you sometimes hate and in other times you feel bad for. Jake Gyllenhaal also did a great job, his character is so interesting and you just want to know more about him. Paul Dano is unrecognizable and the whole cast did a brilliant job.We have seen so many abduction movies but this movie is different from them with its scary realism. The movie is very intense and some scenes can be very violent but you can't look away for one second because you know you will miss something.The cinematography and the soundtracks in this movie are wonderful and added more to the intensity of the movie.The movie is very interesting and you don't feel bored throughout the whole running time, it's a very dark movie and can be hard to watch at some points. It's thrilling and very suspenseful with a great ending.


                
It's possible that I just saw the best movie of my life, so far. It's scary beyond words, frightens you and could make you lose, during it's 2 and a half hours, another bit of faith (if you still have some left) in this humanity ravaged by hatred, lie, deceit, darkness and ugly people. The kind of people that sometimes cannot be separated from demons. Maybe some will cry during this movie; I couldn't. I was holding my breath most of the time and had my soul hanging on the very edge of my teeth ...Still, there's hope. Even in the darkest hours of our lives, all is not lost. Sometimes it is, but not always. I was frightened not because of what was happening but mostly of what I thought will never happen. I was scared that it will leave me hanging, without an answer. We all need an answer, even if that answer could haunt us for the rest of out days. We need to know, in order to try and reconcile us with God, whom we blame for all the bad things that we come across. Or if we don't believe in God, we blame fate, parents, brothers or sisters, neighbors, the country we were born or the stars which didn't aligned for us to be happy ever after. If we don't get that answer we forget who we are and why we are here. And when that happens, darkness follows ...This is not a movie for parents, and I mean that ! Nor is a movie to take out your girl to ... This is a movie after which you will never be the same.
An amazing descent into annihilated and compromised morality. Abounding with complex characters, and hidden plot levels. It takes the dare of repeatedly skipping forward briefly in time, making us catch up and fill in pieces, pieces that we do fill in. But the result is an acceleration of time that allows the makers to focus on the unfolding and deepening horror. It deeply explores how trauma redirects the moral compass. It's also a great murder mystery. A great detective story. It's rich and complex. Intensely emotional. In many ways almost as powerful as Silence of the Lambs, but more of an ensemble piece. We see the evil in supposed heroes and the innocence in supposed villains. We see unredeemed evil incarnate and total heroism. All in all, quite a ride.


                
Prisoners is the reason why i love films so much... Its the best film i have seen this year so far, one of best crime/suspense thrillers i have ever seen. Hugh Jackman gives the best performance of the year, his career best same can be said for Jake Gyllenhall. Films story is about how two young girls are kidnapped what both families do,what the cops do, what mystery's unravel form the crux of the story. Not enough words to explain the brilliance of the film, this film falls into the genre of film like silence of lambs and zodiac, like those films prisoners has some scenes which may be hard to digest, and gruesome. But overall its A MUST WATCH FOR ALL!!!!
This is such a brilliant movie! I was in awe after seeing it. It still lingers on in my head! After walking out of the movie and getting a drink in a bar, I almost cried.There is such a universal theme underneath it, it grips you! And the story itself is just brilliant! It is one of these films where you are a little sad that you can't see it again for the first time! And the actors are excellent! Don't get me started on my beloved Jakepoo!!:-))See it! But don't see it if you just want to have a nice evening with popcorn and fun with friends! I am happy that in these times movies like these are able to be made! Amen!


                
Hugh Jackman and Jake Gyllenhaal are absolutely powerful in Director Denis Villeneuve's dark and mesmerizing "Prisoners". "Prisoners" has the look and resonance of Clint Eastwood's "Mystic River". This haunting morality play is one of best movies of the year. Jackman gives perhaps his best and most unexpected performance. Jackman's sheer ferocity in the tipping point of human conscience is amazing to behold. His bold vulnerability clutches our very soul. This is equally surprising given his signature as the Wolverine. I literally cringed as he threatens terrified Paul Dano as Alex with a steel hammer. In stark contrast there is a quiet scene as tears stream down his cheek as he stares at police photos. Gyllenhaal as Jackman's antagonist foil is an undeniable force. Much like Kevin Bacon in "Mystic River" Gyllenhaal's Detective Loki struggles between duty and the visceral justice. Villeneuve and Writer Guzikowski curiously never spell out Loki's physical glitches neither the gang banger tattoos. Have to admire them for respecting audience intelligence. Gyllenhaal's immersion is breathtaking whether he is comforting Viola Davis's Nancy about her missing daughter or smashing the head of suspect on a table. His screen partnership with Jackman is awesome, we witness amazing actors at the zenith of their prowess. Villeneuve is brilliant in restraining and balancing such intense performances without sacrificing purpose. We first hear Jackman's voice as Keller Dover reciting The Lord's Prayer on a deer hunting trip with his son Ralph (Dylan Minnette, who is going to surprise many). Keller is a struggling carpenter, and closet survivalist. He is a family man and man of faith. Aaron Guzikowski's story's deceptive power lies in the normalcy of a Pennsylvania suburb. He foreshadows the tragic forfeit as the ends overcome the means. Roger Deakins's ("True Grit") cinematography is a profound character onto itself bestowing pristine clarity in this conflict of dark and gray. The Dovers' spend Thanksgiving with Frank and Nancy Birch (Terrence Howard and Viola Davis). The terrifying realization sets in that their youngest daughters Anna (Erin Gerasimovich) and Joy (Kyla Drew Simmons) are missing. After frantic search in the rain, Police are called. A creepy suspect Alex Jones (brilliantly unnerving Paul Dano) emerges as the possible kidnapper. Alex also has the mind of a 10 year old. Alex is released without any solid evidence. However, Keller is convinced from an admission by Alex, that he knows where his daughter Anna is. He takes matters into his own, and imprisons Alex and tortures him until he tells him what he wants. Howard's Franklin is mortified by Keller's actions. Keller says, "Someone had to make him talk, or they're going to die!" Viola Davis as Nancy is rock solid in shocking advocacy. Mario Bello as Keller's wife Grace is sympathetic grace as a mother suffering the unthinkable. Melissa Leo is amazing as Holly Jones, Alex's Aunt and guardian. Her ordinary persona belies tragedy.All is not what seems. Keller and Loki have the same purpose in divergent paths, and make costly sacrifices. Villeneuve reminds that sometimes the world is ugly, and in resolution our souls are in the balance. Jackman and Gyllenhaal are awesome. The cast is amazing. "Prisoner" is not a pleasant movie to watch--not at all. "Prisoners" has profound power.


                
When I went to this movie, I was not sure what to expect. There are a lot of twists and turns. But the highlight of the movie is how angry Hugh Jackman became when his daughter went missing. Hugh Jackman decided to do what he felt was right and abduct the weirdo he thought was responsible. Let's just say I would not want to be on the receiving end of Hugh Jackman's fist. Hugh Jackman was torturing this guy (the weirdo from There will be Blood) for the entire movie. Jake G was good as the cop and where ever this was filmed had a really gritty feel about it. It rained all the time. What bothered me was how Terrence Howard cried or was watery eyed during the entire movie. Hugh Jackman had to convince him to not be a cry baby on more than one occasion. The lady, Ms. Jones, was played by a young actress which was really good to. Hugh Jackman and she get into it on more than one occasion. Was this movie long? yes. Was it good? Yes. Will Hugh Jackman get an Oscar nod? I sure hope so. This movie had a great plot and a protagonist and antagonist. Hugh Jackman started off the movie as a nice person but transitioned into a mad man. Good going Hugh Jackman. I look forward to more of these kinds of roles. Your Wolverine character is played out. Oh, and the ending? Well let's just say that the ENTIRE movie theater moaned. It was the most different ending ever. Very similar to how the Sopranos series ended. Jake Bass would like this movie. Hugh Jackman is awesome.
FIrst let me say the trailer did not ruin the movie at all the trailer sums up the first 30 minutes of the first act in 2 minutes and then from there i was on the edge of my seat till the credits popped up.The acting- this was the finest acting in a film that i have seen in a long time and not just by the leading man i mean every single actor and actress was on the top of their games especially Hugh Jackman the emotion and weight he brought to the film should get him a Oscar nomination and be mentioned in the same acting quality as Ben Affleck,Leo Dicaprio,Matt Damon,Daniel Day-Lewis, and the fame as Tom Cruise and Brad Pitt.The plot- the plot was intriguing to me it made me think what would i do if this every happen to me, would i be the like Jackman and take the law in my own hands or would i be like Howard and let the law finish their job.The pacing- the pace was uneven i knew this wasn't an action movie but still the amount of fast paced scenes was far outnumbered by slow sitting in car watching suspects and talking on the phone the film could had been at least been 40 minutes shorter without sacrificing any story or plot.the verdict- this film is an Great Thriller with Killer performances by all cast and i would definitely recommend it only if you have 3 hours to spare (10/10]


                
At first glance, this film will strike many people as a typical Hollywood revenge film resembling the likes of Death Wish and Payback. However, that is furthest from the truth. Prisoners packs one hell of a punch, giving the audience not only something very entertaining, but also something very human in the process. The film plays out more like Seven, Zodiac and Mystic River, allowing the audience inside the mind of Keller Dover, a man searching for his daughter while teetering on the brink of insanity. The story kicks off when the Dover and Birch families are celebrating Thanksgiving. What seems like a normative celebration quickly descends into a frantic search for two young girls. Detective Loki (Jake Gyllenhaal)arrives at the Dover house after the abduction and soon finds a suspect in Paul Dano's character. But as time passes without finding the girls, Dano is finally let go. Much to his dismay, Keller Dover takes matters into his own hands and kidnaps the suspect, subjecting him to brutal torturous methods as he searches for the truth in finding his daughter. What makes Prisoners so well crafted is the performances from Hugh Jackman and Jake Gyllenhaal, both of whom are at the top of their game in this film. The chemistry between these two actors is impeccable, bringing a natural presence to the screen. The supporting cast, including an unrecognizable Melissa Leo, is superb. Viola David, Maria Bello and Paul Dano also give caliber performances, and keep the film entertaining just on their performances alone.The story keeps moving and moving and never slows up despite a two and a half hour running time. While that seems like a deterrent nowadays for most audiences, this film is good enough for anyone to sit through happily and be able to walk out of the theater satisfied with the final product. This is a heavy hitting movie that Hollywood very seldom makes. It is rooted in classic revenge films from the golden age of Hollywood while introducing new style and substance, making for a truly intriguing watch.If there's any film that you should see right now, trust me, it is most definitely Prisoners.


                
