Spoilers ahead. Not that it matters.Oh my, what a waste of top talent and resources. This could have been a taut, effective, thoughtful little thriller, but the ridiculous plot holes and logical inconsistencies doom it (along with its unnecessary length). The Hugh Jackman character is such a glaring box-checking conceit that it diminishes any complexity I'm pretty sure we're MEANT to appreciate about him. Religious? Check. Hard-working common man? Check. Struggling in these dire economic times? Check. Adorable, loving family? Check. Tragic family event in past that molded his character? Check. Ironic plot development? Check. (The doomsday prepper gets burned; but wait, that whistle did come in handy, as we knew it would.) OK, let's stop there. I'm not saying the plight of the parents was not moving. Who is not moved by children in jeopardy, parents in misery? It's difficult to not see plots like this in terms of the basest exploitation. But it takes a sure and subtle hand to make it work, and that was obviously missing here. Many have compared it to Mystic River, which is apt, though that was a far finer film, and more believable as a police procedural. I imagine the screenwriter and director wanted us to take a hard look at what might happen when a good man goes bad for all the right reasons, but the lengths he goes to in torturing the Paul Dano character just don't make sense. Yes, maybe that's the point: Keller is beyond "sense." OK, but when the two other parents acquiesce to the torture (albeit somewhat reluctantly, but still), I wanted to throw something at the screen.While I'm still on "character," Jake Gyllenhaal's detective is an absolute cipher. Maybe this was a decision NOT to give him a backstory of any kind because that would be lame. Fine. But in place of that we get a bad haircut, shirt-buttoned-all-the-way-but-no-tie look, some twitchy blinking, and not much else. I was rooting for him mostly because he wasn't actively torturing anyone.Other complaints:*One detective seems to be assigned to this very explosive case. Other than combing the fields for bodies, no one else seems involved in the "investigation." OK, this was probably a decision so the focus would be on Loki (his name,really?) and not on some partner chitchat, and at a 2 hr., 33 min. runtime, I should shut up about it, but it so goes against any police reality, that I couldn't forgive it. *Gyllenhaal makes a decision pretty early that the Paul Dano character is innocent, and so he is released - without surveillance and without police protection, even though Jackman's character has already attacked him. Yes, I know, some perfunctory BS scene with Gyllenhaal's superior was included to explain why there was no surveillance, but that also was stupid. He was their only real suspect. And a search of his aunt's property didn't reveal . . . drugs, syringes, handguns, sedated girls? Nobody looked into the history of this little "farmily"? The aunt is taken at her word about everything. Oh wait . . . she had to be, or Hugh Jackman could not have kidnapped Paul Dano and we wouldn't have a movie.*The priest has a dead body in the basement. Obviously, he takes his vow about confessions more seriously than the commandment about murder. Oh, and that dead body turns out to be . . . Well, you know if you saw it.*The abandoned apartment where Dano is held is never searched (convenient new suspect emerges at critical juncture, too busy to send someone else over there to do a thorough search).*Red herring to end all red herrings: deranged young man with mazes, snakes, pig blood, buried mannequins, stolen children's clothing. *Just in general: too much crazy in too limited a geographical space (see Priest, Snake Boy, Crazy Aunt).*One child escapes . . . while heavily sedated? Crazy aunt nonetheless stays put, does not kill remaining child immediately. Why she was keeping them alive in the first place is not convincingly explained.*ONE person deciding that a dead child means warring with God and creating "demons" by abducting and killing other people's children is a just response to personal tragedy is far-fetched (not impossible, certainly), but TWO! Good times. Of course, the Man suffers a crisis of conscience apparently and confesses to the wrong priest. The Woman (female of the species and all that) has to keep muddling along, killing when she gets a chance. Times are tough (the recession applies to child abduction too). *The maze symbol is both too obvious (morally) and too opaque. Dead guy in basement wearing one, crazy crime re-enactor draws them, imprisoned Dano whispers it? Connection unclear.I wish I had that whistle at the end, so someone would have come and saved me from this movie.


                
I really didn't like this movie. Not because of the gore, not because of the language, but because of the pacing, the acting and most definitely the ending. The movie went on for two hours and they left it hanging at a really stupid time - if you're going to purposely leave the ending hanging, leave it at a time point where it's a bit ambiguous and up to the viewer how it ends. But they left it hanging at a point where it's pretty obvious what's going to happen next, but denying the viewers the chance to see the story wrap up (why????)The pacing was terrible. You hardly got a chance to feel and know the characters before things were happening. You felt no sympathy for the girls, who you saw for maybe a few minutes before they got abducted. You didn't share the mum's grief because her acting was so obviously forced. The guy who gets tortured and beaten was (surprise surprise) completely innocent, which was obvious right from the start. The dad is only ever shown stony-faced or blowing his tits in a rage, except for towards the end when his guilt over bashing up a guy who's clearly innocent makes him get stressed and say a few lines of prayer, and then torture the kid some more. And at the end when he finds out the culprit is the kid's aunt, he doesn't even show a single bit of remorse over the horrible thing he's done. Also, the aunt: really? Urgh, so obvious. So tired of the same old formula in every thriller movie: killer turns out to be the one you least expect, someone you were introduced to at the start of the movie, and the crazy story behind them being the unlikeliest killer in the world is revealed only at the end. Halfway through the movie I used that formula to deduce the only person who fit it was the aunt, and prayed to God that this movie wouldn't follow the same boring cliché. But it did, even though they ended up adding a possible suspect later whose storyline they didn't bother to explain and whose purpose was simply to try and lead us off the right trail when they brought out the 'it's the aunt' card right at the end. What was with that guy? Why was he obsessed with pouring pig's blood on kids' clothes? Nobody cares, apparently.Movie makers - if you're going to make the main character some sort of antihero who's morally ambiguous, who does awful things out of desperation, who thinks they're doing the wrong thing for the right reasons, actually put in some effort making us CONNECT with this character. Show us his human side, show him feeling guilt and remorse, show him with his head in his hands saying 'what have I done?', show him feeling worried as hell about his daughter, show him co-operating with the police because he realises that's his best chance of getting his daughter back. Give us a better reason for him taking the law into his own hands than just him thinking he's better than the police at judging who's a criminal and who's not. Show him TRYING to act like a decent human being before succumbing to his emotions and going ballistic. Show him doubting whether what he's doing is really right at all. Show that good side as well as the bad. REALLY show it, because the few moments he showed a sliver of distress, he seemed more angry/upset that the kid wasn't talking than that he may be doing something awful. Because this whole movie I was almost hoping his daughter would die just to serve him right. I felt more hatred towards the father who was alternating between praying to God and torturing a mentally disabled kid than the woman who abducted his child. Epic fail.
I recommend Prisoner to my friends for the movie night based on the fact that its a Huge Jachman movie (as I am a Huge fan) and current rating of it on IMDb but regret it like hell since 20 minutes of the beginning.The movie is the same old kidnapping story with awful length and pathetically slow. The director tried to make the environment for suspense and thrill but failed to do so, except for the last 10 minutes, which I do not count with 2 and a half hour.The acting however is bit better, thanks to Huge Jackman and Terrence Howard. The movie has its ups and downs but as you slide down your seat, you have to wake up to catch up the sudden scene.So, my recommendation, if you want to waste some of your time or want to get frustrated, be my guest.


                
My friends raved and raved about this movie so I was very excited to see and probably had too high expectations? I. HATED. This. Movie.First of all, it dragged on foooorrrreeevvvveeerrrrr. It felt like I was sitting there for 5 hours. Yes it was enjoyable to try and guess whodunnit but I am so angry about the ending that it ruined the rest of it for me.Obviously I won't spoil it for anyone but be warned IT CUTS OFF! You sit through all of that, they don't show outcomes of a few characters, and you're waiting for your happy ending closure and then BAM! Credits. I can't believe I wasted that much time when I could have knocked at least 2 other movies off my list that night. Nothing, I repeat NOTHING makes me angrier than a movie with no closure. It's designed so that you can assume what happens but screw that, if I have to sit there and go through all that stuff just to leave it up to my imagination what happens in the end it's automatically failed. My other pet peeve is that Jake Gyllenhaal was a terrible cop. Not that his acting was bad, but his character itself was retarded. He was ALWAYS alone, never followed protocol, never let anyone know where he was and that is just bad writing. The only reason I didn't give it 1 star is because I've seen worse.If you are like me and need closure and answers, DO NOT waste your time on this movie.


                
Just because Hugh Jackman is in a film, doesn't mean it is automatically going to be good. Hugh has a far broader acting range than this film allows him to use, and he was really just an angry dad, nothing more, and nothing less. I don't think he will be winning any awards from this film, not because of his acting, but because it just doesn't showcase his abilities. Overall, the film was highly predictable, and totally oversold by the trailer. It was 2 1/2 hours long, and despite moments of anticipation, was predominately slow moving and boring. The plot was loose at best, and filled with gaps, leaving you wondering about why some of the characters were even in the film. And then there is the ending. Well. Talk about leaving it hanging. If this was meant to be a thriller, it was sadly left short. I have seen better thrillers 20 years ago, that were far more engaging, thrilling, and shocking. SEVEN for example. I should have gone and seen Gravity 3D or Rush instead.
It takes a lot of work to assemble an excellent cast and produce a bloated nonsensical movie. At least 45 minutes too long considering you can figure out the end after thirty. Tag line for this film should have been "World's stupidest father meets worlds slowest detective." Moves at a snails pace with manufactured twists and not a single character resembles a real human being. Perhaps it would have worked better if the casting of the families had been reversed. It seemed like the director was trying so hard to turn Hugh Hackman into Liam Nelson in Taken. Very little real suspense. I am a big fan of all the principal actors in this drama but was severely disappointed.


                
"Prisoners" might be the best example for a movie, that could have been really good, but then fails in every single way and leaves you behind with a mix of anger, irritation and sheer disappointment. What could have been a good movie with interesting ideas, great actors and difficult moral questions turns into a boring and annoying peace of Hollywood-average-garbage by trying to satisfy a Hollywood-average-audience, who expect every story to turn into a fluffy fairy tale with simple answers, happy endings and the destruction of evil... All proceedings after the first half of the movie are so forced and stupid and inconsistent with the whole storyline, they just lead you to face palm yourself again and again and again.What did upset me the most - beside the incredible incompetence of the on-screen-police and the fact that no one in the movie seems to give a sh** about the fate of Alex and Bob, who were victims just like the two girls - were the following points:1) Both Keller and Detective Loki try to reach their goal by using brute force without searching for alternatives.°Real-life-consequence: Every innocent victim will die: The young men - directly or indirectly - by the hands of Keller/Loki, the girls, because no one ever got the idea to ask a psychologist to TALK to the two obviously mentally ill/disordered boys to find an answer. Instead they are tortured or lead into suicide, the only chance to find a trace gets literally smashed, which gives the real kidnapper enough time to accomplish her work. (Which is even more annoying, after Loki must have recognized, that he came furthest with cool-headed investigation, while his fit of rage did ruin everything)°Prisoners/Hollywood-consequence: That's alright, because in the end everything will be fine, no matter what you do, because you are the good guy. Just sit down and relax, god and destiny will fix everything for you and turn the world into a lollipop-sky-loft with cute little rainbow-unicorns.2) Alex, a mentally ill, traumatized and, as we see, innocent boy, is tortured and violated in the most brutal way, with heat, frost, darkness, his head is nearly smashed and who knows what other bodily parts,too. °RLC: If lucky, Alex will die by the terrible injuries or a following inflammation, as he had no water, no food and the old house was full of dirt. In any case he will keep long-term damages, not only physically, he is now more traumatized than ever before. Almoust certainly he is going to kill himself sooner or later. °P/HC: That's alright, just put an article into a newspaper about a wonderful family-reunion, so the audience will know, he will live happily ever after - you know, with the rainbow-unicorns I mentioned before.3) Keller didn't achieve anything by his outrage, except leaving his family alone in their fear and grief, (nearly) killing an innocent boy, playing into the hands of kidnapper Holly Jones by keeping away Alex, who could have given a real clue with the real treatment, and turning himself into a victim of evil Holly by acting careless and imprudent.°RLC: Keller will die in that hole in the belief, that his daughter is dead - which will happen with the utmost probability. Even if he escaped, his family would turn away from him (if his wife did not die accidentally of an overdose of sleeping pills before, which is most likely), because he did not care about them all the time, brought his daughter into great danger and turned himself into a monster by violating a victim like his own daughter without any effect. He will go to jail for that - just like his two friends, whose daughter will then have no parents anymore, just like Anna is left behind with an imprisoned father, a disillusioned brother and a mother addicted to pills. °P/HC: That doesn't matter, because you're meant to be the good guy, and good guys always get saved in the end, and if anybody had a doubt about the fact, that you're the good guy, your wife will point it out loudly and proudly for the audience once more and explain, that you just did what you had to do (which does not make any sense at all, because his actions lead into nothing), that everything will be alright now and that you will be forgiven for everything.It was an interesting idea for a movie to ask the question: How far would you go to save someone you love, and what if it turns you into a more awful monster than the one you are chasing? Because in the end there is not much difference between Holly and Keller and between what they are willing to do to innocent children. The main character has done everything wrong and his actions had to be leading into a dark and deep abyss - including the death of his daughter, the death of Alex, the imprisoning of his friends, maybe the accidentally suicide of his wife and, not to forget, his own death. Instead the moral of this story is, that the end always justifies the means, torture and witch hunt are alright, no matter against whom, when you're the good guy, as who you are above reproach. In my opinion this movie is a complete failure, because the creators were too scared or too contracted (or too scared of a contracted audience) to bring their storyline to an adequate ending.
One of the shittiest movies of my life, it does not deserve its current high rating.I went to the cinema to watch this film with high expectations but ended with having a good nap instead.The movie did not meet the standards of a film with 8+/10 rating, I suggest watching captain Philips instead of this since it is actually a 'movie'.It only deserves a 2/10 due to good acting from Hugh JackmanThe movie starts off very slowly, it does not fully expand its plot and leaves the audience with a sense of gibberish after 150 minutes of complete garbage.


                
The premise behind he movie is that an evil family is murdering children to "fight a war against heaven."The film tips it's hand early on who the real villain is in one of the first five scenes.There is an old saying in creative writing, impossible yes, improbable, never.This film violated this old saw throughout.Hugh Jackman's character assaults one suspect in front of police. He kidnaps the man, and the police never think that Jackman's character is behind it. (The could have searched the property records and found his lair in five minutes.)The police realized that the primary suspect could not have driven the vehicle in question, but never bother to get the prints off the vehicle that would have led to the real culprit.The police recover a corpse, but are unable to figure out who it is even with the DNA assets available today. You can get heritage, likely relatives, etc. just do a Google search on it.Then there are just offensive bits ...Look at my name, I'm not a born again type, but depicting Hugh Jackman's character as over-the-top, because he owns firearms and prays is ludicrous and demeaning to a substantial portion of the US.Also, the depiction that folks would violate the law, ethics, and common sense, because their child is involved does not automatically follow in the same way that being a police does not make you a sadist.Finally seeing someone drug kids and an adult with brain damaging drinks and injections was just gross.This film is offensive and is difficult to suspend disbelief for.It should be rated NR-17.If you hate Christians and Republicans and feel that all folks are basically evil and need to be held in check by laws then this film might be for you.I cannot recommend it.
I first learned of Quebecois director Denis Villeneuve when I saw his movie "Incendies", about a brother and sister who try to find out the identity of their father in a war-torn Middle Eastern country. Having just watched "Prisoners", I was surprised to see that Villeneuve directed it. I was also disappointed. I won't deny that it's a very intense movie, but I will say that the dads' actions seem excessive. It looks like the sorts of things that Liam Neeson now does in movies (and his current characters seem to be based on Harrison Ford's characters). I'll admit that I didn't figure out what was going to happen as the movie progressed, but that doesn't make up for the extreme actions taken by the dads. The point is that this is not a movie that I recommend. In addition to the director, each of the main cast members has done better movies.


                
First of all, the movie is decent, but its waaaaaay to long and to much information which is absolute not necessary although the writers is trying to confuse the viewer as much as possible - that succeed. Honestly, I am more disappointed about the viewer at IMDb giving it so high rate, 8.X. After seeing the movie, i am not quiet sure whether I have seen the same movies as people how have rated it high? Anyway its was a good start and good ending, but could have for sure cut one hour away without harming the movie, only making it better. To sum it up, too long and way to high rating at IMDb. Conclusion I cant even recommend this movie to my worst enemy
This movie started out well, but after a reasonable first 20 minutes, it descended into an hour and a half of tedium. We fast forwarded through many long, slow, plodding scenes the really did not add to the plot at all, nor the character development. Or character deconstruction, perhaps. The last 45 minutes picked up a bit, and there was some tension at that point, but not enough payoff at the end to justify sitting through it. Too long, too plodding. Poorly directed, poorly edited. Some excellent actors wasted their time on this. Not a single character to like or identify with after the first 20 minutes. Really, I have to write ten lines of text about this to submit a review?


                
OK, so this contains spoilers but I will not say a lot.First of all, as someone else on the message boards wrote this movie is just PERFECT if you want to understand whether someone has an understanding of movies or just generally *smart*. The movie contains at least a couple plot holes and a **ton** of stuff just to fill the gaps. I will give some examples. 1-Why did Alex, who didn't even say a word after all that interrogation just randomly spouts that stupid "They didn't cry until I left them". Like what? How dumb is this line. Just think about it, first of all how does he know that he is one of the fathers of the girls. Even if he does know somehow, let's say he saw them from the van, why the hell would you say that to him, and there? Literally anyone could've heard them. There's like 20 people around them, but oh no...2-Going with Alex again, why did he break at the end? Why? This guy literally beat you half to death. Couldn't hit you one more time without killing you, he showered you with boiling water, let you live with your own filth for I don't know how many days. Why the hell in the end would you break *at that perfect time* at the end? So stupid of the writers. 3-How can they not check the ID of someone they take into custody FOR KIDNAPPING OF 2 CHILDREN.!!!! Like what the hell. How dumb is this thing. I called the entire ending the moment they showed the first boy who was kidnapped, and I am sure anyone with a little bit of intelligence did the same. Unless you watched like a couple movies in your life time and you think this movie deserves an 8.1.4-Another thing, why would Keller have his gun in his bag. You tortured someone for 7~ days. Are you afraid to kill the person you are almost *sure* that kidnapped your daughter? Lets say he wanted to hide the gun, why is it not on him? Holly didn't even search him. 5-Oh, oh. I'm adding this after writing everything because it just occurred to me. HOW DUMB is the character Bob Taylor? Maybe I don't understand but please someone tell me. Why would he take the blame for everything? Why would he steal those girls clothes just to make them look like they died? Why would he commit suicide in the first place? Even Holly said she FORGOT about him. Goddamn what the hell.6-I'm sure there is a lot more to say about this *thing* but one last thing. People. Please. Stop. Arguing. Whether. Detective Loki, heard the whistle or not.OF COURSE HE DID, did you watch the ending or did you fall asleep?!He looks around after the 3rd time he hears the whistle, and after the 4th time he literally locks on to a direction! You should be able to deduct that he knows something is up. Just because whoever's genius idea it was to leave it like that, they didn't show him being rescued and put to prison, doesn't mean you shouldn't even pay attention, like god damn.After all this I gotta say, I bashed the movie pretty hard, but it deserved it. Also I should add that after all that stupid bulls*it I still kind of enjoyed the movie. If those dumb plot holes could've been filled with actual writing, this movie would've then deserved an 8.1 or even higher. Maybe not higher. Like I said, EVERYONE saw that ending coming from a mile away.
Great cast and the movie looks good, but my god this one is bad for a good movie. - At least one hour too long - Gets really boring really fast - Wolverine and his wife have no logic or brains - When it finally ends you still wonder how you were able to waste over two hours with this kind of nonsense. Why didn't you just give up after 20 minutes and watch Gone Girl or something for the fifth time.


                
