Just watched it. Acting great.But this is so badly written ---> 1 - HOW did the black girl escape! Her & her friend were drugged all the time? Oh, she just "managed" to get away -- she's in a locked room! Drugged! But she "manages" to get away . . . and another oh! her captor couldn't catch her! But the captor managed to get them the first time in broad daylight -- which is never explained! 2 - the captor knows one of her captives has escaped yet makes NO EFFORT to leave, clean up evidence, DO ANYTHING AT ALL, just stays there.3 - and when girl says in hospital "you were there" Hugh Jackman runs away to make him look like the suspect; he doesn't bother to tell anyone - like the cops - I KNOW WHERE SHE'S TALKING ABOUT! LET'S GO NOW, IT'S THE CRAZY AUNT!4 - why did the aunt not kill them after capture? Why do they need to stay alive? 5 - guy gets beaten & imprisoned in a cube of pain for a week, yet can't manage to articulate "my aunt did it." He was coherent enough to say "They only cried when I left them" to Hugh Jackman when Hugh Jackman grabs him by the throat in public; but he can't manage "after my aunt took them away" when Hugh Jackman beats him nearly to death? 6 - cop is angry, goes to his desk, throws things around, by CHANCE things fall on the floor & he sees a new CRUCIAL clue.It's a movie of bad red herrings, and coincidence. PS. Cop goes into a room of trunks and RUSHES to open one! It's full of SNAKES! Now if I opened up the first trunk in a room full of trunks and the first trunk was full of snakes, I don't think I would open all the other trunks, yet Cop wants to open more!
The beginning of the movie was fine, good with the RV and the girls leaving. The movie really fell apart when they brought the Alex guy into the police station. They say he has a low IQ so he couldn't have done it alone. OK thats great but why then would you not look at his guardian after that? And he was a kidnapped boy himself so wouldn't he be in the system? I know he was not arrested , but seems to me they would check more then his name for a double kidnapping. Not to mention he wouldn't has a ssn and they can tell when he got it under that name which would lead to a DNA test anyway.After that though he is kidnapped and again by Jackman character. Why would that detective who has never lost a case not think to finish searching the residence finding him. Also don't these family men have jobs? Plus no captain would leave him without a car to watch him in the first place. Aside from that they have these clues to finding the girls like the maze, and chose to instead lead this line of Jackmans character torturing Alex. They do not have any part of this movie dedicated to what's going on with the girls so glad I didn't spend money when this was in theaters. Acting was good has a good plot with the kidnapping just done very wrong after the first few scenes. Very unrealistic from a legal stand point. Also did a bad job of keeping me engaged I paused the movie about halfway through to check my phone and facebook even got on youtube. Writing and directing failed this movie its a shame.
After 90 minutes you just want it all to end!I'm growing awfully tired of movies that just make no sense whatsoever and then just to compound your misery there's 3 or 4 pieces of the jigsaw left out of the storyline which just leaves you scratching your head at the end and wondering what's actually happened?The girls' abduction was just so abrupt and sudden you just never had a chance to make any connection or have any emotive feelings for their plight to begin with. That sort of set the tone for the rest of the movie - flat and devoid of feeling.I'm still unsure as to the motive behind the abduction and drugged imprisonment of the 2 young girls - let alone what part the mentally impaired adopted son and the detached other member of the family that likes snakes and purchases children's clothing have played in proceedings?Yet another film that's not been particularly well directed or edited and should have went straight to DVD or held back strictly for TV. I just can't imagine sitting in a cinema watching this for 2 and a half hours. You'd have a numb brain as well as a numb bum!4 stars solely to Jake for adding an element or two of tension and drama throughout.
A movie that is, in my humble opinion, toeing the line between So-so and bad? What happened to audiences today? Have you all lost your minds? Is the government already succeeding at dumbing-down the masses? OK, sure, the performances were solid. But what I saw in the end was great talent wasted on an insanely contrived film.We all know what the story is about and the premise is rather primal, I must admit, encouraging me to see the film. But it was poorly written. POORLY. It started with the characters then snowballed down the hill to a contrivance cesspool where it drowned.I didn't like any of the characters, except for Alex, played by Paul Dano. The second character I empathized with was Detective Loki (Gyllenhaal), who almost went on my list of "Idiots the world would be better off without," but he avoided it by really trying to find the girls and practically being tormented by Dover (Jackman), father of one of the girls abducted.Now Dover was one of the worst characters in the film, probably in movie history. He was written for us to connect to, whether we disagreed with his methods or not. But in the end, he was basically jeopardizing the investigation. His level of stupidity was dangerous, to himself and everyone around him. So, he may not be a thinking man. I could buy that. Then could he at least smarten up somewhere towards the end of the film? Where was his character arc, his moment of truth? Are we to assume he actually learned something as events unfolded? Never once did he admit his humility and humanity, and yield his control of events over to fate. It could've taken 5 seconds. But he didn't. I'm not going to give away too much, but he was angry and desperate until the end.Then you had Dover's band of douchebags, like the Birch's, who also lost their daughter and are seemingly close friends with the Dovers. They most likely shared stupid pills as well. There wasn't a single useful person in the film. Loki came close but he did things I couldn't imagine anyone with his expertise, who supposedly solved every crime or missing person case he ever worked (not clear as to the kind of detective he was), doing the things he did. Also, he rarely called for backup or assistance, and don't give me that malarkey about the town's underfunded police department. Did everyone have to be brain-dead and desperate like Dover? To answer the previous question, yes, they had to be this way otherwise things would have had to happen differently, and it could've ended badly like how things happen in real life sometimes. But, as a writer, when you intend on something happening one way to get the result you want, most likely a happy ending, then you have to have characters who can comply, even at their own detriment, and that's where contrivances find their home and breed.The film had way too many wasted moments. Most of it did nothing to move the story along. Some lines, like the "solved every case" line regarding Loki's illustrious career as a police officer, not only made me chuckle but they felt more like set pieces, like the blue lamp on Dover's end table. Other wasted elements in the film were like red herrings that only added the extra 30 minutes to the already long movie.Also, the antagonist's agenda was quite ridiculous, as most have been in recent Hollywood movies. They're now very roundabout and overly complicated, making them ridiculous, instead of more direct approaches. The bad guys are working way too hard to reach their ultimate goal. I thought the hard work was supposed to be reserved for the good guys. "Rage against God"? Really? That makes as much sense as going through the trouble to control the money and assets of all the local billionaires, taking power away from the wealthy and giving it to the the persecuted, all to create anarchy just before blowing up the city, and making the town's wounded hero watch it all from some prison pit in nowhere land. Oh wait...


                
I have never seen as many people walk out of a cinema as I did when I went to watch this - I would guess that a minimum of a third of the audience left!! It is ridiculously slow and about an hour too long. The drama is not drawn out at all and you just end up wishing that they'd get on with the storyline. Attempts to draw out the tension are basic and laughable, while the excellent cast are forced to use tortured facial expressions to give the film any semblance of feeling.Overall an incredibly disappointing experience. I was expecting to love this, I ended up wanting to follow everyone else out of the cinema. Ridiculously poor, given the promising subject and excellent cast.


                
I went into this film after having watched the trailer and feeling slightly apprehensive but mostly excited. I liked how the trailer hinted at Hugh Jackman's character being shown to change in demeanor as a result of his daughter's abduction. In reality, the film took a turn in a different and more extreme direction - one that I wouldn't necessarily say was good.The start of the film played out well, with a realistic and credible scenario. But I found myself throughout the film getting more and more confused and more disinterested as a result. Don't get me wrong: I like films with twists and turns in unexpected directions, but too much so can make me feel a little queasy. I felt like I was spending too much time trying to explain to myself what on earth was going on rather than revelling in the excitement and tension of the actual film. This I found frustrating. Having said that, if you want some thrilling and tense scenes, I think this film provides quite a few. I just think a poor plot can detract from well-acted, tense scenes. In a nutshell, I would describe this film as a lot of twists, quirks and unusual concepts all put together in quick succession; however, they were not really linked. I could barely draw a connection between a lot of what was happening and I found myself drawn into a strange, unexplained plot which overall left me very unsatisfied. And that's, unfortunately, how I would say I felt at the end of the film. Unsatisfied, confused, and after about five minutes of trying to piece what I had just watched together, I realised I didn't really care.


                
"Prisoners" 2013 Fine Performances, Evocative Direction, Screwball Script I wanted to see "Prisoners" after I saw the trailer. Alas, the trailer contains all the best parts of the movie. Suburban parents celebrating Thanksgiving slowly come to realize that their two daughters are missing. The trailer featured quiet, dark scenes of increasing menace and despair, shot in realistic, autumnal, suburban settings. The trailer promised big, big stars: Hugh Jackman and Maria Bello as one set of parents and Viola Davis and Terence Howard as the other, Jake Gyllenhaal as the police detective, Paul Dano as the suspect and Melissa Leo as the suspect's adoptive parent. The trailer promised an intelligent thriller that would interrogate how far an ethical person could go in attempting to rescue his daughter from an abductor. The trailer also seemed to suggest an examination of how law enforcement responds, for better or worse, in child abduction cases. The first twenty minutes of "Prisoners" delivered what I'd hoped for based on the trailer, but I was hyper-aware that I was watching scene after scene I'd already seen in the trailer. Around the time that an unlikely body was found in an unlikely spot, and a fist met a face several times more than was necessary to make any point, but certainly enough times to satisfy a film-goer's sick, sadistic bloodlust, the movie went off the rails for me, abandoned all its seriousness and intelligence, and became sensational gore and commercial pap. I was so let down I wanted to leave the theater, but I stayed because I'd roped two friends into seeing this with me. "Prisoners" is a whodunit so there's a limit to what I can say without revealing any spoilers. I can say this. Jake Gyllenhaal powerfully performs a dedicated police detective. Hugh Jackman exercises his neck veins a lot, and his American accent is wobbly but okay. Terence Howard, Viola Davis, and Maria Bello are given criminally little to do. Viola Davis has one of the most interesting scenes in the movie. This scene is only a minute or two long and it is not developed at all. That is a shame because the scene is the moral crux of the film. And the film does nothing with it; the filmmakers went with implausible sensationalism and sadism rather than substance. Paul Dano, as the suspect, and Melissa Leo, as his adoptive mother, both give powerhouse performances in very challenging roles. Denis Villeneuve's direction is flawless. He avoids explosive stunts and theatrics with his camera. His moves are slow and quiet, even while filming ugly violence. I'd like to see his work on a better script. There are many attempts to make the movie deeper than it is. There are many scenes initially shot through dirty glass. "Through a glass darkly" is a line from the Bible. Ooo big symbolism. Wow. There are many crosses, including one hanging from the rearview mirror in Keller – Hugh Jackman's – truck. Wow. Heavy. I just may think something <U+0085> no, I'd rather watch snakes. Oh, yes. There are snakes. Some understand Satan as taking snake form in Genesis. Heavy. Profound! Yeah, not really. Just bizarrely implausible. There are strange character names. Hugh Jackman's first name is "Keller" which brings to mind the blind and deaf Helen Keller, or maybe the word "Killer." Jake Gyllenhaal is Detective Loki. Loki is the trickster God of Norse mythology. This is all pretty high school. There are two scenes and one character treatment in this film that I found completely implausible. The two scenes are essential to the plot. I can't describe these two scenes but I can say that one is utterly implausible because of surveillance. The action of the film takes place within hours and days of a child abduction. Not only police, but also media and neighbors would be keeping an eagle eye on all suspects. Another scene is implausible because it demands that we forget everything we've been told about a key character. One character treatment is unbelievable to me because a very unlikely character is depicted as being as heroic, in his way, as John McCain. Not plausible. I also found the final resolution of the crime to be something that would only occur in a writer's imagination, and the ending to be pointlessly cute. Again, the opening scenes of the dawning awareness that a child has been abducted are powerful, but the film totally lost me with its comic book sensationalism, sadism, and – I have to say it – stupidity.


                
Well acted but mediocre script & a major letdown. The commercials really had me sold. Normally I'm not fooled by commercials, I must admit, this time I was fooled. I won't give the ending away, let's just say you won't be happy & this will be a one & done movie. My advice is to skip it or wait for it on Netflix or Red Box. I knew less than half way through the movie what was coming & whodunit. Unfortunately, this is a movie that Hollywood just couldn't keep their not so subtle liberal, leftist politics out of. This is set up in the very 1st scene where Hugh Jackman is out with his son shooting a poor Bambi like deer & again later when you see all the "I'm ready for anything" supplies in Hugh's basement. Hugh's character ends up pulling a totally foolish act that no logical, "I'm ready for anything" right winger would ever do. I don't think any liberal capable of thought would have done what Hugh ends up doing either. No, I'm not talking about torturing the young man. The resolution to that even turns out liberal. Torture doesn't ------. You figure it out. Message of this flick is "sit on your hands & be a helpless glob while the brilliant, benevolent government & their employees will take care of it all for you". Puck!


                
I saw this film yesterday. I expected it would be a very good movie, depending on what i read on the internet. But i was disappointed.
Some things just don't make any sense:
-When Keller Dover went to the aunt's house for the second time, why did he turn his back to her?
-When she pulled her gun, why did he surrender so quickly. A man his size, he could easily jump on the women and make her drop the gun, or even throw her things in the kitchen. When he began to drink the liquid, i was just thinking: Why the hell are you not throwing it to her face?
I read some reviews praising the performances and got it to watch at home. At least it meant I could shrink the window whilst doing something meaningful.The movie starts OK, drops to average and finishes too late.The acting is crap. Can I say that? Jackman shows yet again why he is usually a wolf or a singer. Character acting is not his bag. He has a chance to show something, but fails. The script is routine. By part way through you'll be thinking you have seen this before and you probably have. Regular roles and diversions as seen in so many B-grade 'horror' movies. It has the production qualities of a straight-to-DVD release and the bargain bin is where it should rest.The ending is just the dumbest part. You have to accept that the whole police department is just plain incompetent. Instead it was the production team who were.


                
After deeply religious father Jackman's daughter goes missing with a neighbor girl, he targets prime suspect Dano while detective Gyllenhaal pursues other leads. The film doesn't necessarily succeed at being epic, but it is terrifically well-paced for clocking-in at over a two-and-a-half hour runtime—director Villeneuve does an excellent job using fade-outs to skip passed the obvious melodrama. The story involves emotions and chills from all aspects of an unthinkable crime, including: the family members of the abducted children, the investigators and even those close to the suspect. Unfortunately, the movie is dragged by too many obvious detective blunders by Gyllenhaal's characters: 1) Whaaa? I can't discreetly park my car in the middle of the road in broad daylight? 2) Whaaa? I'm going to have all family members take a polygraph, but not consider looking into the fact that one of the fathers owns an abandoned building the girls may be at? 3) Whaaa? When I finally find out one of the fathers owns an abandoned building and I establish my new suspicions of him, I SHOULD call a search team? 4) Whaaa? I've been seeing a lot of mazes ever since I started investigating these girls' disappearances. There IS a connection?Another unfortunate downfall is the annoying and awkward light adjustments between interior and exterior scenes.The moral of a film should either raise questions, or provide answers or some sort of hope. This film just kind of confuses, as it doesn't really grasp hold of how suspects are sometimes guilty until proved innocent or how there are some ridiculous limitations the law has at preventing and/or solving crimes. Either: A) make a statement, or B) give the audience something to reflect on. This film seems to do neither. It would be nice to go into a crime-thriller with an open-mind and NOT have to suspend as much disbelief. But all-in-all, not a complete waste of a film.**½ (out of four)


                
Saw this almost three weeks ago but was never really tempted to write a review. I've always liked writing reviews for movies, and i've always loved writing on IMDb, until recently. For some reason, I don't seem to agree with most of the reviews and ratings for many movies, but it's perfectly subjective whether a movie is good or not. Anyway, prisoners is not so bad. This movie has so much potential, especially with all the great actors in the movie. Unfortunately, the supposed to be great story line fell of short due to the darn long duration and not so convincing acting of the actors. First thing first, what's good about the movie. There are so many famous and talented actors in this movie. The idea of the story is actually quite good, it's a typical kidnap story but its not quite predictable. Now the bad thing about this movie. The story line is thrilling, but only during the first 30 minutes of the movie. Then the movie just drags the story all the way for almost 3 hours and didn't achieve much. Hell, even after i waited for 2 and a half hours , i still never got my ending. The movie didn't have an ending. It was an open ending, where the director doesn't give any closure to the story, leaving the audience to think and imagine for themselves whats going to happen next. The bunch of famous actors who are supposed to be talented were for some reason not talented at all in this movie. Their acting was terrible! No one was convincing whatsoever. Its like they didn't even bother trying. I'm so disappointed for many reasons. 1, the thriller was nice. 2, Hugh Jackman and a few other famous actors are in the movie. 3, the reviews are all so good. 4, thriller is my favorite movie genre and this movie was not that thrilling, on a scale of 1-10 the thrilling factor is maybe 3, and it was at the beginning of the movie when the children got kidnapped, oh and during the beat up session where the guy's face was shown all bloody and bloated. Overall, this movie deserves a 4/10.
The trailer was amazing but it turns out that those parts were the only interesting parts in the movie. The violence was appalling and there was nothing in the script to justify it. It was way too long and by the end of it I didn't really care and just wanted it to end. I also don't understand if we were supposed to identify with Dover's character. He was sadistic and I don't understand how any movie could allow itself to portray such acts of torture. It was really disturbing to watch.It could have been more tolerable had it been shorter. But the length of it, coupled with the graphic images of torture of a helpless person were just to much.
I feel like the ethical thing to do would be to give this movie 1 or 2 stars, to offset the undeservedly high rating it enjoys in IMDb. But I'll stick to 4. I was happy to see that I wasn't a complete outlier in feeling so outraged by this movie's popularity that I felt the need to write a review. Apart from Hugh Jackman's brilliant performance (and Jake's was pretty good too), and the fact of the movie's subject - exploring the utilitarian morality of whether torture is ever justified as a means to an end - there isn't really much else that's even remotely praiseworthy. Most annoying to me was how inconsistent the characters were - Alex has the 'IQ of a 10-year old', but manages to drive around fine in his RV, lie to the police officers that he does not know the girls, and yet again, he is playful(and prepared) enough to mutter "they didn't cry until I left" when Keller suddenly confronts him! He endures days of torture for no apparent reason before talking about 'mazes'. He randomly strangles his dog while taking it for a walk, and his helplessness suddenly melts away when he attacks Nancy and Keller with a carefully selected shard of glass during his torture! I was also led to believe that this was an Argo-like nail-biting movie. It isn't. I watched this at home and I managed to fast forward a few seconds every now and then because there was no action going on and the director did not even give us anything to chew on during those moments of inactivity. The characters are also way too superficial for my liking. Gyllenhaal plays an insomniac work-obsessed good cop who is always going to scary places all by himself. But that's all we know about him - nothing else of who he is or why he does what he does. And the last one may be because of my lack of a sufficient understanding of American life, but I simply don't get how so many weird f***s like Alex, his mom, and the snake guy manage to eke out a living to maintain a house and a car while pursuing their creepy 'hobbies'.Lately I've noticed a slew of movies that for some odd reason enjoy an unusually high rating of 8+ on IMDb and then turn out to be complete trash...it's disappointing!


                
Expected more from Hugh Jackman.. 
Totally Disappointed..!


                
Yeah... Just finished watching it. Not really worth your money, it had a really boring development. At one point, I got so bored that I just skipped to the ending which I will not put in this review because it's a spoiler. However, the storyline was pretty good. Feels very powerful and could happen to anyone of us or any children. The movie had a very slow development showing the family and how they react to their children's kidnapping and what they do. The plot is pretty simple but it takes too long to show that development. I recommend you to torrent it or watch it online before actually wasting your money. If you like it and want to have the movie forever, then just buy it afterwards.


                
The movie has everything to be a success: good acting, good plot and good actors. BUT, It has too much information going on and they don't answer all the question. The movie ends and you fell like you waist your time. You want know the answers... and in some level some things were too easy to see and Jake G. character is too slow to connect it, to see it, to realize it.When I saw the red whistle in that hole I was like: "That's how he will get it out of there!". And indeed it was or wasn't? (HATE the fact that we didn't get to know). BUT, Hugh Jackman character goes to the house with his car, leave the car keys, the cellphone, the tools and after the lady gets kill, does the CSI people missed? "Let's start digging the yard instead" they said? Bitch pleaseeeeeee! And the testimonials not investigated? The boy wasn't even her nephew! So you can said anything to the cops and they will believe it!?! To resume because I could said a lot more: I feel like This movie underestimate the intelligence of the viewers!!
when you see the name of the actors and actress and the name you think that it is great but there is nothing but bore a 158 minutes of boring you see an RV then they disappear you don't know how and they will not tell you how just you will see blood on a teen and then some wood blanks that they call it ROOM!! and then one of the daughter shows up and boom every thing clear and really i don't know why she kidnap children she say that she will tell him but no she don't and the dad disappear and the detective hear a sound oh that the dad but also no they end the film the film make you sleep do i recommend it no and really if you like boring films that nominated to an Oscar trophy i recommend it
Poor white people who hunts deserves their kids to be kidnaped, all cathilic priests are degenerates, Alex Jones plays the fool but he looks like an complicit, well done, i just watched because i was watching Peace and War, and noted Apul Dano was Alex Jones, i thought he played the real Alex Jones
By the way it looks like detective Loki is the only police officer in townI guess the whole movie budget went on the caches of Jake Gillenhaal and Hugh Jackman because i dont see any major star, ah and Paul Dano, (he was on There will be blood)


                
-- Contains Spoilers --1. Why the old lady kept the girls alive. 2. How one of the drugged girls was able to escape when the old lady was more than capable enough to persuade an adult to follow her directions.3. Why the detective chooses to drive so recklessly and risk fatal accidents with the girl in his backseat instead of just calling for a medical help.4. How the mentally challenged suspect is able to withstand beatings for days when he was shriveling up and crying when subject to far less intimidating police questioning.5. Why no one questions the girls once found to retrieve the details of their travails.6. Why does the old lady stay put even after one of the girls has escaped.7. Why do those who pray choose to kill innocent animals.
I like a bit of suspense and thrill like anyone else on the planet and Prisoners starts wonderfully. we see 2 families going through everyones worst nightmare when their kids go missing. the natural reactions of any parent rise to the surface and we see Hugh Jackman take the matter into his own hands to find what has happened to his daughter. Up to the first half of this movie, we see a believable portrayal of what any father would do in his position, to find his daughter at any cost blaming the obvious target of the local kid who has a few issues in the mental department. Again, all believable.It is in the second half of the film, it starts to breakdown a little, Gyllenhaall, the detective that has "never failed a case" decides to tail Jackman due to the local kid going missing and he being the obvious target due to various altercations with the police and the kid believing he knows where his daughter is kept.There are a few silly mistakes, if Mr Gyllenhaal is such a great detective, how come he gets given away by a truck wanting to get passed him when he tailing Jackman?We also see one of the children escape or be released tbh, I have still no idea, there is a note left saying if you can solve the maze you go home? what the hell happened? i still don't know. The maze was supposed to be unsolvable....Finally, Jackman gets thrown down a hole and at no times mentions the fact to the 70 year old that just managed to get the better of him that he has her son locked away and she won't see him again either????? why?????Finally, there doesn't seem to be any motive for the kidnapping, I remembered to the start of the movie that jackman says they have no money, was this a bizarre insurance scam? no it was some 70 year old nutter.... please ! my five year old could come up with a more feasible plot.As normal, acting is good, but the plot is just plain silly. it ruined a potentially good movie.
this film was a great disappointment to me. I was too much excited to see the movie, however, after that i was shocked. the The movie was completely destroyed by the director, although the acting is very great but you can feel the movie is very heavy & tense (in a bad way).a lot of questions are left without answers: for example: *why the young girl accused the father of "Being There" with the kidnappers ??!!!*where cops found the young girl & how she run away ?*why we don't see the actual maze? instead of watching a lot of plots made by the characters?i didn't enjoy the movie at all and the end was like a disaster to me, unfinished in a very silly way.
At the start this seemed a very interesting film on a powerful subject with suspense beginning to build. The cinematography and editing were good. I found Jackman very good indeed in the lead role with his reaction to the circumstances being suitably moving, Dano was excellent and other actors were generally good. There were suspenseful scenes and mystery keeping some interest in the outcomes along the way (these aspects give my 5/10 rating rather than any lower as I do not react like so many reviewers who rate a film as 1/10 just because something in it annoyed them) but the film fell apart and totally let me down in many ways. I therefore cannot agree and am surprised with the rating of 8.1/10 and a place in imdb's top 250 films which it currently holds.Firstly the inept police work which is jarring and seems unbelievable. First the cop (Gyllenhaal) does not try to shoot out the tyres of the escaping suspects motor home. He then has awful questioning technique, alienating his interviewees whilst failing to extract ANY information or insight whatsoever. He never calls for support or even informs other police of his whereabouts even in clearly life threatening circumstances! In fact he appears to be a one-man police force with no partners or backup at all. He gets every decision and judgement call completely wrong, failing to work out even the most obvious clues. He does not spot a maze necklace on a dead body or notice that link to mazes later on until he accidentally sees a photo of the body when throwing a tantrum. He does not see through any of the suspects or connect any parts of the puzzle until it is almost too late. No search is done of the house opposite the girls disappearance site or the grounds right outside the main suspects house and all searches that are carried out are VERY poor, slow and superficial. He searches Jackman's old house without a warrant. No surveillance is done of the parents (who would always be suspected) until Jackman has already had time to kidnap the suspect. No surveillance is even done of the released main suspect, who is as a result kidnapped by Jackman, but could just as easily gone off and murdered the kidnap victims!!!. Gyllenhaal's cop lets another suspect run away in a straightforward foot chase when he could easily have caught him or shot him in the leg. He even allows a suspect to shoot himself in the interview room!!!! The brainless portrayal of this cop is MASSIVELY at odds with the claim that this cop is a 'supercop' who has NEVER failed to solve a case! I do not expect documentary style police work but while it is possible for any police force or police officer to work in such a crap way I would then expect the film to portray it as bad police work rather than portraying him as a good, successful officer etc. He even ends up driving whilst injured in a ridiculously unnecessarily dangerous manner, risking the child, himself and many members of the public after allowing the child to be drugged due to his slowness and ineptitude and is hailed a HERO for this! Gyllenhall also plays the part in a blank, cold manner which also does not inspire any empathy with the character.On top of that various other unbelievable actions are taken by other characters: WHY would Jackman (a fit, strong man) go along with the orders of an old feeble woman, drinking the drug when she tells him and walking at gunpoint to certain captivity or death? She stands about six inches behind him at roughly his shoulder/elbow height as he dutifully marches to a hole in the ground. ANYONE in his position would elbow the old bitch in the face or jump her at one of the numerous opportunities such as when she first answers the door! His reactions would be FAR faster than hers! 
WHY would all 3 apparently good decent parents go along with the torture of a suspect so easily changing from good gentle folk into hardened accomplices or perpetrators of torture? 
HOW would the formerly kidnapped and supposedly slow witted boy be a cold, calculating, expert break-in man, happy and able to steal victims clothes under parents noses and escaping capture by the 'great' cop in a chase. 
WHY ON EARTH would the evil kidnapper push a full syringe of some deadly substance into the kidnapped girl only to inject just a small amount of the substance into her?!! She wanted to kill her before being killed herself so it is ludicrous that she would carefully remove the syringe with over half the liquid still in the syringe! These aspects are film-making at its worst! This by the director of other superb films who even in this film has some clear abilities to do brilliant work. What was Villeneuve doing allowing the implausible turns of events and why is this film so highly rated? I am confused!On top of this, rather than suspense it was more and more frustrating and infuriating as numerous red-herrings, badly thought through motives and twists plus incomplete and unexplained story arcs ruined the film bringing it to a very unsatisfactory conclusion. WHAT was the motivation/payoff for the kidnappers? The religious reasons given are flimsy and unconvincing. A sexual or sadistic motive would have been easily believable, this one was not executed properly at all. WHY and HOW would a feeble old lady continue her 'crusade' so successfully after her husbands disappearance? WHY was one boy kept as a 'son' while all others were killed? WHAT is the escaped boy/man doing acting as if he is aiding/involved in subsequent kidnappings? WHY would the paedophile priest murder the kidnapper/murderer? WHY would the kidnapper keep the victims alive if the purpose was just to kill them not abuse, torture or ransom them?!It is infuriating that a film with good ingredients and production values visually apparent throws it all away with such pathetically badly thought through and unprofessional writing and directing! The dialogue was also fashionably and annoyingly inaudible on many occasions. VERY disappointing film!! Taken as purely an entertainment with your brain disengaged and enjoying what good there is (acting, visual flair, gritty subject matter) it is OK but there are far too many issues to be any better than 4/10 or 5/10 at most.
