I wanted them all to die. Take away the Oscar winners and lifestyles-of-the rich-and-famous production values, and this is just suburban soap opera with a murder plot. It's Days of our Lives meets CSI Malibu intercut with repetitive police interviews a la True Detectives, which had me screaming "get on with it" by the middle of the second episode. Yeah, we get it, someone died, and they are all a bunch of bitchy, pampered, neurotic, cheating sociopaths who are capable of murder or deserve to die, so just tell us already.Maybe 30 or 40-something middle-class aspirationals who have dreamed about running over other obnoxious parents when picking up the kids from school will love this – and judging by the ridiculous number of uncritical 10-star reviews here, America must be full of them - but I'm giving it one star for balance. Yeah, the acting was good, and it's not devoid of suspense, just drawn out and tiresome, but ultimately this is cliché with a predictable ending painted against the backdrop of the old Hollywood dream/lie that everyone in America is fabulously rich.My tip: if after the third episode you've had enough, just skip to the finale to see what happens and have your predictions confirmed. It worked for me. I didn't watch episodes 4,5 and 6 and didn't miss a thing. This series looks very much like a movie script reworked for TV, hence all the repetitive character development and lack of action. Maybe it would work as a two or three-part telemovie but ultimately the storyline lacks originality and I can see why it didn't make the big screen.


                
Seeing its high score on IMDb, I rushed into this show with great expectations. At first, I was caught and started watching. My first impression was that it was going to be like desperate housewives with famous actresses. It is not but not that far after all. The plot is full of inconsistencies and impossible situations (a six-year-old who knows Bowie and only listens to old music ? NO). The character Jane Chapman is just not likable at all (the actress is so annoying and is not good at all), Nicole Kidman is so annoying with her fake mystery and plastic surgery (I came to realise I really can't stand her). Reese Witherspoon is like in all movies she plays in (legally blond like). The end is just grotesque (the raped girl just happened to move in the exact same town as her rapist and befriend her wife ? NO). This show just throws fake wit and intelligence around but it just ends up to be shallow, unreal and ridiculous. You don't feel anything for the characters. Also nothing happens, or let's say that the same scenes keep on coming back (the wife gets beaten up, they have rough sex she feels bad, the adulterous woman feels bad because her life is not so perfect and then goes outside in front of the ocean to explain what she really feels to her husband, the rape victim goes jogging and they all drink coffee...BORING). I'm just so sad I lost time watching this show (at some point I just watched the last scene of episode 7 and laughed) because I was sure that with this type of rating it was going to be awesome. IT IS NOT. I prefer desperate housewives as it does not pretend to be what it is not. Don't WASTE YOUR TIME.
I feel as if I have to take a shower after forcing myself to watch the first episode of this dreadful piece of crap. SO many horrible, loathsome characters, SO much entitlement, SO little self-awareness. I look at some of the reviews here, and it seems to me they must be written by people with similar characteristics. It's the only thing that explains the high ratings. I think I get it -- the producers of this dumpster fire actually think that we'll be so dazzled by the pretty scenery and the "big stars" that we'll keep watching until after a few episodes they finally reveal who got killed and maybe in the last episode they reveal whodunnit. But WHO CARES how pretty the scenery is -- it's filmed in one of the richest, most entitled communities in America ferchrissakes -- of course it's pretty. WHO CARES if they're "big stars" when they're portraying people this shallow and this despicable? There is simply no possibility that I can tolerate these people that long. I leave the solving of this particular mystery to those who can stomach the characters.


                
The whole show was utterly appalling, shame as it has some good actors, started watching this and as the episodes dragged on I started to wonder what was the point. It was so obvious what was going to happen in the story line it was embarrassing, I honestly can't believe such a big rating for a load of rubbish ditch this and watch riviera


                
This is my first review in years. This series is so ridiculously bad, compared to its rating, I felt I owed it to the community to add yet another warning, Big stars are nothing without good material. The once great Nicole Kidman & Reese Witherspoon have apparently died, and come back as nails on a chalkboard. It's that bad. Apparently this show is about a bunch of vacuous rich people who are impossible to like. I literally hated it from the first sentence Witherspoon uttered - and I've been a HUGE fan of hers for her entire career.That is all. You've been warned.


                
Absolute soap fest full of deplorable people! I mean, are people really this dense, reactive, depraved? Desperate housewives trying to wallow in their first world problems! I do not believe a teacher would ever try to address an issue such as bullying at curbside while children are being picked up by asking the girl to point at the boy who hurt her, in the presence of all the parents & children! So darn unrealistic! And to think that's what get the whole drama rolling!The way these people react to events around them is so mindless, reactive, and lacking self restraint.And really how many times a day do these women go to the same café?The women especially are shown as total drama queens with over the top reactivity, and to sort of balance it out they are trying to make the men equally messed up.The adults seems completely clueless when it comes to their children. Always grossly underestimating their own kids! Seriously I don't believe so many adults can be so clueless & mindless! Reese Witherspoon is a powerhouse but not even she can make me want to continue watching.So disappointed!


                
About the first two episodes I watched were the awesome locales and even prettier homes, even the mandatory bohemian ones, inhabited by these coastal town residents. Otherwise, the protagonists are pretty much sour and confused, teenagers and toddlers alike carry a chip on their shoulder and are very ill-behaved, and the obligatory "nice" woman seems to carry a dark past. But the most annoying parts unarguably were the police interviews of attendees of this fund-raiser (where a murder has allegedly occurred) with their supposedly keen and spiteful observations. Those scenes are super-disruptive and abrupt and and derail the flow of the story rather than enhance it.If I continue watching it, it'll be to due to factors which have nothing to do with either the story or the characters, just a slight curiosity to ride along for the amazing ocean views and beautiful living rooms.


                
Very boring, themes and situations seen a THOUSAND times in movies and series. I really don't understand the hype. Way overdramatic. And yes, it IS a chicklit (series, but still based on a book).


                
i was so looking forward to this show with all the big names attached to this TV show i thought i was saving the best for last on my drive boy was i wrong. this TV show is such a bore feast i ended up falling asleep during episodes. And i keep having to remind myself that Reese won a Oscar so she should be able to act.The characters on this show are so horrible characters that i am not interested in any of there lives. if you want Horrible characters no story lines and you want to fall asleep fast this is the show for you i scored it 1 but if there was a score below 1 then i would choose that


                
This has got to be one of the most unrealistic television dramas ever made. The dialogue is unrealistic, the situations are unrealistic, and in all, this is just not the way humans behave in real life. Set in a suburb of the super-rich, super-expensive beach side location of the town of Monterrey, Ca., where all the multibillionaires live, this show starts with the first day of school for first-graders at a public school and we are shown the super rich mommies dropping their kids off at school. This includes the CEO of eBay. I mean WTH??? In what world would the CEO of eBay send their kid to a *gasp* public school?? Is this some alternate Earth? All the other rich mommies drop off their kids to this public school. Plus, throughout the series they mull if they should send their kids to private school instead. And this is because the mommies don't get along and not for a better education of the child. Except for the eBay CEO, they never show what the other families do for a living which can explain how they all can afford to live in exuberant houses along the beach of Monterrey. OK, but all that aside, coming back to the first day of school: a first grader is shamed by his teacher in front of all the parents and kids as being a bully. This lays down the plot for the rest of the episodes with some mommies taking sides against other mommies. Again, needles to say, in which type of school or what kind of teacher would shame a first grader in front of the whole school and parents? This teacher then says, "well maybe this wasn't such a good idea." Well duuhhh.....you think?!?The boy who's been ostracized is the son of a poor single mother who for some reason has relocated to one of the most expensive town's in the whole country. She can't afford to live there. Why did she choose Monterrey? No explanation is ever given. What, were all the apartments in Indianapolis, In., rented out? Her son is falsely accused of bullying the daughter of the eBay CEO. And this is all the first episode, so no spoilers by the way. The show focuses on who takes the side of the poor woman with the ostracized son and who takes the side of the eBay CEO. The dialogue along the way is so unrealistic, it seems the show is set in a world where people don't know how to construct a sentence properly, or how to walk and talk like a normal human being, even if they are superiorly wealthy human beings. And also one of the mommies is being abused by her husband in the most unrealistic way imaginable, such that her abuse turns out to be more funny to watch rather than for the audience to feel sorry for her. This comedy might be the only reason to watch this show. Also there is some sort of murder, the murdered and murderer are revealed in the last episode. All I have to say about that is that the murderer should have done a double legged flying kick to murder the person rather than pushing that person off the stairs. Would've made for better TV. Then again, it's HBO and not TV.


                
How in the world this show deserves a 10/10 from any person with eyes or the most meagre understanding of film is beyond me. Horrible acting. Over the top. Laura Dern reminds me of Milton Berle in drag. Over gesticulating constantly, ad libbing horribly and well, she's awful. Reese WItherspoon gets a half a pass because well... She's better than the rest. Shaiene Woodly stays true to her name. She acts like wood and Nicolle Kidman is just awful.Now let's address the levels of misandry all over this pile of garbage... Laura Dern's husband, is a pussified twit who gets verbally abused daily by his bitch of a wife. Reese Witherspoon's husband is a pussy extraordinaire and the guy that plays her ex is so insecure that he has to bang a woman half his age in order to make himself feel better about himself. Then there's Nicole Kidman's husband. Another pussy with low self esteem that likes to smack his wife and of course the script is written to portray him as the bad guy but she's the one literally "asking for it" and prides herself on that fact.This isn't a series for men. It's a series for idiots and morons. Horribly written, terribly acted, sexually exploitive, feminist tripe. Weak, vile, ratchet jawed females aren't positive role models for anyone and make for god awful television to say the least.


                
"Big Little Lies" should have been a tidy, ninety-minute film made for the Lifetime Channel. Instead, the HBO project senselessly strung out the drama for seven excruciating episodes. The material was padded with an ongoing chorus of local residents in the Monterey setting, who offer innocuous comments that neither advance the narrative nor add suspense. Both in form and content, this undertaking was an overrated and over-hyped bust.So, welcome to Monterey, California, where it is perpetually "Girls' Night Out" and time for the demonization of the American male! In the film, the poster boy for the incarnation of evil is hard-driving Perry Wright, the man with the explosive temper who has ruined the lives of multiple women, including his wife Celeste (Nicole Kidman) due to his brutal and abusive treatment of them. As actor Alexander Skarsgard described his character in an interview: "a switch flips and he goes black and he goes violent." If the audience doesn't get it that this character is a monster, Perry has a running gag with his two little boys where he scares them when impersonating a monster, subliminally inculcating them with his own deranged predilection for violence.The polar opposite of Perry is the saintly Ed Mackenzie, who describes himself as the "consolation prize" for his alpha female wife Madeline (Reese Witherspoon). Ed has to live with the reality that his busybody wife is still emotionally attached to her ex-husband, whom she sees on virtually a daily basis. He is also unaware that Madeline has been unfaithful to him, carrying on an affair with the director of the community theater. Ed leads the life of a martyred Mr. Mom in raising Madeline's smart alec daughter from the previous marriage, helping out Madeline in the kitchen, and occasionally getting a "quickie" as his own consolation prize. In perhaps the most ironic moment in the film, Ed tells Madeline that he wishes he could be more like Perry!The filmmakers even go so far as to drag the American male through the mud in depicting the bestiality of a six-year-old boy on the loose in the first-grade class of the local public school, as the child-predator is terrorizing young girls by choking and biting them. Without any hard evidence or ocular proof, the incompetent school authorities pin the blame on a sweet little boy named Ziggy (whose conception was the result of a date rape incident), who has just arrived in town with his fragile, repressed, and revenge-minded mom Jane Chapman (Shailene Woodley). In a wild frenzy, the "grande dame" of the town, Renata Klein (Laura Dern), goes on a hissy-fit in an attempt to have the innocent Ziggy expelled from the school, with assistance from her submissive and fawning husband Gordon.The motto of the Monterey women is "we pound people with nice." But a more accurate description might be "we pound men with utter contempt." The best line in the series was spoken by Jane (and delivered convincingly by Woodley) when she describes the clique of women in the following terms: "We're all f___ed up!" The repellent female characters depicted in this film might as well be carrying a banner that reads, "We hate men!"
Rich, privileged white Americans who abuse each other in various, increasingly nasty ways. Six year olds who talk, sneer & plot like adults. Unemployed single mothers who live in luxury, going from yoga to the beach etc. - why should we care? This series is unbelievable, overacted tripe, a waste of time. Don't bother.


                
With all the raves this is getting, we tried gave it a fair shot. Three episodes in, we called a halt to the masochism. Sorry, no bueno. Arrogant, entitled, upper crust, California whiners playing out their daily angst just doesn't constitute "entertainment" for us.


                
What happens when you get some of the biggest names in the business working together on a TV show created by David E. Kelly? This hot mess! What a complete waste of talent, bandwidth, and time. The biggest lie of all? Anyone who has the audacity to give this thing a 10/10. Don't believe the fake reviews. Unless you're someone who lives in Monterey, California, and enjoys seeing your lifestyle portrayed for the utter pettiness that it is, avoid this disaster like the plague (that it is).


                
Nominally set in Monterey, California, the big fancy houses are all in Malibu and the Los Angeles area. The citizens of Monterey should feel sick that their community is portrayed like this, as a bunch of entitled, over-privileged snobs.


                
So much time...so little happened.And for a Liberal Fantasy Fest where did all the Hispanic Americans go? It's Southern California!?


                
Liane Moriarty is my favorite author and I loved Big Little Lies the book. I was so excited to watch TV series, I signed up for a free trial of HBO through Amazon Prime. I was disappointed from the beginning. The characters didn't match those in the book at all. The acting was terrible. The show was disgusting. After two episodes, I just gave up.


                
Show is terribly boring.. a group of wealthy successful mom's doing every day things and talking.. nothing happens its advertised as a murder mystery and in the first 4 episodes you wouldn't even know it besides the 3 or 4 second clips of a flash back randomly inserted between dialogue.


                
