Exquisite. 'Big Little Lies' takes us to an incredible journey with its emotional and intriguing storyline. The characters are so thoroughly and thoughtfully developed. Nicole Kidman, Reese Witherspoon, Shailene Woodley, Laura Dern gave breathtaking performances. Directing, screenplay, photography, everything is brilliantly done. I would deeply recommend it.


                
HBO's new limited series, Big Little Lies, is simply outstanding in every way. The casting is perfect - Reese Witherspoon as Madeline, Shailene Woodley as Jane and the always fabulous Nicole Kidman as Celeste - three very different mothers residing in the ultra wealthy enclave of Monterey, California. The show also focuses on Renata (a tense, edgy performance by Laura Dern and the families of the four main characters. James Tupper, Adam Scott, James Nordling turn in great performances, but Alexander Skaarsgard really shines as Perry, Celeste's troubled, volatile husband. Without giving away the plot, the show is part is Desperate Housewives part Knots Landing and part Secrets and Lies in that it's a drama, a soap and a mystery, all rolled into one delicious package. Beautiful cinematography and an amazing soundtrack add to the enjoyment. I just binge-watched the first three episodes and they left me wanting more. Just watch it - it's the show you've been waiting for...


                
I am a big fan of Liane Moriarty and when I read this book I couldn't put it down. Reese Witherspoon has done the book justice as I understand she has produced the series.It's not often you read a book and the pictures that you form in your mind suddenly become real through a great translation to the screen. Although the book was originally set on the Northern beaches of Sydney the translation to Monterey California is perfect. David E Kelly has written the screenplay and has done an excellent job and dare I say taken a great story and enhanced it beautifully.The casting is absolutely perfect with Reese as Maddy, Nicole Kidman as Celeste, Laura Dern as Renata and Shailene as Jane. Great choice with Zoe Kravitz as well.Any parent and especially any mother will really relate to the story which keeps you guessing until the very end. AAA+++


                
I have HBO and NEVER watch it. I'm not a big fan of what apparently many other people like to watch. But when I saw the commercial for this I was intrigued. I never heard of the book, but highly respect many of the lead actors so I figured if they were involved it couldn't totally suck. Speaking of suck, I was completely sucked in on the first episode. I don't know why but I found this show completely and utterly mesmerizing, all the way down to the music and cinematography. Everyone involved in this from top to bottom hit it out of the park. I've never experienced this kind of life-style (ie mommy, daddy and school politics) but one of my clients who watches the show and lives in the general area said they nailed her experience when her kids were in school. To put in perspective, I usually work when I watch TV, don't really even 'watch' it, just background noise. Not only did I stop working to watch this, I ran the last few minutes in slow motion to fully absorb what happened. I can't give a show much more praise than that! You'll understand the scene I'm talking about when you see it.


                
The view was the first thing that captured me. Reece Witherspoon's acting was the next to wow me. The characters are not one dimensional but complicated and unfolding as each episode progresses. I have watched three now so think I have a good handle on why this show is attracting such good scores. Issues such as marriage and relationships are depicted and they are not always innocent or good. Who has been murdered? It is fun guessing! Families are also complicated and parents struggle with children whether they are small or teenagers. The topics and themes are ones that everyone can relate to. There is not one example of poor acting! If you like mysteries this one is for you but also for people who like romances or breathtaking scenery and well acted stories. Everything is not spelled out for you which is refreshing from an American production. Later....after watching the whole series....loved this show! Female power wins the day! That is what I took away from this show. It contained surprises and twists to satisfy the viewer. It built the tension gradually each episode and I was waiting each week to see where it was taking me. The characters were amazing and the storyline was gripping! When women support and care for each other life is good.


                
The first episode established the potential here right from the start. Writing, casting and acting is on point. Great to see the cast of actors that were pulled together for the project. I hope to see more of this type of 7 episode story telling where you can get such a deep cast of actors to commit to a project that they might not otherwise be able to do if it were a typical ongoing series. In my opinion some great flawed and complex characters that aren't always what they seem on the surface (who is). In particular Reese, Nicole and Dern. In addition, the child actors, who's characters really need to support the story line, really bring it as well. Check it out.


                
What a cast! Incredible acting! The shots were breathing taking and courageous. The plot line unfolds slowly but worth every second as you learn these dynamic characters and are on the edge of your Seat. I was completely sucked in on the first episode. I don't know why but I found this show completely and utterly mesmerizing, all the way down to the music and cinematography. Everyone involved in this from top to bottom hit it out of the park. We watch an episode a night just to elongate the short series. Although there are only 7 episodes each on is packed full with tiny glimpse into each of their lives and the suspenseful ending! Excellent! I hope there is a second season!


                
Seriously, Nicole Kidman and Reese Witherspoon deserve all the awards for their roles in this production. Every once in a while, a scene comes on and you're like "Damn, that's good!" That happens every. single. episode.If anything, watch it for the fantastic women acting in this wonderful show. They deserve all the praise for their work, and it was thrilling to watch them in this show.I cannot wait to see this powerhouse of a group in Season 2!


                
I literally just finished the series and i have no words, i binge watched the whole thing in just a day, every single thing is so well thought, every camera shot, every word, every detail, everything. I really think this is one of the highlights of the year, definitely needs a second season.


                
I just discovered this show due to being out for 6 weeks on crutches. I watched all of the episodes in 2 days. Would have been 1 day except the first day it was almost 1 am when I went to bed and had kids to get up for school. At first I wasn't sure how these actresses would interact with each other as they are each very different. It did not take long though to realize they are great together. The performances by the cast are A+ performances. Kidman, Witherspoon, Woodley, Kravitz and Dern certainly deserve huge accolades. Love this show. Cannot wait to see more episodes.


                
A big little lies , is truly an example of how crisp story telling ( limiting to 7 episodes) can bring out all the emotions , you feel really connected to the characters and the story flows.of course it is very linear story , but i loved the characterization and also the soulful acting of all the 3 leads.Reese wither spoon is a revelation , i think this is the best of her career , and Shailene is someone to watch out for another impressive performance after a fault in the stars.Nicole , wow just wow ... she just emotes with her eyes .. i would give it a go ..ofc may not be suitable for young/teen crowd but definitely deserves a short binge watch:)add it to your list !!


                
This short series has all of the ingredients to be an amazing award winning show: a great cast with great perfomances, an awesome production, a kick-ass soundtrack, a good mistery, an excelent character development,... It's both realistic and surreal, it's full of nuances, of pain and joy, it's overall just an amazing experience.


                
It would be entirely churlish not give this superb production 10 stars out of 10. What more could a director do to make this less perfect? Particular credit must go to Nicole Kidman and Reese Witherspoon for bringing this compelling, exciting and sensitive story into production but even more so for getting director Jean- Marc Vallée on board. And boy what a beautiful, sensitive, funny and dramatic story he's manage to render here - and with such style too. To cap it off the director has managed to extract career-best performances not just from Nicole Kidman, which should deserve credit enough all on it's own - but Reese Witherspoon, Laura Stern and the excellent Shailene Woodley all put in career-best performances - perhaps reflecting the quality of the writing, song choices, editing and filmography.Interesting enough IMDb user-rating system rates this their 129th top rated TV show - which compelled me incredulously to see exactly which dramas fell above it. Let's just say that I couldn't agree with at least 99% of them. For me this is easily be in the top ten and certainly the top twenty TV shows/dramas ever made.


                
This show is literally the only show I watch every Sunday, as I am the type of gal that likes to binge watch my shows. This show gives you the real housewives vibe , but it actually feels real, speaking from one housewife to another of course. Not only is this show made for entertainment I feel like it digs much deeper than that, "Big Little Lies," talks about problems that real life people face and I just feel like it hits home for me. Give it a chance as I haven't been a fan of Nicole Kidman until now , she is amazing and such a talented actress in this series. I really hope this mini- series become an oncoming show.


                
So many things happen that most people can relate too with this series. It covers so many different factors that join everyone together. I am amazed by the actors playing their roles and the child actors playing such dramatic roles as well. There are twists and turns at every corner and the story covers a lot of things that are normally kept hidden in every day life. The Lies and little betrayals that friends can sometimes do and the cover ups that follow. Thoroughly enjoyable series to watch. I cannot wait till I get to the end of the first series.


                
"Big Little Lies" is a brilliantly addictive adaptation of Liane Moriarty's source material which I am going to have to check out as soon as possible after watching this series. Starring Nicole Kidman, Reese Witherspoon, Shailene Woodley, Laura Dern, Zoë Kravitz and Alexander Skarsgård among others, "Big Little Lies" certainly benefits from its brilliant cast, but it's the sharp and clever writing which really allows this series to feel like a true success. Its unraveling was done so cleverly that I could not stop watching and, as rarely as I can be found binge-watching any series, I watched all seven episodes with only a small interruption because I was starving and had to give myself a little break from watching these interesting characters in their not-so-normal lives. In my opinion, in most cases a mini-series should be left completed upon its last episode in order to avoid ruining it, but in this case, I certainly would not mind watching a second season and following the lives of these women for another ~seven episodes. Their stories are not completed yet and there is still a lot of conflict left unresolved, so it would be amazing to be able to follow them for a second season. However, even if the announced second season does not end up happening, I will be happy and content with the way "Big Little Lies" turned out to be: it's pure perfection in its own merits.The plot works great by using a very interesting formula: take the lives of several characters who appear to be so perfect and oh-so-normal from the outside, and throw them into a difficult situation in order to reveal their true characters by showing how they deal with the situations, and then reveal the dark secrets shadowing their seemingly perfect lives. It's a formula which could not have worked better, though one thing certainly helped: the fact that the actors were so great. On the show's forefront was the groundbreaking performance from Nicole Kidman, who grows so much into her role she becomes almost inseparable from Celeste Wright. Alexander Skarsgård is frightening in his role as Celeste's husband Perry. Other outstanding cast members are Reese Witherspoon, who nails her part of the perfect wife and mother, Laura Dern, Adam Scott and Shailene Woodley, who may finally have proved herself to be more than just an actress for mainstream audiences.I personally loved "Big Little Lies", and as long as you don't need your characters to be perfectly likable, you will like it as well. Apparently most people who gave the series a negative review on this website reduced their reviews to basically saying this was boring crap because the characters were too self-centered - well, maybe then this show may not be for you if you can't take a story which might have been taken out of real life, because self-centered people like the characters portrayed in this show live all around the planet. What the show did so great was to paint these characters in such an interesting light anyway that you still could not help but root for these women.
Wow. Way to execute an original murder mystery! There is so much more than meets the eye with this mini series, and it impacted me personally.Each actress brought so much to the table, but I will say that Nicole Kidman's character Celeste was the one that I personally was drawn to the most.Kidman is in a toxic and abusive relationship with her husband Perry. Every time the show cut to their relationship, I was totally riveted.For the first episode, you're sort of just like, yeah, we get it, they have a perfect looking relationship. They're both incredibly good looking and rich people who have sex all the time in this perfect city. They have perfect little twin boys.Then, you find out what's happening behind closed doors: In the first episode, Perry, the husband, grabs Kidman's arm in a violent manner. I was so shocked I literally gasped and shouted something at the screen. It scared my dog, lol.Their relationship feels so real though, because it's not just some stupid "cookie cutter" abusive relationship. They have passionate sex after he hurts her, and he seems like a wonderful father. He's not always mean, which makes it hard for her to be honest with herself about what's going on.Having been in a similarly toxic relationship, this is very accurate. It's incredibly confusing and hard to recognize abuse, which is what Celeste went through. I really appreciate the care they put into the writing and portrayal of this particular story line, as I think it could be very helpful for people to see.The rest of the story lines were incredibly well done too. Although the women gossip and plot and scheme to win over whatever opponent she personally is facing, that's not really what this is about, especially the ending.Although you wouldn't personally do a great deal of things the characters do, especially if you're a rational human being, you can understand the women's plights to protect and care for their children and survive in this crazy social environment.Even Madeline, Reese Witherspoon's character, was hilariously unhinged and competitive at times, but I could still sort of root for her. We all know women exactly like Madeline! The ending isn't about women hurting each though, and it was beautiful. I was so excited to find out who was killed and why! I couldn't wait! I honestly had no idea who it was going to be and why, and I honestly didn't see it coming.For what it's worth, I left the toxic relationship I was in, and have been much happier with my stable and non violent boyfriend, so it's possible to find love after someone convinces you it's not possible.
.. it's only one episode in, but it has all the makings of a really great series.. irregardless of all the big names involved on the acting side (and there are quite a few).. the writing and script is so strong that you loose sight of all their very familiar faces.. when scripts are weak then you're looking at the actors and all you get caught up in are the Hollywood personalities.. this one is different, and it's a credit to all involved.. it's sooo early and anything can happen but it feels as if it has the potential to be one the more outstanding TV series productions in quite some time.. keeping them all together for multiple seasons not an issue right now, but you've already got to be thinking (as the plot is clear).. who's first to go.. Have now watched all seven episodes... In June Nicole Kidman will be fifty years old... and one of the most gorgeous half-century old women on the planet.. (and one of the best actors). In this production she is just absolutely amazing, and I'm looking forward to watching it all again sometime. If you are only going to be doing one season.. this production is a benchmark. There are no flaws.. every detail down to the background music is exemplary..(and all the children are incredible). The leads were executive producers and they should most definitely reunite their production companies again very soon.. if they have not already. Don't even think about passing on this outstanding miniseries.. you'll be highly rewarded.


                
Great writing, great acting, great EVERYTHING. I highly recommend this...so refreshing in this age of too many less than stellar TV shows or movies. I especially appreciated less emphasis on gratuitous sex and profanity and more emphasis on developing characters and story line. WOW!!! More please!!!!!


                
I am surprised at some of the reviews. This show has incredible depth and shows the absolute flawed and beautiful sides of humanity. I was gripped by the performances. No one in this series missed a beat. I could relate to all the characters. This show has subtleties that anyone who has lived through domestic violence would feel at a deep level. It is about time we show that domestic violence isn't just confined to the "lowerclasses" and that it reaches across all levels of society and all races. The performances from Laura Dern,Nicole Kidman, Reese Witherspoon and Shailene Woodley were no less than spellbinding. The situations and life phases they were facing were very real. I can't praise this show enough.
I watch a wide variety of shows. Some of my favorites are: Grantchester, SUITS; and Big Little Lies!! Ray Donovan! This is Us; Chicago Fire! I like AGT, Still Star Crossed. Currently, giving Snowfall, Superior Donuts & The Carmichael's!! OMG! Also, Vice-Principals!!! Because I have seen no "Season 2" info on IMDb, I am so disappointed that "BIG LITTLE LIES" may not have a 2nd season. What a loss!! NOT at all happy! How could this even be remotely true!!? VP and BLL were probably my TOP TWO NEW shows of 2017!! I also watch VEEP! The ONLY thing I can possibly think of, is that one of the many great cast members can not or will not return for a 2nd season and they could not or can not figure out how to circumvent that problem. I just hope it will be returning!!! OMG!! It is like SUITS! So many people did not even know SUITS existed. Suits is on the USA channel--not a major network. And not everyone has Showtime or HBO. SAD! As Americans we all deserve it!!! FREE , as part of our cable or Sat service! Come on TRump! Make America GREAT again! DUH! Update 9/17 SEE!! Look at all the Emmy awards and nominations for Big Little Lies!! This show is show good. Real life issues. Superb cast! So impressed with Nicole Kidman, especially what she had to say at the Emmy's. PLEASE! PLEASE! Continue this series!!


                
Haven't been so caught up and involved in a series for a long time. It grips you from episode 1 and will keep you enthralled till the nail biting party - the most exciting party I've ever seen on TV. This is not just a more edgy Desperate Housewives, it's in another class. The complex story is amazingly well crafted. It starts of with an accusation by a first grade girl against a boy for choking her. Things then spiral from there. The injustice keeps you riled up. But it isn't just a story about helicopter parenting and the insanity of modern parents. It's also about marriage remarriage rape abuse and infidelity. Every theme is so well handled one feels like you haven't seen it better done before. The characters are complex. It's not just serious issues all the way, there are some unexpectedly funny moments too with the auctioning of the virginity and the broken penis. Right decision not to reveal who died till the end. Could have had a few less flashes of the interviews of secondary cast with police. Cleverly, the various mysteries keep you guessing till the end who dies who is the killer and who is the bully.Casting is spot on. Shailene Woodley is so convincing as down trodden rape victim single mom that I don't even think of her as acting, she is just that person. Reese Witherspoon builds on the hyper Election and Legally Blonde manic busybody that she is good at. Perfect person for the role. Nicole Kidman is also ideally cast - beautiful and a victim of abuse at the same time. Her scenes with the therapist are some of the best on screen and are worthy of at least a nomination at the Emmys. But it's her scenes of abuse with the Jekyll and Hyde husband played by Alexander Skarsgard that are shocking and terrifying. He is so scary. Laura Dern deserves kudos for playing the most hateful character on TV since Anna Gunn's Skylar on Breaking Bad. She made me jump up with anger at her character. Zoe Kravitz plays a second wife quite refreshingly. This is not just a woman's show. The male characters are critical to the story and quite sympathetically portrayed. Reese's husbands are played by Adam Scott as a long suffering good guy and he is spot on as is James Tupper as husband number one. The little boy playing Shailene's kid is so angelic looking that the unfair accusation at him makes one's blood boil. By casting such good actresses as the leads the viewer very quickly identifies and roots for the characters.The houses of the characters are quite stunning and so is the Big Sur coastline and the Monterey area scenery. The ending is satisfying and complete and feel good - it's the perfect finish to a perfect mini series. Brilliant.
The wonder of brilliance of a female acting ensemble David E Kelley, in adapting Liane Moriarty's novel). has written another stunning series – a seven episode series for television that among other attributes pulls together four of our most brilliant contemporary actresses in a story that is one of the better explorations and defenses of feminism. Reese Witherspoon, Nicole Kidman, Shailene Woodley and Laura Dern remind us of how powerful artists can create both a polished performance and a raw statement about the feminine side of living, especially under the very keen direction of Jean-Marc Vallée.While Madeline (Resse Witherspoon) and Celeste (Nicole Kidman) take in Monterrey single mom Jane (Shailene Woodley) none of them realizes how the arrival of Jane and her inscrutable little boy Ziggy (Iain Armitage) will affect them all. The story is complex, told in flashbacks, but concentrates on the role of parents and the role of women frustrated by their pasts and their confinement to being stay at home moms. Previous affairs, the initial accusation that Ziggy abused the fellow first grade daughter of the wealth Renata Klein (Laura Dern), the gossip of a small town and the escalating tensions of a murder in the background – a death that is unknown until the final episode, make this a gripping proscenium arch for some of the finest acting on television. The husbands/men are well portrayed by Alexander Skarsgård (brilliant) James Tupper, Jeffrey Nordling, Adam Scott, and Santiago Cabrera, and the young actors who portray the first graders are all excellent as is Abigail (Kathryn Newton) the teenage daughter of Madeline, and the important role of Bonnie (Zoë Kravitz). It is all about the dangerous little lies we tell ourselves in all aspects of life just to survive. Brilliant!


                
Big Little Lies ... What a perfect miniseries! It is difficult to find something that can get the attention of a large audience and manages to pass a most important message to a race that is not yet so evolved ... Humans. It is touching. At the beginning presents the end of the series which brings a bit of curiosity and is what gives a fuel to continue to watch the series. From episode 3, after knowing the characters, the story takes an excellent rhythm, which brings with it mysteries, conclussions and affection or dislike to the characters. And in the end brings a breathtaking and magnificent conclusion. The performances, mainly by Nicole Kidman and Alexander Skarsgard, bring the characters of the tray characters to us. Photography is incredible. All the components for a good series are there in Big Little Lies.


                
When I first saw the trailer for this show, I wasn't so interested. But I'm so damn glad that I changed my mind. To me, this was a story of how women can be petty and stress about the little things in life (i.e.birthday parties and petitions), but when they use their power to lift each other up, they're capable of greatness. Everything from the acting and music to the cinematography was top notch and stunning. I finished the series in two nights and now I need a minute to catch my breath. Can't remember the last time I was this moved by a story. The ending was perfectly executed.


                
