I didn't see this until after the Emmys, but wondered what all of the fuss was about. So, I watched the entire series - and still wonder what the fuss was all about. The characters are so stereotypical California chic that it was almost funny. All, but one, ultra wealthy and all of the leads are gorgeous. No uglies allowed. I found it hard to be very interested in any of them, and to find much sympathy for them as well. Lots of self-absorption in every episode. The director had lots of filler shots of surf hitting the beach or moody dark scenes to try to inject some suspense. There simply wasn't enough material to have made seven episodes. What story there was could have been easily, and better, presented as a feature-length film. One of the meaningful (and it is) subjects covered in this show was actually done more dramatically in the TV movie "The Burning Bed" decades ago. Some ABC network "After School Specials" covered other aspects of the story, too - and more quickly. I think the show was overpraised and awarded because a) it wasn't on network television, and b) had strong female leads who swore a lot and appeared naked. That's not enough to elevate it to classic status.


                
Enjoyed this series overall. The themes and characters and performances were great. But the writing and dialogue was very weak, made the actors' jobs much harder. Reese' character was especially poorly written. But worst was that finale. We were on the hook waiting for a twist the whole series and there wasn't one. The bad guy died. Thats what we wanted. Big deal. Him being the father isn't enough of a twist either. Very manipulative. Weak storytelling. Sad that this is considered the best TV has to offer. Haven't read the book but assuming the series is true to the source material HBO should've made some changes to the end to elevate it. Was just so disappointed in the end. It turned into easy fluff. The characters and actors deserved better. Also the talking heads in the interrogation room throughout always seemed like they were in a different show, wrong tone. Like the director never told them what tone they were going for. Really expected more, but I do have a new admiration for Nicole Kidman and Shailene Woodley. They were great. And the boy who played Ziggy was brilliant. Bravo to casting. Sad everyone is just going to accept this, instead of challenging and asking for more. For better. These people are all supposed to be the best in their field and it's kind of embarrassing. We need to continue to make projects with this many good female roles, but they deserve better writing and stories in the future.
They took a great book and ruined it. First, they moved it to the US. Then, they made the marriages not conform with the book. They added an affair and left out Tom. With this much time (a mini series) it could have been perfect. Instead it became another "soap" and a bad one at that!


                
If there was ever a show meant so specifically to a particular audience then this is it...If you are not 40 something housewife with young kids and finding everyday to be a new-challenge? Then this show is not for you...Having some of the best talent in Hollywood, you wonder if this show really merited such a cast?4 episodes into the series, I decide to bow-out of this show as I have finally woken-up to realize that i am not a "desperate housewife"


                
Starting watching series after the Golden Globes and the first episode was incredible -- the tension, the reality, the personalities, the plot. But that was it. That was the plot, right there in the first episode (so far, and I've watched 2 and a half more episodes). Now finding it irritating and hard to continue. Continuing with the whole Kidman soft-spoken spousal abuse issue and camera repeatedly showing Kidman naked or doing graphic sex and almost no other form of acting (how on earth did she win and not Rene?). And so far, no new twists on the horizon and already tiring of the other personalities as well, the whole Ed and Nathan thing and Madelaine and Bonnie thing. The whole play with puppets being banned what is subbing for a sub plot. Stupid. Perhaps it gets better (Homeland had its season 3), but have to watch through more Kidman "here we go again" sex scenes (which, I am sure, is completely fine for a hetero male but I'm a hetero female) and boring Ed and Madelaine and Nathan scenes to find out
She looks 55 passing for 50, trying to play 39. It's a little disgusting. Own your age. She's a hot 50, but a terrible anything under that.


                
