This really is the golden age of TV as proved by the fact that this mini-series stars three incredible actresses (two of them Oscar winners) giving some of their career best performances). Big Little Lies takes a hard look at the lives of women in the wealthy mostly white suburb of Monterey, where you're no one if you don't have a beach front property and where everyone hides their secrets so that they don't risk anyone seeing that their lives are a facade. The three women at the centre of the story are Madeleine Mackenzie an A-type mostly stay at home mom on her second husband (Reese Witherspoon), her beautiful best friend Celeste (Nicole Kidman) and the town newcomer that Mackenzie adopts into their life, Jane Chapman (Shailene Woodley), a 20-something young mom who moved to the town for the schools and doesn't really fit in. Each woman is hiding a huge secret, but eventually the secrets come out and the women find solace and comfort leaning on each other for support. There is a lot more than that (the show opens with the bold claim that there was a murder, and most of the show is a flash backward showing how that murder came to be), but a lot of the central mysteries aren't mysteries at all. The editing, costuming and acting choices deeply hint at the answers to every mystery, so by the time the finale rolls around and everything is revealed it's not so much an "Ah ha!" moment as an "Ahhhhh" moment as you realize with satisfaction that the build up was good and everything makes sense. The best part of this is seeing all the actors doing amazing work. Nicole Kidman walks away with the show giving a devastating performance. Laura Dern provides levity and Robin Weigert, as Celeste's therapist, may not be a "name" actress, but she brings so much to her scenes. A wonderful show.


                
Well, first I was rather unsure about the show because of its weird rich-people-problems-vibe and all these women who made their lives so insignificant by just marrying some guy and suffocating and helicoptering their kids - and with nothing to do at all. Their lives seem just like an endless occupational therapy. But then - although these women keep being annoyingly redundant (except for Woodley's character, though) - the show became incredibly insightful and sensitive and I have never seen a show that painted such a precise picture about abusive relationships - they did it brilliantly and partly even in an eye-opening way.And all three main actresses do an amazing job. I was never that fond of either Witherspoon or Kidman - but in this show I like watching them. They have so much respect for their characters. And they even manage to make these unnerving people somehow likable. Particularly Witherspoon. But that is just because it's painful to watch how Kidman ruined her face surgically. As an actress, Kidman does an amazing job too. And respect to both for producing the show. Also, Woodley is such a natural and perfectly cast. And yes - I'm not even sure why - the show captured me each episode more - and I could absolutely watch way more of it than just 7 episodes.So - well done, guys & thank you****
This was an an excellent show, I don't normally watch this type of show (except Desperate Housewives back in the day) but with this type of wit I can't put it down. I kept watching the whole series within one weekend, it was very addictive. If you like to watch a well written satirical view on the lies underneath the seemingly picture perfect lives in Suburbia, like in American Beauty and Desperate Housewives, you just may like this. It's not a pure comedy but there's plenty of hilarious dialog and situations. Some may feel women are being ridiculed and parodied too much, not portrayed realistically and yes the show exaggerates, but it wouldn't be so painfully funny if there wasn't at least some truth to the daily war zone these mothers create for each other (and then there's of course the marital problems as well).The show is not too predictable and keeps you guessing who got killed in the end. It features accomplished Hollywood actresses that have all earned their stripes: Witherspoon, Kidman, Woodley. They don't let down here. The male actors are less known but equally excellent.The way of filming and structuring is also fresh. HBO drama at it's finest.


                
Impeccably caste. The performances alone should unanimously have esteemed appreciation, almost if the players are showing their personal hidden selves for all to view, feel on top of great acting... thus, exposing truth and lies that exist within humanity as well as individually. One finds it to be most disappointing of those whom view this a series geared towards middle aged women or housewives, not only is this opinion narrow minded but not backed up with well definitive examples from the show for the labeling. Nor do I see that it has anything to do with the undesirable "Housewives" television reality shows (only my opinion due to it not being believable or true "reality" when that is what it is portrayed; but please enlighten me if I am as well, being too quick to judge and I will always take another look, although I also do not care for trivial containing themed scripted acting claiming realism) It is saddening that formulaic viewpoints are even put down in this discussion because obviously is not the real incentive otherwise these "commenters" would have not cared enough to post, UNLESS their real reason must be some sort of anger or grudge towards women or housewives but hopefully not the case.Let's say for arguments sake these select watcher's labels are true, and that may-hap it is for a targeted audience. For one, why would it make a television show bad or deserve to be rated poorly. Look around you, or at least at what is being produced on TV; most everything is created with an audience base in mind, or may seem to be so. Why can one not appreciate that which is not specifically made for you and only you? Ratings should not be based on theories or stereotypes or targeted audiences in mind, it should be valued for the acting, cinematography, is well written, and importantly does it have a message to give us the viewers to make us think about that which we do not or would not ever have prior appreciate and further our empathy and compassion towards others (seriously everyone these values are so lacking and very needed), try to understand the lives of people even if consequently lies or other qualities exist because there may be something we missed or the reasoning behind a lie even validated.WHAT makes this series so worth watching is obviously entertainment, and entertainment that is not total garbage like so much that is spewed out of the TV world. Please be open minded when watching this program with no predetermined ideas, and allow yourself to appreciate the emotional depth being depicted even though it is not reality and scripted, allowing oneself to truly be someone else and understanding this character type; or also as a performer being already blessed with the art of acting.


                
What an amazing surprise! Really. I must confess that I wasn't too confident in the beginning but I gave it a shot! Glad I did it. It captured me slowly, more and more each second past. The plot is great, the characters are really interesting and well supported by great text (smart lines and intelligent humor here and there) and cast actors who do a super job, from the top knock ones to the children. And the soundtrack<U+0085> what a selection! That said, is a show that can keep you attach all the way. No way you can regret seeing from episode 1 to episode 7.


                
Without too many spoilers, this is absolutely one of the best series this year 16/17.Next to This is Us, extremely high quality acting, an intriguing story that captivates. I love how they mix it all up, and how they keep on twisting left and right, confusing you ever so gently and politely.It seems very well thought through and well written. Each character has a distinct personality, or more. Dept is acted out very well. Personalities diverse and just the right mix. Its great to see that it is still possible to produce a great show. 8 All the way. Equal quality as The Night Of and This Is Us.Highly recommended!
The main thing that I took from "Big Little Lies" is that we lead screwed-up existences. The protagonists have what look like the ideal lives, but it becomes clear that something is amiss. Whether it's a lack of fulfillment or something worse, all three are living a lie. The story gets told as a series of interviews to let the viewer know that the action is building up to something big.I wouldn't call this the best miniseries that HBO has made (remember, this is the channel that gave us "The Sopranos" and "Game of Thrones"), but serves as a good look at the problems that arise when we try to ignore the simmering tensions amid a supposedly perfect world. The morally complex characters make this a series for the ages. Not to mention that it's a treat to see Reese Witherspoon play a role markedly different from the ones with which she's usually associated. And as someone who went to grad school in Monterey, it was neat to see some of my old haunts.I recommend it, and I hope to read the book, and that Jean-Marc Vallée (of "Dallas Buyers Club" and "Wild") keeps turning out work like this.


                
We loved seeing Monterey, the Bixby Bridge, and the mood of the area captured in this 7 part series. Just the right number of episodes. Point Lobos is our favorite place to visit. The series kept a good pace and was all around well balanced. I was reminded of the house used in the film The Dying Gaul when I saw Renata's knock-out house. Could be a play on words - the knock-outs were mostly elsewhere. Numerous tense and uncomfortable moments but overall the character's perspectives on one another make for a worthwhile watch as things shake out and start aligning in productive ways. Zoe's character offers a very necessary, soothing presence.


                
I came across the show when i watched Nicole in Ellen's Show.When i checked in IMDb i got to know the wonderful cast it had with Nicole, Reese ,Shailene.I expected that this could be just a TV Show with great actors.But what a story that turned out to be a great series:) Loved everyone's acting, the bg music .This surely goes in to the list and if you have watched 13 reasons why then I'm sure you will like it too.How the life of different women after marriage is ,how everyone most times pretend to be good when it is now,how women sometimes can be so envious/confused/silent ..all the emotions of women in a relationship is so beautifully portrayed with the mystery involved.Claps claps mainly to Reese n Nicole.I have always loved their movies and now they are even more closer with such amazing acting and producing the show :) Gud luck to season2 if it is there..Please watch this :) Its a story to be understood and felt and realize what it takes to be a woman .


                
I only registered to write a review on this one. Man, I love dramas like this. Where tension slowly builds up to the point where it's almost unbearable, intolerable. At first you don't see it, but the seeds are there<U+0085>something's rotten. Extremely intelligently written, superb acting, great dialogues, characters on point, great music and I especially love how this is all presented, neatly portioned on an imaginary plate, just the perfect bite-size, until this thing eventually consumes you! Perfect for binge-watching, it has so many layers (only big names on this show, and once you watched it, you'll understand why they all said yes), HBO has done it again, coming up with a fresh yet deep drama – I don't remember the last time I enjoyed something this much. Made me think on relationships and family relations, career, love, life, role of women slash motherhood – well done. More of this, please!


                
The main lure for this show is its casting. Big names as Kidman, Witherspoon, Woodley, Dern<U+0085> All of them brilliant actresses that we have the opportunity to work together in this show and where they succeed in their portrayals of mothers living the so perfect life, or so it seems.Considering that the show is based on a novel, and said novel was not a novel to forget, we are lucky to enjoy a good plot. Through all seven episodes we follow the lives of these women. At the beginning of episode 1 we know that somebody died. But that's it. We don't know who, where and when. It's as the episodes flow, that we learn things about each one of the characters, and that their lives are not as perfect as they seem to an outsider.For some, the pace might seem a bit slow. As the story seems to not advance at some point, but please keep watching it, as it is indeed advancing, but maybe not at the speed that you were expecting too. Everything has a reason to be and a place to happen and in order to know the real truth you need to watch it until the end.As said, the female cast is amazing. Not always are we given the chance to witness so much good work together and such good actresses together that are given a good story to tell. This is it. And not only are the female on the leading roles simply wonderful, but as are also their male counterparts in a more supporting role. Because we mustn't forget, the women are the focus of this show.If you want to enjoy a real drama which you could feel related too (minus the death part, that's it), don't think twice and binge watch it because you won't regret it and you will be left wondering if there is going to be a season two..
I think it was Jimmy Kimmel's show where I first heard about Big Little Lies and learned about the cast. I thought that with such a cast, the series must be good. And I wasn't disappointed. I recommend the book as well as the series. I'm always sad to see a series end because you end up liking the characters and want to see more of them. But it's been told we'll in 7 episodes and I am very very happy.


                
HBO is probably one of my favorite networks, Sunday is one of the best nites of TV in my opinion (GoT, VEEP, Silicon Valley). I saw a few previews of this show and didn't think much of it. Boy was I mistaken! I'm a fan of Whitherspoon, Skaarsgard, and a few other of the actors. Prior to this I wasn't a fan of Kidman(changed my mind after seeing To Die For for the 1st time recently, one of the best roles of her career) and my verdict's still out on Kravitz & Woodley but again I have to say everyone brought there A game to this project... I really enjoy the premise of "everyone has baggage & problems" regardless of social status or $. My few critiques of the show would be the pace of the finale, Laura Dern's angry white woman thing was a little annoying but she did a good job, what the heck did Jane do to afford a decent looking house & car on a part time income, and y did Whitherspoon's 6 yr old have the musical library and attitude of someone ten times her age?? Other than those minute criticisms again I gotta say this is a show worth watching with a final twists that blew my socks off! ANOTHER GREAT ONE HBO
David E Kelly has a knack for showing us. How do we become the exact opposite of what we think we are fighting for? Why do we feel a need to form battle lines over issues that require only a few minutes of attention? How does standing up for oneself become hyper vigilance? Why do we ignore what it happening in front of our faces at the expense of everything we cherish? Why is everything an extension of our own selfish needs,ideas and beliefs. Why are secrets so dangerous?I think this story examines all these questions and more about human behavior and the need to be right,to form battle lines and how many of us become the exact opposite of what we believe we are fighting. How we are all really just children and how dangerous we can be when we feel threatened,whether a threat exists or not. We are ripe for the battle regardless. How we somehow become unable to see further than our own noses. How we lose that which we first thought defines us by attempting to protect it. How we project what is real onto things that are mostly fantasy,made up in our minds so we never deal with the real monster we are holding hands with,but ignore at all costs. How right and wrong becomes good and evil,as do those we have conflict with. How a happy medium is forgotten because our need to be right 100% takes precedence. How we simply can not see these things as they happen. How these things have an escalation,is quick and has a power of its own.Kelly has always used a sense of the exaggerated to show us ourselves. He does it brilliantly and without reservation for what may seem like the absurd when we all know that it isn't.Big Little Lies takes something incidental and uses it to show us ourselves. And it isn't pretty!
I came from work around eight, got some food and coffee, and sat to watch this seven hours long movie in single run. I say movie because this is not regular TV series, but more of TV movie cut to pieces because of length. Fact that I saw seven hours show in less than eight tells you that it's good one, but, in my opinion, they failed terribly at the beginning. It starts slow and after first episode, that lasts nearly an hour and nothing happens at all, I almost gave up. Still, reviews are mostly good and many friends did recommend it, so I decided to give it a shot. I watched second episode and started to question who's crazy, bored me or thrilled reviewers. After three episodes I was seriously annoyed. It reminded me of Desperate Housewives. Although it's better written and done, but also less fun. Story about people who's life is too good so they invent problems where there are none and then exaggerate them to epic proportions, until they hit the ceiling. In everyday common issues they react like crazy and if there are people like that in real life I do not know them and I'm glad about it. Both characters and story were completely redundant to me. I rated it weak six and continued to watch only because I hate leaving things unfinished. But when show was over and impressions were settled I completely changed my mind. It still reminds me of Desperate Housewives, maybe even more, and some things are really retarded, but characters are phenomenally developed and acted, and every succeeding episode is better than previous. Finale nailed it. If story wasn't so lengthy, but made as movie two or three hours long, I would probably rate it even higher, but as seven hours mini-series it deserves 8/10


                
So far this series is really good reminds me of very wealthy Desperate Housewives by the sea, Nicole Kidman and Reece Witherspoon great duo . Reminds me a little of the 1939 film The Women meets Desperate Housewives .,entertaining,suspenseful and great scenery. Well directed by Jean-Marc Vallee and well edited ,what goes on behind some very glamorous closed doors is intriguing at times and disturbing as well.


                
I have to say, first I really struggled with 'Big little lies'. All those bitchy rich women with their first world problems were so annoying and unlikeable. Ugh!
But I gave it a chance and I did not regret to watch it. The ending is so powerful, the last minutes of the last episode ('You Get What You Need') really flashed me. It was even satisfied. 
In retroperspective the show has a clever structure. The actors are great, especially Nicole Kidman and Alexander Skarsgård.The Soundtrack is awesome, the setting beautiful. I hadn't expect it, but all in all: Done Well!


                
The murder mystery and family drama in a wealthy coastal neighborhood provided plenty of twists and turns that showed the secret behind the glamorous veneer. The HBO Miniseries begins with the arrival of Jane Chapman (Shailene Woodley) taking her child Ziggy (Iain Armitage) to school. On the way, she meets Madeline Martha Mackenzie (Reese Witherspoon) and her musically attuned daughter Chloe (Darby Camp). Madeline introduces Jane to her friend Celeste Wright (Nicole Kidman) who has been keeping her abusive relationship with her husband Perry (Alexander Skarsgård). The drama charges up when Amabella Klein (Ivy George) the daughter of prominent lawyer Renata (Laura Dern) claims that Jane's son Ziggy has bullied her. The teacher makes a dumb decision to have this prosecution play out publicly forces parents to take sides and ostracizing Jane and Ziggy. Madeline stands by Jane and deals with her own controversy and clashes with Renata over a graphic puppet play while also cheating on her husband Ed (Adam Scott) with the director of the play Joseph Bachman (Santiago Cabrera).Check out more of this review and others at swilliky.com
"HBO's" "Big Little Lies" is without a doubt a series of drama that's intended for mature audiences. The series shows the lives and inner workings of four California ladies who live in a on the coast ocean city and each are elegant and proper and snob like with their own little click. Yet each have their problems of relationships, family, raising kids, and sex and all are connected to madness and dirty little secrets. It's kind of like "Desperate Housewives" meets "Shameless". Madeline(Reese Witherspoon)is a divorced married again mother with children who has relationship problems and she likes to stir up gossip in the town. Celeste(Nicole Kidman)is an elegant educated lady who's pain comes from her wild and crazy sex encounters with her husband. Now enter the new girl in town single mom Jane(Shailene Woodley)who has a tortured past and plus her little boy just doesn't fit in at school. And Renata(Laura Dern)who's the wicked witch of the west who keeps trouble cooked up in town, yet thru it all secrets and dark past connects all of these elegant and socialite ladies together. "Big Little Lies" is one serious adult series to watch.


                
I heard a lot of hype and had reasonably high expectations for this series because I happen to be a fan of the creator, David E. Kelley, but I found it a bit boring and predictable. But I'll give it its dues!!!! The acting is a absolutely brilliant!!! I mean it, nicole Kidman and skarsgard are incredible, and I felt the emotional impact of the scenes but I wasnt shocked with the ending to really call it a twist. Maybe thats because I heard so much hype pertaining to this series. I should add it's hard for me to get bored but I notice more binge watching.Its definitely watchable and deserves a watch but by all means I don't think this fits in with a rewatch. I just think this series was a bit too overrated for me at least. I am a David E. Kelley fan, however, so I was a bit underwhelmed.


                
Big Little Lies is about how the first years of a kids life determine their personality as adults, and the effect of violence which leaves a hard imprint on the kids memories that is reflected on people around them as adults, but we also learn that its not always too late for a change, theres always hope, its just harder when people get used to things as time passes, kids represents hope and purpose.


                
I thought, at the beginning, that it will be a kind of Desperate Housewives, in another background...But this one uses mostly the children as weapons - each family is fighting apparently for their children well being, but in reality for their over sized egos... Please, anybody could tell which song is the one at the end of episode 2? It was amazing...


                
Big Little Lies provides a wonderfully written, endlessly intriguing and compelling peek into the complex family dynamics and conflicts of its subjects while delivering breathtaking performances from its incredible cast.


                
The characters in Big Little Lies, played by some of the biggest names in Hollywood, would like others to believe they're all living perfect lives (aside from Jane Chapman, of course, the single mom struggling to make ends meet in the very affluent town of Monterey, California). The other moms are all married to highly successful men as well as being incredibly ambitious with their own careers, pursuits and responsibilities as moms and members of the snooty Monterey community. The thing that makes Big Little Lies so compelling and so watchable is seeing past the facade of perfection into their private worlds filled with infidelity, abuse, obsession and family disfunction. Their lives are far from perfect and in fact the tapestry of lies they've woven to create the fantasy of perfect, happy marriages in one of America's most desirable communities keeps you on edge, waiting to see all the beauty, glamour, money, and big beautiful houses come crashing down in spectacular fashion as the lies to themselves and each other unravel to a brutal and devastating outcome. Can't wait for season 2.


                
So excited that I did a correct predict and amazed by their good acting


                
