I almost gave up on it after the lacklustre and uncreative beginning, but then the clever structure and intricate story-line kicked-in, followed by the interesting characters who are slowly taking form. Their purpose and meaning to the unfolding mystery is becoming evident and damn fascinating. All thanks to the performers who have already got this perfectly down-pat in the first episode, and that allows the story to take shape and meaning for the remainder of the series.So far this series is more than about fighting mums and a "who-done-it". What is so prevalent in the first episode is the underlying themes of parenthood, marital relationships and school-mom politics. I'm sure the writers will have more juice to add as the series progresses.For now, it's the mystery that has got me hooked. And to heighten my viewing pleasure, it is the development of the characters and the conflicts surrounding them, and also within, that makes me want to watch it that little bit longer, hopefully right to the very end of the series that is slowly peeling away the hypocrisy and the nastiness of an affluent suburb/town!


                
What attracted me to this TV series was the cast, however even after watching the first episode i was fascinated by its soundtrack. I feel lucky to discover some great piece of music. The acting was also impressive as one can guess. I would highly recommend it, you won't regret it :)


                
Look at the cast and people involved. HBO has Game of thrones, The Wire, Sopranos, etc. They set an extremely high expectation and this delivers. The night of was the last short series I loved like this. Its a short Mystery, that has a twist or two built in. Dark, well written and well acted. Very very good


                
Like a lot of viewers, there were moments when I thought I'd had enough of this show: bitchy rich women who never seem to notice how privileged they all are - for the first few episodes, you just want them all to die. But there is always something to keep you just intrigued enough to watch another episode. And then you start to see what's really going on behind the scenes of their perfect lives, and it all starts to make sense. You realize that that feeling of annoyance at all the characters was actually a clever ploy: you're meant to hate them all at the start. But by the end, you actually really like them all, and that's some clever writing, I must say. Trust me, the last few episodes fly by, and the ending is everything you'd want it to be. Clever, genuinely touching, and very satisfying without ever feeling predictable. This is a well-crafted and very well told story. Plus the cinematography and music are hypnotically beautiful. Definitely worth your time.


                
It was a pretty much good first episode for a series giving all information and context. The cast is awesome. - good mystery -nice title - many questions - good direction .Take on ex-husbands and second wives, schoolyard scandal, and the dangerous little lies we tell ourselves just to survive People who liked the movie gone girl will surely like it . So give it a go....


                
Just binged watched Big Little Lies. Great show and a great cast. Although the plot twist at the end was obvious and expected it is still worth the watch.


                
This miniseries was gorgeous in every way, beautifully crafted and simply incredible. Loved the music, Reese Witherspoon's daughter (in the series) had such great taste! The scenery added so much emotion and intensity giving you the sense that every detail was intentional, every moment precious. The makers of this series had seemingly high aspirations and delivered with PERFECTION. I have such a newfound appreciation for Nicole Kidman and assure you that in watching this your opinion of her will change! Her subtlety and restrain were masterful. She is truly an INCREDIBLE actress and it's not because she has a pretty face, it's because she is a master communicator of the human condition. One of the best performances of the year and of her career. Witherspoon was a bit annoying but good. Shailene Woodley is very convincing and arguably the heart of this series, although I've never been particularly fond of her. The rest of the cast, even down to the children, are just as great, especially Laura Dern (one of my favorites). I do wish Dern and Zoe Kravitz (a true wildcard and perhaps the most beautiful young actress of her time) got more screen time. I left this series wanting desperately for more and would love for the folks at HBO to build on this story. I recommend everyone to go see it. It was an OUTSTANDING commentary touching on feminism, sisterhood, parenthood, love and compassion. As a son, it helped me to understand what it's like to be a mother, what SACRIFICE is! It told me that everyone makes mistakes, has fears, has their SHIELD, but with friendship comes NEW LIFE, hopes for the future, and the courage to be ourselves.. A Must-See! 9.5/10


                
After watching the first episode, which intentionally makes the viewer uncomfortable through the superficial nature of its characters, you really begin to see immense character development through the use of a beautifully written script and the performances of a very talented ensemble of actors. I have insane respect for Nicole Kidman, Shailene Woodley, and Alexander Skarsgård for what they were able to bring to the screen, and they make the show a definite pleasure to watch.I'm almost sad there is going to be another season because I am satisfied with how the first season ended, but I'm curious to see where it goes. That said, the first season is filled with the right mixture of drama, suspense, and dark humor, and is worth the watch in my opinion.


                
In recent times, the mystery series and movies have become little predictable. In big little lies, sure I failed to predict. Very good suspense maintained in series along with the best use of view of ocean's waves and vibes and its mysterious presence. Throughout entire series all characters get fully developed with every detail that you actually start understanding their thought process. Never a moment of dullness occurs in the series. It's a must watch series. I wish secret stays a secret..never ever it should be revealed!!


                
I hope "Big Little Lies" (BLL) pursues a season 2 with the same writer, director, and actors, because it's rare to see this kind of chemistry come together on the big screen, let alone television. When you have a winning combination, keep going. The way the director blends action, music, the angles, symbolism, the sense of place, it's beautiful, haunting, at times hilarious, and it carries a powerful social message.The series is full of memorable lines, and I think my favorite is Laura Dern's "Don't F*** with my daughter's birthday party". Reese Witherspoon is unforgettable as the perfectionist Mom who turns out to be all too human, Nicole Kidman takes us on a roller coaster ride of emotion as we discover her secrets and the truth she refuses to confront. Shailene Woodley is a natural for her role as a young single Mother trying to survive in a new community and fighting for her young son. Zoe Kravitz is equally well cast as the bohemian peace-loving Bonnie. The children in BLL are so believable in their roles, we're rooting for them from the start as the series unfolds. The men in these women's lives have issues - some issues very serious indeed - and all of these character stories are woven into the flow of each scene in an effortless way that keeps us hooked and counting the days for the next episode. Bring on Season 2!


                
A journey showed up with emotional stuff! Very good scripts Climax And Main the Location is best..! Shailene Woodley is always best in any role and the other actors all well being doing till the end. i started to watch this series because of shailene .. So pretty good series Waiting for season 2


                
Perfect little mini series. Reese Witherspoon, Nicole Kidman and Shailene Woodley are the stars in the show for me displaying great emotions and human interactions. The men in the show play a more supporting roles except for Alex Skarsgård who does a fantastic performance of an abusive husband but not as a one dimensional monster. Best series of 2017!


                
I'll agree this is a we'll acted, directed, etc show......with a great cast. But PLEASE on the woman front. Can we really not escape women are who unfunny, 95% f*cked up, to be a good show?! This show mostly makes me mad and sad that us women let male show runners create characters that are weak and suck until situations force their hands. If this is how woman act with all the resources available possibly, we should get ready for the end of civilization.


                
I just finished watch the HBO Mini-Series "Big Little Lies". I enjoyed it. Today I find myself enjoying television shows more than I do films. I guess its because most of today's major Hollywood films I will not watch. I have never seen 5 minutes of "Fast And the Furious". I also avoid films that have "Vampires" "Wizards" "Hobbits" and "Super-Heroes". I also avoid anything Tom Cruise. I know "Magnolia" has fans but so does "Attack of the Killer Tomatoes". Now "Big Little Lies" is a mini-series that men should watch but chances are most of them won't. That's too bad. If they did they "Might get a clue on how much more pressure women are under". In the very last episode Laura Dern spells it out to her husband. It was so true and Laura deserves an Emmy that scene. The entire show is a whodunit and why? There is a victim but we don't know who it is. All the women are suspect but so are their husbands. What is nice about this mini-series is that it shows people are flawed & appearances are not everything. The mini-series has women in it that are a huge joy to watch. There is no "Models acting" in this. It is cast with beautiful women who can act. (No Jessica Alba Type in this). If you want to see how good television can be then "Watch this".


                
What a blast. I treat this film like a feature film, which is the way director Jean-Marc Vallée shot it anyway. This is one of the best "Films" to explore he superficial rich community housewives / moms in a very deep and honest way. It gives them a certain background. All this mixed with a nice murder mystery which is kind of original because you do not only not know who is the murderer but also you don't know who is the victim until the very last act. While that final twist becomes more and more obvious during the course of the "film" it still leaves you with a certain satisfaction. The acting is tremendous. And if that truly would be a feature film it would be a frontrunner for next years Oscars. Reese Witherspoon gives the performance of her career. I have never been a fan of her but after this I very well could become one. She did some great work on "Wild" and some reasonably good jobs in "Election", "Walk the Line" and even "Legally Blonde" but what she did here tops everything she did before. And she was so perfect for that role. The rest of the cast stands out as well. Nicole Kidman was tremendous and really adopts her character in such a smooth way. Shailene Woodley stands out once again and has many scene stealing moments. Laura Dern was good, although overacted at times but just like Witherspoon she was born to play that role. I loved Zoe Kravitz and Adam Scott was convincing in a for him unusual role. Alexander Skarsgard had his moments as well and from the kids Iain Armitage really delivers in a for a child difficult role. Fantastic soundtrack and many nice little twists in-between. Highly recommend it to watch all 7 episodes in a row if you got the time.


                
I don't usually like HBO shows. I am one of the few people who doesn't care for Game of Thrones. However I found this HBO short series incredibly compelling. Nichole Kidman in breathtaking playing an abused wife. Some of the best scenes of the show are when her character Celeste is talking to the psychiatrist who bluntly removes the vale of naivety from her eyes. Also giving incredible performances are Reese Witherspoon and Laura Dern playing very similar women who took very different paths snipping at each other for minor trivialities. Finally there is Shailene Woodley who plays the young single mother who arrives in town which sets off a string of events that forces her to defend a son she isn't sure is innocent and confront her own dark past.This is a show that might seem like it is made for women but I would recommend it to anyone who likes a good drama and this is a very good drama.


                
I was excited when I heard David E Kelley was writing a new series, especially one based on a highly-rated novel which I love. The series captures the essence of the book perfectly, but with a few subtly different nuances. The casting is excellent and each character is so intriguing in their own flawed way. I knew the series would be very watchable when you realise how many A-listers wanted to be involved in this project. At only 3 episodes in, I'm already dying to know what is going to happen next. It starts off slow with very well-executed character development, the 3 central characters only linked by the fact that their children go to the same school. The setting for the series is Monterey which is ideal for adding a spooky ambiance and sense of mystery by way of a foggy seaside town. The series feels like an homage to Twin Peaks (mysterious murder, small town, mysterious characters) with a more adult version of Pretty Little Liars thrown in for good measure. A seemingly idyllic life is anything but as we soon learn as these characters stories unfold. Themes of domestic violence, family dysfunction and secret pasts are rife – each character seems to be bearing a burden which they don't want anyone to know about. Very compelling viewing and worth the slow burn in episodes 1 and 2.


                
It took me a while to get round to watching this, as I'd read the book. However, it was well worth it! The female cast were, without exception, absolutely brilliant. Kidman isn't normally my favourite actress, but my God, as Celeste she acted her pants off (umm, yes, well...)in BLL. Superb. The men played their parts, but were, on the whole, less convincing than the women. Exceptions were a forceful performance from Alexander Skarsgård as Celeste's husband Perry, and Adam Scott as the ineffectual but endearing Ed. Special mention should be made of the kids - Ziggy, Chloe and Abigail, in particular.I took a star off because I wasn't wild about the way the series was kicked off - it must have been quite confusing for anyone who hasn't read the book. It also bugs me when a book is written and set in one country (Australia)then Americanized almost out of recognition. The production was excellent, no doubt about that, but it was American to the hilt and I'm rather more partial to the Australian and British production style.I hope said producers are not tempted by the success of the series to prolong it into another season (or more). Case closed, as far as I'm concerned.


                
At first it felt like some kind of Korean drama. Wealthy people trapped in their social struggles. I was wondering "why their life is so boring?" It looked like something just repeats on and on, people talked only about what was happening, and that's it. Like they were trapped. On the good side, a lot of problems were raised, perfectness shown to be imperfect. Characters were so real, so human-like. They had doubts, regrets, we got all sides of events, not just what's happened. 
Actors are great - everyone knows these big names for good acting - but kids! They're amazing! 
But what I'd give these series 100 stars or more for is choice of soundtrack. Every time a songs plays, it gives vibe to everything that's going on. Montage is beautiful, too.
It's made very smartly, keeps viewer guessing the whole time who's done what. Also, not too long to bore, not too short to feel something's out. Sometimes watching a TV show, I feel like wasting time, not spending it, as if I could watch something better, but decided to entertain myself and do something useless. And this time it wasn't like that. 
PS. Can I just mention that soundtracks are wonderful one more time? They are!


                
Very very good show - combines terrific humor with an engaging plot. The symbolism and the foreshadowing were also very well-crafted. The key themes of sexual assault and domestic violence were handled well - with brilliant focus. Great child-acting too. Witherspoon and Kidman were outstanding. Witherspoon was funny - always promising impeccable comedic timing. Kidman painted the role of a 'perfect housewife' with a secret very well. Shailene Woodley was good but I am not sure how much she suited this role - she perhaps seemed too young (of course, I know she was playing a young mum). Would highly recommend and hope there will be more of the same! Hopefully the series will continue to explore life post- incident.


                
I loved this show, what I thought was one more desesperate housewives drama, became much more. I decided to try because of the super star cast, well nobody was disappointing even kids, acted so well! At first, soundtrack won me, the way they choose, the images, on point!I love the depth mysteries of characters, to be honest I wanted more, specially Perry to understand how is twist mind is functioning!If I wanted more yes, but just because I was addicted just to say goodbye with 7 episodes, but well done. I prefer miniseries, with a good drama and plot line,that a series with 24 episodes without drama or history, or nothing new or special.I don't give 10 because I wanted more from the ending and Perry.


                
This is the kind of show that makes you think about it days/weeks/months after finishing. The characters are extremely well developed and it's amazing how the show makes your opinion of a character change so quickly and dramatically. The soundtrack is beautiful, well thought out and really adds that bit extra to the show. The locations and scenery also add a lonely but beautiful feeling as you are watching. I love how the creators used foreshadowing and other filming techniques to make you think a certain way, but then something else unexpected happens. This show makes you appreciate just how powerful film can be. My only issue was that it took a few episodes to really get invested, and it was only in the last episode that everything really unfolded. Regardless, it was an investment but it was well worth it.


                
I should wait until the finale but I just couldn't because regardless of how it ends it is already an amazing piece as is. Obviously it would be pretty hard to screw it up when you have this kind of talent on & off screen but let's be honest, we've seen that happen before on rare occasion. Everybody involved found a way to create intense drama & suspense but while also keeping this realistic mundane tone too it, by that I mean that it takes a realistic approach in storytelling by keeping the boring day to day aspect "in" instead of over reaching to make its point. I think that is what really pulls you in because its relatable & makes you realize that most of us are living in a crazy melodrama if we only could be a fly on the wall inside the houses of the people we know. Really great job by everyone!


                
One of the best tv show out there, fantastic performances by nicole kidman , shailene n reese,laura dern n skarsgard pulled off an amazing performances ! ! any parent n specially any mother will and should relate to this story , the plot keeps on unfolding , so 8 episodes were intriguing from start to finish ! WAITING FOR SEASON 2.. P.S just saw nicole kidman's acceptance speech were she thanked the whole cast .her children , her husband .. EVEN HER SPEECH IS AMAZING :) she is amazing . :)


                
'Big Little Lies' has for its opening scene, five of its leading ladies taking their children to school, while the shots are interwoven with dazzling ocean shots, sex imagery, as a soothing track 'Cold Little Heart' by Michael Kiwanuka plays in the background. The surrealism of the opening scene has you hooked, and so does the entire series.Moms with their first graders, dropping them off to school. How can this become a series which has already swooped away 8 Primetime Emmys, taking in award in every major category it was nominated! 'Big Little Lies' might seem like an another of those clichéd dramas involving parents but this is a masterpiece that proves you wrong shooting you right in the heart in the pilot itself. There have been pleasing shows exploring the concept of secrets and bitching like 'Desperate Housewives', teen-favorite 'Pretty Little Liars' and the recent 'Devious Maids'- but 'Big Little Lies' has its own ways of exploring the themes, it knows where to be soft and where to be brutal. By brutal, I am talking really brutal!We have Madeline, Celeste, Jan, Renate and Bonnie- all mothers of first graders who are there to drop their children for the orientation. Madeline is the quirky, outspoken one BFF with Celeste who has two lovely boys and a lovely husband, Renate is the grossly rich CEO working mom, Jane is the newbie in town fighting her troubled past while Bonnie is married to Madeline's ex Nathan. After an incident of bullying on the orientation day of the school, Madeline becomes friends with Jane whose son has been accused. As the situation gets worse, dirty secrets are exposed, love is hindered and a deadly past crawls out from the grave, ultimately leading to a final-showdown at a fund-raising event.To say that one factor upheavals the show would be untrue cause this is a show that is made phenomenal by its entire crew- be it the vivid approach of direction that is both mainstream and David Lynch like, or the haunting cinematography, the masterful screenplay and obviously the talented cast. Kidman and Witherspoon rule this series, while the former plays a wife who has a seemingly perfect life- the other is dealing with the consequences of her own actions. These two actresses know how to literally switch personalities with their characters and its hard to talk about their unnerving talent without spoiling the entire show- just know that Witherspoon plays the most lovingly bitchiest character you'll see while Kidman brings forward the plight of women stereotyped as 'housewives'. Woodley is never given enough character development due to the slow build up- but when she really comes to the picture, she displays why she has developed such a massive appeal in her short acting span. Skarsgård comes out as a riveting surprise of the entire series- you'll know it when you have seen it. Dern also doesn't lets her supporting character be thrown into the background- playing a rich and overprotective mother, and that too with a charm. Other cast members like Kravitz, Scott, Tupper and Nordling to give the best in their relevant roles. No doubt the show was nominated for the best casting choice and won too!The gossip talks are beautifully explored with dexterity that is so close to brilliance- you have town folks being questioned one by one in random sequences that pop midway – that contributes largely to know more about the characters. However the best part about the series is that it's just not limited to its gossip material- it explores so much about female psychology coming out as very sensitive drama discussing issues like marriage, sex, extra-martial affairs, violence, rape and bullying, parenting, hope and love. Violence is graphic at times but never over the top- it's up to a level that is just necessary to showcase the heinous evils of the society. It also cleverly debunks the theory of perfection in today's world and is stated amazingly by one character's lines,"Beautiful, rich, and madly in love<U+0085>something's got to be wrong.."The series does kinda goes downhill after the third episode- the fourth and fifth episode could have been joined in one. The final twist is predictable, but satisfies largely.'Big Little Lies' is kind of Desperate Housewives meets Gone Girl vibes, but has an undeniable identity of its own. Watch it !


                
