Honestly, I don't understand what most here are blathering on about,...most of you must not have seen many great movies if you think this movie was great and "life changing". I just don't get it. (Especially with how amazing the first two T.S's were) This movie started off with the characters in trauma, and kept it that way all the way through, with each situation growing more and more sinister. This is supposed to be a kids' movie?? How is it appropriate to insinuate torture and prison in a kids' movie? Seems to me the writers ran out of ideas and rehashed almost the same plot (the toys need rescuing) from the previous movie, only this time involved more times riding in a garbage truck, involved a scary, crushing, fiery furnace, and and evil bear who in my opinion was a borderline racist casting (started off southern black-friendly and ended up sounding like a black thug)! and let's not forget to mention the disturbing and demented "Big Baby" dragging off beloved Mr. Potato Head to "teach him a lesson". I am almost laughing as i write seriously here about the torturing of Mr. Potato Head, but honestly, my boyfriend and i felt traumatized watching this movie. Kids may be immune, but we weren't! Laziness on the part of the writers, perhaps. Definitely -not- "best picture" material!! I honestly do not mean to offend people here, but what are you people thinking?? peace, S
This awful movie is not worthy of being ranked #26 on the IMDb top 250 movies. It was obviously just a popularity contest because this was by far the worst Toy Story movie made. Idiots who gave this movie a 10 rating are stupid simpletons who wouldn't be able to appreciate a movie that is actually good. I saw this movie at the theater and was looking forward to it, but when the credits rolled and Buzz Lightyear and Jessie started dancing, I was the first person to leave, I was so glad it was over. I like the first two, but this one sucked, that's why it pisses me off that it's #26 and even outranks the first two. I don't even think it deserves a spot in the top 250 period. So if you agree with me please rank this movie a 1. I did, because that's what it deserves.


                
This is not a movie for young children. New characters are villains in the guise of toys, sections of the film are dark and too scary for toddlers, and rarely will you hear children laugh during this film. Our local theater reports quite a few unhappy parents abandoning the movie before the end and complaining on their way out. Past experience with Toy Story movies and other Pixar products had us hoping for an enjoyable movie and this was anything but. Technical wizardry will only carry a film so far and this movie needed a much better story. My four year old preferred a day at home to this movie and my seven year old expressed her distaste for characters who never do the right thing even when it's really important.


                
I was complete disgusted by this movie. These are suppose to be made for our children.. I believe the people who thought it was GREAT was just impressed by the 3d effect... I was just complete bored and extremely hating this movie... my son liked it which I guess was the point but I HATED IT! I swear my daughter will not be seeing it. makes me wish I never seen the other two! SO ALL YOU WHO THINK PIXAR IS SOOOO GREAT......this is what your grandkids have to look forward. ADULT SITUATIONS in a kid like imagination! you all can think Im just too mean about it.. but I wouldn't have taken my son and wasted the 20 bucks on this movie!


                
These days, I watch movies in two ways. First, do I like it, second, would I show this to my children. As for the latter, I would not show this to my children (2 and 4) anytime soon. It has many dark scenes which would be too much. As for the first, did I like the whining and complaining and the occasional joke? Nah, not really. I don't understand why the rating on IMDb was so high. There is way too little humor in this movie. The rest of the scenes is not really anything we haven't seen before. A big Nazi bear who locks the hero's up and they try to escape the camp... did not get me smiling. And then all the whining, we have to get back to Andyyyy, Andyyyy loves us.. bla bla bla Now for the positive part of the review: it looks amazing! Just look at how Barbie and Ken are animated (there was an occasional smile there). Pixar really is leading in the animation field.


                
