I attended a special screening for Toy Story 3. I went in with HIGH expectations. I LOVED the first two Toy Stories movies. Toy Story is a beloved franchise that almost everyone that I know loves the first two films. Now how about the 3rd film? Well all I could say is that it lived up to my unbelievably HIGH expectations and then some. This is such a good film. It has the laughs, magic and best of all the entertainment. The new characters in the movie feel like they were in the previous two films, they were that engaging and really worked well in the movie. The best part of the movie has to be the ending, I almost cried and was moved to just about to tears. I truly believe that this is one of the best Trilogies of all time. It might even rival the Lord of the Rings Trilogy.This movie has a real chance to become the First Animated Film to win Best Picture. I surely would not be surprised.10/10 An Amazing End to a Fantastic Series Go Watch It


                
The best magic tricks in the world are ones that cannot be unraveled, reverse engineered or dissected to figure out exactly how they are pulled off. This philosophy is doubly applicable to Pixar's "Toy Story 3", the storyline-ending outro of the beloved Toy Story, uh, story.I feel it relevant somehow to divulge my age, as it somehow validates the powerful emotions evoked throughout the film. I am a 28 year old male, who, fifteen years ago, was fresh into the teen years of supposed adolescence at the release of some weird, 3d animated movie (wait, they can animate with computers?) entitled "Toy Story". This was a pretty bold move, a calculated stroll to the edge of the cliff and a daring leap off into the thin air of creativity and innovation. And it was a hit, ensuring 3d animation a place right alongside (more or less) 2d animation. And naturally, Pixar would be at the forefront, leading the cavalry charge of digital animation ranging from great to gawd-awful."Toy Story 3" starts off as comfortably as possible, with our friends Woody and Buzz Lightyear doing what they do the best...playing with Andy in his world of make-believe adventure. We are then treated to some familiar Pixar progression, like abandonment, solidarity, coming back to friends, and the passing of the torch. Clearly, in the eleven years between this point and when "Toy Story 2" wrapped, a computer revolution or four has occurred, allowing a world of unsurpassed clarity, reality and imagination to shine through like never before. TS1's spark is TS2's candle, and that in turn is TS3's blazing sun.Roll the last fifteen minutes of film. It became clearly obvious that the figurative tables have been turned, because a good number of the adults in the audience (including myself) were sniffling and teary-eyed, while the kids were looking up, likely thinking "jeez mom and dad, they're just toys, get over it".Wasn't it conventional wisdom that just the kids get emotional over losing plastic playthings? With "Toy Story 3", Pixar has shown us one of the greatest magic tricks in modern showbiz history, likely not to be outdone or duplicated, that we all have very real and deep connections to our childhoods and to the things and people that allowed us as kids to be free, and innocent, and pure, and most importantly, to dream. This, to me, is a life lesson worth remembering, to infinity and beyond."Toy Story 3" gets 10 of 10 blazing stars


                
Star Wars. Indiana Jones. Fistful of Dollars. Bourne. These are all incredible trilogies that can, will, and should stand the test of time. Yes, I am neglecting the fourth Indiana Jones. Upon the mention of the third Toy Story, I was deathly afraid. Afraid because it has some major, major shoes to fill. The original is a masterpiece that changed animation forever, and the sequel is among the best in the history of film (I mean that). The first two Toy Story films are among the best movies of all-time and to this day entire animation studios have failed to duplicate an ounce of the magic contained in Toy Story. Could part 3 even come close to the original two? My friends, I am very happy to say, the answer is a resounding yes.Toy Story 3 does exactly what the first two did, delivered on all cylinders, all aspects of film-making and entertainment. The humor is back, the heart is back, the delightful cast of characters is back. This time, thanks to an incredible script, there's more suspense, more drama, and many more surprises. Like any spectacular trilogy, it wraps up all loose ends. It literally is difficult to find any flaw or any slow moment in this movie, and even if there is, it will immediately be forgiven by the next major laugh or the next major revelation. The predictability factor in this movie is low, and the payoff to all the suspense is extremely high. Guys, this is the go-to movie of the summer, and makes up for any disappointment you have seen this year or last.Just like Toy Story 2's subtle and underlying themes, Toy Story 3 revolves around the group of toys and their latest adventure, but dwells far deeper than that. On the surface, this movie is about the toys in a series of circumstances, winding up in a daycare center that isn't all it seems. At the same time, Andy is heading for college, but Woody isn't quite ready to let go of his owner and the memories that follow. The deeper aspects involve aging, growing up, and moving on. Michael Arndt, the Oscar winner that wrote Little Miss Sunshine, was behind the spectacular screenplay in this third trip in the world of toys. Then with the help of John Lasseter and Lee Unkrich (who serves as the director), we see plenty of references to Pixar, other movies, the previous Toy Story installments, and even we even see nods to the influences of the entire animation studio (Miyazaki).The writing wasn't the only thing that was on par with the first two Toy Story movies. The voice acting cast was once again phenomenal, with popular actors, underrated talent, and great character actors filling the bill. Come on now, just read em': Tim Allen, Tom Hanks, John Cusack, Wallace Shawn, Jody Benson, Estelle Harris, Blake Clark, John Ratzenburger, Ned Beatty, Jeff Garlin, and Michael Keaton. Unlike what Dreamworks pulls off on a yearly basis, Pixar carefully chooses their voice cast in terms of pulling off the best performances, not to generate more money. Because honestly, was there even a point to Angelina Jolie voicing the tiger in Kung Fu Panda? On the other hand, very few can pull an authentic Barbie like Jody Benson (a.k.a. Ariel in the Little Mermaid). It takes reliable and authentic acting to pull at the heartstrings, and everyone definitely was on their A-game.Lee Unkrich directed this movie with incredible pacing and just as much heart and dedication as Lasseter, who was in charge of the first two. The truth is, Pixar directs the movie together, as they share ideas and suggestions amongst each other. This fact can be traced to the similar pacing and directing styles seen in Pixar's better works like Ratatoille, Finding Nemo, and Up. They all have the similar technique of incorporating just as many tears as laughs. But unlike all the other Pixar movies (with the exception of The Incredibles), Toy Story 3 has a heave dosage of suspense and peril, which is climaxed by one of the most exciting animated sequences this side of Castle in the Sky (a Miyazaki adventure masterpiece). Other reviewers have noted this before me, but this Toy Story is quite scary in depth and in imagery at some instances, so be wary of this while watching this with the kids. With so much time invested with these toys, the drama runs a bit high.Bottom Line: Toy Story 3 secures its place in cinema brilliance by becoming the best third installment since Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, the best sequel since Kill Bill Vol. 2, and the best movie we've seen this year. This movie is usually hilarious, sometimes thrilling, and sometimes downright tear-jerking. And yes, just like Up's opening 10 minutes, there is that one major sequence in which Pixar will play with your heartstrings like Eric Clapton playing tears of Heaven. If you enjoyed the first two Toy Stories, there's no need to worry about the third and hopefully final chapter in the quality-filled saga. How Pixar manages to deliver yet again is absolutely beyond me.Walt Disney may not be one-hundred percent proud of his company if he were alive to see it now, but he would be absolutely delighted at seeing what beautiful art Pixar has delivered ever since 1995. Pixar has re-created Walt Disney 's magical methods of storytelling and movie-making, and arguably has taken it a step even further by adding depth to the characters and depth to the overall stories presented. The direction was fantastic, the writing was Oscar-worthy, and the overall production is Best Picture caliber. This is Pixar's best work since Finding Nemo, and a must see by any means necessary. Despite my cynical nature, there's no way I can grade this any less than perfect. Just no way.


                
Lee Unkrinch directed "Toy Story 3," the third and presumably final installment in the "Toy Story" movie franchise. One could argue that this is probably the best one yet (1999's "Toy Story 2" remains my personal favorite of the three), and I won't argue with those who think otherwise. I still hold onto "Toy Story 2" for deep personal reasons, but "Toy Story 3" does build upon events foreshadowed in the previous installment, which does gives this film a weighty emotional punch - a rarity in animated films these days.As foreshadowed in "Toy Story 2," Andy (John Morris) has finally grown up; he's 17 now, and is on his way to college in just a few days. His mom is putting pressure on him to get rid of his old toys, either by throwing them out with the garbage, donating them to other needy children, or simply putting them in the attic (a sort of gone-but-not-forgotten-and-within-reach-type of deal).Woody (Tom Hanks), brave leader of the toys and Andy's favorite, manages to dodge a bullet somewhat, but puts himself in the line of fire when Buzz Lightyear (Tim Allen) and the other toys are accidentally thrown out but somehow or another wind up at Sunnyside Daycare, where they are welcomed with open arms by the resident toys there. This introduces us to Lotso (Ned Beatty), the strawberry-scented teddy bear who runs the place, along with the metro-sexual Ken doll (Michael Keaton) and others. As it turns out, this daycare center is actually a prison, and Lotso runs this place with an iron fist; of course, Lotso has a very tragic back-story that explains his evil ways, much like with Jessie (Joan Cusack), who first appeared in "Toy Story 2." So Woody and the other toys must mount a valiant escape if they are to be reunited with their beloved owner before he leaves for college."Toy Story 3" is an amazing film, and a fitting end to a wonderful film series that started in 1995 with the first "Toy Story," which also signaled the arrival of the very illustrious and extremely talented Disney-owned animation studio Pixar. They have yet another significant hit on their hands with this picture. The animation here is at its most life-like and real and it's damn-near flawless and strikingly beautiful, which signals just how far Pixar has come in the 15 years since their first hit with "Toy Story." And every film since then has added significant amounts of realism, weight, and dimension to their animated stories.While "Toy Story 2" had a high nostalgia factor for days long gone by, "Toy Story 3" is a film about the inevitability of children growing up and putting away their toys. There are also themes about the effect of loss, love, and friendship going in the proceedings here. In addition, "Toy Story 3" can also be an incredibly dark film at times - a bold move considering that this is a family film - but there's no need to worry because the fact is that it's all perfectly balanced out amazingly well with some very light-hearted humor, fast and furious action scenes, and stirring emotional moments that just might bring a few tears to your eyes."Toy Story 3" is a triumph of animation and imagination, and I say that as a die-hard "Toy Story 2" fan. What we get here, is a fitting closer (?) to an amazing film series that just continues to surprise again and again with each new entry. It's just a great reminder for all of us heartless adults of better days in our youth that have long gone bye-bye.10/10


                
I was about 10 or 12 when I watched the first Toy Story in the cinema with my little brother and sister. We were all enchanted! Years later Toy Story 2 came out and it was a blast! Again we all went to the theater to see it and we were so thrilled and excited after the movie! Im 24 now, and just yesterday I was at the Bulgarian gala-premiere of the film. My brother was fortunate to win an invitation for two (he took a photo of himself with our small collection of Toy Story toys and sent it to the website), and we had the chance to see the third part on its first screening... and for the 1st time in 3D! No doubt that the animation is better than ever, the guys from Pixar constantly push the limits, but that's kinda natural for them. But still it feels like 100% Toy Story, with all the improvements, somehow I don't feel this 15-years-wide gap between the first and the third part.What matters more is the (Toy) Story itself! And it is just fantastic! I had really high expectations of this film and honestly, after seeing it, my expectations were surpassed! The plot is really emotional, with so many nostalgic moments... Being kinda grown-up myself, but doing my growing-up with the first two parts of Toy Story, I couldn't relate more with this one! I was really touched! I just wish the theater was empty. Then I could stop holding back my tears! And it's not just t the big story, but also all those little things that go on around it! I don't know how many of those references and gags were in the script and how many were put in there in the making process, but it's just amazing! Even if it's the most dramatic and the darkest of the 3 (as dark as Toy Story can get) the comedy is still there, and I was laughing out loud all the way through! It's a wild roller-coaster, and I'm not even sure who will have more fun with it, if it will be the kids, or their parents! There's just so much more in there for you to notice, admire and laugh at! And I'm sure that after watching the film again I'll find out even more! There's also a really neat Totoro cameo, and it's great of Pixar to pay homage to their old friend, Miyazaki san.The old lovable characters are all here, and they are joined by an army of new ones, and each one of them has his real personality and you can recognize in them characteristics of someone, both visually and with their attitude they express different things and you instinctively feel what these toys stand for. It's really funny to recognize in them some movie archetypes or features of people that you know.I realize that I just poured out tons of superlatives, but there's nothing else you can say about this film! It has everything! (And about how many 3rd parts you can say that?) The only thing I could criticize is that there is one really freaky baby-toy, that can give the creeps to the smaller kids, but it's done on a purpose and for me it was really an enjoyable touch to the atmosphere of the film.To wrap up this review, I will just say - Thank you, Pixar!


                
Since I felt none of the other reviews here do the movie justice, I became compelled to write my own. It is the most inspired film I have ever encountered.The creators of Toy Story 3 have an imagination that is unparalleled. I cannot begin to compare any of the other animated movies that I have ever seen to it. It is a fantasy in an unconventional sense: aside from the talking toys, the environment and settings are typical; commonplace. Yet, the Pixar Team manages to cram every last drop of energy into the incredibly clever story and inventive plot devices out of just common household objects. The animation is so brilliant that it captures shading, lighting, and textures that have yet to be seen on film.Then, Toy Story 3 becomes a beautiful elaboration on the first two, with very clever character development. Its maturity of relationships is concise but witty: Woody, the wise sheriff, leading the other toys with courage and finesse; a spaceman winning the love of a cowgirl; the loyalty of the dog, slinky; the grumpy married potato and his devoted wife; the superficial relationship of Ken and Barbie; the broken spirit of a lost teddy bear. At the same time, Pixar uses a metaphor that is so strong that it drives the audience to love these characters with all of their hearts. It is a similar emotional complex to a happy puppy who is brought into a home and has nothing on its mind but playing with its youthful owners. But these toys never age, and as its owners, once in their playful youths, leave for work and college, these toys still know nothing more than their youth and happiness of living to one day play again. As you leave for work every morning, your dog doesn't know where you go. And every day, he does nothing more than pray that you come back to see him, every day waiting for you to bring out the ball again for a game of fetch.Finally comes Pixar's ability to integrate so many emotions - fear, love, action, and comedy, among others - with each having so much vigor in its own right, that the movie becomes a roller coaster of animation and adventure, wound together by the constant movement of setting and storyline, always keeping the audience guessing on what might happen next. It is a brilliant tale; a perfect movie for children and adults alike. I cannot wait to see it again.


                
It was in 1995 that Toy Story signaled the arrival of Pixar, and the rest was history. To date, I have personally always found myself to have enjoyed all of their outputs, and it does seem that Pixar has indeed grown from strength to strength with sophistication in its graphics and attention to detail, but more so that their creative teams have always come out with solid stories to tell, which is always the key beneath all the glossy bells and whistles visuals.And I simply love this installment, not only because it reunites us with the characters whom we have taken to heart as old friends, welcoming them back to yet another big screen outing, but because it has a moving story to tell, and has various elements from action-adventure, comedy and drama all rolled into one, allowing an outpour of a kaleidoscope of emotions as we journey for close to 2 hours with Woody (Tom Hanks), Buzz (Tim Allen), Jessie (Joan Cusack), Mr and Mrs Potato Head (Don Rickles and Estelle Harris), Hamm (John Ratzenberger), Res (Wallace Shawn), Slinky Dog (Blake Clark) and the aliens (Jeff Pidgeon) for one last hurrah.The storyline for all three Toy Story films may share some similar plot lines in having the constant fear of being discarded and unwanted when one turns old, or to obsess with the thought of being forgotten and unappreciated, and almost always comes with a distance to conquer. That continues here in stronger terms given that it's been some 11 years since the last Toy Story film, and that the toys' owner Andy has already outgrown the toys and have chucked whatever's left all into a treasure chest. Making things worst, he's about to relocate to attend college, and thus the anxieties that Woody, Buzz and the rest of the gang has to come to terms with, being provided 4 options of heading for the trash, the attic, being given away or being that rare toy that gets to accompany Andy to his new environment.New toys get introduced by way of how the story got crafted involving a children's day care centre, where we get to meet up with the over-emphasized, metrosexual Ken (Michael Keaton!) from Barbie (Jodi Benson), and others such as the Lotso bear (Ned Beatty), together with those belonging to a new human character called Bonnie (Emily Hahn) who owns a cool plush Totoro (which doesn't speak of course)! Sequels tend to overcrowd their stories with plenty of characters, but it worked perfectly for this installment as other than those which get lines, there are plenty in the background that you may just spot a few that you too may have owned at some point in time. Things also aren't quite what they seem at the day care being the paradise for toys in constantly being played with and loved but never to suffer a heartbreak or to be left feeling unwanted, and provides the basis upon which the story develops, providing plenty of challenges for the gang to overcome (gotta love that Monkey!)What's powerful about Toy Story 3 are the themes that get thrown in, such as that about loss, and the search and fight for things that are worthwhile. It emphasizes the bonds of friendship and courage, while tackling how the lack thereof in abandonment and the feeling of tremendous loss, can someone turn one into a bitter soul, which allowed for the film to take on tragic, darker consequences unseen in the earlier installments, while balancing the light hearted moments. We get to grow with the familiar characters a little more, while having new ones which are just as fun. Just ask Ken!And a word of caution - prepare those tissues and hankies! Parting is such sweet sorrow, and the manner in which director Lee Unkrich deals with will definitely tug at your heartstrings. At least two scenes got to me, one involving facing a consequence of inevitable hopelessness that is a definite edge of your seat stuff only to remind you of how much you really care for the characters, while the other was what I deem as the perfect send off, an au revoir fit for closing the chapter on this Toy Story arc, while leaving room for another to happen (if it does). It moved, and shows how valuable it is to be loved again, and I thought it was pitch perfect. It would be interesting to know how the creators had intended to end the story, but it was brilliant to have chosen with what was.Toy Story 3 is a must see, and it's contending for a space in my top 10 for the year. It's a sequel done right, a tale with a lot of heart, with elements encompassing what essentially is a fitting tribute and farewell to beloved characters that have blazed the trail for computer generated animation to take centerstage. As with all PIxar feature films, a short precedes the main feature, and "Day and Night", like the one offered in Up, comes without dialogue, but with plenty of imagination and again, a solid story for a well animated short film that only Pixar can.


                
As a 28 year old single female lawyer, i have always enjoyed Pixar's movies. I cannot label them as cartoons as there is nothing cartoonish about their stories; they have heart, meaning, feel-goodness with the right touch of class & humor. The formula is A1 yet without feeling overused.Toy Story 3 is once again a hit. We are treated to our favorite familiar characters and reminded again why we like them so. They are heroes who share the same values of team spirit, bonding and camaraderie. No one gets left behind. The technical aspects are again flawless. This is one series of sequels i do not mind seeing for Toy Story 4, 5, 6...this is coming from someone who adamantly refused to watch Toy Story 1 & 2 and UP..up and until last week i forced myself to..and i was so blown away by all three i have never been gladder to be proved wrong.Watch this, and Pixar, don't stop making movies for us.


                
Andy is now seventeen years old and is going to college. His mother presses him to decide the fate of his toys, and Andy decides to leave them in the attic, with the exception of Woody that he intends to bring with him. However Andy's mother donates them by accident to the Sunnyside Daycare. The toys are welcomed by Lotso Bear but sooner they discover that the children mistreat them. Further, they are imprisoned in the daycare by Lotso and his gang. But Woody discovers the intention of the evil bear and returns to the daycare to organize the escape of his friends. "Toy Story 3" is a wonderful and touching animation for adults<U+0085> imagine for children. This magnificent tale of loyalty and friendship is fantastic and recommended for the whole family and it is a worth entertainment. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "Toy Story 3"


                
Well, this lived up to the hype, which usually isn't an easy accomplishment. Toy Story 1 & 2 set the bar high so, frankly, I was expecting a disappointment with this one. Thankfully, it didn't happen. "Toy Story 3" was another amazing story in this (so far) trilogy.With a bunch of reviews already here, there is no sense going into the story. For those who haven't seen it yet, three surprises stood out for me: (1) the high number of new characters introduced; (2) the darkness of some of them; this is not always a fun story; (3) the incredibly-touching last 15-or-so minutes. All three of these facets should make this a fun 103 minutes every time I watch the DVD, much like the first two. Also, the artwork is at the usual high standard, especially some scenes in the last half hour at the dump yard, of all places. Finally, what's really cool, too, is that the people who voice the main characters are still the same men and women who did the first two films, with the exception of Jim Varney ("Slinky Dog"), who died in 2000. It's great to still hear familiar and distinctive voices, such as those of Wallace Shawn ("Rex"), John Ratenzenber ("Hamm"), Don Rickles and Estelle Harris ("Mr. and Mrs. Potato Head, respectively).Kudos to all those involved in making this film. They nailed the essence of "Toy Story" and how much loyalty can mean.


                
Toy Story 3, perhaps the best animation made in cinema history has been, because after seeing this animation, each viewer feel that the characters of interest. The animation really neutral in terms of content and is unique. When you see that, like see professionals movie.Toy story 3 is not well a certain age-specific, anyone can see and enjoy.Other benefits include the animation can be pointed sense of unity and friendship.I think this animation become win best picture in this year.You can see anything in this animation, emotions, courage, love, comedy, action, drama and .... together. Before see this movie, I thought the best animation was "Up" but now, just Toy Story 3In the End, bye bye dear Toy Story 3 ,Thanks Pixar 10/10 Best animation ever


                
I liked very much the other "Toy Story" films, and I loved all the Pixar films, finding all to be clever, well animated and with a good message for the children."Toy Story 3" manages to be both funny, clever and heartwarming, introducing a lot of new character, but no one of them feels out of place. Even the villain, Lotso the bear, it is pretty likable and interesting character.This is a beautiful goodbye letter to all those who loved the "Toy Story" saga since the beginning of it, and it is one of the most satisfying and heartwarming conclusions ever released for cinema. I highly recommend this film to anyone.
Is "Toy Story 3" good? Yes, it is. Is it exciting? Yes. Is the animation good? Excellent. Is it worth the money? It's worth. Is it better than the previous two? Much, much better. "Toy Story 3" is an excellent movie for all ages.First, the animation. The moves of the characters are simply perfect. Ken and Barbie, they're robotic moves are so breathtaking. The moves are simply so detail and mesmerizing. The appearances. Not much to talk about. But, the appearances of the characters were perfectly designed. The main characters were really cool. Ken and Barbie, they're really designed in detail. For Barbie, the line where is visible in the neck was really detail. Ken is also really detail especially with his body. Lot-o-Huggin'-Bear was also carefully designed by the paper which often appears on dolls listing the warning or whatever.The way the movie is presented. Very well done. In around 90 minutes of running time (excluding "Day & Night"), the movie was not boring at all. It had some laughable expressions which are pretty funny. I liked it when Buzz turns into Spanish mode where most of the audience laughed. That moment was hysterical. The scenes were also thrilling like the end scene (which I'm not going to tell you) or the scenes in Sunnyside. I thoroughly enjoyed the film.The new characters. Well, I think there's one negative point. I think little kids around the age of 3, 4 or 5 might be scared with the appearance of Big Baby, because, his appearance is kind of scary for little kids.The 3D effects. Not so cheesy and not so breathtaking but pretty good. The depths of the items in the film were not bad. The sound acting. They were really good. Tom Hanks on Woody was really good. He really projected his voice until he becomes a real Woody. Tim Allen on Buzz Lightyear was also good and satisfying. He really sounded like a real astronaut or space ranger. The others were also good. But, I think Tom Hanks on Woody still has the best projection of voice in the film.Final thing, the short film attached to it: "Day & Night". It was shockingly, awfully, crazily cool. That short film was quite funny. It was really good. Overall, the short film compliments to the film to be a very good movie.A short advise, you might want to prepare some tissues to wipe your tears as there are some pretty sad moments in the film. The scenes were just so sad that that's another praise for Lee Unkrich on his directing. So, if you don't prepare those tissues, I hope you have something you can use to wipe your tears.As an amazing end to such a magnificent trilogy, "Toy Story 3" is a must watch movie. Watching it in 3D is not a bad choice. Your kids will definitely be thrilled watching this film. I truly believe this is the best animated film of the year, or even the best film of all 2010 films. If you haven't watched this yet, what are you waiting for? Go purchase your tickets and enjoy this masterpiece. I guarantee you that you won't regret watching this movie. Overall, I give this movie a perfect score of 10 stars. I wish a fourth installment would be made.


                
I went in with HIGH hopes and i was not disappointed! The first toy story movie was by far my favorite movie as a child, i literally watched it two or three times a day. Im emotionally attached to the toy story movies so this movie felt like the closing chapter to my childhood. Aside from my emotional attachment this movie was still amazing! I laughed, which is expected since its the all might pixar. But i also cried...i was kinda embarrassed haha. I was holding back the tears in this one scene but since i don't want to spoil anything so ill stop there. But by the end of the movie i couldn't hold back and instead of watery eyes i was in full tears haha. Everyone should watch it!


                
So I'm 26 and jaded. I most often hate the world and everything in it. Well that being said I absolutely lost myself watching this movie. I had seen the two before it as a kid growing up but I never felt so strong about them as I do with this one. I have spent the last couple weeks after seeing this movie spreading the word about how awesome it was. The theme is so universal that anyone despite their background or feelings can absolutely relate. We've all been to that place were we feel like we've been used and that were done with. The feeling as if we have nowhere to go or anyone to turn to. I really want everyone to experience the overwhelming feelings that boiled inside of me as this movie came to an end. The second the toys held hands at one point my face absolutely exploded and from there it didn't relent. Seriously I could not breathe it was almost to much. But its not. Go see it. Now.......................................what are you waiting for?


                
I am 52 years old and have seen an embarrassingly huge amount of movies over the past 45+ years. Toy Story 3 is one of the best movies I have ever seen.It took me a few days to figure out why I was so affected by the movie. Toy Story 3 is really funny and imaginative, but so are a lot of other movies. I could see that the audience, including my own two children (16 and 11), were deeply engrossed in the film, laughing and crying, and bursting into applause together after the final scene. It is very rare today to see a theater audience having such a deep and common understanding of something as a group. I had seen this occur more frequently in the past, however, so the shared experience (while very nice) isn't really what makes the movie so great for me.I think that the movie is great because Woody has to struggle with his age and purpose in way that seems so shockingly real. In the first part of my life, I only wanted to find a role that was worthy of me, an education or a job or a spouse that would let me....well...what I did wasn't really important, only that I be the greatest at whatever unique thing I was supposed to do. In the second part of my life, I found myself doing something that wasn't unique - it was pretty much what others did; Nor was I the greatest - I was only average. But I did it anyway, because the things I was to trying create and help, both in job and family, those things were important, even if they were ordinary. In the third part of my life....I sense there will come a time when I will still be loved but not needed. And it has to be that way, because otherwise death would be too hard to bear, for me and for those I leave behind.I can accept all of this....but still be really happy when Andy plays with his toys one last time.
did anyone else cry like a little baby at the end? This sequel really exceeded my expectations greatly. i was almost expecting crap, but what i was given was an animated 3d masterpiece that makes you laugh, cry, and occasionally make you fear for the toys. my only problems were, no little Bo Peep, and, ( you may think i am a jerk for this) if the toys died at the end i would have been sadder, but it would make more sense for the letting go of your childhood part of the storyline, don't get me wrong, i love the originals and the current ending, it just would have made more sense with the storyline. thank you cast, crew and others, for this wonderful tear jerking, sometimes dark, masterpiece, about letting go of your childhood.


                
So I saw Toy Story 3 tonight at an early screening here in Houston, TX. A little background info about me. I am a big, no HUGE, Pixar fan, I've watched every film that they have created dozens of times. Let me begin, this is definitely no Ratatouille, Wall-E, or Up. Pixar is definitely coming back to it's family roots and Toy Store 3 is extremely evident of that. Don't get me wrong, Pixar has completely outdone themselves once again offering a film that is extremely entertaining, thrilling, and fresh, but it is kind of disappointing that the film doesn't reach any true depth until the POWERFUL last act.I'm going to divide my review into several sections.Writing: The humor was straight up HILARIOUS. There were several scenes that had the audience ROTFL'ing, even I, as crude and bitter I may be when it comes to comedy, was laughing out loud at a few parts. However some jokes do fall flat into Dreamworks territory with potty humor (lincoln logs anyone?) which I hope does not become a recurrence, but overall the film had some wonderful writing and dialogue creating a truly believable setting and tone.Animation: It's truly a shame that some of the later scenes in the final act haven't been shown in the commercials because, DAMN, the detail is truly remarkable. Since this is a no spoiler review I won't move further into that but let me tell you now, you will be impressed. Humans are beginning to look more realistic with ton's of attention to movement and the toys have benefited from some spackle in the facial department in an attempt to create a more emotionally expressive character. While it didn't blow me away like Finding Nemo and Wall-E did when they released, the work done here by Pixar is truly solid and way above anything Dreamworks has brought to the table. The 3D is also decent, I'm not really buying into this whole fad because after a few minutes you don't notice the effect. The added depth is nice but you honestly won't be missing much if you watch it in a good quality cineplex.Sound: The theater I went to had a pretty weak sound system so I can't really comment on the effects but when it comes to voice talent, the actors truly shine. It was sad to see some characters go like Bo Beep and Squeaky but some of the new additions like Lotso and Ken, played by Ned Beatty and Michael Keaton, are some true standouts thanks to the excellent dialogue provided by the script. All the original characters once again do their job quite well and with the excellent editing and mixing, the dynamics of social interaction between the characters are expressed clearly.Depth/Theme: You know I was going here and I HAD to talk about it. Ratatouille had the whole analysis of segregation with "Everyone can cook", Wall-E brought environmentalism, consumerism, capitalism, and most importantly love to the table, while Up directly deals with death and the emotions that stem from it. Toy Story 3 repeats the abandonment and moving on angle from Toy Story 2 which is TRULY the film's weakest link. Not because the movie copies the second films moral, but because TS3 virtually ignored these themes until the last act which I will admit was quite compelling. It would have been nice to spread these serious moments throughout the film to create a balanced equilibrium but unfortunately this does not happen. However I do want to talk about this pivotal juncture in the final act, there was a moment in the movie that only last a minute or two, but felt very, very, very real. I can't stress this enough, I have never felt anything like this from a movie. The first time I cried in a move was with Up's "Ellie" sequence but for some reason I didn't do it here. My emotions went beyond crying, I don't know if it was the swirling bright ember colors contrasting with the stark images or the expressiveness of the toys in that very moment, but I sat there in disbelief and was affected in a way that has not existed before.Overall: I really do wish that Lee Unkrich could have spread the last 15 minutes throughout the movie but that didn't happen which is why I could not give this movie a 10, however, that last act SAVED this motion picture from being another run of the mill Dreamworks film. Aside from some of the lame toilet humor and disappointing direction choices, Toy Story 3 is a very solid conclusion to one of the best trilogies of all time that needs to experienced solely for the last beautifully gratifying act with the gang that I grew up with.


                
I left the theater in 1995 after seeing the original Toy Story strangely moved. I was only six years old, and I'm not sure I had even fully grasped the revolutionary CGI for what it was (it probably just registered as animation to me, and I didn't quite understand its impact), but I did know – at least on a basic level of storytelling – that it was fantastic. Four years later I went to see the sequel with my younger sisters and felt the exact same way I had the first time. Even at a fairly young age I knew there was something special about these films.Many times nostalgia has to compensate for quality (or lack thereof) in your perception of entertainments as you age. Suddenly Mac and Me isn't as awesome as you once found it to be. You revisit films from your childhood and learn to appreciate them based solely on the memories they conjure up, trying to block out the reality that, hey, This kinda sucks.That never happened with the Toy Story movies. As I grew older, as I saw them more and more times, they only seemed to improve. New layers appeared – adult humour that I never appreciated when I was ten but suddenly blindsided me. Characters that revealed new depths; emotional scenes that only became increasingly poignant and meaningful, like that amazing scene where Buzz first becomes aware of his own mortality as a toy that can't really fly, or when he learns to cope with that fact by embracing the fact that he can instead fall rather well (with style).The point of this rambling trip down memory lane is that Toy Story, the whole legacy of it, means a lot to me. I grew up with these pictures and never tired of returning to them, and they were always there for me like a good friend is. I approached Toy Story 3 with the slightest of reservations, fully trusting Pixar, and yet wondering how they could possibly produce anything that would live up to such high standards.Well, suffice to say, they did it – if Toy Story 3 isn't the best of the series, then that's merely because it comes eleven years after the last one and it hasn't been given some time to work its full magic on us. This is every bit as engaging, heartwarming and funny as the first two films – but it's also the saddest, most human and most moving.The plot has already been outlined by other critics, so I don't feel a need to recap anything. Nor do I want to inadvertently spoil any key moments (and please, for your own sake, avoid reading too much about the movie before going to see it – some reviewers are a bit too keen on giving away the ending, although it's understandable given how surprisingly emotional it is).The introduction of new characters is seamless – Ken (voiced by Michael Keaton) is hilarious but thankfully not overused, and the other assorted variety of toys, including Lots-o'-Huggin' Bear (Ned Beatty), are fine additions to the series.And Woody and Buzz (Tom Hanks and Tim Allen, respectively) pick up right where they left off, and you feel, in a weird way, like you're visiting old pals. The movie features the best animation of the trilogy, and the second half – which is darker than the two previous installments – makes excellent use of lighting and cinematography. The climactic finale is incredibly intense (especially for a "kids movie") and features particularly impressive visuals. Many reviewers have noted that they cried during the finale, and even I must admit that I came pretty close.In a summer full of bores, disappointments and under-achievers, Toy Story 3 is not merely the first thoroughly satisfying motion picture of the season – it's the only truly moving one. It is fairly ironic, perhaps, that we must turn to movies about pieces of plastic to find such poignant reflections upon human nature, but then again, I'm not sure I'd want to have it any other way.


                
Toy Story 3 brings back nostalgia, but that's to be expected. We all think back to fifteen years ago, or eleven years ago, when the Toy Story movies came out the first time. If you're too young for that, then at least the re-release was last year to catch people up, though it's not quite the same thing. As Andy is off to college- as was predicted would happen as a given in Toy Story 2- we in the audience realize that this third film follows a kind of time-line that runs with our lives. Even if you're an adult (i.e. older than my 20-something age) you can relate to what the toys and Andy are going through. What happens at the end of the film, the resolution of the ultimate conflict of what to do with the toys as life goes on, is one of the most beautiful and heartwarmingly bittersweet (well, more like sad-sweet) moments in recent cinema. Pixar tends to do that.This is the kind of third movie that makes it a trilogy- it's hard to see it going on to a fourth film and having any kind of the same resonance- and one that seems perfectly fit together in terms of a progressing story. But where something like Star Wars saw the second film as the darkest and third one coming into (somewhat) lighter terms, this is not quite the same with Pixar's baby. Toy Story 3, with it becoming a prison movie in more than just a sense (the toys get sent to Sunnyside Daycare, run by a cute-looking but ruthless bear voiced by Ned Beatty), and what happens in said prison. To be sure, other cute things abound in the movie, from Peas-in-a-Pod to (yes) Totoro from Miyazaki's movie. But in that prison, and other things that happen such as the trip to the junkyard/landfill, it gets dark.And yet, Pixar continues their outstanding method of storytelling and entertainment: nothing is even scaled-down for kids, and nothing is too sappy for adults. A couple of obvious song choices aside- 'Dream Weaver' for when Ken and Barbie first meet, and 'Freak Out' as Ken hilariously tries on a wardrobe- there's nothing that doesn't work for kids and adults, equally, and often more-so for adults than kids (I wonder, for example, when Buzz is reset and becomes El Buzzo and speaks Spanish if the wee little ones will be able to read the subtitles). When it's funny the humor is aimed at sophisticated one-liners and, yes, sophisticated (or just well-timed) slapstick, when there's action it's intense just as in the previous Toy Stories, and when it's heartbreaking it'll make everyone in the audience cry. I wonder if Pixar has some kind of magic movie-voodoo to get the old adage to come alive: you'll laugh, you'll cry- and sometimes in the same breath! The new toys are great additions, but they never detract from the classic cast. And even with them, and the great dynamic of the daycare center and its prison atmosphere, we never get lost in the shuffle of toy conflicts and desires and dreams halted (Lotso's backstory is like a twisted version of Jessie's story from Toy Story 2). It would also be a given to say that the animation keeps getting better, a little higher quality in stylization and panache, but the animators and filmmakers also aim higher in a number of ways. The opening of the film, with its grand depiction of what's going on inside of Andy's mind as he plays with his toys, an Old West-Sci/fi hybrid complete with a train full of troll orphans and Hamm as a giant flying pig-spaceship-weapon, is so epic as to seem like it's out of a much bigger Summer Action Blockbuster than it should be. Or rather, Toy Story IS this summer's big Blockbuster, and it's epic enough to be qualified as a kind of mini-masterpiece - that is, until the rest of the film unfolds.At the least, Buzz dancing to Spanish Salsa music, and that end of the movie, make it one of the high points of Pixar's career - and this is following WALL-E and Up!


                
Just how good is ''Toy Story 3'', you ask? It's simply one of the greatest achievements in movie history, I answer. This film, right now, should win the Oscar for Best Picture, hands down. I honestly doubt there'll be a better film than this all year. That's how absolutely brilliant this movie is. Pixar is officially king of everything! This movie is smart funny, thrilling, engaging, and, most importantly, it taught me about friendship. It taught me to stick by my friends, no matter what. The final sequences of the movie are absolutely breathtaking, and I couldn't help but shed a few tears. It doesn't feel like you're watching an animated movie. In some scenes it feels like you're watching an Alfred Hitchcock film, due to the great thrills, and others you can't help but cry over due to the togetherness of the whole gang. One of the film's themes is obviously never give up. This film can really inspire you. This film is also about loss and letting go. Who knew a film about toys could have such true themes on life. This is a masterpiece, one that once again pulls you in with the characters from the second it starts. Don't go see the grotesque Adam Sandler comedy ''Grown Ups'', or the action flick ''Knight and Day''. Go see this. This film is about a quintillion light years better than both those films. This beats, as great as they were, the first two ''Toy Story'' films. It beats them by a lot, actually. Take your family to go see this, but also, if you're an adult, go see this with adult friends. This is a film to go see with friends. This is the best from the greatness that is Pixar. 10 out of 10, a miraculous, comedic, inspiring, joyful, entertaining, adventurous, smart, tear jerking, and enduring film to cherish until the end of time.


                
I randomly wonder if the Toy Story trilogy created any hoarders, because if I were a child and saw these films, I'd become a hoarder—just sayin'.The complaint that I see through many reviews is that the animation isn't adequate. Really? Pathetic excuse for people that claim to love movies. Ick.Pixar makes me feel good without making me feel guilty. Thank you seems so small in comparison to what they've given and as saccharin as this sounds; it's true. It's so hard to get a close to wholesome experience at a film in today's industry and Pixar can be trusted to do just that. Their films are wholesome because they do their darnest to make them so and families appreciate that more than they probably will ever know.I wondered how they were going to get to Sunny Side and the film sets it up perfectly. Like dominoes falling one after the other the things that go wrong have the toys end up at the day care only to want to go back home. Perfect display of story creation is taking a simple concept and squeezing an amazing adventure out of it. Many themes run through the film such as feeling unwanted, misunderstandings, bullying, jail break/escape, and then the wonderful reunited moment.The Toy Story Gang is back sans Bo Peep and I'm not as sure as to why. Maybe there's an interesting story in there somewhere or I missed the explanation in the film. There are so many great moments that I can't pick one. The Ken (Michael Keaton) and Barbie (Jodi Benson) moments were so cheesy they were awesome. They were cheesy in an 80's kind of way. Plastic perfect, if you ask me. Buzz (Tim Allen) and Jessie (Joan Cusack) connect in an adorable manner. Her infatuation with him while he's stuck in Spanish mode had her in a Latin heat mood smoldering in ways no one thought a little cowgirl doll could. Andy and Woody (I know, I know) have a strong connection that is shown in Toy Story and takes a great turn in beginning and even bigger one in the end.John Morris grew up with many of the viewers on Toy Story as Andy for all three movies. Random awesome factoid.If Toy Story 3 (and I'm only reminded of the Oscars cause of what I read in someone else's review) doesn't dominate the Oscars it would be a travesty. It is by far the best film of the year (thus far) and I'm sure that won't change too much this summer.The end of Toy Story 3 takes all of Toy Story history and makes the caring moviegoer, who supported the film from the onset in 1995 until now, break down and cry for toys. How incredibly gifted a storyteller are these people? This is why the bar will remain unbreached because they not only set it high, they make it insurmountable. The tears for the toys are more for what we all miss. It's the carefree feeling, the love for the simple and the power of imagination that is lost when we cross a certain threshold and nowadays the age gets younger and younger. When people watch Toy Story 3, not only are they a little shocked by the dark nature it takes on, they cry because of the goodbyes. They do so because they'd trade all of what they have in technology to have that mindset again. With the last scene the classic song playing, "You got a friend in me<U+0085>" Toy Story 3 ends in the most amazing way possible for a film that made us all believe that toys come to life the moment our backs are turned. Pixar has given what many creators of worlds wish to give and that's immortality engraved on the hearts of film lovers that'll last "to infinity and beyond."


                
I went in to the movie cinema to see this film with high hopes and expectations judging by the first and second films' brilliance and must I say that I was in no way disappointed and can actually state that this film is the best of the trilogy. These 2 movies were my favorites as a small child. When I say that this is the best of the three I bid no demotion of the standard of the first and second installments. I applaud Pixar on maintaining their perfect record.The film starts with a high action but still childish scene. True fans of the series would recognize that the scene is a revamped version of the two playtime scenes involving One- Eyed Bart and Pork Chop. Then starts a montage that shows how far and attached the toys have grown to Andy, their owner. Andy then plans to put the toys into the attic but they are accidentally put out with the trash. Later they venture to a daycare center in which first impressions were deceiving The real luster of the film hits a climax in the last 30 - 40 minutes in which we get to take in the emotional journey that the toys have made together as they head for an incinerator. The movie closes on Andy playing with his childhood friends for the last time. I bawled like a baby at this point.The new characters were a lively addition to the old gang. My personal favorite being Ken (Michael Keaton), the spunky, cool dream hubby of Andy's little sister's Barbie Doll. Barbie and Ken form their own little sub plot together with a rather amusing fashion scene. Also occurring were omissions of previous toys including Wheezy the penguin, Bo Peep and the toy soldiers who exile at the movie's beginning.Pixar have once again showed us that any movie that comes out their door will be coated in gold. Woody and Buzz have yet again proved to be Pixar's golden boys and the trilogy has ended with what is in my opinion the best movie ever made!
I am now 20 years old and so, it was at the age of 7 when I first watched Toy Story. I found it amazing that the toys were alive and all the story was superb either. When I found out that a 3rd part was up to be released I had been dreaming of it all the time. So, I went to watch it. In the theatre there were parents with their kids and thankfully they were really quiet. When the film started with the narration of the ages that had passed, I felt so touched. During the film I was back in my childhood when everything seemed -and were- so easy and I was with no concerns. All the purity of that age came and hit me, although I knew that would happen. I admit that I first found the story average, but when the film was on I was enchanted. There were no thoughts in my mind. I was there watching a masterpiece that in my point of view can be truly appreciated by only us, those who matured since the first movie, but still carrying all the heroes into our hearts. I must admit that I was up to cry in several moments, especially when the toys were in fire and in the end. Leaving the cinema and though I cried -cause, yes, I did!- I was too happy. Entering the house I was singing the theme song...I highly recommend it to you all!!!! 10/10...
Oh my god, I cannot stress how good, no GREAT, this movie is! The animation is top notch, of course! You can almost feel the texture of the cloth Woody or Bullseye is made out of just based on it's looks. That's how good it is. The voice acting- superb. They have the original cast with a few added into the mix (some are subtle, like Bonnie Hunt or Whoopi Goldberg), and EVERYONE fits their part! Music- Randy Newman, you never fail to disappoint me, and this is no exception. Humor- Joke after joke, coming at you like bullets, leaving you no time to catch you breath because you're laughing so hard- until the climax, when you are either bawling your eyes out, or your heart is pounding at the speed of light, or both. There are many emotional parts in this movie that you won't forget, especially if you are an adult and have had that one bunch of special toys you just didn't want to let go of when you were a kid. Writing, music, humor, animation, acting, and emotion were all the best in any movie of 2010 and I seriously hope this wins Best Animated Feature, Best Music, and at least be nominated for Best Picture at the Academy Awards. So bottom line is- stop reading this review, get off the computer, and go see this movie! And if it's already out on DVD by the time you're reading this, go buy it!
