Okay this is Toy Story 3. The film everyone says that they liked, they say it was the Citizen Kane of animated films. And I'm just going to say, I don't get it. The main problem with the movie is it's just unpleasant. How did this get a G rating. I'd love to get somebody, anybody, from the MPAA to say maybe, just maybe, we should have given it PG! I mean that there is no fun in this film. But my review will be in obvious contrast to the others because I think it's bad. Well, it is. Granted it some good moments but it was just dark and unpleasant. Cars 2 get's hated while I like it. This get's liked while I hate it. Cars 2 get's hated because they say it was so much darker than the 1st. But this is twice as violent. Granted the last 2 films weren't all whimsical but in the last two did you see the toys getting tortured?! No! This simply does not happen! When did "You've got a friend in me," turn into "Burn alive, burn until you rot in hell!" When did that happen?! Is there something I missed in the last 2? Do I have an abridged DVD? Somebody tell me when the last 2 films were as dark as this! I'm sorry but this film is horrible! I still don't understand why so many people liked it. The last part of the movie with Andy playing with his toys for the last time was the only bit of the movie that I found good. That is my review.


                
I thought i would have fun but this movie is a bit depressive: toys from our childhood discarded, torture camp for them, burning hell! It's very intense for a cartoon and it frightened indeed my five years old nephews. Thus, the people behind it failed their job.As an adult, i don't agree with the starting point: when we grow up, we don't throw away our toys. Personally, those toys have built my identity and if they are actually locked, they are saved for my future children.OK, you will say that this movie is not the point of view of the child but of its toys. But showing that they are discarded is actually a very sad, unhappy way to consider life. That's not the lesson i want to teach my children.Life is a great joy foremost and the opening sequence of the movie is the only good moment I remember: Life is imagination and imagination is all and is best used with happy thoughts!


                
This film was overlong, and lagged in the middle. There was insufficient humour and character development. The rescue scenes towards the end seemed contrived towards. Worse of all, it was far too dark and frightening for young children. I could here some of the audience getting quite restless.The final scene and outro were excellent, but also reinforced how much the film itself had lost it's way. All in all, I was disappointed.Toy Story 1 and 2 were truly wonderful films and I have watched them several times since, but this one won't be joining my DVD collection.


                
When I saw this movie win an award on national TV as opposed to other movies, I was vehemently angry. I saw this in the theater when I was like, 12, and I hated then. I am in my late teens now and hate this movie even more. I hate just about everything about this movie.First off, who thought that a crybaby Barbie, or as I say, "CryBARBIE," would be a good idea? You ever watch a movie and see that one whiny character that you just wanna smack in the face and tell them "Boo freakin' hoo! We all have problems!" That's what this character is for me. I'd rather watch the upcoming live-action Barbie movie (which is real, by the way). I also hate the whole cliché that this film recycles from other 3D animated films, in which the seemingly good character turns out to be evil; in this case it's Lotso Huggin' Bear. This concept is so trite it's like I expect it in every kid movie nowadays.Also, what was with the gag of Buzz Lightyear being accidentally put into Spanish mode and treating Barbie like his girlfriend? See, that actually could've been funny. But it wasn't. It was just stupid. In addition to this flaw, there's the creepy baby doll character. Was I supposed to find that cute? Because I didn't. I hate babies already to begin with, so I did not like this character in the least.I notice that Totoro from My Neighbor Totoro (1988) is in this movie. I was so happy that he was in it, and I expected a funny line from him at some point. But does he speak at all throughout the movie? No. Not even once. Not that Totoro can talk in the first place, but still. I thought that since he was made into a toy here, they'd bend the rules just a little.Finally, this film is needlessly a tear-jerker. I've heard of people that cry at this movie, when really, how can I feel sorry here? Just give the girl your damn toys and leave! Plus, if they were that important to you, don't get rid of them, Andy! Geez.Overall, Toy Story 3 gives me a headache and makes me cringe. However, I will defend it by saying that I have seen worse. Much worse.
hi all,when the Toy Story3 released, as usual we read the reviews from IMDb and then booked the ticket for it. To say frankly this movie is not SO great like others reviewing about this. The story, animation, characterization, music and even 3d effect also very normal and it has no surprise turning in story. More or less it is not equal or more when comparing with movies like Avatar, up, even "Day & Night" also has some new concept to entertain us.Sorry folks this movie isn't great to pay for. But one thing happened to me where the other reviewers wrote that "they cry for this characters while watching movie" and me too cry for the amount of ticket but not for the characters while watching this movie.... Sorry PIXAR but I appreciate your work in "Day & Night" its a kind of nice work there. Thanks for reading.Ravikumar V.


                
Fantastic Elements: First of all, I am not particularly fond of the fantasy genre as a whole because of its tendency to be disconnected from reality. In the case of the Toy Story franchise, it is posited that toys can be brought to life.So what is a toy? It seems that a toy could be practically anything that you like to play with, so it would then seem that anything could come to life in the Toy Story universe, which doesn't make much sense. Why do certain inanimate objects in the house become alive while the table doesn't? It seems completely arbitrary.Additionally, how is it that these toys come to life even though their very own creators believe that they are merely inanimate objects? I simply don't see how they could unknowingly create these conscious beings.How could the toys conceal that they are alive and why? Why would Woody for all of this time refuse to talk to Andy and then all of a sudden at the end decide to communicate to him by writing something down on a piece of paper? Mrs. Potato head left her eye at Andy's house and she was still able to see with it? There is some kind of wireless transmission going on here? Why is it that Buzz Lightyear had his consciousness temporarily shut off by a process that was manufactured by humans that are presumably unaware of the toys supernatural intelligence? How exactly does this supernatural intelligence relate to the machinery that was manufactured?How is it that the daycare center was able to be administered by toys like Lotso, with their surveillance footage of toys, the monkey with the security cameras, cars patrolling every night, toys constantly being moved around, toys having themselves filled with sand, and so on without being noticed by the humans??There is simply too many things which don't make sense, but hey this is a fantasy film. Perhaps it is presumed that you will be incurious and mindlessly receptive to what is being presented here.Plot: The plot essentially adopts a "prison break" style. Humans play little to no role in this film, so I think they could've just made the entire plot toy-centered, as the human-toy interactions are scarcely utilized in this movie. Instead they could've just made the film entirely centered upon humans, then it would've been considered to be a below-average prison escape film. However, they didn't do that, and people elevate this movie to a higher status because it has the toy story name and it uses the toy story characters. Personally I don't think that makes a movie good, I don't think you can just take some plot and substitute the characters for Toy Story characters and somehow come out with something that is a "masterpiece" as many people are claiming.In the beginning of the film the toys are in the comfort of Andy's home. Then at about 15:00 in the toys are mistaken for trash and thrown away. They feel rejected and they lose the comfort of their home. They then begin on a joyless and unentertaining quest to find a home that just gets darker and darker as the film goes on.After leaving Andy's house they go to sunny-side daycare and at 32:00, the toys are thrown around and treated like trash by the children at the daycare, it is at this point that the film takes on its horror character and prison escape focus. The toys are put into awful and dark conditions, sometimes compared to hell and the holocaust, certainly not something young children should be exposed to.At about 75:00 they decide to throw Lotso out of the daycare when they escape, and suddenly the daycare is turned into a toy utopia and suddenly all the toys are free and well off. Its not as if such changes can happen so quickly in the real world, progress is always gradual. Some people have even proposed that the toys died in the incinerator scene only to go to heaven which would explain these changes.Finally, when they are free, Andy decides to give away all his toys. So what?!? If Woody really wanted to he could maintain a conversation with Andy when he is in college as his already showed that he is proficient with computers and phones, so he could just call Andy or talk to him over the internet. However, for some unexplained reason they can't converse with one another. In that case Andy can just buy new copies of those toys just as Lotso's owner replaced him so that no big deal on his part, and if Woody doesn't want to maintain a conversation with Andy that is his loss.Product Placement: It just so happens that the computer Woody uses to search for his home is an Apple. We get to see many advertisements for Apple products, and there is even an iPod in there, courtesy of Pixar studios. Other products such as Mattel's Barbie & Ken dolls are advertised, and most importantly Disney has rolled out its own line of merchandise based upon the main toy story characters that will certainly be a very profitable business for them. It should be pretty clear why Disney chose to use toys in this movie when they could've just used people, they make lots of money from selling those toys. And this is not the last you are going to see of them, Disney holds the copyright on them for the foreseeable future and they will continue to sell them and build films around them, so as to maintain their profitable business.Conclusion: If you actually cried over this movie, save your tears for a REAL tragedy, the real tragedy is that the Chinese workers who are actually creating these toys are treated like slaves. (See the documentary - {Santa's Workshop: Inside China's Slave Labour Toy Factories})
I love all things Disney. There is ink on my body to prove it. But this movie? I despised it. For me, it was a tacky, over publicized representation of the Toy Story franchise. Now, don't get me wrong, there were sections of the movie where I felt some form of emotion that wasn't pure rage - and this was the ending scene where Andy hands his toys over to the little girl. But the rest of the movie? I felt like it was a waste of my time and money. I had gone in with high expectations after hearing all the rave reviews and, I must say it is one of the worst sequels Disney have ever produced, in my opinion, that is. While the second movie in this trilogy, this movie was however, enjoyed by younger viewers. It takes them on a roller coaster of emotions and teaches them lessons about growing up. But, having viewed it from the point of view of a twenty-something who grew up with these movies, I left feeling disappointed and deflated.
In Asian we love anitmater films, yes. I love to see giant panda do fat fighting things, there are many laughs. Toy story was good too. It was original and that is something we don't see very often, especially here where we copy everything you build and sell it back to you but breaks in 2 weeks. Ha ha. Toy story very clever and now computers do animater, whatever next? Robots take over the world now, humans are their slaves. So was amazing, looked great. Toy story 2 was exactly the same as first. Little bit different, now Woody was a girl. Woody is American slang for thing that should not be talked of to children. Why is it talked of to children in film for them? Is a bit wrong, I think. Ignoring disgusting innuendo, film was interest. Not very but kids like it and I like them to shut up. Everyone wins. Now third it out. Oh good, more toys to buy exactly like ones from last two films but now with new expensive features. Someone put jokes in and a bit of a story. Not much, just little bit. Is good for kids film. Kids like but as boy in movie, they get too old for this now. They don't want toys, they want girlfriend to sleep over. Woody is bad influence. So film OK for younger people. Still very nice. But this film in top 20 of all time best comedy. Is listed with classic movies but is just hour and half advert for things I don't want to have to buy for kids. No. Is good enough and score well for kids film. Better than Asian kids film where everyone dies. But compare to proper comedy... score is bad. Is not classic comedy. Think some people don't understand cinema. Is fine for people with bad education but if you have computer you be lucky enough to think well and should be clever than this. Film has no point. Message of this film is please buy more stuff. Not good for children really and what kind of adults watch? Left cinema thinking i was glad I saw different film and bought pirate DVD of this at station entrance from old woman with no teeth. Sadly disappointed with state of people who think this classic comedy. would score 7 for kids but would not buy more woody dolls even from market. Score only 4 as classic comedy.


                
