Jurassic Park is a 1993 American science fiction adventure film directed by Steven Spielberg. It is the first installment of the Jurassic Park film series. It is based on the 1990 novel of the same name by Michael Crichton, with a screenplay written by Crichton and David Koepp. The film centers on the fictional Isla Nublar, an islet located off Central America's Pacific Coast, near Costa Rica, where a billionaire philanthropist and a small team of genetic scientists have created a wildlife park of cloned dinosaurs.Jurassic Park is the second Steven's Spielberg Classic cult Film. A great science fiction/action/adventure film. This film is great edge of your seat action sequences. It has a wonderful cast with wonderful performance of their characters. John Williams music score is excellent the same like is in Indiana Jones films. Beside Raiders of the Lost Ark is the second Best classic movie in the franchise. Jurassic Park (1993) was nominated for 3 Academy Awards for Best Sound, Best Effects, Sound Effects Editing and Visual Effects.I love this film to death! It is been 22.years since we got this awesome adventure dinosaurs flick. I know a couple of friends of mine that love this film including me. It is a cult classic film and It has a heart. We have Tyrannosaurus Rex chasing the group, Velociraptors chasing Tim and Lex after they are reaching the visitor center and they are in inside the main kitchen. Dilophosaurus killing Nerdy. We also have Triceratops in it and Brachiosaurus. They are other dinosaurs used in the film: Gallimimus, Parasaurolophus and Alamosaurus they both had a cameo scene in it. The special effects creating the dinosaurs by Stan Winston are FANTASTIC! The dinosaurs were created with groundbreaking computer-generated imagery by Industrial Light & Magic and with life-sized animatronic dinosaurs built by Stan Winston's team. To showcase the film's sound design, which included a mixture of various animal noises for the dinosaur roars, Spielberg invested in the creation of DTS, a company specializing in digital surround sound formats. Stan Winston and his team did a great job animating live Dinosaurs on a screen. Steven Spielberg did a wonderful job directing this film, it is definitely my second best childhood film from Steven Spielberg. The first best film would be Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981) which I love this film to death. The screen play written by Michael Crichton and David Koepp did a great job and the plot of the film was just awesome. The plot: During a preview tour, a theme park suffers a major power breakdown that allows its cloned dinosaur exhibits to run amok.The crew cast all did a wonderful job of acting. The acting of this film was terrific and believable. Sam Neill as Dr. Alan Grant, a leading paleontologist did a wonderful job portraying his character. He act the character like he was written on his skin. Laura Dern as Dr. Ellie Sattler, a paleobotanist. did a wonderful job like how she cared about an ill Triceratops. I was really surprised how the character cares about an ill dinosaurs that she barely know and she wanted to help him was out stating! Laura Dern for me in this film was a heart and a key watching this film of how a good hearted person she is. Jeff Goldblum as Dr. Ian Malcolm, a mathematician and chaos theorist was really good in his acting and his character. Richard Attenborough as John Hammond, InGen's billionaire CEO and the park's creator was awesome playing his character. It is really a shame Richard Attenborough died last year and he isn't with us anymore. Ariana Richards and Joseph Mazzello as Lex and Tim did a wonderful job portraying John Hammonds grand children. I didn't know Samuel L. Jackson was in this film I really didn't know that. The whole cast was awesome in here.Music by score by John Williams is fabulous and fantastic I always love this song to death. There is everything in this film I love. How Dr. Grant, Lex and Tim are fighting to survive when they are trapped alone in the park. How tough and strong they are they don't panic and screaming they are fighting to come back save home. Lex and Tim are cornered by a pair of raptors inside the main kitchen. In one of the most terrifying scenes in the entire film, the raptors stalk through the dark kitchen, searching for the kids. Eventually, Lex and Tim manage to lure one of the raptors into the freezer and lock it in, but the other raptor chases them out of the kitchen. The scene was the most memorable to me and terrifying. Another terrifying scene is when Ellie discovers Ray's severed arm in the maintenance shed and she sees the raptor that eat Ray try's to eat her, that also scared me a lot. After the power was cut off on the electric fences and the kids with Alan are climbing over the fences and the power is turn back on by Ellie and Ray the fence electrifies Tim and he fly's down off the fence. The scene was awesome but also terrifying and real. I'm not sure what else you would want in a movie like this?! It is a perfect 10. I love this film to death! I love this film to death!! The action sequences are also awesome, the plot, the cast everything is great about this film.


                
In the year 1993, Hollywood saw something unlike anything else, the film Jurassic Park. Never before 1993 had dinosaurs been so breathtaking and realistic on the silver screen.The plot is very original. A group of scientists cloned dinosaurs, and are about to open an amusement park where people can see the dinosaurs. The creator John Hammond(Richard Attenborough) invites a group of people, along with his grandchildren, to see the dinos and enjoy a relaxing time at the park. Could anything go wrong, at the time it doesn't seem like it, but something else is going on. Employee Dennis Nedry is planning to steal dinosaur embryos. In order to do this, he causes a security breakdown so he can get the embryos and escape. He isn't the only one that can escape, as hungry dinos also escape. After this, everyone on the island is in danger, and loose dinosaurs are everywhere. That is where the fun in Jurassic Park comes in.This is an underrated movie according to the IMDb ratings. It isn't even in the top 250. Today, people don't appreciate it as much, mainly due to the fact that other movies like it have been made. Growing up in the 90's, this was one of my favorite movies. As a kid, I only watched it to see the dinosaurs, as I didn't understand a whole lot of it. Today, I realize how great the plotting and suspense are.This spawned two sequels. The second one wasn't bad, but the third wasn't very good. I would recommend seeing the second after this, but the third is passable.The story is great, how at first we see how the magic was created, and then later we see the magic turn into a disaster, in which everyone's life is at stake.The special effects are still good today, but they were revolutionary for back in 1993. The acting is good, and the ensemble cast is great. All of the action sequences are perfectly executed, creating plenty of suspense and tension.Younger kids may get scared by this, as I remember a lot of young kids being scared by it in 1993. If kids aren't scared by dinosaurs, they will probably enjoy the movie.I highly recommend Jurassic Park. It is quite underrated in my opinion, it deserves more credit than it gets.Watch this at all costs if you have somehow missed it and see what everyone was amazed about back in 1993.Enjoy


                
Even though it was adapted from a book, this unique story was destined to become an incredible film. Great casting, decent acting, great special effects, beautiful and perfect score by John Williams, incredible directing. I believe this movie has to be one of the greatest science fiction films ever made. Although not entirely true to the book, (though someone should never say a movie is not good because it is not exactly like the book because that really doesn't matter) Steven Spielberg made this story a landmark in special effects and a standard for thriller films to be compared to. It also contains some scenes that are instant classics, such as the first time they see the dinosaurs, the kitchen scene with the raptors, the end scene with the raptors and the T-Rex, the scene with the T-Rex and the kids in the jeep, and of course the scene where the T-Rex chases the jeep. I will keep this movie in my list of favorites and classics till the day i die.


                
Simply one of the greatest films of all time. How on Earth it is only rated as 7.9/10 I'll never know.It has a great plot, structured of course around Michael Crichton's equally brilliant novel, and the graphics are absolutely superb. Jurassic Park, along with the sequel 'The Lost World: Jurassic Park', had Dinosaurs that were actually convincing. Of course, there was some artistic license involved - certain behaviours of the animals were exaggerated or entirely fabricated - but that in no way detracts from the film. They are certainly better than those in the comparably average third instalment in the franchise, 'Jurassic Park III'. Living in the 21st century (or 20th, as it were) this film gave us a recreation of these creatures that was genuinely believable.For all their fancy graphics and obscene budgets, films such as 'Avatar' will never compare to the likes of Jurassic Park.


                
Look up the word "awe" in the dictionary... ya know what you'll find? Jurassic Park. And now in 3D! Usually, I don't really like post- converted 3D in movies, but this one won me over. Ever since I was a little kid, I've always loved Jurassic Park (I think we all did) and I'd always heard that it was one of the best movie theater experiences ever. Unfortunately, I wasn't born when this originally came out so I never got the chance to experience that... until now! And damn, were they right when they said it was an awesome movie theater experience because it sure as hell is. It's so fun, engrossing, and thrilling to watch it on the big screen, with all the sound surrounding you (the sound in Jurassic Park has got to be some of the best sound in a movie ever). Jurassic Park is also one of the most monumental movies of all time. It defined CGI. The CGI and special effects in this movie still holdup today and are even better than most movies today.The story of Jurassic Park is that a really rich guy has cloned dinosaurs to make an amusement park full of living dinosaurs (you would do that if you could too). Because they are these live dinosaurs in the park, his investors say that he needs approval from experts, so he recruits Dr. Alan Grant (a paleontologist who is more or less the protagonist of the movie), Dr. Elli Sattler (a paleobotanist), and Dr. Ian Malcom (a mathematician who's character is pretty much the show stealer). Through a number of circumstances, the dinosaurs get loose and all hell breaks loose. Now, we have our movie being one of the most awe- inspiring movies ever; as well as being one of the most suspenseful movies ever. When the characters first enter Jurassic Park, you see the many dinosaurs in the distance and the theme (one of the greatest movie themes of all time) is playing in the background. Your jaw just drops. And the dinosaurs look awesome. Sometimes they're CGI, sometimes they're animatronic. Sometimes they're amazing... oh wait, that's all the time. One of my favourite scenes is when the T-Rex is attacking the car and a flashlight shines in its eye and the eye dilates. That just shows how detailed and alive these dinos are.But the dinosaurs don't wreak havoc until about halfway, or even 3/4, through the film. Even yet, the movie does a brilliant job of immersing you into it, bringing you onto this island, and getting you to care for the characters. The dialogue and acting are so good that you feel as though you're there with the characters (it drags sometimes but it's easy to get past that). And when they're in peril, you feel as though you're in danger too. I just can't stress how substantial the suspense in Jurassic Park is. The 3D does add to that, too. The 3D in this movie is probably the best post-converted 3D I've ever seen and it works really well.Jurassic Park is really a movie that everyone should experience (notice how I didn't say "watch"). If you get the chance, see it in theaters and have your mind absolutely blown. The movie is full of awe and imagination; it sometimes makes me feel like a little kid again. The characters are likable; their dialogue is believable and sometimes humorous. The dinosaurs are awesome. The suspense is intense as hell. The soundtrack is perfect. It's a classic...


                
This was obviously the most sophisticated portrayal of dinosaurs at the time, and it doesn't age a bit.  Sam Neill plays Dr Alan Grant, a paleontologist who is persuaded to check out Richard Attenborough's new theme park, only to find that he has managed to clone dinosaurs.  There is plenty of action, and the dinos look so real as to be positively scary!  Sam Neill puts in his usual incredibly brilliant performance, and you can really believe he is acting with the creatures!  Jeff Goldblum as usual seems to play himself, as Professor Ian Malcolm, an expert in chaos theory who is convinced the park is a bad idea.  The cast are amazing, the effects are amazing, this whole movie is amazing.  It doesn't get any better than this!


                
Steven Spielberg is known for making great movies like, "E.T." and "Schindler's List". But on June 11 1993. He released my favorite movie, "Jurassic Park".What make's this movie great is the special effects. They really brought the Dinosaurs to life. It also had some nice suspenseful scene's. Also, the acting was good. Sam Neil does a nice job as Alan Grant and Richard Attenborough does a great job as John Hammond. Plus, the theme song was incredible. Sometimes when you listen to it, it feel's like you're going to cry.In the end, "Jurassic Park", is a great film and it is definitely worth watching.


                
I first saw this back when I was little. If I remember correctly, it was also a big thing when it came out. I even had a backpack with a Velociraptor head sticking out of it for school. It was such an amazing achievement as a movie itself and the film is so wonderfully done that there's no doubt of why it has held up as long as it has and will remain the best dinosaur film ever created.The dinosaurs in this film look more realistic than any other prehistoric film, or even most movies today that try to pass off crappy CGI has reality. The acting was spectacular, and aside from how wonderful the creatures look and how vicious and exciting they were like no other dinosaur film had had them before, the plot and characters were solid and incredibly entertaining where you didn't think they would be so amusing. I will have to say again that one really huge reason why most people loved this movie was because of the special effects, but here again, isn't that an accomplishment in itself? Having your audience enjoy the film because of how realistic and fresh you are able to make it feel and look? I have never seen another movie with better effects than this one, ever. I am sure none of these horrible effects dinosaur movies that have been coming out lately could ever live up to the greatness of Jurassic Park.I am always going to love Jurassic Park for it's witty, unbelievable maneuvers and incredible screenplay though, as well. It was so properly thought out and executed, where most might have been expecting it to be nothing but high levels of adrenaline rushes with brainless action, which there was pulsating action, it just certainly wasn't as mindless. Many who dislike Jurassic Park really just have all the same reasons the average movie-goer would have for disliking a film, yet I haven't heard anyone fully describe and explain, well, what they truly thought were faults with this film, which gives me reason to believe that Jurassic Park is a masterpiece, for I, myself, have no faults with this film, except that I have seen other films that I enjoyed more. . . just a little more.


                
This movie was released during my childhood while I was already a dinosaur enthusiast. I saw it 2 times at the cinema and as far as I can remember these were the only 2 times I ever saw an audience applaud at the end. It made an big impression. Computer generated images were new at that time and we didn't know what to expect. But I think I can speak for everyone if I say we were blown away. The dinosaurs looked so real. And even in the years after that computer generated images in other movies were just not as good and realistic as in Jurassic Park.Another thing that made this movie is the soundtrack. John Williams (the composer) absolutely nailed it! The music at the arrival to the island combined with the the adventure ahead was just breathtaking.So you have a good story, good actors (I loved Jeff Goldblum for his humor), state of the art special effects and an thrilling adventure. This makes it still my number one of all time and I don't expect that to change anytime soon (or ever).


                
Jurassic Park. An island full of dinosaurs who terrorise people; a simple premise but extremely well done. From beginning to end this film is just an enjoyable watch. Back in 1993 when it was released these never-before-seen effects had to have wowed audiences, and even now it still holds up with the anamatronics, CGI combo, it is really good; I've seen worst stuff in other movies and TV series. The characters I thought were pretty well done and acted, you really didn't want certain things happen to certain people and I really like Sam Neil as Alan Grant. Now, I was really exited to watch my favourite film on the big screen and especially in 3D, I watched it in IMAX as well, something I had never done before, and boy did it deliver. The 3D in this movie was one of the best I've seen in ages, better than Man of Steel and Iron Man 3 by far. Jurassic Park in the third dimension brought a whole new life too it, just some of the scenes with the trees, and leaves and then an awesome scene in the kitchen was good in 3D. So yes, I think Jurassic Park will continue being my favoured film for a long time to come.


                
This movie is simply a legend. A date in history of cinema.With Terminator 2, Jurassic Park is one of the first movie that shows wonderful CGI. And now, it is forever one of the best, until his 21 years. Everything is just awesome. Spielberg at the summum of his art, John Williams create another time a legendary ost, and all the actors are just more than best, and especially two of the them. Richard Attenborough(RIP) play John Hammond, owner of Ingen and creator of Jurassic park. He is a very great actor (and director). He don't play John Hammond, for everybody who love cinema, he is John Hammond. And Sam Neil, what can i say about him ? Simply he is one genius. He is at the best with playing Alan Grant. For some people, he became just one role. Watching him in another program, i am sur that somebody would automatically said : it's the guy from Jurassic Park, Doctor Grant ! And that is the best for an actor, he leave his mark in the collective inconscious. Sam Neil is more an actor, he is a great man.


                
Perhaps more so than any other director in film history, Steven Spielberg has locked into that most desirable niche of movie-making: pleasing everyone at the same time. When his spectacular action-adventure Jurassic Park was first released in 1993, he left critics, film buffs, casual viewers, parents and children equally spellbound. Twenty years later, the film has been re-released in both 3D and IMAX, allowing a new generation to experience the magic, and old fans the chance to relive it again.Eccentric millionaire John Hammond (Richard Attenborough) has created the ultimate theme park on a secluded island, and he wants to offer a sneak preview to a select group of individuals (Sam Neill, Jeff Goldblum and Laura Dern). Of course, the prehistoric attractions don't much appreciate being detained for the amusement of others, and begin to cause havoc as soon as they take the opportunity to escape from their enclosures. An extremely imaginative plot adapted from Michael Crichton's novel of the same name, it sets the foundation for a rip-roaring battle for survival.For many viewers that first saw Jurassic Park as pre-teens, the greatest thrill will come from appreciating, to a greater degree, the way the film deftly builds suspense. Cleverly building up to the revelation of the 'meatasauruses' by stunning us with the visual treat of cuddly herbivores, when we do finally meet the imposing Tyrannosaurus, it is one of cinema's most exhilarating set pieces, only to be topped some time later by the thrilling cat-and-mouse game in the kitchen.It is a testament to the incredible skill of the animatronics and visual effects team that the film's most dated quality is the occasionally cheesy dialogue that burdens Lex and little brother Tim. The dinosaurs are clearly the main event, but the undercard of Jurassic Park spares no expense, with touches of class including Dr. Grant's personal evolution from a child apathist to a fully-fledged family man and a miasma of Shelley-esque criticisms of man's innate desire to play god while drunk on the illusion of total control.To call this the movie event of the year would be to make the grossest of understatements. Experiencing this glorious monument to total escapism on the world's biggest cinema screen is simply mandatory for anyone was has ever felt goosebumps in a theater. Bring your kids- they'll never forget it.*There's nothing I love more than a bit of feedback, good or bad. So drop me a line on jnatsis@iprimus.com.au and let me know what you thought of my review. If you're looking for a writer for your movie website or other publication, I'd also love to hear from you.*


                
i really enjoyed this movie. it was worth my time. i also loved the casting and the director. i would see it again. in fact i actually bought it. i recommend it to someone who has not seen it because it is entertaining. even thought there are a few flaws in it it still is worth it. my sister also loves this movie and my whole family enjoys it as well. i love the sequels too. they actually match up with the first movie and there not one of those movies that you have to watch for a half hour to figure out what is going on.thanks a bunch-Elee


                
It still baffles me why this brilliant movie isn't in the top 250 movies for IMDB! it's amazing! I think this is the kind of film that people take too seriously and don't see the obvious reasons what make this such a great movie.  For one such as "Jurassic Park" it represents everything a summer blockbuster should be, (and why Spielberg is the king of 'blockbuster summer' movies).In all fairness, a film like this is only worth watching for the special effects (which still remain top-notch).  It is a dinosaur movie- it does exactly what it says on the tin- it thrills and amazes and never lets up, it is perfect popcorn fare and not since "Jaws" (the first proper summer blockbuster!) has a film so brilliantly had such an affect on movies which were to follow. Essentially it is "Jaws" on-land and it does so perfectly, with great pace great set-pieces.  I wish this film was in the top 250, if any movie deserves it , "Jurassic Park" does, not just for being such a great film but also for revolutionising films from there on out!!Brilliant!!!


                
This is a film that has truly stood the test of time and has remained a modern classic of the Hollywood blockbuster system. Deservedly becoming the biggest film of all time in 1993 and launching the most entertaining film series ever made, Spielberg's film contains all the cliches a blockbuster should have and ensures that it remains good fun. We have the courageous scientist in the shape of Sam Niell, his fiesty girlfriend courtesy of Laura Dern, a doom and gloom expert in the causes of the problem at hand thanks to a brilliant performance from Bob Peck and the quirky scientist type who prophesises doom from the get go in the shape of Jeff Goldblum. This is fun and has remained so for the last ten years.Where the film has remained so good over the past decade is in its use of CGI and at the time state of the art special effects. They still haven't dated and look fluidly real as if the technology had only been made yesterday. Undoubtedly the dinosaurs are the star here (none of the actors have headlined each film with a change of performer for each one, Goldblum in the second installment, Niell returning for number three), but it doesn't matter because the dinosaurs here are truly movie stars in their own right and like characters in an ensemble film they all get their moments. The T-Rex gets to cause spectacular destruction, the Raptors get to be the vicious and conniving villains of the story, the Brachiosaurus ensures it grabs our awe while the Tricerotops gains our sympathy.However, Spielberg ensures that it isn't just the dinosaurs who are the stars here. He creates tension in the way that only he can with prolonged set pieces such as the T-Rex attack and the moment Alan and Tim have to race down a tree with the threat of a car falling on top of them. Sure it ain't art, it's great entertainment and it is great fun and it here where Spielberg ensures the film classic status. He uses the two hour frame to set up events and the story in the first hour and then let the chaos rip in the second with suspenseful action sequence after suspenseful action sequence and it works. While you may not look to performances in a film like this, it does have some fantastic actors. Niell seems surprisingly well suited to being a Spielbergian hero who starts of disliking children only to have his heart melted at the end. He appears to be having great fun playing the guy who saves the day. Jeff Goldblum almost runs away with the entire film as Malcolm, the quirky off beat nature of the character ensuring many a great one liner while Richard Attenborough is heart breaking as the Walt Disney like John Hammond whose dream becomes a violent nightmare.The film is great fun from beginning to end and deserves to be up there with Jaws and King Kong as one of the all time great monster movies.


                
After a worker is killed in an accident at the dinosaur theme park 'Jurassic Park' owner John Hammond calls in experts Dr Alan Grant and Dr Ellie Sattler as well as mathematician Ian Malcolm to visit it the park and clear it to open to the public. 'Jurassic Park' is no ordinary theme park; it is on a remote island off the coast of Costa Rica<U+0085> and it contains real dinosaurs! It is explained how these have been created by extracting dinosaur DNA from blood in mosquitoes preserved in amber. The first ones the visitors see are harmless herbivores but they are told that the park also contains some of the most famous carnivores such as Tyrannosaurus and Velociraptor; something that both excites and concerns the scientists. After an introduction the visitors, along with Hammond's grandchildren, Lex and Tim, and the company lawyer take part in a tour of the park. As they travel things go wrong for two reasons; a tropical storm is heading for the island and, more importantly, a corrupt company employee as set up a computer program that will turn off various security systems including the electric fences that protect the guests so he can attempt to steal dinosaur DNA sell it to a competitor. Once things do go wrong those on the tour find themselves fleeing for their lives following a T Rex attack on their vehicles while those at the park headquarters try to find a way to get the systems working again. Inevitably not everybody will get out alive.Like most people who watched this in the cinema when it was new I was amazed by the special effects that brought long extinct creatures back to life; watching it again over twenty years later and they still look fantastic. If one didn't know that dinosaurs died out millions of years ago you could be excused for thinking you were watching real animals. While these were the films big selling point it would have been for nothing if we didn't also have a good story acted by a fine cast<U+0085> luckily we have both. The action isn't rushed; a significant amount of time is spent introducing all the main characters and explaining the characteristics of the various dinosaurs. This means that by the time everything goes wrong we care about the protagonists and know which characters to look forward to seeing die! There aren't a huge number of deaths and those there are aren't overly gruesome; the goriest moment is the brief sight of a severed arm. Despite its UK-PG rating it is surprisingly intense at times and has plenty of genuinely scary moments. The cast do an impressive job; Sam Neill and Laura Dern impress as the two leads and there are also fine performances from Richard Attenborough, Samuel L. Jackson, Jeff Goldblum and Bob Peck. Child characters are often annoying but Joseph Mazzello and Ariana Richards are pretty good as Tim and Lex; especially the latter who is a great screamer! Overall I'd defiantly recommend this to anybody wanting a genuinely exciting film that is suitable for most ages.
This film is easily one of my favorite movies. I saw this movie when it came out in theaters back in 1993; I was only 9-years-old and, though some scenes scared the crap out of me, it blew me away. I was amazed at how, for the first time in a movie, I felt like I was watching REAL dinosaurs. For those who haven't seen this movie (there are people like that?), it centers on a billionaire's attempt to create a new amusement park on an isolated island creating bio-engineered dinosaurs; when a group of specialists are brought in to examine the park, things go terribly wrong.I absolutely loved the story of this film; I loved it so much I had my parents buy me Michael Crichton's novel and I read it 3 times through the course of my fifth grade year. It was then that I fell in love with the work of Crichton and found myself reading the rest of his work. While, yes, the movie did divert pretty heavily from the book, I still felt it was a great adaptation. It's Spielberg's version of Crichton's story, so I don't mind the mass differences. The movie is much more family-friendly than Crichton's novel and I would love to see a another version eventually, a darker version that sticks closer to Crichton's novel. Unlike most instances when I can say "The book was better" or "The movie was better", I don't feel the need in this case because they were both fantastic.The cast did a terrific job. Sam Neill, Laura Dern, Richard Attenborough...all were great in their roles. Though my favorite performance came from Jeff Goldblum as Dr. Ian Malcolm, the arrogant chaos theoretician. I've been a fan of Goldblum for a while and I thought he was the perfect choice for the role in this movie. Of course, I have to rave a bit about the film's special effects. As I mentioned before, this film contains probably the most realistic dinosaurs seen in cinema. A seamless combination of practical animatronics and CGI were used to bring the dinosaurs to life. By now, the effects seem a little dated but they continue to stand strong even now, 15 years later.This movie is one of those films that every must see. It grossed $350 million in the US alone. The film marked yet another milestone in special effects in cinema. And most importantly, it's just entertaining.


                
Well, I have to hand it to Steven Spielberg, even though he often annoys me. He made us pay attention to archeology and the Ark Of The Covenant; he educated us on Great White Sharks;, a made us love an ugly little space alien and he even made Whoopi Goldberg look good. Wow, say what you will, the man has done some amazing things in the world of film. Here, he brings dinosaurs back to life and gives us another classic adventure story, unlike anything seen up to this time. I rank this one right up with the best of all-time among great adventure stories. Few people can forget how stunned they were when they viewed these life-like dinosaurs for the first time on screen. And who can forget the T-Rex in the first frightening scene and the Raptors in the last intense scene? This is truly memorable stuff. To this day, those scenes can still get your attention.The movie has always been fun to watch, and not just because of the thrills or special effects, of which there are too many to recite here. There is humor in here and characters are interesting, led by Richard Attenborough as the scientist who creates Jurassic Park. The kids in here - Joseph Mazello and Ariana Richards - do a fine job of acting, as good as the adults.This isn't perfect by any means. There are some negatives such as the usual Spielberg plugs for liberal/secular causes, but I'd rather keep this review on the positive side, since it was so entertaining and ground-breaking, in a way, with the special effects, plus anyone who is slightest bit interested has already seen this movie at least once and probably more.


                
As a child I saw this movie in theaters and many times on VHS. I was mesmerized by the adventurous and thrilling nature of the film. JP made a big influence on 90's kids. Today I can watch this movie and still be thrilled by the product. Being older now I see the appeal to both children and adults. The characters are relate able and you feel immersed in the Jurassic experience. The music is amazing and adds to the adventurous feel of Jurassic Park. As a kid I saw many adult characters as role models and now I watch and laugh at all their clever quotes. The story and effects still are great; I believe this is one of the best productions of the 1990's; I believe this film is a great example of movie magic.


                
"God creates dinosaurs. God destroys dinosaurs. God creates man. Man destroys God. Man creates dinosaurs."Since we're only a couple of days away from the premiere of Jurassic World I wanted to share some thoughts on one of my all time favorite movie going experiences (perhaps my favorite). I was only 12 years old when Steven Spielberg released Jurassic Park in 1993 and from the second the movie started I was at the edge of my seat. From the breathtaking and groundbreaking visuals, to the outstanding cast, and the magnificent score everything about Jurassic Park made me fall in love with it. The dinosaurs had come to life before my very eyes, and Spielberg masterfully wrote a thrilling script that had me sweating for two full hours. I can never forget the thrills I felt during the T-rex scene and that final climax with the velociraptors in the museum's kitchen. I remember thinking there was no one cooler than Sam Neill's Alan Grant and I wanted to be Tim Murphy (played brilliantly by Joseph Mazzello). The rest of the cast was also amazing: Laura Dern, Jeff Goldblum, Richard Attenborough, Ariana Richards, Bob Peck, and Samuel L. Jackson. Many will consider Jaws as Steven Spielberg's most terrifying film, but for me it was Jurassic Park because I got to experience it on the big screen and it was my first memorable experience at a theater. I had seen many other films that had made an impact on me prior to this (Star Wars, The Goonies, Raiders of the Lost Arc, and E.T.) but none in a theater, so Jurassic Park holds that nostalgic value and it will forever remain one of my favorite films. It also became the first film I went to see again at a theater because I couldn't get enough of this world. There are so many quotable lines from this movie and many memorable scenes, and I realize it is going to be impossible for Jurassic World to live up to that standard but I am still highly anticipating it while I relive some of my childhood memories with Jurassic Park. It's a masterpiece.


                
Plot:Just a quick note, the book and film are almost nothing alike. But it doesn't matter! This movie is a masterpiece! Dinosaurs are brought back by using DNA found fossilized THAT is used to create Dinosaurs. Much like with the modern film Avatar, it's not so much about the plot, it's about the experience of being in this world.Characters:Jeff Goldblum is the star. He's the only one in the movie who has a brain or common sense. In fact, some, if not all, famous lines from this movie come from this character. Ian Malcom is a scientist (Rockstar according to John Hammond) and is the ONLY one who finds this whole phenomenon to be a mistake and a giant spit in the face of god and nature.Visuals:The dinosaurs and visuals are groundbreaking. It's the first time CGI was used extensively to create full objects that interact with the natural objects or characters. Animatronics are still used, courtesy of Stan Winston studios, and are incredi-amazing. Ah-Ah-Amazing...Sound:The musical score from John Williams steals the show. Even without seeing the visuals, just hearing the music sends me back to this world.Enjoyment:They really should remake Jurassic Park instead of making of fourth movie. Why make ANOTHER?!


                
Steven Spielberg is one of the greatest directors of all time and is the king of Hollywood blockbusters and this is one of his greatest movies. What I love about Spielberg is how he's always thinking outside the box and doing things nobody else has and in result he had made one ground breaking movie after another making other similarly themed films look absolute in comparison. I mean only Spielberg would have the for-site to license the Jurrassic Park book by Micheal Crichton even before he finished writing it and long before it was released because he saw the movie potential. Before I get to the Dinosaurs let me talk about everything else. First I must praise Micheal Crichton for his brilliant concept. The story gives a plausible(granted not realistic) explanation to how people could resurrect Dinosaurs. The movie starts off strong as in a classic horror movie fashion we get a glimpse of a dinosaur, a Velociraptor attacks a human but we never see the Raptor it self. With a movie like this you expect the first fifteen minutes or so to be exposition and set-up and you expect that we have to wait awhile until we some Dinosaours. Well, all that's true but it's not a problem because Spielberg keeps the pace moving so nicely, it's never boring or slow. Spielberg just gives enough exposition that he needs to give, a old billionaire named John Hammond has a park with real life Dinosaurs and to please a lawyer who represents his sponsors he persuades two archaeologist and a scientist to come along to check it out and give their approval and our story begins. As great as the special effects are you need a great story and great human characters. The story is simple but well done, it makes a ludicrous premise of Dinosaurs being brought back from the dead into 1993 believable and that's because the movie takes it self seriously it's never comes off campy or ironic. The story is similar to Frankenstein as they show what happens when "man" play God. I like all the characters here. Richard Attenburrough is perfect as John, the old man who created the amusement park. I like that they never make him a bad guy or even crazy just misguided and you even feel bad for him when his amusement park dosen't go the way he hoped. The more or less hero of the story is Alan Grant played by Sam Neil, an up-tight archaeologist who dosen't like kids but later does after protecting John's grandkids from Dinosaurs, nothing really deep but a good fit for this story. In fact none of the characters are really deep but still strong characters capable of holding this movie. I like Laura Dern as Ellie, Alan's partner who's tough and fearless. Wayne Knight gives a memorable performance as the double crossing Dennis, who is the only true villain. Samuel L. Jackson is also good as one of the guys who operate the park. My favorite character might be Dr. Ian Malcolm played by Jeff Goldblum. I like how John described him as a "rock star" with his shades and leather jacket. It's hard to explain but Jeff is just so appealing and he brings some humor to the movie. I also really like Bob Peck as the expert hunter Rob Muldon, he's like the Van Henlson to Dinosaurs. I like his rivalry with Raptors and I feel bad when he's killed by one of them, I wish he would of came back for a sequel. But the best thing are the dinosaurs themselves. The special effects are amazing, especially for 1993. The Dinosaurs look real and I don't mean real looking for a movie I mean they look like their really alive. Nothing mechanical or cgi looking about them. The special effects are groundbreaking and some of the best in movie history. First we see the Brachiosaurs, which looks great as well as seeing a Triceatops which looked all too real. but the real moment comes when we see the most iconic Dinosaur of them all the Trannosaurus Rex, who emerges after the power goes out and Ian, Alan and the kids are stuck in a car in front of the T-Rex cage and it attacks the kids in the car. The special effects on the T-Rex looks frighteningly real and I love it's roar. Later the T-Rex chases Ellie, Rob, and Ian in a car which was also great. I also love the Dilophosaurs who attacks Dennis, I love how it's like a rattle snake but unfortunately the real Dinosaur dosen't have the neck fan or shot venom, that was created by Crichton but this is way better. The best Dinosaurs are the Velociraptors, no one even heard of them until this movie. That's one of the great things about this movie is that they introduced us to some lesser known Dinos. I understand for theatrics Spielberg had to make the Raptors more menacing then they really were but he did a great job at making the Dinosaurs be animals acting by instant not monsters. I love how intelligent they made the Raptors. The Raptors are my favorite Dinosaurs in this movie and they steal the show. Although the ending was a little contrived when the T-Rex came out of no where to save "our heroes" from three Raptors, two of which some how escaped a locked room but it made for a good climax any way. I also love the score by the great John Williams. The is def-intently the greatest Dinosaur movie of all time.
I am a 20-year old girl living in Romania, a country God completely forgot about. Growing up, I enjoyed adventure and fantasy movies or stories more than anything, they gave me a sense of hope, great comfort and made me wonder about the world."Jurassic Park" gave children of my age the biggest joy of our lives, years after the movie came out we would still be talking about dinosaurs! I remember a little girl who drew dinosaurs on the street, wishing they were real and she could see one. Her kind of hope still brings tears to my eyes."Jurassic Park" is more than just a movie, it's a magic adventure my generation will never forget. Thank you Steven Spielberg! When I grow up I want to be just like you!
Jurassic Park is the main reason I became a dinosaur fan. When I first saw this movie when I was about 3 or 4 I watched it mainly for the dinosaurs, which I still do but after watching it when I'm a lot older I started to not just love the dinosaurs but the IDEA of a theme park zoo filled with dinosaurs! I also think the story is amazing. I don't see how anyone could hate this film or give it a 1 out of 10. Also as you may know, Dr. Grants character is based on the famous paleontologist Jack Horner. Who as we speak is working on reverse engineering a chicken to give is teeth, tail, and change its wings to claws. This is just one of the many reasons I am interested so much in JP. It has inspired people and has been inspired by people. 10/10


                
I like many saw this as a kid and was so super enthralled. the movie was fun, scary and at times LAUGH OUT LOUD funny. people who only watch this for the special effects must pay attention to the dialog and story. its actually very deep and raises certain questions rely questioned in movies today. this movie for some reason people skip over the acting, but cm on! its got some of the best actors here doing probably there best work. who can forget Jeff goldblum as Ian Malcolm?? this guy was hilarious, almost every bit of dialog he said was brilliantly funny and just his whole unique idiosyncratic personality added so much to the film. no wonder he was cast again in "the lost world", although he was sadly less funny in that one. then you got Sam Niel as Alan grant, again, brilliant actor who fit his role perfectly and you really believed he was this smart scientist dinosaur guy. he was very down to earth and a very caring rugged type of guy, and also very likable in the main role. laura dern is perhaps the weak spot, at times she kinda annoyed me but yet at the same time, she was very real and her and Sam Neil had great chemistry. however i don't like what they did to them in JP3, it contradicts the ending of JP1, but ah well, i tend to just ignore JP3 ever happened. the kid actors are actually very good, the boy was so cute and funny always following grant around and being the comedy relief, and the girl wasn't bad either. its surprising actually, 2 kid actors that didn't annoy me! how refreshing! and even the small roles like with the fat guy dennis and the small role of samuel l jackson as the computer guy and of course the badass muldoon "SHOOT HEEER!" were actually really great acting and often times very funny! anyway, almost 20 years later i still remain impressed and this is a film that is not to be missed, and if i ever have kids i look forward to sharing this film with them, thats how much i love this movie!


                
