Poor acting, casting, writing, direction.  The 'plot' is very, very silly. Even when I was a kid I would have thought this very childish.  The dialogue was awful and Jeff Golblum was especially dreadful.I like Sam Neill and Bob Peck.  What were they doing in this?  Dicky Attenborough, we've come to expect this silliness of him.Typical Spielberg precocious 'wise kids' at the centre of the action as usual.  Cheesy themes, predictable outcomes.But the special effects were great...


                
There are far too many errors in this movie. The T-Rex walks out of it's pen, then the jeep falls down a cliff at the same spot. The acting is the worst I've seen in any movie of the last 20 years. By definition, paleontologists mainly study geology of past periods, rather than biology. Thus, we can deduct that the main characters would be more surprised, or make more mention of- the dinosaurs physiological and anatomical attributes such as skin and eye color, body temperature, sounds, and overall appearance. The lumber some walking and bobbing of heads that Hollywood often adopts for dinosaurs is highly uncommon in modern cold blooded reptiles. Even the giant Gila Monsters move swiftly with grace and dexterity. The dramatic human like personalities of the dinosaurs is another purely Hollywood stunt. Yes, velociraptors may have the physiological ability to open a door, but without human reasoning, they wouldn't know "why" to open one. The biggest underlying question throughout the movie is "why?". Why do the dinosaurs want to kill? Why aren't the characters more surprised and ask more questions? Why are there kids on the island? Why did the director let so many slip-ups pass through the final cut? Why did the boy survive a 10,000 volt electric shock? Feel free to contact me at kingshive@yahoo.com PS Why'd they have to use Newman as Nedry??? Haha, I think he was the best actor in the movie.


                
Plenty of hype was made about this film when it came out that it was almost as if P.T. Barnum himself was behind it.  Needless to say it was not "The Greatest Film of All Time". It sadly strayed far from the fine novel it was based on. Good actors were on hand but were only there as furnishings for the Spielberg special effects. All attempts at suspense were on the level of a childrens Saturday morning TV show. Years from now it could very well find itself on MST3K (If MST3K is revived of course)


                
A great movie...for 10 year oldsand down to about 5.Seems obvious (to me at least) the actors (all adults) realized they were in a silly kids flic, so really didn't try that hard.  Story was really no great challenge to their acting abilities.I gave it a 2.


                
Like the title says, there are only 2 good things about this movie: The Music and the Dinosaurs. I found it very difficult to watch this movie due to the characters. Throughout the entire movie I found myself rooting for the Dinos to just kill off these morons.I thought that I may like this because I'm a fan of John Williams (the Composer), Steven Spielberg, and older movies like Jaws but this was a real miss for me. Would I recommend this to a friend, yes only because I think everyone should see classics like this, Jaws, Star Wars, etc.


                
To me, Steven Spielberg is one of the greatest directors of all time, just one movie is enough to call him a master; Saving Private Ryan. Jurassic Park was a very big disappointment to me, because I had expected much more from Spielberg, instead, it was a solid and at times very slow paced and mediocre adventure film. The first half was like an interminable introduction, it was too slow paced, I expected some action or fun, had none of them. Then I ask, where is fun in the first half? I had expected a perfectly directed, also perfectly written action, suspense, suspense or a gribbing story, but it was uninteresting till the second half. The only successful thing in the movie is visual effects, as you know, it was a revolutionary experience in cinema in that year. I appreciate, but as an adventure or action, I think that the movie is just OK. In the second half, I had expected that there would be a battle between the family and the dinosaurs. A do-or-die fight, but couldn't find anything spectacular. JP is a movie which when you are shocked by electric wire, nothing happens, but your hair bristles! Jurassic Park is like a tour in the park rather than being trapped feeling. When the family arrives Jurassic Park, we see dazzling dinosaurs, CGI is flawless and the famous car scene takes place which was impressive, but no more than that.


                
I went to see this original Jurassic Park when it first came out.At the time, I was struck by how really, really dumb it was. Over time, I've come to recognize what it was I'd seen: It was a nasty case of Producers' Cold Feet Syndrome. Possibly compounded by the Director and other artistic voices not having the cajones to countenance those dumbing-down voices and redeem the exercise a bit.The characters are reduced to cartoon caricatures. The flick plays like a first-draft storyboard animatic. Driven by the producers' knee-jerk responses to dailies, the "denouement" is funneled into an insulting joke of a resolution. And they think the whole exercise in narrative dim-wittedness can be redeemed by closing out on an off-the-shelf, one- size-fits-all "geez-aren't-kids-'n'-family-just-the-coolest-thing" scene.I give it one star (over the minimum '1') because you can see that some folks tried. They really did. But... No Cigar. A lot of money spent on a big nothing'.


                
This movlie makes no sence dinosuars dont real and people coud bet the dinus up it is bad and i dont get it


                
Jurassic Park was surely a tremendous ground breaking event. Spielberg is at his best here.  The special effects are fantastic and each scene has a special tension and effect of its own.  Spielberg weaves a magic web and pleases everyone in the process.  He puts in a few things here and there to please the more liberal in the audience as well as the more traditional.  He even sends messages to the critics with words such as sexism to try and appease the media critics.Spielberg also has us rooting against every one who dies and for everyone who lives.  He even gets the audience to laugh hysterically while a person is torn apart.  In fact a number of people complained that there was not enough gore in Jurassic Park 3.  If you are looking for gore than you will get much more with this film than with JP3.  There was a more gritty tone with this film than with JP3. We got to see cows and other animals eaten alive in detail. But beyond the appeasement of those who need to be convinced of realism through gore and other methods, it is with action that Spielberg excels.  Fantastic use of sound and special effects make this film a thrilling event.  Spielberg has shown he is the king of action even on the small budget of Duel.  I was reminded of the terror invoked through the shaking of the ground and the loud sounds of a dinosaur walking. 
Jurassic Park was about terror and fear while JP3 was about adventure.  JP3 was a thrll ride in which the audience wishes it was on the island while Jurassic Park we were more in a state of fear.  JP3 was full of imagination and excitement and we really cared about the characters.  The smart kid in JP1 was more enjoyable than the crying kids in JP1.  Those who say he could not have survived because teenagers are dumb would probably be the same ones who at one time said women were unable to do anything.  Anyway JP3 was just an adventure that really found redeeming value in every character where JP1 just killed off all the creeps. I was also reminded that Jurassic Park was a statement movie.  The statement being that people should not clone creatures or try and create monsters similar to the ideas in Frankenstein.  JP3 was more like Dracula in that it had no real statement.  JP3 was really about whether or not the characters would escape with their son similar to whether or not one could survive a night in Dracula's castle.  So JP3 was more of a good old fashioned scary adventure and about imagination.  It really depends on what you like.  JP3 also was at a disadvantage being the second sequel but was still very exciting.  Personally, I give a slight edge to JP3 because I just enjoyed it more, though it definately could have been a little longer and would have been even better had Jeff Goldblum been in it.


                
