'Prestige' starts as Jules Verne and ends as Star Trek on a bad day.Atrocious acting: Ever heard of 'Mummerset? It's the word used to describe the ridiculous accent that actors use to indicate they're from the English countryside, the sort of 'ooh-arr' sound that Robert Newton makes in 'Captain Blood'. In 'The Prestige', the ridiculous accent used is 'Mockney', the one actors use to sledgehammer that they're from London. Luckily for Michael Caine, he was born an East Londoner, but the rest of the troupe in this pile of tripe look and sound like they're auditioning for 'Eastenders' (a dreadful UK soap), trying to out-gorblimey each other. Caine does his usual reliable turn as the worldly-wise buddy who's powerless to stop things going wrong, as seen in 'The Man Who Would Be King'. And go wrong they do. When David Bowie is the actor giving the best performance in your movie, you're in trouble. The interchangeable cardboard magician's girl assistants do not manage the transition from TV acting to big screen at all. Caine once did a TV 'masterclass' about screen acting, the upshot being that you shouldn't blink in closeup - note how all the other actors fail to observe this rule, and it shows Caine was right.Preposterous plot: The movie opens with the death of Jackman, where Bale is on Death Row for his murder, and is told partially in flashback to when Bale and Jackman are rival magicians. Bale, for some reason he can't remember, contrived to cause Jackman's wife to die in a trick, so that naturally Jackman is obsessed with revenge. He's also obsessed with discovering the secret of Bale's 'Transported Man' trick, where the magician instantaneously moves from one side of the stage to another. Now at this point, about an hour in, I thought I'd guessed the ending. Jackman has to hire a double in order to pull off Bale's transportation trick; the only problem is that he ends the show beneath the stage while the drunken, stroppy double gets all the applause. (Somewhere along the way, Jackman acquires a wooden leg, which appears overnight, but doesn't seem to inconvenience him beyond a slight limp). Of course, I thought - Jackman eventually gets the double to perform the 'Pledge and Turn' (the opening premise of the trick), so that the double is the one who gets drowned in the tank placed below stage by Bale. I was wrong. We are eventually asked to switch from a reasonably atmospheric period melodrama (think 'The First Great Train Robbery') to schoolboy science fiction. Jackman, at vast expense of which we get no explanation, buys a cloning machine - yes, a cloning machine - from real-life distinguished inventor Nikola Tesla (Bowie). Every time he performs the trick, Jackman dies and is cloned back to life, in the traditional 'Star Trek' transportation manner. What? WHAT? Just as well Tesla's machine didn't work, or he'd be back to give Christopher Nolan a piece of his mind. Sadly not a joke: if 'Prestige' were even just a little tongue-in-cheek or camp, you might be able to feel that your intelligence was not being not just insulted but placed in the stocks and pelted with rotten vegetables, ordure, and pseudo-science as seen in ads for hair conditioner. No, 'Prestige' is deadly serious about itself as a history lesson and as a drama. Starting as Edgar Allen Poe meets Jules Verne, it ends up as Doctor Who meets Star Trek, and it's a train wreck. A terrible film.
Fans of truly great bad acting, crushed birds, bogus history, boredom, bogus science, preening smugness and amateur amputation -- this idiotic flimflam is for you.And if you thought mining or bridge-building was a dangerous game around 1899, think again. Stage magic was apparently fatal or, at last, crippling for nearly everyone involved -- especially if you were an assistant or a canary. Might have been a sound move to avoid using blind (I am not making this up) stagehands. Playing tricks on the audience is as old as film -- perhaps the medium itself should be seen as one big trick -- but this is so clunkily done and so much is signalled in advance (just one example of many -- closeup of rope, medium shot of distraught woman, closeup of rope again, then, abracadabra, silhouette shot of human pendulum -- and watch out for anyone with a limp and of being hit over the head by repeated, blatant examples of duality).Except for Caine, Serkis (maybe) and the feline Bowie, the performers of these very unlikeable characters are cringingly inept with Hugh Jackman taking the marzipan for playing multiple roles so astoundingly badly that you wonder if he thinks great acting consists of SHOUTING while crying and, possibly, having your nose run (or was that yet another tear?). After all, I suppose, if you can't be childishly histrionic at your own wife's funeral, what's the point of turning up? And as the out-of-work actor (if only!) Jackman seems to be doing an outrageous send-up of Robert Newton (not known for his own under-playing, I think). If the idea of such cardboard cutout characters battling over who is the greater not-very-inspired magician seems a bit thin, well, you might be on to something -- at more than two hours this is wildly overlong as well as overwrought. It is also a bit hard to care who wins the "duel" (or how) if you think each is a boring, revolting, homicidal creep. Even the magic business is supposed to be entertaining from time to time but these guys aren't just magicians, they're psychics and so know all about tricks like Sawing a Woman in Half which, as Chris Priest knows, was invented by an illusionist called Selbit and not performed until 1921. (According to the author the dueling magicians' story ends in 1903.)And where does the sadomasochism come from? With all the gloating over gore, violent death and grime, you'd think Mel "Mad Monk" Gibson had had a bloody hand in this. Yet all this grimness is so very silly -- no sense of period; no sense of the theatre or of how magicians actually work; no point of view; no sense of time (which does, probably, have a kind of inexorable reality); above all, not a trace of irony or humour (though some in the audience I was in laughed when one of the ridiculous Hugh Jackman characters fell down). I suppose, though, it is rather comical if the great (offstage) villain is Thomas Edison -- in fact, he may be the Moriarty here, the Napoleon of Crime -- let's hear it for direct current.There may be an interesting movie to be made about the business of magic in the late 19th Century theatre -- but this is definitely not it. It's a typical Hollywood mess which says nothing new, makes not a whole lot of sense and assumes (perhaps correctly) that the audience is a pack of clods. The novel (as usual) makes more sense than the movie which is (as usual) the mucked-up, dumbed-down version of part of the story. While you can't set a whole novel on film (though there have been some interesting attempts) you don't need to turn it into some sort of crazy, inept pantomime set in a mortuary.Many of the changes/"improvements" are inexplicable -- why, for example, is Rupert Angier now Robert? Murdoch-phobia?? Some are crudely for US consumption -- you try putting a pre-decimal English penny in a pistol and see how far you get!And it's full of unsubtle tricksiness such as "AB" (Alfred Borden) "RA" (Robert Angier) "C" (Cutter - no first name? Like Sabu or Paladin?) and for all I know there may be a "DA" "BR" "A" lurking somewhere - but by now who cares? This is the sort of thing that seems clever to people who don't get out too much. Perhaps someone could re-edit this dreary rubbish to transform it into a real movie; cutting out (or dubbing with a human voice) any character mugged by Mr Jackman might be an excellent starting point.But I would much rather have listened to Cutter talking the illusion business over with Tesla -- especially on precisely how you deal with the blood and the noise when you smash a live bird on a table top or how you can produce all that Tesla lightning without deafening performers and audience with Tesla thunder.Is The Illusionist any better?
If you have some IQ and haven't watched this movie yet, don't.At the beginning everyone believes that this movie is going to be brilliant and all the tricks of those magic will be explained. But no, in the end the script writer and director just slap on your face: This is a sci-fi movie you idiot! That replicator machine ruined all the suspension the movie has built in the first 2 hours. All the tricks suddenly become so cheap.It could have been much better if Angier cooperates with that double man and drown him in the end to frame Borden up. But instead, the director got you some alien or terminator machine to replicate 100 Angiers.I registered an account on IMDb just to give this movie one star. You can see how disappointed and angry i am .
I much preferred 'The Illusionist', as that film at least had likable characters a viewer could hope would prevail, in the end. I've seen 'The Prestige' twice, now, and I think even less of it after the 2nd viewing than I did after the first. But, people seem to really identify more, these days, with characters that have no redeeming moral values, and are driven by their dark obsessions to the point of whatever-it-takes. A totally sad, sick, unsatisfying ending.Others have said that one has to have intelligence, and a healthy attention span to enjoy this movie, and I would also add to that, a true interest in magic, and how it works. Though the real 'meat' of the film lay in the personalities, I felt they were suffocated by layers of intricate plot weavery of how the tricks were accomplished, and if you aren't interested in that? this can be a very long watch. I have endured, rather than enjoyed.


                
There was very little to enjoy in this movie. The characters were so unsympathetic as to create apathy for what ever happens next. The plot was predictable; the twists were contrived and silly.The movie itself, while very stylish and pretty to look at, felt forced. It lacks the smooth illusionist's quality that allows us to suspend disbelief and be deceived or dive in and accept the illusion. Instead it bumps along and tries to bully us into believing that we were just fooled.The greatest success of the movie is the creation of the period. The costumes, sets and scenery do an excellent job of putting us in the setting. Visually, the movie is excellent.Dr. Tesla's scientific solution is a horrible plot contrivance that turns a mediocre movie into a something worse. The result of the experiment fails to surprise or shock. The "trick" can be seen coming at us. Personally, I wanted be wrong and hoped there would be some final plot twist that would surprise and redeem this movie. There wasn't.This movie fails to come together. As the film draws to a conclusion, it is very hard to care which character will win. Both are reprehensible enough that it is just too late to care what happens.The Prestige is just frustrating to sit through for all the wrong reasons.


                
How so many people can like a film with such a low quality of writing is beyond me. I am about to tear the film apart. If you have not seen this film, please stop reading now. The film has very good sets and the acting is well done. I cannot complain about either of these two aspects of the film. All actors are top notch. My big beef is with the logic of the storyline. The film starts off with a murder. Hugh Jackman is found drowned in a water tank after falling into it through a trap door from the stage above. Hugh Jackman is copying a magic trick that is done by Christian Bale does with his twin brother who is always disguised and no one knows he has a twin. Later, you find out Hugh Jackman finds a scientist named Tesela who created a machine that can create doubles of anything, but it teleports it nearby. Hugh Jackman uses the machine to make a copy of himself, has a trapdoor that falls into a watertank and drowns the copy on the stage and comes out from wherever it teleports him. His arch nemesis Christian Bale is framed for murdering Hugh Jackman and one of the twin is hung. That's basically it. Now, the tear apart begins. Is the secret twin is just ridiculous. He's going to spend years and years and years, dressing up and hiding his twin, just for one lame magic trick that didn't even do too well? Next, His twin brother is about to be hung and he STILL doesn't come forward and say he's a twin to clear his name. Plus, they were both with the same woman and she didn't know? Next, Hugh Jackman finds out he can clone himself. Bale can pull off his trick with just his brother. Couldn't Jackman just make like two copies of himself and do the trick even better? No, the dumb ass drowns himself every time for some reason. With two copies of yourself, you don't NEED to drown yourself. Not to mention, Jackman could make copies of gold or money, and he never does. Instead, the guy drowns himself over and over again because "He's not sure who the original is and who is the clone." I'm pretty sure the dude that materialized out of thin air is the clone. It's totally unbelievable.
Wow. A "huge" twist that you can see coming down Main Street about an hour and a half before this slow moving, snore fest ends. And not only is the story not entertaining or surprising in any way - it's also long. Way too long.There is a good time piece atmosphere set, but who cares. "Watching Paint Dry part 6 - this time it's water based" may have been a better title.It wasn't all bad. There was a hot chick beside me. And the popcorn had a lot of butter.I am truly surprised that anyone found any entertainment in this film. I'm not sure if the worse part was the slow moving story, or the supposed surprise that in no way should surprise anybody. Somehow, the writers managed to make the story totally unbelievable in every way as well. Now, one may think that getting rid of reality would give the liberty to make an entertaining story - but they managed to avoid this. I guess for film students, and aspiring writers it may be a confidence booster in their own abilities.


                
I'm a Hugh Jackman fan. A few years ago on a business trip to New York City,the hosting firm presented me with a top notch mezzanine seat to see him in the "Boy from Oz." Never did I see any single actor command a stage as he did. Hugh deserved every accolade awarded him. The show itself was quite good but Jackman was BETTER than the show. The problem is that this stage genius makes lousy movies and "The Prestige" proves it.First of all, it cannot compare to this years excellent "Illusionist." Not even close. "Prestige" was filmed in the dark--by that I mean every scene was dank, dark,ominous,creepy, crawly and downright annoying. I felt like I was sitting in an unlit cellar. The plot was highly confusing. The English brogues were as thick as mud and difficult to understand. The acoustics was awful. They needed Tesla like a hole in the head. All those top hats lying around ranked stupider than stupid. Novocaine was better than the usually brilliant Michael Caine. With all these doubles, maybe triples running around, I felt as if I were at a World Series game. Scarlett Johansson was just a pretty face and figure--nothing more. As far as I was concerned, the movie was nothing more than a jumbled up confusing mess unworthy of my time and money.


                
It's the longest movie I've ever sit through, it felt like 9 or 10  hours at least. Nothing interesting happens, it's a story so convoluted  and stupid written only to get to the last "shocking reveal" that  ANYONE with half a brain would expect coming since the introduction  Caine gives about a magic trick. I wonder just how can Hollywood  believe that people are still impressed or interested in this "usual  suspect" trickery: come up with something else already, we don't need  to be "fooled", we can take a good narrative that doesn't try to  outsmart us (specially when it doesn't like in the Prestige).  And then that reveal is even dumber than you could ever imagine, not  that you wouldn't see it coming at least 30 minutes ahead, it's just  that you would hope that it's not THAT stupid and that the  writer/director would respect the audience and give something credible  or at least smart. No luck with that.  Anybody that loves movies should stay away from this crap, I'm just  glad I didn't pay to see it, but I'm sad about wasting a couple of  hours of my time with it. Save yours, go see anything else, avoid at  all costs, it is worse than Al Quaeda.


                
Anyone with taste shouldn't attend a film with either Jackman, Johansson, or Bale, or directed by Nolan. Anyone with a brain would have seen the end coming an hour before the end comes. Chopped-up editing. Confused narration. Historically inaccurate. Very long. Boring cinematography. Studio movie 100 percent. Something has to blow up every 5 minutes to please the audience. The makers don't know if they're directing fiction or historical period piece. Maybe the only thing to save from the film is Bowie, walking through the screen like an alien-life form, with the same distinctive walk we have seen so many times in films (Twin Peaks, the Man Who Fell to earth, ...). David Lynch once wanted to make a film about Nikola Tesla, and Nolan asking Bowie to be him is maybe a nod to the project, but sadly it fails to portray anyone, or anything, in a convincing manner...And all this looks like it's been done and seen before a thousand times.


                
There is something Quentin Tarantino always says that I couldn't help apply to The Prestige. In a lot of interviews, he mentioned that most movies anymore aren't even stories, but rather a single circumstance that the director just lives up to for two hours. And that's exactly the problem The Prestige and every other Nolan film has. Nolan just takes one boring concept, then attempts to stretch it out into a long-winded, boring movie by use of his watered-down metafiction directing style. If The Prestige would have been the idea of any other director, they would have at least added SOMETHING to the one-track story or cut it down to half the time so it would have at least been slightly less tedious to sit though.The Prestige opens up with the single least interesting first hour I've ever witnessed in a film. Is there anything whatsoever that was even remotely meant to hold my attention? From the severely uninteresting opening, the movie tries hard to redeem itself with a middle "twist" that is too shallow to be called a true plot twist. Simply put, it's a weird sci-fi insert and nothing more. I have nothing against that, but one semi-interesting plot point can't save a pointless movie from being pointless. By the predictable ending, all the scenes that made no sense before make sense. I assume this is a style Nolan finds clever, but it got old after Memento. In The Prestige it's simply annoying, if not a bit childish. It's used here as a way to force an uninteresting plot into something that is watchable by indulging the viewer in cliché mystery. And I predictable and analyzed everything I just said above in the first ten minutes alone. Ironic, isn't it, that Nolan tries so hard to unpredictable but the very storytelling method he uses gives himself away. Christopher Nolan is a lot like an immature little kid trying to impress an old magician with a cheap coin trick. It's amusing and cute at most.The other main problem with The Prestige is it lacks anything whatsoever even slightly original. The one-line plot<U+0097>two dueling magicians<U+0097>has been used in everything from multiple CSI episodes to cartoons like Scooby Doo to old classic horror Hitchcock Presents episodes. The sci-fi insert<U+0097>I won't spoil what it is<U+0097>has been done before in other movies time and time again. The dramatic scenes are all as cliché and predictable as possible. All the fanboys who are calling The Prestige even remotely original really make me laugh.The acting is decent on all fronts, and sometimes borders on cheesy when some of the actors forget their accents half-way through. The directing is somewhat stylish, but nothing that held my attention or is anywhere above average.But above all, the main flaw is by far the fact that 2/3rds of the entire movie is irrelevant to the plot or to anything whatsoever. It's just a bunch of old men repeating the same lines about magic tricks over and over to the point of nausea. I don't have the strongest attention span, but I can certainly sit through a slow-paced movie when the slow pacing actually has something to do with the story. For example, the original 1970s Alien had a complete hour of seemingly irrelevant screen time, but it used that to build atmosphere. Here, in The Prestige, you have an hour and a half of screen time devoted to nothing but hearing old men talk about things that make no difference. It doesn't build atmosphere; it bores. I was already screaming, "Does it EVER end?" at the screen before I was even halfway through, and that is simply ridicules.Overall, The Prestige is a completely pointless watch because you've seen it all before<U+0097>in half the time. It's cliché, painfully boring, and ultimately pointless: all staples of Christopher Nolan's film making.0/10


                
Some movies, while lingering in your thoughts after leaving the theater, mellow like a fine wine. This turned to vinegar very quickly. The story began sensibly enough, but then quickly degenerates into an incoherent mess, as if the script was half-written when given the studio's green light, financed, and cast, then sloppily given a dopey, intelligence-insulting last written half. Having seen "The Illusionist", I almost thought they had attempted a poor satire of the much, much better movie. As if taking a cue from this nit-witty script, the acting, from such a star-studded cast, was amazingly half-rate. Scarlet Johanssen should not attempt a British accent ever, ever again; even Michael Caine's and Christian Bale's cockney accents were cringe-inducing and they're both British! Even with the large budget they were probably given for set design (it takes place around 1899), they still screwed this up and made it look incredibly amateurish - the scenes of Colorado Springs from a hillside made the town look like a wintertime snow-globe village. The special effects were wasted on the idiotic idea that Nicola Tesla built an energy globe that could replicate objects and, oh my God, people. All in all, a forgettable movie.
Is it a sin to want have an enjoyable time when shelling out my hard earned money? Is it too much to ask to have the story make a tiny bit of sense? Am I being unreasonable to want to at identify with, or even like, at least one of a story's characters? In my humble opinion - that's not really asking for too much! When driving home from the theater, it crossed my mind that the two magicians are like Karl Rove, (the Republican party strategist and America's #1 Faustian) - they will do absolutely anything to "win!" As far as the story's two main character's are concerned, that means even commit murder (repeatedly in one case), or drive one's wife to suicide! Perhaps the filmmakers were attempting to drive this point home - there are people like our two magician madmen in the real world! While the word "obsession" is mentioned about a hundred times in this godforsaken story - it's misleading, like a magician's trick. What this film is really about can be summed up in four words - "the banality of evil." How ordinary people can lose track of the simplest of concepts - "right and wrong. "The ends don't justify the means. Being famous, powerful, "and the best" is not more important than love, family, community, friendship, or even one's soul! What a terribly demoralizing story! The only very small bright spot in this entirely dreary film, was bringing Nikola Tesla, the great inventor and energy theorist into the story. His genius is absolutely fascinating. Too bad most viewers will think he's a fictional character like the rest of the story, instead of an important historical figure! It's a shame the story didn't evolve around him! It would have been a tad bit more entertaining! (Put his name through any reliable search engine, and see for yourself!)
The prestige was god awful. The characters mumbled their lines, almost the entire movie was presented in flashback form and it makes you wanna fall asleep.As the movie started I could vaguely tell what was going on, or whether it was flashback or present, the characters mumbled their lines as if they were scared to perform As the movies plot thickens so many times and it adds so many dramatic twists that you begin to lose count and lose interest in what's going on and stop caring. The movie dredged on and on and on, I was falling asleep. As I was falling asleep I was wondering "Why am I sitting here, I can get out and get my money back" and so I did, but I think I should sue for lost time and embarrassment. Short summary, this movie sucked. Interesting Idea, horrible execution. I would have given it a two, but it was so long I couldn't stand it anymore, so 1.


                
I hated this movie. I saw it in the theater and after it was over I just felt horrible. I was hungry but I didn't want to eat anything, I was tired but didn't want to sleep, I didn't want to talk to any of my friends, even my cigarette tasted bad. I ended up going home and washing dishes. Three or four hours later I snapped out of it but it was real downer.It's not even like the movie was depressing, I like depressing movies, I like dark movies and sad movies and horror movies. But this was something different, it was life-ruining bad. And it wasn't even that any one aspect of the film was flawed specifically, (although I particularly hated the editing) just the entire movie turned me off. I don't know what I am supposed to leave this movie with, a lot of people keep saying that the entire film is a magic trick, which would make the film's director the magician. so in the end when he outsmarts me with his twist ending, I guess I am supposed to be amazed and astounded at how clever he is, and how not clever I am. I don't know why anybody would want to see a film where the director is just flaunting his intellectual superiority over his audience.The movie is like some awful prank, like director Chris Nolan took my car keys and through them in a river.


                
Is the "The Prestige" worthy of its current position of #87 in the IMDb top 250 films ever made?The Top 250 list does not include such classic films as "Tunes of Glory" or "Three Days of the Condor". Nor does not include "Hobson's Choice" or "Huozhe". The amount of truly classic films that do not make it onto the list is staggering. Instead we have films such as Martin Scorsese's inferior re-make "The Departed" at #39 and the implausible "The Bourne Ultimatum" at #76."The Prestige" is a poor film with poor performances and poor direction. There is nothing authentic about this production. It is made with the modern audience solely in mind so detail would not be considered important. I would call this film a Hollywood factory production. It is a film without a soul or a purpose other than that of cheap gratification and profit.David Bowie gives us the most embarrassing awful interpretation of an Eastern European scientist and it only goes to show that the singer has never been a talented actor (Yet he might have a good sideline as a comedian). Christian Bale has given great performances in films such as "American Psycho" and "El Maquinista" but has also acted appallingly in others such as "Reign of Fire". Here, he gives us a phony cockney accent and good helping of earnest posturing. It proves beyond a doubt that Christian Bale needs a good director to produce a good performance. I have yet to see a poor performance by Hugh Jackman. He is one actor that can transcend poor material and come off unscathed. He is one of the brightest talents in Hollywood today but as yet has not been given that extra special role. Michael Caine has proved himself time and time again. Here he gives us an uncomplicated performance that never really tests him. He is playing by the numbers as if desperate to get that check in his pocket and move onto to a more worthy project.I don't think total blame can rest at the director's feet, as this is so obviously a Hollywood committee picture. Time will pass and this film will fall off the Top 250 list and disappear into the vaults of mediocrity and rest there deservedly forgotten.


                
As a fan of Christopher Nolan's work on Batman Begins and The Dark Knight, I thought I would enjoy The Prestige as well. I was wrong. The good news is I just caught the film on Encore, so the only thing I wasted was my time.I do not fault Mr. Nolan or any of the actors (save a lacking performance by Scarlett Johansson). The real problem here is the story. Without going into detail let me just say that the movie started with an interesting premise and devolved into a "I'm better than you" farce between the two main characters. I sat there in disbelief as Christian Bale and Hugh Jackman (both of whom I admire) were forced to lower themselves into a story like this. One of them wrongs the other somehow, and the other then returns the favor. This is Bale's most unfortunate film role choice since Reign of Fire.Now don't get me wrong...as I said I do not fault the actors. Bale and Jackman performed as well as they could under the circumstances. However, since the story itself lost my interest, even the greatest actors in the world could not save it.


                
Christian Bale and Hugh Jackman have a field day torturing each other and ultimately all who see this nonsense.As two magicians, one's mistake led to the tragic death of Jackman's wife and the two spend the rest of the picture trying to outsmart the other.Interesting to see Daniel Davis show up in this film as a British judge. He received well deserved praise as Niles, the butler, in the television show "The Nanny." Apparently, the American Davis had such a good strong British accent on the show, he was thought of when this film was made.The film is hopelessly confusing as we go on. It is never properly explained who these Edison people were and what they were actually trying to do.The end is a joke and a mystifying one at that.Veteran pro Michael Caine is in this for the ride I guess. Don't run to see magic shows when you see this eerie film. Strange things are happening.


                
I HATED this film. From the mumbling bumbling dialog to the so-called "twisted" ending.... Did not know who was who... so you all say that what was great about it.... I didn't think so. I found it very hard to follow. Worst movie I've seen in a long time. Did not know what was going on, past, present or future....who knows. I had a very difficult time understanding what Christian Bale was saying, they all spoke so softly, plus the accents! The movie ended and all I could say was what a waste of time. It was way too long too! Save yourself a lot of thinking and see The Illusionist! Much, much better movie, better acting and very entertaining!


                
This movie was bad, really bad. It is longer than it should have been. It has no twists and no interesting story.At first I thought it would have been a cool movie where I enjoy the battle of wits between two magician. But this movie has none of that. It is just so predictable.The other problem I had with this movie is that it has no lovable character. Everyone is just an asshole and I don't feel like supporting any of these guys.And when you sit down and think about it, what the hell is the point of wasting your life for a stupid magic show. These character motivations make no sense, in fact the characters themselves make no sense at all. They are like robots.Bottomline, the movie is bad.


                
Probably a well crafted plot, but awfully confusing visually because of the "twins" that appear intermittently.The cinematography is top notch, and actors are decent, so it's a quality piece no doubt, but I didn't like the story (at all). There were more sadistic meanness in each of the characters that escalated from around the middle of the movie, and then continued to no end until its (trashy) ending. I don't care if one was smarter than the other or outwitted the other. The ugliness of the confrontation got appalling to a point where intrigue didn't matter anymore. I also didn't like the audio, how sudden blast of sound got injected to make you jump up from your seats. I know it's digital, and I know that theaters have mega watt systems, but is it really necessary to crank up the volume so loud suddenly ?Nice to watch visually, but the characters and the story that goes with it were unpalatable.


                
It's a movie with a twist that puts it into the realm of unbelievable fantasy crap. And, had me so angry that I wish I had asked for my money back.Why not have space aliens land and be in control of the apparent show? That's how ridiculous, absurd and stupid the film is.The first twist, one magician is actually twins sacrificing their happiness for the magic is great, unpredictable and realistic. I thought the film was going to be brilliant.But, the second, that a man had discovered a replicator, and kept it hidden for his own magic trick while killing himself every night... left me so empty and angry I wish I had never seen the film. What sort of twist is that? Its not even a twist, its a departure from a good film to a very very very bad one.
Okay, so everyone i know is raving about how good the prestige is. I admit myself that it looked really good on the trailers. Maybe its because i had such high expectations that i was so devastated by this terrible ending. If you've seen the movie you know the whole time everyone is questioning how the real transported man works. You keep wondering, if its not a double then HOW THE HECK IS THE TRICK DONE!?!!?!! Its a classic move, make a mystery the whole movie, and then when the explanation comes at the end everyone is amazed. This should be how it works. But the prestige ignores all convention and lays down that terrible terrible ending. The whole point of the movie is that you wonder how the trick is done. Then when they reveal it you are expecting some really cool trick. "how does the man make his body transport?" for some reason the answer to that question is: He simply clones himself and drowns himself every night! DUH! ARE YOU KIDDING ME? Im expecting some cool trick and the explanation of how he does the impossible trick is that he does an equally impossible thing. Thats not an explanation thats just another impossible thing. Thats like me making a movie where a certain person can come back from the dead and saying "okay the trick is that he can time travel and just avoid his original death!" "get it? i explained it for u!!!" Okay well because of that i gave it a 3, it got a 3 cuz the movie was good but the ending was a big let down.
Worst script ever!!! Worst scenario ever!!! The plot is total nonsense!!! Only the performance of the actors is awesome. This movie has total lack of common sense. The ending is complete nonsense! I do not want to write spoilers here explaining the situation, but I have to - just ask yourself - if the machine was able to produce clones why Robert Anger was killed? And he also was betrayed without any reason by two people - his assistant Olivia and his friend Cutter. Does anybody want to explain why? This is more fiction than that Tesla machine - friends usually do not betray with no reason... I did not enjoy this movie because of a huge lack of a common sense...
Why Christopher Nolan's movies are so popular? Until you understand that, you will continue to wonder why people spend a lot of money and time to be imprisoned into dull and boring movies; Christopher Nolan knows exactly what he's doing, and he's known it from the start. And what's that he's got for you? A prefabricated universe dominated by figures with no soul and lungs: his audience likes the excitement of drowning their little imagination again and again; for them, films have to be that deadening and useless - and once they have watched them, they might say 'that was really good' a great many time before they get reanimated - lol! that is all right, because their understanding is so nimble to realize their error, which will be forgotten much more quickly than a dream.


                
