The Prestige, adapted from an award winning novel of the same name by Christopher Priest, is an intricate tale of passion, intrigue, deceit and obsession about two illusionists, whose morbid covetousness for absolute supremacy in their profession engenders a fierce rivalry that turns internecine and ultimately consumes them. Alfred Borden (Christian Bale) and Robert Angier (Hugh Jackman) at the start of their careers are highly ambitious young men assisting an elderly illusionist named Milton. Borden's incessant longing for innovation leads to the accidental death of Angier's wife. Borden marries Sarah and his apparent happiness further aggravates the sense of revulsion in Angier's heart. Angier's vindictive intervention during a bullet catch trick causes Borden to lose his two fingers. Though these events sowed the seeds of implacable hatred, but it is the unremitting yearning of their perpetually insatiable egos to outperform each other that eventually drives them to perdition.Angier starts performing with the sobriquet "The Great Danton" with Cutter (Michael Caine) as his illusion engineer, while Borden with the stage name "The Professor" with Fellon as his engineer. Angier is an adept showman, but lacks the technical prowess. On the contrary, Borden is highly skillful, but lacks the taste for grandeur and showmanship. Each regards the other as his only obstacle (owing to their bitterly intertwined past) and this starts a series of events in which each tries to stymie the other by any means possible (sabotage, abduction, incrimination and even killings). Awed by the apparent genuineness of Borden's version of "The Transported Man" and inveigled by Borden's deliberate misdirection, Angier travels miles and spends a fortune to approach an ingenious scientist named Nikola Tesla (David Bowie) in order to cajole him into building a machine for him (a machine that could help him outperform Borden). Nikola Tesla is an apostle of Alternating Current (and rightly thinks it to be superior to Direct Current), and is under immense pressure imparted by Thomas Edison (ruthless advocator of Direct Current) and his men, who are after Tesla. As Edison's men close in on him, Tesla runs out of time and hence funds for his research and is forced to oblige Angier, who is his very last client. Tesla flees the scene shortly after fulfilling his promise to Angier (not without leaving him a strong note of caution against the use of his invention), whose ever increasing skepticism in Tesla is placated by the efficacy of his masterful invention. Using Tesla's machine, Angier introduces his own version of "The Transported Man", which becomes an instant success, but in lieu of a terrible self-sacrifice (that Angier has to make every night while performing). As the story culminates, the viewer is startled with many revelations including the mental and physical torments that Borden's complex character undergoes owing to his total devotion towards his art.The success of an act of illusion solely depends upon the deftness with which its three parts viz. the Pledge, the Turn, and the Prestige are performed. Similarly, for a movie to be a success, its three main aspects i.e. screenplay, direction, and acting are ought to be top-notch. Christopher Nolan incredibly manages to strike all the right cords with The Prestige. His riveting maneuvers coupled with his ingenious auteur skills aggrandize the brilliance of the movie ten-fold. Nolan succeeds in having a dream assemblage of actors with almost everyone giving a memorable performance. Christian Bale and Hugh Jackman are superb in their lead roles. Michael Caine shines in his low-key portrayal of Cutter, an ordinary part made to appear extraordinary through sheer brilliance; vintage Caine. David Bowie as Nikola Tesla and Andy Serkis (Gollum of LOTR) as Alley (Tesla's assistant) are stupendous in their cameos. Scarlet Johansson also manages to give a scintillating portrayal as Borden's paramour, Olivia.The movie is a roller-coaster of a ride with intriguingly intertwined subplots and masterful time switching, which makes it one of a kind and an ultimate masterpiece. The uncanny feat of Nolan to manifest a motion picture, which forays the realms of Mystery, Thrill, Sci-fi and Fantasy, is truly exemplary and makes the movie a contemporary classic. The movie is a tapestry of twists and turns, which evinces its overwhelming potential to bewitch the masses and satiate even the most esoteric viewers. The questions that it incessantly asks of the viewers can only be answered after repetitive viewings, with each viewing seeking utmost attention of the viewer. The only question that I would ask of the viewer is: "Are you watching closely?" A must watch for anyone, who has nothing against giving his mind a rigorous exercise and his body an adrenaline rush. 10/10
I won't say it's an underrated movie, but it has somewhat been buried by the legacy of other "popular" Nolan movies. With this movie, Nolan shows his ability to make a metacinematic film, yet again. This is obviously my most favorite Christopher Nolan movie, along with "Memento" (2000). Just like you can relate the theme of memories and interpretations shown in the story of "Memento" with the actual experience we had while watching the movie, we can relate the three acts of a magic trick narrated within the story with the movie itself. As the movie says, the final reveal in a magic trick is the most thrilling experience. So is that of this movie. In fact, the whole movie can be weirdly related to a magic trick. It is one of those movies which feel quite ordinary until a major twist makes it great. Speaking of the cinematic experience, it is a typical Nolan styled movie. It has broken timelines to enhance the storytelling, but unlike in most of his movies these are done more artistically than just for the thrilling reveal. This is perhaps the movie where Nolan's broken timelines have enhanced the storytelling in the most brilliant way. Like in most of movies, he dwells in a single theme - here it's obsession. The obsession of Robert Angier is what drives the plot of the movie, and is well established and doesn't even feel forced. There is a protagonist, and an antagonist in this movie. The character development is done so smoothly that we see the protagonist become an antagonist, while the antagonist remains somewhat the same. Though we don't get a full "interchange" between the antagonist and the protagonist, as the movie progresses, the protagonist feels more "wrong" than the antagonist. That's quite a difficult thing that it pulls off. Alfred Bordon is one of the most "complex" characters I have ever seen. He feels like some kind of a prick throughout the movie, and there are a lot of scenes to establish it for the viewers. That's until we get to know his character in the third act. It doesn't make him right for his wrong doings, but he gets the respect for his dedication as a magician. The whole Tesla plotline might feel like a convenient plot device, but Tesla is a scientist who is rumoured to travel through time. So, that is quite justifiable. Hugh Jackman has given a solid performance. This must go down as his best performances with those of "Prisoners" (2013) and "Logan" (2017). He is completely out of his public persona of Wolverine. He is the best possible choice for Wolverine imo, but reminder of Wolverine every time he appears on screen isn't so adorable. He didn't remind me of Wolverine at all, in this movie. But, the major highlight of the movie would be Christian Bale. He has given a terrific performance. You don't even get a hint at the complexity of the character he is portraying. It's after the reveal and in fact, in the second viewing that you start noticing the actual stuffs and the actual interpretations a particular scene is to be given. All in all, it's a fantastic movie. The way obsession play out to be the main theme, the way broken timelines are used for storytelling and the way the final twist is revealed - simply excellent. It gets a special "10/10" and an "A+".


                
I couldn't help myself. I just kept saying "wow, what a beautifully crafted film," all the way home, and around my house when I arrived home. I have not been so captured and entertained in a long time. I was especially enamored with the screen writing and how tightly and beautifully the visual metaphors tied in with the writing, and with the impact of the human message about obsession, competition and retribution carried to the extreme. One can relate to this personal human struggle for victory over another at all costs on a much grander scale, as the two magicians could easily be symbolic of how leaders of countries come to blows with each other, at the expense of their women and children -- something we struggle with right now in our world. There are deeper layers of this film that will be uncovered over time.Hugh Jackman, Christian Bale and Sir Michael Caine all contributed stunning, emotional performances. Rebecca Hall, who played Sarah to Bale's Alfred Borden, turned in a highly charged performance as well, making Scarlett Johansson's Olivia flat in comparison. And although some people thought the plot line a bit tedious, I found it to be refreshingly complex and engaging, while not being so complex as to lose you. If you can't follow this one, you've been watching television too long. And who cares if the illusions are mundane or scientifically unbelievable? Isn't that what both movies and illusions ask us to do? To suspend disbelief? Meantime, there's a message in its madness. Hello.The film is visually moody and evocative, easily transporting you into the time period. What more could you ask for? A film is a visual medium and this one is a visual ten. The acting is superb as well as the plot. It keeps you interested; it keeps you guessing right to the shocking but most appropriate end.It asks you, what is one willing to sacrifice for the "prestige?"I think this one's an Oscar definite.
I've said it before, but I'll say it again. Christopher Nolan can do no  wrong.  Teaming up again with his Batman Begins cast of Christian Bale and  Michael Caine, and joined with the Scoop team consisting of X-Men's  Wolverinie Hugh Jackman and Scarlett Johansson, the stellar (eye candy)  cast already set tongues wagging as to whether they'll be able to live  up to the hype of Nolan's long awaited movie directly challenging the  other picture about Victorian magicians, The Illusionist.  The Prestige is the third act of any magic trick, with the first and  second acts being the Pledge and the Turn. And this movie lives up to  its namesake to a T. The way the movie plays out, it's like a huge  magic trick, with the audience waiting to see how it unfolds, getting  the suspicion on how it's done, but yet sitting through it thorough  engaged to discover how everything will be revealed and resolved. It  tells the story of how two magicians, fellow apprentices turned  unfortunate rivals, plod down the slow path of jealous obsession,  revenge, and the deliberate attempts to go at lengths to steal each  other's ideas, to go one up against the other, a fight in romance, life  and the long held passionate drive to discredit each other. There are  perfect explanations of the value of secrets, and how secrets can  sometimes be used as tools for deceit.  What I thought was valuable in the movie was the reinforcement of the  notion of how "magic" actually worked. Besides the better understanding  of the common body of scientific knowledge, things like having pretty  assistants to distract, and having planted staff amongst the audience,  somehow made me a sceptic to tricks and illusions, and try harder to  spot at which stage had things undergone a sleight of hand. More  importantly, it introduced me to the notion and importance of a loyal  engineer behind the scenes who designs elaborate contraptions solely  for the magician's use, and how having disloyal staff can indeed be  detrimental to any leaks of secrets.  And Michael Caine took on this engineering role as Cutter, responsible  for assisting Rupert Angier (Hugh Jackman) with loyalty and conviction  that they could, as a team, beat Christian Bale's Alfred Borden. I  thought the cast in general were superb, with Christian Bale leading  the charge. Hugh Jackman too showed that he could play a dark  character, as the two leads tackled their characters' theme of  sacrifice, arrogance, and ultimately redemption, especially for Rupert  Angier. I thought he did what he did towards the end was a kind of  penance to what happened in the beginning, hoping to kill two birds  with a single stone, to exact the sweetest revenge he could possibly  muster. What also was intriguing about the two lead characters was that  there is no right or wrong, no hero or villain. It's always a shade of  grey in what they do, and for Alfred Borden, I felt it's more for  survival and the provision for family, which is a strong subplot  running through the film. I just have to mention though, that Scarlett  Johansson being Esquire's Sexiest Woman Alive, gets to play a flower  vase role here as a magician's assistant, though her role as the pawn  between the rivals added a little gravitas.  The atmosphere was set up great, and so were the costumes and sets. The  soundtrack was hauntingly mesmerizing, capturing the look and mood  appropriately. Look out too for David Bowie's appearance as a Serbian  scientist!   I was floored by the deftness of how Nolan weaved and juxtaposed the  non linear narrative so flawlessly. While the usual techniques is to  use placeholders, or flashback sequences, colours etc, here, time is so  fluid, but yet the audience will know precisely which era they're in,  without being explicitly told, or working too much of the noodle. You  just know, and it's just that feeling of being totally transparent with  time. Even though the movie clocked in at slightly more than 2 hours,  you don't feel its length at all.  At the end of the movie, one quote popped into mind: Misdirection -  what the eyes see and the ears hear, the mind believes. Quite apt to  describe how things work out during the movie, or to describe in  general, Nolan 's films so far. That added richness to lift the movie  to a superior plane. Do yourself a favour, if there's one movie you  absolutely must watch this week, then Prestige must be your natural  choice. It's smart in delivery and slick in presentation. There is none  other.  P.S. Is it just me, or are notebooks a common feature in Nolan's  movies?


                
The Prestige. I am impressed. I am a HUGE fan of Hugh Jackman and bought the book as soon as I heard he would be in this movie. I read it and enjoyed it, but wasn't especially fond of it. But I still had been really looking forward to this movie.I went to the first showing opening day (Friday, Oct. 20th) with 2 friends and sat a row behind them, alone, to enjoy it peacefully. I loved it all.Christopher Nolan really has a gift at directing. The way the movie cuts back and forth between different places and times is clever. Although some might be confused or left stupefied, others will be happy and glorified. The movie will keep you guessing the whole time until the very end. The script, acting, settings, props, everything was so well-done.Hugh Jackman was excellent as the angry, obsessive magician trying to gain back his life by revenge. Christian Bale was equally impressive as the mystifying, secretive showman, never letting out his secrets until necessary. Michael Caine rocked in supporting everyone else's parts with his curiosity. The rest of the cast rounded out nicely and helped out where need be. I really recommend this movie to a sophisticated audience who doesn't mind a long, mysterious movie.And man, what an ending.


                
I have to say this is one of the best movies i have seen this year, i was not expecting it to be that good. There's twist after twist, and when you think there is no more, there will be. Great performances and ever better plot. I highly recommend this movie to all ages.New idea for a movie, and they succeeded it at it greatly. It will have you thinking every time you see a magician on TV!i had to give this movie a 10/10, and i only have 4 movies that i would rate that way in my life time. If there is anything you do this year, make it a trip to watch this movie!I hope you enjoy it as much as i did.


                
I've seen this film twice now - about a year ago and then yesterday - and thoroughly enjoyed it both times, even the second time when I remembered some of those fantastic twists in the last half hour. Sometimes it's even more fun to view a film like this when you know a few things, because earlier scenes take on new meaning.It's not an easy film to totally digest, even with two viewings, because that ending has some mind-boggling revelations. Without having to resort to spoilers, let me just say the story is extremely interesting, the acting very good, the period pieces fun to view and it's a pretty clean movie so grandma can also enjoy it, too, without language or sex concerns.Basically, it's a story about obsession between two magicians in the last decade of the 19th century. They continually try to top one another and things get nasty along the way. Hugh Jackman and Christian Bale are both fun to watch in those roles, as are Michael Caine and Scarlett Johansson in supporting roles.This is one movie guaranteed to have you thinking about it when it's over!


                
This was the best movie I have seen in at least the past two years. Most movies have me leave the theater feeling like I wasted 8 dollars or so. So many movies lately have left me feeling like I wasted away precious hors of my life that could have been spent doing better things. Yet this movie was truly a masterpiece and kept me guessing the whole time. The acting was superb and so was the plot. I usually can predict the outcomes of movies pretty early on. And usually I can see the twist the writer planned. With this movie I was still left wondering into the last 5 minutes of the movie. I can't wait to own this on DVD.


                
I continue to be blown away at how fantastic this film is. It is executed with extreme precision. Every aspect of the film, all the way from visuals to the character development, is masterful.I'm not sure how it fared awards wise upon its release, but it should have racked up quite a few. The story is wonderfully layered, the acting is superb, the directed is spectacular, etc. I can't find anything about this film that I would change.Congratulations to the entire team that put this project together. I consider it one of the best films of all time.If you have the opportunity I strongly urge that you check this film out. I think you'll be glad you did.


                
Every so often I see a film that I get addicted to. As soon as I watch it in the cinema I know I'm going to buy it the day it comes out on DVD.Well The Prestige is the latest of these. This film gets better and better with each viewing. Hugh Jackman should have won many awards for his role. People say "Oscar" but there are better awards out there than that, the Oscars are about as representative of what's the "very best" as the IMDb's Top 250 list is.People have told me that they predicted the end, well that's their funeral, I never clicked until it was revealed for me, so I got much more value for my money.Christopher Nolan is a master. Even though he seems quite humourless in his DVD extra interviews. He makes extremely entertaining films that are well cast and superbly executed, just as the Prestige is. All those who never liked the film should be rounded up in a field and used for crazed scientific experiments, we could use Tesla!


                
If you think this film is mediocre or just a "period piece" then you have to think again because the true depth of this plot cannot be realized without watching repeatedly.I have watched it through several times and still can't tell if the Michael Caine character was the true mastermind.This screenplay could play in any time or place, even with unknown actors, and still generate eternal wonder.Too many directors rely on gratuitous violence, expensive action sequences, big name actors and grandiose sets/CGI to wow the viewers Christopher Nolan is an unmitigated genius and doesn't need any of those tricks.


                
In a modern age where most films are either: remakes, sequels, or prequels it is nice to be able to view a modern day original film. Yes, it is an adaptation, from a book, but many viewers will probably not know that until they actually begin to watch the movie, like this reviewer. Rolling Stone magazine (as printed on the DVD cover) said it best, "You want to see it again the second it is over." Christopher Nolan, who last directed one of the best comic book movie adaptations, in "Batman Begins," does it again with "The Prestige." "The Prestige" is based on a book, of the same title, that was written by Christopher Priest. The story is about two magicians who have been rivals to each other ever since the day they met and throughout the course of time, each of them tries to gain an advantage over the other. Eventually the friendly rivalry becomes an obsession. Their obsessions over trying to discover how the other does the trick, or how to upstage that trick, could turn into something that would kill one another.First things first, this reviewer will not make any comparisons to the other magic movie, "The Illusionist." What this reviewer will talk about is the plot. The story is fantastic. You cannot help but stay alert, and throughout the film you want to know what will happen next. There are many twists and turns to the plot, which will make you say, "How did I not catch that?" There is a quote in the movie that is used frequently, "Are you watching closely?" You need to be paying close attention in order to catch all of the various twists throughout the film.Besides all of the various twists, the acting was also fantastic. Hugh Jackman was a big surprise success as Rupert Angier. Christian Bale is always good and the trend continued as Alfred Borden. Michael Cane as always was great as Cutter. Scarlett Johansson was also very good as Olivia Wenscombe. Even David Bowie and Andy Serkis popped up as Nikola Tesla and Alley.Overall, there is not much to complain about. If you are looking for a movie about magic with a hint of science fiction, you should enjoy this. If you enjoy Christopher Nolan films, you should see this movie. If you enjoy movies in general, you should see this film. It is a shame this movie did not win any academy awards. "The Prestige" is recommended!


                
The Prestige is awesome! You have not seen a better movie in years! Hugh Jackman, Christian Bale, and Michael Caine are going to win some awards, let me tell you. And so is the screenplay. It's completely astonishing! The whole movie is! Robert Angier (Jackman) and his assistant, John Cutter (Caine), are into magic. Robert is the illusionist, and John is his assistant with building and testing illusions. When a man picks two volunteers to tie a woman (Robert's wife) to bind her in ropes so she cannot possibly escape the water cage (like one of Houdini's escape tricks), it all gets interesting. The two volunteers were Robert Angier and Alfred Borden (Bale), who didn't even know each other until that day where that woman -- who was Angier's wife -- drowned in the water cage all because Alfred Borden tied the knot in the assistant's hands wrong. She couldn't slip out of the knot. She died.Now Robert is angry. He shoots Alfred's hand later on in the movie, losing two of his fingers. Now, they are fighting at each other, not physically, just apart. THE TRANSPORTING MAN ILLUSION is a wonderful illusion that Alfred Borden made up, and now Robert is trying to steal his secret. He has become obsessed. So, he makes it better. BUT THERE'S TOO MUCH! JUST SEE THE MOVIE! Oh, and for those who pay attention to music in movies, you'll be disappointed. There's not much music to pay attention to. There's just some violins and other orchestral instruments here and there and occasionally there's a, "BOOM" of a timpani when you're supposed to be shocked or surprised at something.Sorry if I gave too much away, just PLEASE agree with my comment. I don't get any people who agree with my comments. I would greatly appreciate it.My MPAA rating: PG-13: Thematic Material, Some Very Startling Scenes of Violence, and Disturbing Images My Canadian rating: 14A: Frightening Scenes, Mature Theme, Violence


                
The truly amazing thing about this movie is that it has managed to fool nearly its entire audience into misinterpreting it, even though the clues it leaves behind are so numerous and apparent as to make the solution to the movie absolutely obvious. It makes a fool out of its own audience.The movie succeeds in tricking the audience into believing the machine is a cloning device, while actually being something else entirely. The true secrets are never revealed to the audience yet it believes it has an adequate solution. That is part of the brilliance of the movie. It tries to make a fool of the audience in general and succeeds.Im sure there are a few keen minds that truly understand what the machine does and are skeptical that Fallon is really Borden's twin, but the audience in general is duped into accepting faithfully what it's told. The movie never reveals its secret but the audience still feels the plot is resolved.It manages to paradoxically resolve the plot for the audience while not resolving it at the same time. It successfully sells them an alternate solution that isn't accurate and leaves them completely oblivious to the real solution. But they don't mind, because like the closing line says, the people watching "want to be fooled."
As a fan of old Twilight Zone episodes, I love the surreal aspects of The Prestige, specifically Tesla's quest to create a transporting machine that can turn magic into reality. However, a friend of mine, who does not like this movie, sees this plot as an unfair cop-out. According to him, the film's writer breaks the rules of the film's reality when he allows Hugh Jackman's character to use Tesla's machine to duplicate himself in a science fiction-like manner.If the writer sees no problem including science fiction in this story, why not just give Hugh Jackman's character the ability to fly? Or better yet, why not have aliens transport Hugh Jackman's character across the stage? Neither option would be more absurd or unrealistic, and in my friend's opinion, both destroy the film's reality in the same manner.
A lot has been said about the film's beauty, but this is also an amazingly complex film and I think a lot of people didn't really get all that the first time. Some critics were upset about the twist ending while others were concerned with the sci-fi plot. To these people I say "Are you watching closely?" In retrospect, this film's cleverness comes from its plot that is structured similar to a magic trick. Both Angier and Borden's story, has a pledge, a turn and a prestige. In the film, they both share the same prestige; seemingly reappearing from the dead. The ultimate twist in the film is literally told to the audience several times, but as an audience we naturally doubt the obvious, and wish to be fooled. This is similar to a magic trick, we know the truth behind the magic; that it's not real, but only a great magician can, for a moment, make you doubt that truth. It's the magician's job, to quote the film, "sell it all the way through" and this film does just that. Even though you might have it figured out, the film gives you distractions that have you doubting it just long enough so when the pieces come together you realize what you just saw was something truly special. That's the beauty behind this film.The science fiction plot fits both visually and thematically. The film shows us that during this time period magicians had to change to keep up with the times, so they adopted more science fiction into their acts. This is why Borden and Angeir seek out Tesla. It brings closure to the other reoccurring theme in the film which is obsession, how far will one go? Their obsession to keep topping one another leads Angier to take it to the next level, but he goes too far, starts toying with real magic and ends up going to hell for it.
This movie was truly a game-changer for me. I initially saw it simply because I enjoyed some members of the cast so much (Bale, Caine, Bowie), but I left the theatre in awe. It is such a well-written, layered, intense, character driven story on par with Faustus or Jekyll and Hyde in terms of characters that are overly driven by their obsessions. It invites you to watch in the first lines of dialogue and from that point forward, you hardly have a choice. One of Nolan's strengths is that he doesn't shy away from difficult stories to tell. None of the characters are entirely likable. It's hard to pick someone to root for, but that is one of the things that makes them so human. Jackman and Bale are both fine actors that attack their roles with tremendous capability and Rebecca Hall is one of the best discoveries I've had in movies. Even Johansson, who is easily the weakest link, was used sparingly and didn't detract from the movie. The plot is fascinating and leads to an immensely satisfying ending. I can't watch this enough times.


                
I've been a fan of Nolan for a long time, ever since Memento. He has the ability to create mood and deep, well rounded characters better than almost anyone in the thriller genre, ever. For my money, only Hitchcock was better. And the Prestige was something worthy of the Master himself. Its is a dark, twisty, surreal film that truly goes unexpected places. Nothing is what it seems. And Nolan manages to pull of the twists, turns and surprises expertly, never once make a jump in logic that you don't take with him without question. The acting is phenomenal, Bale, Jackman and Caine are all excellent. But it is Jackman who owns this film. Between this and The Fountain (which I still don't know if I liked or not) he has really come into his own as an actor. Its a shame he was completely ignored at awards time this year. Towards the end of the year, there were some truly great films, but this is unquestionably the best. Its a well paced, thoughtful, intricate thriller that is better written than almost anything I have seen in years. Nolan is one of the most talented directors of his generation, something he continues to prove film after film. Howmany of todays "franchise" directors take a break in the middle of a superhero franchise to make a moody, dark period thriller about dueling magicians? The man is a master, only a notch below Hitchcock himself, and this film is his masterwork, so far.


                
Depicting the story of two magicians, who develop a rivalry that eventually turns out into a true war, "The Prestige" is a movie that keeps you connected all throughout its two hours. Some people said about it that sometimes the action tends to be boring, but I consider exactly the opposite: I didn't have the time to get bored, due to the very well-written story. The actors are amazing: Hugh Jackman - charming yet sometimes scary, as we know him, and Christan Bale, more lively but equally "strong" as in Batman Begins, are the two rival magicians. Their act is sustained by Michael Caine, as their mentor, and Scarlett Johansson. I didn't go to this movie expecting much, but after having seen it, I can say without any doubt that this is one of the best movies I've seen in a very long time, and I strongly recommend it. It's a film to savor and to feel (and eventually maybe to love)!


                
"The Prestige" got some bad reviews early on, and at one point it was listed on RottenTomatoes.com with less than 30% fresh rating. I went to see it, as a result, with mixed expectations. On one hand, I think Christian Bale is the next great method actor and I firmly believe Christopher Nolan is on the pathway to really carving out a name for himself in Hollywood (beyond the fanboy audiences). He's still being advertised as "The Director of Memento and Batman Begins" but soon it will just be "From Director Christopher Nolan." As for the film? Exceptional. Inventive, unique and twisted. Bale and Hugh Jackman deliver career-making performances. It's by far Jackman's best performance on film (in a serious role) and one of Bale's best, which is saying a lot. This guy can do anything. It's amazing to see him in "The Machinist" a few weeks ago and then turn around and see him here. Within the past year alone he's moved up many ranks in my book. (Of course, I don't have a book. But if I did...) The film is dark, and its blend of reality with sudden fantasy may throw some viewers off. But I don't think it's a cop-out, as some people have claimed. It's just Nolan's style. Batman incorporated many different genres and themes that one wouldn't necessarily expect from, of all things, a Batman film - and here The Prestige delivers some magical material that I didn't see coming. Even knowing the ending ahead of time (after it was ruined by an ignorant IMDb user who thought it would be funny to spam people with the ending), it still came as a shock in delivery.What I finally felt so satisfied with was the film's direction, acting and character development. With a lesser director it could have easily been a lame exercise in style over substance and a flashy, gimmicky ending. Nolan elevates it and the two lead performances are really engaging. It works as a morality tale as well as an intense character study that has you alternately rooting for both men to succeed. And the film changes perceptions of past events so often that by the end you're kind of sitting there, shocked that it's played out so vastly different than what was expected.Chilling, gripping movie. Had me consistently engaged from beginning to end, and I'd say in some ways it's the most well-made Nolan film yet.


                
I remember seeing 'The Illusionist' a couple of years back and I was so impressed as it was my first film of the genre (give me a break, I am 20 and I wasn't seeing many films of this kind back when I was a kid). Well, this is my second film of the same genre and they were both released in the same year, with my favourite actors - Hugh Jackman & Edward Norton. They are both strokes of genius, but this is the better one of the two, as this is more complex (much much more) than The Illusionist. I am glad that I saw this last night on TV. I didn't know anything about the story and I really enjoyed it.Every magic trick consists of three acts - the first is 'The Pledge', the second is 'The Turn' and the final, hardest, most important act is 'The Prestige'. Thus begins the story of The Prestige. The climax is shown in this scene itself, that of Angier being drowned and Borden just standing there. So, Borden is convicted of Angier's murder and is sentenced to death. Robert Angier (Hugh Jackman) has stolen Borden's diary to unravel his 'Transported Man' trick and has went to Tesla to make his own machine, which is better than Borden's trick. Alfred Borden (Christian Bale) is a tormented man who doesn't want to part with his secret near his end, but doesn't have a choice if he has to see his young daughter grow up perfectly. Cutter (Michael Caine) is Angier's producer or something, but he's more like a close confidante rather than an employer.Then, the true story begins to reveal itself which is set in the 1900's. Borden and Angier have a long history. They are two rookie illusionists who work for the same man, Cutter. Borden had inadverdently caused the death of Angier's wife who was also his assistant. Then Borden has the audacity to tell Angier that he doesn't know which knot he tied on her, but it is not his fault really, he truly doesn't remember. Angier is a born showman who has everything that a magician should have, knack for misleading the audience easily. Borden is a more talented magician who doesn't have the showmanship, but he is improving constantly. Angier and Borden now entangle themselves into a life of dual in which neither can win, as we are shown at the starting itself. While Borden falls in love with Sarah, a sweet and beautiful young lady, Angier is sinking into a life of revenge against Borden. Olivia Wenscombe (Scarlett Johansson) is the beautiful assistant of both Angier and Borden. She loves both of them, but she has a much more meatier part than I am telling. I won't elaborate more on the plot than this, as it will be more amazing to see it without knowing anything about it.Hugh Jackman and Christian Bale play off each other perfectly and the period setting of the movie is beautiful. Except for the Batman movies, this was the first time I saw Bale in any other character and I loved his portrayal of Borden. (I skipped Terminator 4 as my friends said it was bad). Every actor performs amazingly and this was a film which I loved as the plot takes so many beautiful turns and twists, all done in a believable way (except, Tesla's machine, which won't give a shock to humans). The film also has three acts, the ending which they show at the beginning is elaborated further in the real climax. This film flows forward like a calm river which has a fall coming. It was really beautiful and poetic in many ways. The cinematography is excellent, the background score is also beautiful and the sets look very authentic. I didn't root for any one character, as both of them are flawed and no one's an upstanding man. They have their own beliefs and different methods to achieve them, but I didn't root for one, I cared for both. The ending is quite shocking and pleasing as well. If you still haven't watched this, please don't let this gem of a film pass you by. If there is a choice to see three films before I die, this will definitely be one of them.10/10
If you didn't enjoy this film, well. You, I am afraid to say, have no taste in films whatsoever. I see people moaning about how they didn't understand the plot and how it was boring for them, that would probably be because you didn't WATCH the movie properly. It tells you from the very beginning to watch closely because this is a film that requires your full attention to understand and you will be well rewarded if you do. If not, you become one of those commenting with "I don't understand, omg it's such a bad film because I don't get it."The acting is amazing and the twist at the end of the film is not something that I saw coming. At times it is a little predictable, but all films have their moments and it certainly doesn't take away from the magic that it brings to the audience member.


                
I totally enjoyed this film from beginning to end. The acting, costumes, and locations were superb. Funny, the only other movie I've enjoyed as much this year was "The Illusionist". (Pick a card, any card....) I've always been interested in the life and times of Nikola Tesla. This movie was a great tribute to this misunderstood, brilliant scientist. Yes, just like time-travel scenarios, this film makes you think but not enough to give you a brain cramp. It's twists and turns rival the most demanding road rally track and will keep you involved the whole time. Not too many films do that for me anymore. It's a terrific way to spend 130 minutes. Be sure to have plenty of popcorn on hand.


                
this has has to one the best movies ever if not the best..Christopher Nolan is a genius..there is no flaw in the movie..the direction is excellent..Christian bale and Hugh Jackman have put in Oscar winning performances..the plot is mind blowing.. the movie is centered around two magicians with a contrast idea of what magic is and the two are driven by intense rivalry towards each other..each tries to outdo the other and even try to sabotage each others performance..in the end one becomes obsessed to learn the secret of the other's trick and he is willing to risk everything to obtain it.. the movie is filled with twists and binds the viewer.. all i can say is its a must watch..


                
Yes, TDK was unbelievably awesome. Yes, Inception was original and awesome. No, neither of them is Nolan's masterpiece (to date). That title belongs to The Prestige, at least in my opinion. Featuring an amazing pairing of Jackman and Bale, and the hot off of critical failure Insomnia, Nolan's movie scorches from the beginning. Putting Tesla in as a historical anchor was pure brilliance, and with the aid of Tesla technology most of the illusions they pulled off could easily be done, even the shocking ending(s). Therefore, despite what some might say, this is all entirely realistic.In fact, I think Nolan would be smart to re-visit Tesla and do a biopic, because there are few people as insanely weird and full of pure genius, in history, as Tesla was.On the surface, this is a simple magician versus magician period piece, but it slowly evolves into a battle of wit between two incredibly driven men. The twists in this movie, the first time viewing, are nearly impossible to predict (unlike Inception/TDK), and everything comes together perfectly. One of the most under-rated movies, ever.


                
