This film really annoyed the hell out of me. It is definitely an entry into the oeuvre of movies that are so obsessed by how clever its twists are that it forgets to worry about things such as sympathetic characterisation, naturalistic expositional dialogue, and, most crucially, the effective execution of said oh-so-clever twists.First, a few points about the script. The script is dreadful in parts, with exposition that may as well be spoken directly to camera. The characters, Hugh Jackman's in particular, seem unrounded and without any kind of back story - seemingly plopped into the middle of an obsessive pursuit without any explanation as to where said obsessions may have originated. As happens in so many Hollywood movies, the female roles are perfunctory up to the point of pastiche - did anyone else groan with anticipation of how banal and run-of-the-mill Scarlett Johansson would be? I'd like to see a studio movie that, in the absence of an integral love story, crowbars in some half-assed romance entirely for the sake of some demograph of dubious existence who are believed to not want to see a movie without some histrionic sexual politics.Now, on to those twists, of which there are two major ones. The first, whose set up is established very early on, is glaringly obvious. I spent most of the film seething with frustration as lines that, in what i guess the makers hoped would be in hindsight, are massively irritating 'clues' to the audience. All this is abrogated by the fact that it was all clear to me from the off (and i wasn't aware there was a twist to the film so i wasn't looking out for one), all due to the fact that essential production values fail to adequately disguise the twist. The second twist, which acts not only as plot but supposedly as a thematic comparison to the first, is what left me wanting my money back. The filmmakers seemed to have forgotten that suspension of disbelief must be eared through establishing what can an cannot happen in the world they have created. For example, in The Matrix, when we shown that it is Trinity's love for Neo that brings him back from the dead, the audience is able to accept this because the reality that has been established is one of sci-fi machines-rule-the-world type. We have been prepared to be asked to go along with the possible. The Prestige, a film that throughout its running time shows and tells us that the magic in the film is one rooted in realistic trickery and that the rivalry between the two main characters is based on which can come up with the cleverest ruse, believes that it does not need to ask the audience to suspend its disbelief before laying down the biggest of deus ex machina macguffins seen in recent cinema. We are expected to believe that within this realistic turn of the century world that a machine is invented that (through science, not magic) can do what remains impossible in the present. This 'twist' represents lazy, lazy storytelling - it is like the writers could not come up with an actual clever ending so just used their get out of jail free card instead.On the side, there are some very pretty things to look at, with impressive period detail and some imaginative compositions from Nolan. Michael Caine and Andy Serkis are both excellent, and its always nice to see David Bowie on screen, but thats where the acting plaudits stop. Bale and Jackman give in uncharismatic and unlikeable performances and Johanssen floats along on a wave of arbitrariness.I would say to avoid this film, unless you enjoy the energy that truly hating a film can give you, as it has to me.
A true mystery cannot include supernatural action or agents unknown to science, nor any physical impossibilities (or even improbabilities).The enjoyment that one gets from watching a mystery unfold is in the collection of clues by a gifted amateur detective (either a character in the story, or the audience itself with some aid from the script), the clever mis-direction and art of the author, and a satisfying conclusion.The conclusion is the key -- it must be innovative, and coherent. (Agatha Christie, of course, was the master. Everyone on the Orient Express did it; that's original, and satisfying. The police officer set the Mousetrap; that's original, and satisfying. The hanging judge faked his own death in order to direct suspicion elsewhere; that's original, and satisfying.) What is the point of crafting a lenghty story, and then saying at the end: "Yes, it all WAS possible, see? The existence of the *flibbertigibbet machine* means that it could have happened." A 'twist' that amounts to "I, the writer, can do whatever I damn well please" is simply hackneyed.'Electrical cloning' is impossible. It cannot be done. Saying it can -- and was, by Nikola Tesla -- is idiotic.While we're throwing around impossibilities concerning historical figures, we might as well just make a film about Queen Elizabeth I conquering Mars, or Julius Caesar inventing time travel using silver coins and sunshine. What an absolute waste of my time.PS. If the machine was a diversion -- all of the flashbacks and double-crosses muddied the story sufficiently to allow the possibility -- I still want to know why there are human forms in all of the many water tanks in the warehouse at the end of the film.The question the author wants us to ask is: are these the dead canaries, so to speak, or are they yet another layer of mis-direction?I think I can say this: if this were just another layer, and I am supposed to believe that the human forms are manniquins or stolen corpses, I am even more angry with the author. A pathetically low level of storytelling would have been reached.Both choices come out to the same result: a horrific stain on the good name of the mystery.
Memento was much worse than this, but The Prestige is empty and nonsensical in equal measure. At what point did the two brothers decide, 'Crikey, we ought to give up this brothers lark and hide ourselves from the world so we can pull off the Transported Man trick'? When they were still kids? And who thought it was a good idea to cast David Bowie as the Serbian lord of alternating current? If you like movies with two preposterous twists -- it's not just the twin brothers who are so dedicated to their art that they'd chop off their fingers and sleep with each other's girlfriends, but A MACHINE THAT ACTUALLY TELEPORTS PEOPLE ACROSS VARYING BUT QUITE SHORT DISTANCES!! -- then this is definitely for you.One thing I've learned is that, if ever you chance upon the diary or journal of your nemesis, make sure you read from the back to the front. You have been warned!
This is a very good example of Hollywood spending a lot of money on stars and directors to try to make a great, deep movie, and failing. The "art style" editing, cutting scenes back and forth in time, trying to make the story, cut up, seem deeper than it is.Why is he in Denver, where is Tesla, why is Scarlet Johannsen even in this movie, who cares about the surprise ending (and who believes it?)?? These are all good questions that we scarcely care about. Just looking at my watch waiting for it to end.The actors are good, but you actually need an interesting story to tell. A similar period (Sherlock Holmes' London) is done much better with the Downey/Law flic just out. For this one, don't see it in a theater, don't pay to rent it, maybe watch it if someone lends you a copy or you are huge Hugh Jackman fan, otherwise, save your energy.
Smarmy from front to back. All the principals are despicable. Nothing is visually interesting. The score is bad. It's slow talking, slow paced, slow to get ended. They could cut 45 minutes and omit nothing. Miserable lighting in most of the movie--feels like cavemen putting on a show. And why on earth would anyone pay the entrance fee when the light is too dim to see the magic. Magic isn't believe-able when it can't be seen. There is all too much of "it must be so because the movie says it is so" no matter how utterly preposterous it is in today's cinema -- Ocean's Eleven is another example.It's all in English but the deliveries are so bad that it is often impossible to make out what they are saying. Instead of shooting a scene again to get it right, they just write a repeat into the script so you can get it the second or third time it happens. Yuk---I want my money back. A Royal Nonesuch through and through.I can see why it is soooooo important to check the spoiler box on the review when the only reason to see a movie is to get a few moments of disgust at the end of the film when at long last the Scooby Doo moment finally slouches onto the screen. Please leave Scooby Doo to Scooby Doo -- he is so much better at it.
It must be so long since there actually was a really good movie that people think this is a masterpiece. Nice to look at, well-acted, prominent cast, the welcome return of David Bowie, but too gimmicky to be a complete "masterpiece". Using the last 10 minutes or so to provide a series of lame explanations to attempt to redeem the integrity of this "epic" is not good enough. And is Scarlett Johansson trying to put all other young actresses out of work by appearing in a string of unmemorable parts in unmemorable movies? Hey Hollywood, give someone else a chance and save her for the next big movie where Josh Hartnett again attempts to justify "actor" as his occupation.
(Contains no real spoiler, but could prompt a naive viewer to draw conclusions prematurely.) The intrigue of magic, what invites people to suspend disbelief for a moment, is the realization that the trick never IS supernatural; completing it doesn't require the violation of laws of physics, although all one's senses tells you it must.This movie, although beautifully composed and photographed, relies on sci-fi stunts to carry the story, which I think cheapen it and preclude it from being brilliant, even clever.Also, using the analytical tool of working backward from the ending to determine the likelihood of the events that preceded it, there are a number of problems with the story. Apparently, these magicians could not only conjure up illusions, but could also read minds and foretell the future.A big disappointment. . .
A great disappointment. Save your money and skip this movie. Two rival magicians appear to be one trick ponies. An audience will easily guess the secret behind their apparent magic. The romantic entanglements are entirely unconvincing. Interweaving of characters, the movie viewer never knowing for sure who is who, leaves the film-goer in a muddle. In the end, it is not worth working out the details. A waste of my time, and yours if you see it.Actors are all fine. A bitter rivalry between Nikola Tesla and Edison over direct current or alternating current as the best means of transmitting electricity has just a bit of a mention without all the drama it took in real life. Tesla surprisingly well portrayed by David Bowie. Edison does not appear but sends thugs to burn down Tesla's laboratory. (Highly unlikely.) Too bad the writers did not see fit (or did NOT know) to show the first use of AC in the electric chair to execute condemned criminals was touted by the Edison camp as showing how dangerous AC current was. I would certainly have written this into the script as it would fit nicely with the plot as it developed.I liked "The Illusionist" better as a film about magicians performing on stage, a better portrayal of the Victorian era, and a much better love story. This film never revealed the secret of the magician's tricks, a far better decision thins in "The Prestige".
SERIOUS SPOILERS and RANTS!!!! (For The Prestige AND The Illusionist) I just don't understand it--I've read the reviews of this movie here on Amazon and only one other person seems to also feel that the movie was ridiculously predictable early on. The clues were in your face, and then repeated/flaunted/displayed over and over, ad nauseum. Then, to add insult to injury on top of the old hackneyed "twin theme," some pseudoscience is thrown in to boot (clones created "Highlander" style--absurd bolts of electricity and all--Star Trek did cloning better in the 60's with Kirk on the whirly machine thing for God's sake). So Jackman's character kills himself/his clones over and over during every show waiting for the one time when Bale's character goes backstage, consequently pinning Jackman's murder on him. At the end they "divulge" the big secret that Bale has a twin (DUH?), and then the last scene shows Jackman floating in a tank and we're all supposed to go--wha? I mean wasn't it obvious that Jackman was killing himself over and over? (Or were all those hats and cats just extraneous props to throw us off?) And the Lord is...who?...is it really Hugh Jackman? Geez I didn't see that one coming...only A MILE AWAY. People keep comparing this movie to The Illusionist, but I thought the ending of The Illusionist was equally insulting--I mean, Paul Giamatti had to recount all the steps leading to the "secret" of the movie, when it was really obvious early on what had happened. I can only see Ed Norton, who was fantastic in Down in the Valley (as a dubious/not b&w character that kept you thinking) in the edit room arguing, "What? Why do we have to spoon feed the audience?" (Wasn't this "recap" device used already in Usual Suspects anyway?--only in Usual Suspects it was effective and necessary--at the end of the movie you really do go "ah ha! I didn't see that coming! Simply brilliant.") Christian Bale was incredible in The Machinist and American Psycho (even Batman was interesting). He has the charisma of a rock in The Prestige. Michael Caine is...basically Michael Caine. Hugh Jackman--he IS Wolverine. In this movie he falls flat. I don't feel his anger. I should want Bale's character incinerated for what he did, though maybe inadvertently, to Jackman's wife. But I don't feel anything. I've been a fan of Scarlett since Ghost World. No extraordinary acting here though. David Bowie, however, (whether he looks like the real Tesla or not) was very engaging. I wanted to see more of him. Oh well. I give it two stars just because I love the actors, though not in this particular movie.
Before I forget: Somebody said this was the best twisting movie since Fight Club. Honestly, must you make such a pointless comparison? Not only was Fight Club a hundred times better than this movie, the only thing it shares is the fact that people look like other people. Deal with it.I thought it could be a good movie - but then, of course, I watched it. This was a chance to make something great. It had good acting, famous actors, pretty cinematography and and a pretty neat premise about Tesla and his magic electricity/ duplication machine stuff. It failed, though, rather miserably. Now, it would have been a good movie, had it been muted, all the death and violent scenes, cut out, and simply been a showcase of interesting shots and pretty colors. And, of course, Tesla' cloning machine. In fact, the premise of the movie was pretty stupid. Seriously, there was no reason to make them magicians at all. Anybody can kill people, it just provides more interesting deaths if they can drown people in tanks or have people shot with their own guns. Take a hint from Pan's Labyrinth. Just grab the other guy and stab them in the face outright. It was confusing throughout. I eventually got it, but I had to pause the movie a few times. I'm not stupid, it was just so unexpectedly confusing I had to pause and think. Okay, so some guy called Angier drowns in a tank. The other guy, Bordon, goes to jail, and reads the dead guy's journal. The bits from the past switched between the dead guy reading the diary of the guy in jail, and the events leading up to him getting the diary. Both the past and present have a lot of unneeded jumping around all over the place, and in between all of that, the magicians end up hurting and killing a bunch of random people. They steal each others tricks, most notably the "Transporting Man trick". Eventually, Angier finishes reading Bordon's diary which ends with something like "I KNOW YOU HAVE THIS, I GAVE IT TO YOU ON PURPOSE. MWA!" As Bordon finishes reading Angier's diary, he gets a similar message. Finally, the movie confesses outright (although it hinted throughout) that Angier had created doubles that died every time, and as actually alive, (he most likely framed Bordon) and he steals Bordon's daughter for revenge and Bordon prepares to be hanged. Cutter refuses to let Bordon be hanged, but then doesn't care that Bordon (who had a double; one always posed as his agent. this is also how he did the transporting man trick.) gets the happy ending because he shot Angier, who made a ridiculous speech about how he never wanted Bordon's trick and just wanted to 'see the audiences' faces'. "OMG, they clap for me! Must kill more people!" After Bordon shot Angier, Cutter should have shot Bordon. Then they would have both gotten what they deserved. Except poor little girl would be all sad with no father. Cutter wouldn't want that.Oh yes, and one of the Bordon's loved Emily, their wife, and the other loved Olivia. Emily got mad because of the "affair", if you could even call it that, and so she hung herself. Rather stupid if you ask me.Speaking of the deaths, I thought the whole "Oh noes, Angier's wife is dead" thing to be idiotic. It started the whole stupid story. Throughout the whole movie, Bordon repeats "I don't know which knot I tied." Wow, I think you would, considering you specifically changed your frigging mind about what you were tying halfway through. I mean, seriously.What's wrong with you people? Get over it! I mean, seriously, you can't be that crazy obsessed, since the movie didn't mention the origin of this insane obsession. Oops. Never mind. Bad move, Nolan.The only reason this deserves a three is because of the actors, the cinematography, and the fact that it made me mad enough to slap everyone involved. Except David Bowie, because, in all honesty, the Tesla parts were all pretty cool in premise. They should have made the movie all about him. Three Cheers for "Tesla: The Movie".Was I really the only one who thought Scarlett looked a bit like Keira Knightley?
When I left the cinema after watching 'The Prestige', I tried to make head or tail of its storyline and eventually had to give up. This movie is a hotchpotch of unclear situations, flashbacks, mysterious allusions to the extent that in the end nothing makes much sense. Some of the comments on this website did help clarify a number of issues, but in the end the tortuous plot and the all-too-frequent twists and turns had me throw in the towel. It is to be regretted that, in order to ensure the success (?) of a movie, film directors have to resort to irritating 'postmodern' techniques requiring an above-average IQ and a PhD in cinema studies. Oh, for the simplicity and directness of 'Snowwhite and the seven dwarfs'! Among the many unresolved issues, one detail continues to exercise my mind: what is the significance of the small red ball which continues to be thrown at some of the characters and is then thrown back to the sender?


                
This had a lot of potential and the same tricks as batman begins. The dreary landscapes and overt use of dull colors to make to movie more sombre than it actually is. If I didn't know better I would guess that Nolan had a gay affair with Christian bale. Bale needs to overcome his lisp( speech impediment) and his 1 dimensional acting. The plot is predictable and sometimes you are tricked to think that there could be more than the obvious, but that feeling is ephemeral. British accents are laughable and the premise of Tesla inventing duplicating machines is an challenging ones intelligence. The Nolans need to ease up on the toke and think of something less inane. I'm afraid that the people who were awed by this insipid movie need to increase their cognitive capabilities.
I watched the movie (and read the book) because IMDb reviewers slammed "Now You See Me" and said real magic movies, like The Prestige and the Illusionist, are what filmmaking is all about. Well, I can say the Prestige was better than the Illusionist. And both were pieces of crud.Enter the adaptation of a bad book, The Prestige. The setup is simple - two rival magicians try to outdo each other, and their game escalates until people start getting seriously hurt. That should be easy enough to pull off, no? No. Here comes the sci-fi element that has absolutely nothing to do with the illusions the magicians were attempting before. Suddenly, what could have been a believable, but slow, plodding, and boring, period tale is now utter nonsense. And, the critical details about the sci-fi element are only told at the very end of the movie. At least the book let you warm up to the nonsense.The relationship between Bale and Johansen gets exactly two lines. And that is an incredibly important part of the story! The book treats this better, and the book was awful.This could be the movie that keeps me off of IMDb forever. You people are nuts if this is a 8/9 out of 10. The only good part of the experience was knowing I got the movie from the library, so this nonsense didn't cost me a dime.
thats right i enjoy Hugh Jackman & Christian bale movies but this just caused me pain its been a month & i am still recovering from this boring explosion,my whole body is in pain.all the actors looks bored & Christopher Nolan what is wrong with this guy his batman films are good but when he picks up a camera he loves to film in the night or even in the daylights cant shoot a scene with proper light.& please the length of the film is 2 hours please stop trolling the audiencenow lets get to the plot OK all the critics & people who praise this movie i hate them no seriously i get the plot tow guys want to be the best in the business of magic & be ultimate bale & Hugh Jackman were on coke that day when they signed this film.all that twists in the movie until the end i knew one of them was gonna lose it would have been nice if they both were cool & walked away.& that big machine & crazy science stuff is a joke what these guy are drinking i want that.i am saying is please don't hate me for my review a lot of people are gonna thumb me down specially Nolan fans guys i like Nolan but i don't droll over him.so please forgive me if i don't like this OK.my rating is 2/10 for some nice magic show but stay away from this movie i say because the prestige is for sleepy people only
This movie is a complete waste of time. The main characters are dull and poor actors. The whole plot seems inconceivable, on top of mundane and predictable. Instead of having a clever and interesting solution they resort to everyone has a clone. The characters have no depth whatsoever. They have nothing outside of their obsessions. Full of illogical twists and turns that make no sense whatsoever - what the hell does Tesla have to do with anything? Why wouldn't anyone notice the clones?Just don't see this movie, long, boring, horrible plot, and waste of time.
The perfect example of a great cast wasted. It's a remarkably uninteresting movie in which the "surprise" ending was pitifully easy to spot. The fact that the ending was obvious is secondary to the fact that each of the main characters were extremely unlikable individuals. What a waste of talent.The film is a pale shadow of the source material. The director tries to misdirect the viewer with an intricate flashback structure that begins at a trial, before time-traveling through the lives of the magicians as young men. The magicians fall in love with various women while escalating their nasty attempts to expose, outdo and injure each other.Their obsession to obtain each other's trade secrets and become the most esteemed illusionist becomes dull and falls somewhere on the scale between weird science and bad science, this plot development adds another layer of nonsense to the drama. There's no real magic here. For more likable characters and better sleight-of-hand storytelling, see The Illusionist.
Spoilers... It did have some interesting aspects to the movie, but overall I was bored by their rivalry and such. Plus I disliked borden's character altogether. He obviously killed Angier's wife for whatever reason and yet he's the one who got married, and had a kid, so for me the wrong guy was shot... I hate movies that leave you with a bad taste in your mouth and this one certainly did for me. It seems stupid to me that Borden had a twin brother that nobody knew about. And even more retarded was this cloning machine idea. More or less it's a grudge match against two magicians, and not much more. Scarlett was beautiful as always, but what a bitch she played IMO. Oh well i guess this is why you can't always go by the ratings... Better luck next time I guess
I've heard of suspending disbelief but this is ridiculous. Tesla did not invent a teleportation machine. Creating this fantasy isn't a satisfying solution to how Jackman was able to do his teleportation act. "The Prestige" isn't the sort of movie where the motivations of the characters is enough to carry the plot, as it was in Amedeus. So much of the plot is sprinkled with revelations of magic tricks that I was expecting a rational explanation for Jackman's trick. I don't think anybody can claim this is irrelevant to the plot. Quite frankly the only thing about this story that held my interest was the possibility that the explanation for the trick would be clever. Instead it was just as disappointing as the time my parents told me there was no santa claus."The Prestige" was long, boring and the plot twists were trite.
I mean you're supposed to feel conned that was the concept of the movie. What I felt conned by was the shoddy script/dialogue and 2D characters - must you become a drunk cliché when your lovers dies looking all mad eyed with the long hair and all??? Must you act 'ave a cuppa tea gvnor!' Scarlett?? I swear I heard you say 'like totally!' But most of all, what really made me mad what really insulted was the end twist! You mean to tell me you spent the whole movie working towards something that was so obvious!! We saw it half an hour during the movie, we guessed it in the relationships! We saw it written in the very in your face dramatic irony! We saw it as obvious as all my exclamation marks! There wasn't even an attempt at diversion. It was poor. The way the movie hid the twist was the the same way as Dick Dastardly plotted his evil doings.The fact that this movie has already gone into the top 250 shows that our audience can be fooled by anything. Get The Thin Red Line into the top 250 and then maybe, maybe I'll talk with some respect.


                
This contains spoilers but the film deliberately spoils its own plot.I loved the first half of the film - thinking I was in for multiple insights into magician's tricks and for the narrative to play similar tricks on the viewer. In fact, of course, a trick is played on the viewer, but it is infuriating, disappointing, cynical and ultimately leaves you feeling cheated. I give two stars out of 10 because it is well shot and the first third/half is done well - 0 out of 10 for the rest of the film SPOILERS: The film sets up and then deliberately telegraphs what the "answer" is to Borden's trick, (which is the same "answer" to the plot). The idea is to get the audience to guess that Fallon is Borden's double, but then to reject it because it is so obvious and too poor a denouement to a two-hour film, which is predicated (eg, by Cutter's VOs) on being clever and which is constantly, if implicitly, bragging that it will fool you. It plays upon the sophisticated modern viewer's knowledge that there must be a very clever solution at the end of the film - then defeats your expectations when the exceptionally obvious solution (which has been continually raised throughout the film) is, in fact, the real and only solution. So you have the jarringly obvious clues that Borden is two people which occur right the way throughout the film, in the comments of his wife for instance; the painfully obvious underplaying of Fallon's character (in a film in which Tesla is played by David Bowie, you very quickly notice you don't even know which bizarre choice of actor the casting director has called upon to play Fallon, while it is rather comically obvious at all times that he is wearing "a disguise") - and of course, Cutter simply announces that Borden obviously has a double. The only reason given for this not to be true is that his double has also lost his fingers - given Borden's insistence that you have to sacrifice yourself for your art, it is easily guessed that the double has cut his fingers off too. Just as the characters within the film denounce the "double" solution as being too obvious, so the audience is meant to - Nolan creates this "answer" in such a way as to make it look like a red herring. When the red herring turns out to be the true plot twist and not mis-direction, you have been fooled - but in a deeply disappointing way - the only twist is that, in fact, there is no twist. Instead of leaving you gasping in admiration at the cleverness of a plot "trick", the film simply leaves you annoyed and disappointed. Of course, Cutter and Borden have been saying all along, while talking of tricks, that it is very disappointing when you realise how obvious the solution to a trick is - but this should not apply to the denouement of a film - you should not be disappointed. This disillusionment was very quickly followed, in my case at least, by the realisation that the doubles "plot" is ludicrous - why don't Borden and "Fallon" not tell the wife that there are two of them, which would solve her suicidal anguish and, presumably, the anguish of one of the brothers. Instead,the twins/doubles allow her to believe her husband is having an affair and doesn't love her half of the time - when in fact her husband loves her all the time and is not having an affair, it is his twin who is sleeping with Olivia. In fact, why do they keep swapping roles and Borden/Fallon alternate who talks to the wife? It is merely cruel, pointless and, of course, has only occurred to serve the feeble plot line. How anyone can call this a 10/10 film is utterly beyond me.There is a final insult to the viewer's intelligence - while Borden's trick turns out to have the obvious solution, Angier's trick is not a trick at all - it involves some sort of sci-fi Star Trek teleporter. You are also shown this before the end, so even this deeply poor "solution" is not kept as some sort of final revelation.Waste of two hours of my time - I'm still angry about it so it has basically screwed another hour afterwards too
I finished reading the darkly elegant novel "The Prestige" by Christopher Priest about a week before renting the DVD. Perhaps I was setting myself up for disappointment, but the movie is an absolute dog; it pales in comparison to the novel. I have to wonder what Christoper Priest thinks of this film.Call me a purist, but I would love to see the novel made into a movie that respects the story's original plot structure. Too much that is worthwhile in the novel, such as the addition of Borden's and Angier's descendants to frame the story, has been deleted. Too much that is ridiculous has been added to the film. The story has been butchered beyond belief. I realize that Nolan is known for playing with the chronology of events, but his piecemeal approach destroys any possibility of real dramatic tension building towards any sort of climax.One of the strengths of the novel was that the story was told largely in the form of diaries the two magicians had written. This offered us some back story to give context to the conflict between Angier and Borden, and also allowed us to get inside their heads. The characterizations in the movie, are for the most part, extremely one-dimensional and superficial - completely without subtlety. The acting is mostly a snore, with flat performances from most of the actors, an exception being Rebecca Hall, who showed some emotional depth and engaged the viewer. At least the special effects were snazzy. But far more electricity was generated by Tesla's machine than existed between any of the characters, which is really too bad. I just got bored with it all.If you haven't seen this picture, don't waste your time. Just read the book.


                
For movie that is in top 250, has such high rating and so much positive reviews it is really disappointing. It is really far from good movie and irritated me so much that I felt like writing my first ever review.First, start with good, or more precisely not so bad. Well, premise is good, and if this was done better maybe I would be interested in how they did tricks. And Tesla was very well done. Bowie was excellent choice for Tesla. Other than that I can't remember even single redeeming quality of this movie.Now, bad parts. Oh boy, where to begin.No likable characters. There isn't a single character in here that I can connect to or even like! And who is there to like? Angier who only wants to steal "magic" trick from Borden with no consideration for those around him? Borden(s) who has such bad attitude towards his wife and daughter? Mother who hangs herself out of jealousy and leaves her daughter alone? Olivia, who is so forgettable that she just dropped out from movie for no apparent reason and no one noticed? Nope, nope and nope... Rest of characters are so bland or appear so little that are not even worth of mentioning. Central plot should be rivalry between two illusionists. But their actions are so unrealistic and bland I had feeling like only thing pushing plot forward was will of the writer. And that is really bad storytelling.In a movie which presents itself like realistic we get such outrages deus-ex for main plot line it made me cringe. A machine that copies anything! A machine in 19th century which copies anything and can teleport! What? Really? Before this was introduced I still had some hope to rate this movie as watchable, but this just buried my hopes. Oh, and why there is no Sci-Fi category mark for this movie is beyond me.Scenes are jumping all over the place. One dude is reading diary of another dude, who at some point is reading diary of first dude, and all of that we get after opening scene that showed us main character die... Did I mentioned confusing time-line? Plot twists. Well, to be frank there is just one and that is revelation that Borden has a twin brother and that is how he does his Transportation trick. So greatest mystery, only thing in this movie worth anything, is revealed to be the simplest possible solution. Still, it wasn't that bad and there are hints to this. Problem is lack of other plot twists in what should be mystery driven movie.And why in the world Borden doesn't reveal his wife that he has a twin... Both twins slept with women they don't like and lied to family because of some stupid illusion trick? And cut fingers? And allow wife to hang herself because of this and leave his daughter motherless? Someone actually wants me to believe that? So when exactly they decided to act like one person? And how no one even noticed, his (their) wife never met ANY relative of Bordens who knew they were twins when they were little? So bad characters, bad plot, bad pacing, no point to the story, bad Sci-Fi elements... How can anyone, let alone so much people, give this movie good review is beyond me.
Great sets, good actors, a reasonable story, but spoiled by Hollywood once again low-balling the viewers IQ.To resolve the competition between two magicians, the story introduces a scientist who creates for one of the magicians a device capable of duplicating whatever is put into it.Having acquired this duplicating device, the magician then uses it to create copies of himself, which he drowns as part of his magic act. This act of repeated self-murder allows him to successfully compete with his rival, although we only discover the mechanism behind the successful magic act at the very end of the film.Surely the act of creating a copy of yourself only to ask him to commit suicide as a means of furthering ones competitive goals deserves a better treatment than that given in this film.There's a story here far more interesting than the one presented.
A film that you know the end from the beginning must be a very good film to catch the attention of the audience, like a good trick of magic or like good films like "memento" or "usual suspects". If we know the end at least we expect some interesting history, a real plot, good characters, not just a pretentious film. Here we only have two magicians going all the way around each other, with an obvious twist that evolves into a sci-fi twist which nobody wants to see because we already know. I'd say that the acting of the three main characters is very good (Bale is superb as always, and Jackman is improving), s. Johanson is also OK but her character could be off the film and nobody would notice.


                
The Prestige was an overblown piece of rubbish. The acting was third-rate. The caricature accents were ridiculous. Christian Bale a cockney - I don't think so.Scarlett Johnanssen, she didn't do anything other than pout. We would ask for more from a big budget movie actress.David Bowie, why didn't you open your mouth when you were talking. You are not a cartoon. You are a real person - or pretending to be.Hugh Jackman, well you were just like High Jackman - likable, but nothing special.After the thrilling Memento, (also directed by Nolan) this was a sorely disappointing film. Seriously, for sadists only!


                
