Reading these drooling reviews, I have to wonder what has gone wrong with the movie-viewing community of late.This film is nothing more than a very expensive exercise in overstatement. How many times can we possibly hit our audience over the head with the same exact symbolism? How blatantly obvious can we make our "elaborate plot twists" by the end of the film? Hugh Jackman's closing speech is perfectly typical of this film. Shot and dying on the floor, he suddenly comes to this very drawn out and very boringly shot epiphany about how he was never REALLY obsessed with finding out his opponent's secrets. He actually traveled thousands of miles, spent countless amounts of money, (How did he have this, by the way?) shot, stalked, kidnapped, and did his very best to destroy his opponent's life, but he actually did it for "the look on their (the audience) faces." Please.And plot twists? No no no, my friends. There is precisely one plot twist, and it is given away by the "tease" at the beginning of the film. As soon as you see that the hat doesn't leave, you know the rest of the movie. Okay, it clones things. He makes new and kills one of himself every time. It's not a huge leap in logic, but the filmmakers see fit to treat the audience like a bunch of Neanderthal second graders.Finally, we are supposed to like the magician/twin that makes it back to his daughter in the end. Forgetting of course, the fact that he broke Hugh Jackman's legs, killed his wife, crushed that innocent woman's hand, and oh yes, shot and killed his rival. But he was justified, right? WRONG. Once again, Hollywood comes out with the kind of ambiguous, almost-moral movie that makes you just cringe with the pansy-butt quality of their statements.Please do both me and yourself a favor and skip this tripe.
There are many reviews on this site saying how after The Prestige they walked out of the theater in awe with jaws dropping. Personally, I didn't get it.The movie was a trick badly done. The "turn" is too transparent, revealing all the secrets to one that isn't simply waiting for the prestige. That is, by the middle of the movie, you can have a pretty good idea of how it will end. This would be fine if not for the fact that the ending is really all this movie is about. I suppose you might be able to enjoy it, if you're not that analytical and just take things as they are.Personally, I enjoyed The Illusionist much more, although that movie too had an all-too-obvious plot.Finally... as for those denouncing Tesla, rumors have circulated even until today about his experiments. The trick with the lightbulbs as seen in the preview? That was, and is, possible. Yes -- Tesla invented it. Tesla experimented with all kinds of things, including the technology seen in this movie. If anyone could have accomplished such a feat during that era, it would have been Tesla. This is a work of fiction so do take it with a grain of salt.


                
Christopher Nolan's "The Prestige" is a very good looking movie and is very well acted. That having been said Chris Nolan plants so many winks toward the audience and little hints everywhere so that the "not so average" movie goer could see where it is leading one hour into the film. I did and so I am greatly disappointed.If "The Prestige" carries such an elaborate plot, with many twists and turns and a touch of sci-fi to it (no spoiler warning needed, it is mentioned in the commercial) then why make it simple for audiences to follow it? Movies like this carry great weight with terrific work and craftsmanship but for the second hour I sat in the theater knowing the end.This is not really a review, seeing that I don't need to review this film after hundreds have already done, but it is simply that if you follow the film properly (by listening to what the characters say without taking everything literally and by seeing everything that you are indeed seeing) its payoff will be quite sub-par.I compare this to "The Illusionist" because both films attempt to pull off a con on the audience. "The Illusionist" carries more grace, in its almost 1920's film-making style, and the plot is harder to figure out but overall it carries realism, which "The Prestige" does not (by a long shot).5/10 due to a terribly predictable story that is purposely woven in that fashion by Chris Nolan. If you want to see film that is airtight and what ill awe you, watch his film "Following".D.
I was told by several people things like "This movie is awesome!" and "you'll have to watch it like three times to figure out what happened!" Well, I can pretty comfortably state that the movie is not "awesome" and it only took about 1/2 the movie to figure out what was going to happen. I'm not quite sure why such talent agreed to be in this film after reading the script, unless they figured that most Americans are dolts and wouldn't realize how inane this movie actually is (which apparently is true). If you do watch it, and I don't advise against it because it's a better alternative than a lot of other movies, don't be surprised if you come away shocked not at the ending but at the way it comes about. For in this movie, I'm not blown away by the twist but rather by the ludicrous yet horribly predictable road leading to it.


                
I am getting a bit annoyed with the IMDb ratings because they regularly trick me into watching bad movies which have inexplicably high scores.This movie is actually well packaged, technically competent, with good acting (except for the always wooden Jackman) and quite decent from a story-telling point of view. I was able to connect with the story and the characters despite their flaws and I was entertained for the first hour and a half.The process of getting behind the scenes and trying to understand/figure out all the subterfuges and tricks that these rival magicians use both in their acts and against each other was quite captivating and carried the movie well, the ultimate goal being to try to figure out "the transported man". Several of the twists caught me by surprise and I was waiting for a spectacular finale but then Nolan manages to drop the plot on the dung pile by unveiling... the Cloning Machine! The whole story becomes meaningless science fiction drivel. Why bring in a cloning machine when he could have borrowed a Transporter from the Star Trek set filming next door and wouldn't have needed to kill all those clones? And think of how all the other magic acts in the movie could have been enhanced with a Gravity Inverter, a Matter Replicator, Invisibility Cloak...Once the story credibility falls apart the nice packaging becomes an empty shell and it can't save the movie from demise. Too bad, it seemed to have great potential... Is Nolan becoming the next M Night Shyamalan?
I totally agree with Berardinelli on this one. He sums the movie up marvelously when he describes it as: "The Prestige is cold, and Nolan crafts a storyline that is more complicated than necessary". And that is exactly the point, the film is so complicated it is almost impossible to follow, it doesn't make much sense, and is therefore not interesting for the viewer. It is also cold, without feelings, thus leaving the spectator indifferent to the proceedings or the final outcome.Subsequently, it doesn't matter any more that the movie is well crafted, in some instances well acted (especially Michael Caine), none of these things can change the viewers' overall sensation of disappointment in watching this film. On a last note, I do not believe the picture deserved any of the two nominations it received; just think about it, this film received a Nomination for best Cinematography and 'Curse of the Golden Flower' didn't...? I really fail to understand what they are thinking over at the Academy sometimes...


                
I came to see this movie with very high hopes, but came away severely disappointed. In an age where it seems every movie has to have a 'surprise ending' this is no different from many other movies out there at the moment. I guess the bulk of my criticism comes from the fact that I guessed the plot of the film, together with its two theorethically surprise twists at the end about 20 minutes (Tesla exhibition + multiple top-hats in the first scenes of the movie) and 40-45 minutes into the movies (Borden gravediggin'). From then on it was just waiting and saying to myself 'That was so obvious'. At fault is the director and scriptwriter who seemed to throw to much apparent clues too soon in the movie.Chris Bale does I must say a spectacular job as Borden, with Hugh Jackman supplying a satisfying if indifferent performance. The biggest flop was the babe meaning Scarlett Johannson, who seems to think the only thing necessary to act is to show some skin and to pucker up her seductive lips.I especially find flaw with the whole premise of the story... if you do a magic film you take one of three routes to make it coherent and with some cohesive background.A) You include real magic making the story more mystical; B) You put into the movie unexplainable events and leave it to the audience to decide if the magic is real or false; C) You show that everything is a trick, although the tricks are so ingenious that they add a certain punch to the movie.YOU DON'T DO SOMETHING WHICH IS A BIT OF THIS OR A BIT OF THAT making it in a muddled incoherent mess. Unfortunately all solutions to the movie were basically the easiest solutions, meaning that the scriptwriters (novelist?) really didn't try to hard to think of more surprising alternatives to the story.The end solutions were apparent from a mile away, the Scarlett role was dismal and all in all the story very much unimpressive. Giving these factors even though I absolutely love "Memento" and congratulate Nolan on "Batman Begins" I have to give my thumbs down and a 3/10 (with one point added for Christian Bale's portrayal).
Christopher Priest's novel novel on which the film was based is to my mind by far the least interesting of his that I have read. It's reliance on impossible, rather than speculative, science making it ever so slightly ridiculous to this confirmed rationalist. The best feature of the book by far was the complicated narrative methods it used. Needless to say this is totally lost in Nolan's tricksy film. The narrative here is disjointed, not for any obvious effect, but seemingly because this is now Nolan's style, a style he will use regardless of how appropriate it is to the film. What we end up with though is an uninteresting tale badly told, devoid of humour or life. Christian Bale is as mannered as ever, after several films in which he got to use his unconvincing American accent he now sounds equally unconvincing as a cockney. Hugh Jackman is slightly more watchable but Scarlett Johannson is wasted and Bowie as embarrassing as ever. Watching this back to back with the less feted "The Illusionist" is instructive, that film was as predictable and old fashioned as could be, it was at least entertaining and Edward Norton runs rings round Bale.


                
Okay, well I'd been looking forward to this movie, the premise sounded great, Victorian magician's competing with each other for the 'trick they'll be remembered for'... I've got time for the entire cast, and in my opinion they pretty much all turned in great performances... but i'm still a little unsure of how worthwhile this movie really is.*spoilers*so, the movie seems to centre itself around a clever trick 'The Transported Man' - which, although at points is described as nothing more than an illusion created with a magicians double, it's also suggested that Nikola Tesla invented a machine that would not just duplicate objects.. but would perfectly duplicate PEOPLE?!okay, i'm of two opinions, either:A) the machine doesn't work = a clever, ingenious movie that i've yet to fully suss.or B) the machine does work = a naff work of fiction that pivots on an, as yet, impossible piece of technology.now aside from the mass of arguments going on in the forums, i'm lead to believe that Nolan has created a film with a *working* machine, this is nothing new, many a hopeless whodunit has cropped up an impossible-to-figure killer in the final real. or, like the prestige, has relied on some bit of gadgetry that turns the entire reality of the movie into a farce... Scream3 springs to mind with the 'voice changer' that'll change anyone's voice into anyone else's.it's about magicians... normal people, creating something mystical, with no more than skill and misdirection... whereas this movie has a normal man, creating a truly mystical effect, with a hugely preposterous work of fiction... if he can invent a 'duplicating' machine back in the Victorian times, then why not just have all the magicians as wizards as well, if you're gonna leap into fantasy, then leap with your whole being, not just plop it in at the end as a silly fix-it.here's hoping someone makes a movie of 'Carter Beats The Devil' instead, set around the same time, with a far more plausible storyline, and characters you really learn to care about.then again, if Nolan comes out in 5 years time and explains to us how the movie works with a *non-working* machine, then all is forgiven, and this is a damn good movie..... but until that day... 3/10
When compared to the vastly better THE ILLUSIONIST, this film pales. I found myself actually being bored and kept waiting for something, anything to capture my imagination....to wow me. As an audience, the narrator within the film urges us to pay attention, and I did, for the duration - wondering why I didn't go to see another movie. The only real acting in the film was done by the character of Bale's wife in the film. Her scenes were touching...the rest...well lets just the ticket seller was the only one in the theater working slight of hand. Count me completely unimpressed.Christian Bale and Hugh Jackman were just OK, Michael Caine passable, and Scarlett forgettable. The only thing I can say about this movie is that its about obsession and the damage it can cause. Sorry, nothing magical about that!
This movie was a disappointment. Both Jackman and Bales looked uncomfortable portraying magicians. Nolan did a nice job of limiting their acts of prestidigitation, but frankly, it wasn't enough. There was no flamboyance; nothing to make the characters stand out as leading illusionists.Major flaws: There was no explanation as to how the great Danton became so wealthy, wealthy enough to buy his transference machine from Tesla, another boring and disappointing performance.It was obvious from the start that Bales had a twin brother in disguise, and one could easily guess that they switched off doing roles on stage and performing in the boudoir. The unveiling of this secret was... nothing.The whole idea of a machine that created a carbon copy of Danton every performance was just plain dumb. Nikola Tesla was not a mystical character, historically, and to portray him as someone who could transcend the laws of physics was insulting to those of us with more than animal intelligence.I have not yet seen The Illusionist, but I'm sure the performances by Norton and Giamatti will be much better. It can hardly be possible that they could be worse.Mike
Bale, Jackman, and Caine, now that sounded like it should've been the best movie one could've wanted to see at theatre. I give you at first I kept thinking it was sort of like Batman versus Wolverine. This movie had the potential to be a great film but at best it was a mediocre attempt at a mysterious period piece. The two main characters were unsympathetic and the others were merely window dressings for their obsessions. I am not really all that much of a Caine fan but I can easily say that he did the best performance of these actors. Even though most of the acting was barely on par, the script and editing were far worse. The timing and movement of this piece took it from a passable film to dreadfully long one. The problem with its length is that it gives you so much time that you figured out all the twists and after that what's the point? I felt mislead with this film as well, it was far more of a revenge flick than a historical fiction. If you are interested in magicians and period pieces try the Illusionist. It was a much better constructed film.


                
The "ultimate magic trick" mentioned in the plot outline on IMDb involves such an unbelievable and unlikely happening that it conflicts with other thematic elements, and leaves one wondering whether this is a science fiction movie or a period movie about magicians. The whole plot is contrived. The movie is not compelling as a whole, only in parts. The acting is fine, but the dialog is often hard to follow--lines spoken too quickly and not distinctly. Don't expect a bright and sunny movie either--most scenes are filmed in dark and dingy sets. The movie starts out alright--two magicians competing for the best trick, but soon the plot devolves into a series of events where each main character seeks the "ultimate magic trick." Don't be fooled: this so-called "ultimate magic trick" is completely implausible, so the movie looses credibility and believability. If the movie had developed this part of the plot with more emphasis and detail it might have made for a more interesting movie, but as it is, the movie doesn't know if it wants to be a serious drama or a science fiction thriller.


                
What comes to mind immediately in reviewing The Prestige, is a comparison to a similar, but far superior movie, The Illusionist. The Illusionist had it all: a great story with a complex but credible plot, great characters (especially Edward Norton as the Illusionist), and a thoroughly satisfying conclusion. The scenes of magic were extraordinary and creepy, transporting the viewer back to the world of a master conjuror's stage in the year 1900. By contrast, The Prestige had a silly, trivial plot that just kept repeating the schtick of two magicians who were rivals for no purpose, unimpressive "tricks" on the stage, and the preposterous Tesla device that duplicated everything like a surreal photocopy machine. The movie also took huge liberties, jumping around in time: one minute D'Anton was in London, and the next in Colorado, multiple times. Played fast and loose with parallel universes and time travel, I guess.I kept thinking, do I really care enough to watch the end of this movie? And why is Scarlett Johansen always typecast as a temptress/floozy? She looked like the early 20th century version of the character she played in Match Point, another loser of a movie.


                
I did not enjoy this movie nearly as much as I was expecting based on the hype. I gave it such a bad rating to balance the good ones.It moved incredibly slowly, was overly predictable and repetitive, was *barely* redeemable by an exciting yet still BAD ending. It portrays magician performers as kind of lame and immature, not realistic and not relatable. There are some *really bad* actors that play minor roles in this movie. Overall the movie was cheesy and the dialogue is just plain bad. If there was no twist, this movie would have absolutely nothing entertaining about it. Not recommended.


                
THIS REVIEW MAY CONTAINE SPOILERS Slowly paced thriller, that comes apart at the seams because of very lazy writing.The filmmakers decided that the concept of being able to fool people a hundred years ago was not enough. They needed to create tricks that were so advanced and that relied on a science that is not even close to existing TODAY.The entire resolution of the movie relies on turning the main characters into super magicians. They can now do things that are quite simply just magic. This is thrown into a movie that is supposed to be about two guys obsessing on how good the other guy might be in their chosen profession.It is a lazy resolution to a high concept idea.It is quite possibly the worst ending to a top flight production in the last twenty years. Why do this? Why create a machine that cannot possibly exist? Why not have something clever or smart be the reason for how these guys can perform the seemingly impossible, but instead resort to abra kadabra thats just the way it is? There is no way to get over this gigantic plot point, that leaves anyone with half a brain watching this movie feel like they have been completely cheated.


                
Although both movies have certain similarities, Victorian, magicians, beautiful people, twist endings, there is one huge difference, "The Illusionist" is enjoyable while "The Prestige" is a pretentious, manipulated, confusing, mess. The character development is especially weak, the accents barely intelligible, and the time jumps annoying. If the movie had played out in an orderly fashion, it might have proved more enjoyable. I cannot recommend "The Prestige". If you must see a magical movie, and enjoy being manipulated toward a twist ending, then "The Illusionist" is your movie. At least it makes a little bit of sense. Rate "The Illusionist" 7.0, "The Prestige" 3.0 - MERK


                
The first scene shows about 30 hats scattered on a hillside. We learn later that Nikolai Tesla has this amazing gadget, complete with sparks and mini-lighting and then, flash... there's another hat outside? does it also work with cats? maybe humans too? The second scene has Michael Caine explaining and demonstrating how "magic" tricks are done. First, there is "The Pledge", ie, something is about to happen, in this case a bird-cage with a canary in it, then comes "The Turn", where the cage is covered, then smashed, along with the canary, then... "The Prestige", and bingo, the canary is alive and well... maybe? And the audience (one 7-year girl) smiles and applauds. The inference is that such amazement with accompany all the other magic tricks that ensue.The third scene is in a court room where one guy is accused of murder. Throughout the movie, there is flashbacks, and flash-forwards and if you can follow it all, then good luck to you. I couldn't, I thought the whole thing a waste of the talents of all these big-name stars.In my rating process, it gets 0/2 for the story, 0/2 for the characters, partly because Bale and Jackman are of similar age and stature, and one or both adopt disguises that simply adds to my confusion. The acting gets a 1/2, since none of them can do much with such a pointless script. Then there is a 1/2 twice for the writing, production and direction. Is there a single really good scene, with memorable dialogue? 0/2 Different planets? It takes all sorts?


                
There's only one way to say it: this is a bad movie! It uses a conventional form of interweaving the past and the present, starting with a pivotal event, the death of one magician with the other in attendance, and weaves back and forth, in and out, all the way through to the present.Within this conventional structure we are supposed to be amazed by the magic, which is not particularly amazing, and we are almost always shown the techniques they use. Again, the magic in the film is mostly conventional.The characters are the part of the movie that is not conventional, each one having enough neuroses and personality disorders to make them interesting, and rather humanly inconsistent, but also annoying and totally unbelievable. And I believe that all things that happen in movies have to appear credible, even the incredible events and plot twists. All of the ones in this movie seem terribly contrived.With all the time they take for exposition (2 hours and 10 minutes!) they still have to hit you over the head with some of the plot points, and that is a sure sign of bad direction -- I won't spoil it by telling you where these are, they are so obvious that you will most likely be able to anticipate every surprise and be a bit bored as I was.What kept me watching was the fabulous Hugh Jackman and Christian Bale, and the beautiful sets and costumes of Victorian England.


                
