I love a film that doesn't spoonfeed the plot and the story and the interest in it to the audience. This one takes you along if you are smart enough to go and if you are not so dumbed down by most entertainment that you can stay steadily involved.I wanted to love it to death...it has everything I think a film should have, including a wonderfully rich atmosphere, a great cast and excellent direction. Through most of it, it dares the audience to be intelligent and to have an attention span longer than a fruit fly. It had all the makings of a great film, but I kept looking for (and longing for) the greatness to impact me. It never did.It fell flat for me by the end. I really didn't care about any of them by then. I wasn't even sure I cared about the little girl. I certainly didn't care how anyone did any of the illusions; I was sick to death of their obsession with each other and just wanted them to move on already. Although there would be no film without it, it all seemed to be 'too much trouble to go through' and obsession is about getting caught up in it...for me, I couldn't get caught up in itnor could I quite get their obsession. Although Iam a big fan of the long, thinking person's film, I have to say I thought it dragged on and on by the end and I just wanted it over. It definitely did not leave me wanting more. I just wanted different.I had paid attention all along, I was impressed with the film and thought the acting, the cinematography and the direction were all superb. Even though some of the twists seem unnecessary, I thought many were brilliant and I kept trying to will myself to care about it, to care about them, but I didn't.It was a very good film in a detached sort of "viewing art" way but as far as feeling "wow"'d by the end, not so much.


                
I don't know how any movie buff would not see the twists coming from a mile away. One can see when a twist is done in a tasteful and careful manner, and when the film makers are desperately trying to fit square pegs into round holes. Credit must be given to Hugh Jackman, Michael Caine, and David Bowie for their superb acting. However Christian Bale(who I normally like) and Scarlett Johansson were terrible. A few of my specific gripes: 1. The ending is given away in the first minute. Christian Bale is accused of killing Hugh Jackman. EVERY MOVIE that starts with this presentation ends up with the supposedly accused being innocent.2. The cat was duplicated. Surely by this alone anyone can deduce that Jackman was also duplicated. Hence the pointless "solving the puzzle" scenes.3. Mystery/suspense turned into Steven Spielberg's Amazing Stories science fiction halfway through the movie.4. Jackman conveniently tears up the Transported Man secret(which was a driving plot) so he can be shot by Bale's twin brother.5. Jackman conveniently finds an exact look-alike in a bar.6. Bale's wife amazingly knows which days he loves her and which he doesn't, in a dire attempt to connect the twin brother twist.7. I was terribly disappointed with Perabo's death scene and subsequent funeral. These were two important moments in the film and should have been emphasized and given more attention. "What knot did you tie?". "I don't know". "You don't know?".8. A supposedly "dead" Jackman trots in public without any concern of being recognized to have a contrived face to face dramatic effect with his nemesis.9. Just get a gun and shoot each other in the back. The movie would be over in 10 minutes and there would be no need for tantalizing sabotages.To conclude, this movie was made with the intention of "let's get in as many twists and turns possible" rather than "let's tell a good story with a twist".
In a film about magic and illusion, isn't it a shame that the makers cheat the audience who have waited patiently for the clever reveal. It's not so much a case of "how did they do that, it's impossible" as "that IS impossible". There's no magic trick at all, the whole conceit relies on a sci-fi teleporter/cloning machine which does not and never has existed. Well acted, well staged and filmed but the whole idea of the magic trick ending with a "prestige" is lost because, in this film, the trick has no prestige, just a sparkly device which, you feel, has been invented by the film-makers because they couldn't think up a clever ending. Twists and tricks are great in movies, provided they are believable and inventive. Doing the impossible is merely treating the audience as idiots.
Sorry, but I guess I'm going against the grain on this one. I remember when Michael O'Donoghue was writing for National Lampoon; he had a "how to write a short story" article. The thrust of the piece was -- if you get bored or can't figure out an ending, have your character get hit by a bus. This movie seems to take that approach.The 'miracle' invention that Tesla apparently provided Hugh Jackman's character, which allowed him to duplicate himself, is nowhere referenced in the movie. The ending is a cinematic equivalent of "then he got hit by a bus". In short, I think the audience was cheated. Apparently most of the people who commented on this movie didn't mind that, but I thought it lacked integrity.Beautiful cinematography, tortured accents, and a conceit that's actual a deceit. Not recommended.
...but it fell like a card-house. I really like the thought of the "its all about the sacrifices you make" plot but it just doesn't last. Up until Nikola Tesla did his cloning/teleport thingey I still had some hopes for the movie and I sat hoping that Tesla had faked the cloning just to get some more money when i saw the hats and cats on the ground. I genuinely hoped the filmmakers illustrated Tesla as a hoax, it sure seemed better than the movie getting all Star Trek! Unfortenately the writers didn't pick up that extra ace from their sleeves and the movie literally flat-lined and just died. Beam me up Scotty :(
I'd been excited about seeing THE PRESTIGE, especially as it re-teamed two of my favourite film people from BATMAN BEGINS: the usually excellent Christopher Nolan, who delivered the excellent INSOMNIA and MEMENTO, and Christian Bale, an actor who can do no wrong in my eyes. Then what a shame it is that THE PRESTIGE turns out to be nothing more than a silly, muddled science fiction film masquerading as a serious and engaging drama.It starts off on a strong footing, with interesting characters and situations, but quickly loses these in a stupid plot that jumps all over the place and never bothers making much sense. The biggest kick in the teeth, however, is the ending, which ties things up with two plot twists that are frankly awful. The first is a sci-fi staple – cloning. What place does it have in a supposedly realistic Victorian thriller? It just turns this film into a fantasy and loses audience interest. The second twist is the one that's apparent early on, and one of the classic 'tricks' much beloved by writers of murder mysteries and crime thrillers. It's also been done to death and was outdated about a century ago, but no, it's resurrected here and had me groaning, feeling cheated when it appeared.THE PRESTIGE isn't a totally bad film and there are quite a few things to recommend it. It looks fantastic, and all of the electric special effects are tremendous. It also boasts a pretty good cast, with Christian Bale delivering another outlandish performance – his Cockney accent here is quite amusing – and Michael Caine presiding over things in his usual manner. Hugh Jackman I don't particularly like as an actor, and he's at best passable here; but in comparison to the hopeless Scarlett Johansson, who struggles with her British accent, he's Laurence Olivier! There are some fun minor roles for Andy Serkis and David Bowie, the latter playing the inventor Nikola Tesla and doing a good job of it. While the magic acts and tricks are engaging when they're on screen, it's just a shame that the film becomes so implausible and cops out towards the end. THE PRESTIGE contains nothing I'll want to sit through again.
I don't care about the people in this movie, nor about any romance or struggles they were involved in.And if I say to hell with the characters--the message is the point; that's even worse. The message is neither inspiring, nor enough of an opposite of inspiring to give the stimulating, titillating gift of darkness.I really went in wanting to like it, and wanting to care about what was going on (and I really like almost all of these actors). And I'm normally not too good at guessing endings and so on... Wow. Not one single surprise that you weren't at least suspecting far in advance. Sometimes, it just boggled the mind; when something was introduced as a surprise, I was sitting there thinking, "Um, didn't they explicitly reveal this an hour ago?" Maybe I'm just missing the point that it's really for twelve-year-old girls or something.Yes, that must be it.I really feel robbed. Sometimes after a movie, there's that afterglow that just fills you up. Sometimes, it's so sad and moving that you can think about it five days later and still work up a tear. Sometimes, it's that it's so fun to think about it, over and over the details... In this case, what I'm left with is wanting to kick someone. It's the feeling of sorta wanting to kick myself, but the 8.5-star rating that's currently the average on IMDb excuses my mistake.The movie makes you feel like a sucker, and gives you almost nothing in return.It was mildly pretty, but... I'm still waiting for the prestige, here.


                
I'm going to go ahead and tell you right now that you wouldn't be missing all that much if you didn't see this movie. It tries to pass itself as historical fiction, pertaining to a time period in which magicians were willing to do anything to usurp their fellow illusionists, but at the end it dabbles much too far into the realm of impossibility-explained-with-science that it effectively ruins itself and drops down to the uninteresting "sci-fi" category.For about the first two hours, it was what I expected. A dark, mysterious, captivating, and twisted piece of storytelling. I've come to associate each of those elements with director Christopher Nolan and his oddly familiar cast<U+0097>Christian Bale, Hugh Jackman, Michael Cane, and Scarlett Johansson. But at some point during the course of the above-average directing and acting, the writer messed up. I don't want to give away too much, but it effectively ruins the greatest magic trick<U+0097>the Transported Man<U+0097>from the movie. It became convoluted. It tried so hard to be darker, more mysterious, more captivating, and more twisted, that it eventually turned itself into a pretzel. A crap covered one.The final scenes made an attempt to fix up the original mess by delivering a punch that was actually thought-provoking. Still, you could pass this one up until it comes out on PPV or Blockbuster. Don't pay full price, unless you're a big "Batman Begins" fan and need something to satisfy your taste buds until "The Dark Knight" is released in 2008.


                
A film about magicians, and of course magicians make a business tricking people. Usually, though, the audience doesn't figure out the trick, and that's why it works. Unfortunately here the trick is laid bare and it makes the whole thoroughly disappointing. There is much more promised than delivered, and I find it hard to recommend to anyone. Part of the disappointment is that it could have been so much more. The premise is interesting, the characters start out interesting... as is, though, it needs a major rewrite. Sorry.


                
The Prestige opens and closes with Michael Caine's stage engineer Cutter informing us of the three acts behind every magic trick. The pledge: setting up something that seems ordinary (a bird), the turn: making that thing do something extraordinary (the bird disappears), and the prestige: restoring that thing to reality (the bird reappears). The final of the three, which is meant to be the hardest to achieve, is the key to the trick working. It's eerie then that the film collapses within the most crucial area. Its own prestige. Nolan's film is effectively a game of showmanship between two rival magicians. How when one performs a trick that seems impossible, the other drives himself to the edge in order to figure out its secret. The film isn't really about magic. It's more about the magic in creating the perfect illusion. Yet it goes on to deal with heavier themes. Most notably the dangers of obsession. How our lead Robert Angier is frequently told that his obsession with his rival Alfred Borden will lead to grave consequences, and it eventually does. It's themes of obsession, guilt and deceit are so well handled that the film could have been about anything. The fact that both men happen to be magicians just adds to the overall mystique.The trick itself is known as the 'Transported Man' and involves Borden entering a door on one side of the stage and emerging immediately from a door on the other side. Angier is convinced that a double is being used, despite Cutter claiming that it isn't possible, and sets up someone to look just like him. Of course the act is a success, until Borden sabotages it and leaves Angier even more determined to work out the secret. This is a fantastic pledge that the story has created. It leads to Angier travelling to snowy Colorado in order to find electricity genius Nikola Tesla (a fictionalised take on the man, played by David Bowie) who he believes can help him.Both lead characters are strangely underwritten. It's understandable why the stern Borden and more flamboyant Angier would become rivals (and that's even without the death of Angier's wife to provide some forced conflict), but we know barely anything about them as individuals. Take away their obsessions and there is little below the surface. We need deeper insight to know what makes these men tick and in order to understand why they are taking such massive risks. It relies on actors with big screen presences to make the roles appear interesting, something that Bale and Jackman just about manage to accomplish.What balances this out is its excellent directing, cinematography and pacing. Nolan's use of place and atmosphere has always been one of his strong points. He breathes life into his representation of early 1900's London and of the darkness that is consuming his leads. This is also one of the most clinical uses of a time shifting narrative I have seen, nothing seems awkwardly placed or moved. Nolan's prowess is what guides us through the pledge, but can he complete the cycle and deliver the ultimate prestige? Well, is it possible for the payoff to totally derail a film? Yes, and here is the perfect example. The film constantly tells us to look at the smaller details, to 'look closer', that understanding the illusion is everything and that the cleverest ruse is what ultimately matters. It spends the entire run time telling us that magic isn't real or of any importance. But Angier's master trick can only be explained by magic. The audience has basically been deceived, in entirely the wrong way, by this 'twist'. The Sci-Fi elements that enter the fore in order to make the payoff work clash with everything, mainly because the film has been so heavily based in realism and real trickery. So what is it telling us? That everything that it talked about was a lie? It somehow manages to ruin its own prestige with such a convoluted and nonsensical twist.The films climax is almost nothing but twists and turns. Scenes revealing that nothing was ever as it seems and deception was constantly taking place. I'm a big fan of films that have twists that leave you in awe or amazed. But the twist here is so left-field and against the very principal of the story that it ends up effectively derailing entire sections of the film, making sequences illogical in every aspect. It saddens me, because I was extremely impressed by the film on a technical level. The story was intriguing and it felt as if it was building to the most impressive payoff it could. Instead, we're left confused and irritated as the film simply throws the rule book out the window for its climax and decides its own fate.
Maybe it has to do with the fact that I didn't like much Memento or Batman begins ( following was quite nice though) but seeing the name Christopher Nolan made me doubt to watch the movie. But of course , as a die hard film fan, I did and again I was left unsatisfied. Positive : actors : Hugh Jackman / Christian Bale, inside look in some (the "gruesome" birdcage)magic tricksNegative :long dreaded, not particularly amusing, not much character deepening, story.Overall : At a certain moment i just wanted the movie to end. And I don't have that often. Probably you have to be a Nolan fan. If you are not don't bother watching this film


                
The first act is called "The Pledge"; The magician shows you something ordinary, but of course... it probably isn't. In this particular case, the audience is shown nothing less than Hugh Jackman and Christian Bale displaying their magical acting and accompanied by a magic deck with cards so valuable as Michael Caine, Scarlett Johansson, Andy Serkis and David Bowie. The second act is called "The Turn"; The magician makes his ordinary something do something extraordinary. The magician goes by the name of Christopher Nolan, and his something extraordinary is the filming of this movie, which captivates from the very beginning: the settings, the pace, the staging, everything is managed in a way the audience will but get hooked. Now if you're looking for the secret... you won't find it, that's why there's a third act called, "The Prestige"; this is the part with the twists and turns, where lives hang in the balance, and you see something shocking you've never seen before. True. But if what you never saw before comes to be some "Deus ex machina" sleight of hand, part of the audience shall feel cheated; and all the previous work, though highly remarkable, will end up being part of a trick that lacks "the prestige".


                
A very entertaining movie. And as it unfolded I was looking forward to the "twist" at the end, I realized that Borden had a twin. A good twist to be sure. Maybe Angier having a twin would have been a cool twist! But it disappointed me at the end. The movie betrayed it's own reality. There is no such thing as "real" magic! There is always a trick to it! The machine worked?!!! For the machine to actually transport and duplicate was very cool, but it was a cheap betrayal of the plot's own premise! Don't spend an entire movie grounding me in reality and then insert fantasy. I would have accepted a scam, y'know the hats and cats and all. The machine worked?!!! C'mon! Folks, they pulled the ending out of their ass. It was not a twist. It was "magic", and that's lazy movie making that insults the viewer's intelligence!
Watched this via DVD...and the sound was poor, sometimes low and hard to hear, then normal..near the end the music seemed to be drowning out the conversations... I thought Michael Caine was good. Hugh Jackman and Christian Bale do a credible job, but not stellar. David Bowie in a small role is good. The sets are incredible, and the snow scene with the lights is a wow...it would be nice to see such a light show in real-life during the Christmas Holidays. Still the movie is slow at times, and yet, still isn't too bad--not great, but acceptable. This isn't a great movie (far from it, OK, way from from it), and at 130 minutes does seem long. I thought the story was good, the dialogue passable---when it could be heard. I don't know if others have noticed this, but it did distract from the movie. Quality of sound should be standard, but in this one, I felt it really go to be annoying at times, as I had to constantly adjust the volume up, down, up,down.Movie plot wasn't bad and acting was decent..just poor sound production.


                
The writers tried to pack 10 pounds of story into a 5 pound bag. Combining the material for four clever stories into one did not work. Plot holes developed quickly and the audience was let down with weak points and bad cuts.Plot holes.1: There was no indication that Bale's character was doubled by a Tesla machine. It only showed him attending a hastily-sketched Tesla demonstration.2: The solution to the problem with Bales' lover and wife was a plothole: If he had an asbolute clone, would that clone not love the wife as much as the original? They _both_ loved the daughter equally.2a: If one clone did _not_ love the wife, why would he bother going to her? The clones could were already using disguises and living separate lives - they could have maintained separate loved ones as well.3: If the light bulbs needed no wires then why did the one Jackman picked up go out when he did? I know this has to do with Tesla's wireless electricity and that the bulb had been in a socket, but it's not presented coherently.4: The light bulb Jackman holds when being greeted by Tesla illuminates when Tesla holds his hand. Bodies conduct electricity, sure, but they don't generally store it too well.Weak points / bad cuts: 1: Throw-away inside joke: "He's an out of work actor," speaking of the alcoholic.2: Cut from the birdcage falling on the woman's hands - Jackman was so unshaken that it made the accident unintentionally hilarious.3: The escalating violence between the magicians quickly became funny instead of tense. Audience can only sustain repeated shocks a few times before they respond with laughter.4: How many times does the three steps of a magician have to be repeated? The first time I heard it - it set a good mood. The second time - no problem, it must have something to do with the theme of the movie. Third, fourth, and fifth times - alright, give me a break.This movie had me for the first 20 minutes, but after 2 hours I almost walked out. I can only stand a butt-numb-athon if my interest is held. So much was crammed into so little time that the efforts of the actors was largely wasted. Potential is a movie's greatest enemy, and this movie's potential got the best of it by far. The costumes and set pieces and capture of the era was good. The inaccuracies concerning Tesla can be overlooked. But I have zero interest in enduring this film again. I would say it's Nolan's first failure thus far.
Do not be alarmed, this does NOT contain spoilers. If you are, like me, a fan of the BBC series Jonathan Creek (detective series where the technical adviser to magician Adam Klaus teams up with a reporter to solve murders using the same method that is behind the magic shows. The adviser is named Jonathan Creek, hence the title) , you will probably think you have to see this movie, but you really don't. It relies on the same logic and tricks as all movies and series about "magic" do, although this one has a plot-twist, which by the way, you can see coming if you know how movies usually present such things. I figured the entire movie out in a quarter of an hour, although there remained some blanks in the picture, so I enjoyed the first 1 1/2 hour, but I have to warn you that this movie is cruel with many people getting hurt in many different ways and it is NOT a feel-good movie. Hugh Jackman is brilliant, though, reminded me of Thimothy Dalton (well he calls himself the Great Danton, coincidence? Yes.) And I would give Hugh my Hero of this movie vote, as I believe he is the guy you feel for. That is also why this movie sucks: you can pick either character to be your "hero", because well I get the feeling that the editor and director did not really realize you should pick one. This movie shifts between the two lead magicians as bad-guy and hero, which can be fun, but it is not. I left this movie feeling rotten and so did my party. They didn't all get it as fast as I did, so you may be amazed yet. But I'd pick a better movie if I were you, although pickings are slim at this time of year... Or: see this movie and leave half an hour early. Trust me, you'll feel better without it.


                
Coming from the director of 2 gripping movies in Memento and Batman begins,"The Prestige" is a complete let-down.The story line is very thin and plot revealed at the end makes it look like a joke.It might precisely been his intention-to explain ow ludicrously simple magic tricks are-but then I wouldn't want to spending 2.5 hours of completely non-sensical attempts of sabotage(some of them had me in guffaws at the ridiculous stupidity of it all)only to find I was being taken for a ride all along. I can't help feeling he has tried to make a simple narrative needlessly complex trying to give psychological connotations to the entire story, and "going back and forth in time" stuff-which was completely unnecessary. Clearly he's suffering from "Memento" hangovers. At least,a genuine attempt at character development would have ensured that the magicians mind connected with the audience but sadly that was not to be.At times, I wondered if I was watching a comedy movie gone wrong or genuinely made to go wrong.Performances too are ordinary.Only thing that saves the movie are the few moments of good direction,good visuals and not to forget,the magic tricks that are demystified!


                
I have not read the book and so I suppose I should so I can give the story a fair shake. But the whole "Tesla and His Miraculous Achievements" aspect of the story, which is absolutely crucial to the plot, just turned me off like one of Tesla's bulbs.With all due respect to a great man, Tesla was largely a showman...just like Edison and many other inventors and scientists of his day. Self promotion was the rule and, given the opportunity, they would gladly explain (or imply) that they could power vehicles at great distances, create earthquakes, and perform similar miracles. The idea that Tesla either discovered some natural force or designed an elaborate machine (remember, while there were some primitive vacuum tubes in development prior to 1900, it was only after the turn of the century that they became practical for use in electronic circuits) to accomplish "The Prestige" is so bizarre that it basically doesn't even rise to the level of deus ex machina.So, as we say here in NC, the movie was "fairly well ruin't" for me at that point.I was also disappointed in the basic absence of any period magic or sleight of hand. There were a few examples here and there, just the minimum to try to establish credibility, but it was pretty tame and not at all of any interest.As far as the production and acting, that's the only reason it got as high a score from me as it did. Jackman was a so-so, Bale did OK (unfortunately, you really need to watch through to the end to appreciate his acting), and Bowie was a surprising, but good, choice as Tesla.Definitely not a DVD to purchase and I'm not sure that I would even rent it if I had known a bit more about it.
The movie's plot is about rival magicians ruining each other's lives. Because the director does a poor job with character development (humanizing them, an art Spielberg is the master of) I am left to not care about them personally nor their fates. When we paused the movie almost halfway thru our comment was "so the movie is basically going to be a pissing match between two magicians. Got it."Character development was sacrificed in order to fit in 5,000 twists and turns to get us to our climax in the end. The plot is too convoluted with science fiction and double-crossing.You could have removed Tesla's replicating machine from the movie, focused more on the commitment to create doubles or other less forms of "mad science" and spent more time developing the characters so that feelings like rage, jealousy and revenge would actually make sense to the audience. Jackman's wife dies but we don't feel his pain. We're just shown he's in pain (yet he's sleeping with Scarlet Johansson in no time). If his pain is not truly felt, how can I understand a burning psychotic obsession to ruin another man's life at all costs?The acting was very good so I give it a 4/10.
One might say that the best part of "The Prestige" is the ride to the theater. Those who say that are moronic. On the ride to the movie house you are mistakenly in the frame of mind that what you are about to see will be, in fact, entertaining and watchable. The best part of this film is the ride home for then the most arduous 2 hours spent in a theater in recent time are over. This film explains itself to you via Michael Cain's narrative of the three parts in a Magicians performance: at first an infant mewling and puking in his nurse....wait, thats something different. The First Act is called The Pledge, in which a magician displays an everyday object; act two is The Turn, in which that everyday object is made to do something extraordinary, such as disappear; and act three is The Prestige, in which the object reappears, dazzling an audience too afraid to applaud at the end of act two. The movie basically follows this pattern except The Prestige in this film is not dazzling at all, instead painfully obvious. Anyone who has seen the STTNG Episode "Second Chances" will not be in the least surprised. Those who haven't and have a brain in their head will not be. That said, my girlfriend and I were the only two people with brains in their head at the screening we attended. This auditorium was dazzled. People will come to see this film because all of the people involved are hot commodities right now. I suspect they will be disappointed.
I am a huge Hugh Jackman fan. And I love movies with intrigue, magic, supernatural. I am also a big fan of Christian Bale after Batman Begins.Having these two people in a movie and watching the incredible previews. I went to the movie expecting it to be FANTASTIC. Although the movie was composed fantastically and the actors were pretty good. The movie seemed too long and I kept waiting for it to end. I get that it was all about obsession but come on with great actors and an even greater director you expect a lot more. Micheal Caine was the saving grace. Also since I don't know much about magic it was interesting to see the kind of engineering and physics it requires. It was disappointing on the whole.
Having established his reputation with the tricksy, but effective thriller Memento, director Christopher Nolan and his screenwriter brother, Jonathan, return to the "nothing is what it seems" school of movie-making with their latest film, The Prestige. Unfortunately, this time the result can only be classed as a fraud.Focussing on Robert Angier (Hugh Jackman) and Alfred Borden (Christian Bale), a pair of duelling Edwardian era magicians; for most of its overlong duration, The Prestige maintains the pretence that it is grounded in recognisable reality. Indeed at least one of the characters, the pioneering inventor Tesla (creepily played by David Bowie in one of the film's few highlights), was actually a real historical figure. Although the drama is steeped in illusion and trickery, the film lures its audience into thinking that all they are seeing is mere sleight of hand; tricks of the conjurer's trade, many of which are revealed in some detail.Yet when it comes to explaining the final baffling illusion, the Nolan brothers suddenly reveal the whole movie to be one big confidence trick. There is no ingenious explanation for Angier's climactic spectacle. It is in fact impossible; a cheat relying on an absurd sci-fi wheeze that renders the whole story completely meaningless.When Angier discovers all the cats and top hats out in the woods, my first thought was that Tesla was trying to con him into thinking he was being sold a cloning device, since obviously for it to be a REAL cloning device would just be too preposterous. But no, apparently not.Compounding the risible plot denouement, the film's dramatic and romantic elements also fail to engage. The love stories are underdeveloped, and end up hopelessly mangled by the disjointed, hop around all over the place, narrative structure. Only Rebecca Hall emerges well from these romantic subplots, managing to produce a convincing performance from the underwritten role of Borden's wife, Sarah. In contrast Scarlett Johansson just looks bored, as the glamorous assistant, Olivia. She appears to have faxed in her performance from the Hollywood hills. Her accent is a mess, and she seems to be relying upon her, admittedly ample, cleavage to do most of the acting.About all that pulls The Prestige up from a one or two star rating to a four, is impressive cinematography, and some excellent set designs and period detailing. Won't be enough to get me to watch it again, though.
I personally don't agree that THE PRESTIGE will be one of the best films you have the chance to see. Visuals are stunning and you can tell that the director Christopher Nolan put a lot of labor into this project. Set at the turn-of-the-century London, magicians are celebrities and idols of the day. Two magicians, that have turned enemies deluxe, will passionately not stop at nothing to learn each other's majestic secrets. Each magician will apply deceit, sabotage and other dastardly deeds to become the greatest magician of all time. This movie is overly long and at times seems like it is just plodding along. Stars include: Hugh Jackman, Michael Caine, Piper Perabo, David Bowie and Christian Bale.
Nice attempt to pictures the rivalry among contemporary magicians of old times.Throughout the movie there are many popular magic tricks which you will know how they are done. That was only thing to keep you interested.I would have been happier if movie was more about its story rather than "how to do this trick" lesson.Though there is nice script and nice acting. Nice picturization of the level of commitment, the magicians show for developing an illusion and the limits they can go to do that. ................... .................. ....................... ...................... ....................


                
Why is this described as a thriller, a mystery? It had neither thrill, nor mystery, nor intelligence for that matter. When I look for movies to watch I always mention my favorites (Memento, The Game etc.) hoping for similar kind of cinematic entertainment, and eventually this movie came up. It was supposed to be as intense, interesting and intelligent as the mentioned ones. But, it was just one big disappointment. Maybe, if I had no expectations, the experience of watching it would have been better...I suppose this might be thrilling and suspenseful for someone who usually doesn't prefer that genre and is used to the "lighter" movies you don't have to put much thought in. But even for that person this wouldn't be the first pick for an evening at the cinema, so I really don't understand the amount of attention this movie got.


                
