Christopher Nolan is an undeniably great filmmaker and every movie of his I've seen I'd give at least a 7......that doesn't mean everything he does should be on the IMDb top 250, let alone this high up! I feel like everybody rates Christopher Nolan's films a 10 simply because he directed them. It irritates me to see movies such as this and Interstellar so high up on this list when (although they're both fine movies) there are so many other (in my opinion) objectively better films that deserve those slots. I pretty much only wrote this to complain about the inflated scores on most of Nolan's films, but I'll talk briefly about the film. The acting was very good and the presentation was nice but nothing spectacular. There aren't many specifics for me to complain about besides the ending, which is why this review has a spoiler warning. The ending makes the film contradict itself. Basically it turns out Christian Bale was playing a pair of identical twin brothers the whole time. Hugh Jackman gets Christian Bale hanged, only to get shot by Bale's twin. His twin was the reason he was able to perform the teleporting man stunt so seamlessly. This goes against the whole philosophy Bale's character was preaching! Its stated multiple times that the reason Bale could perform the trick so seamlessly was because unlike Jackman, he supposedly wasn't using a doppelganger. But then at the end it turns out he WAS using a doppelganger the whole time! JUST BECAUSE YOU HAVE AN IDENTICAL TWIN DOESN'T MEAN YOU'RE THE SAME PERSON! YOU'RE TWO DISCRETE ENTITIES! YOUR CLAIM IS A LIE!In essence, the rest of the film is great but the stupid ending tarnishes the experience as a whole.
What can I say, wow! I almost missed this movie in theaters. I looked at number of reviews and got a sense that this movie is about obsessed magician revivals, and how important professional life to those who care. Yesterday, while rearranging my Netflix queue I noticed to my surprise that movie is one of 250 best rated movies. So after short research I found one theater where movie was still playing. Movie certainly was worth the effort. It is somewhat similar to "Usual Suspects", but better since, I can much easily associate myself with magician then with criminal. I tracked at least three nested stories, it has absolutely unexpected ending, and movie is very logical if you analyze it afterward. Scarlett Johansson acting was average but other actors just took me there. I believed every word. If you can still catch it in a theater, go, and if not happy DVD viewing.


                
I liked this movie in that it's a nice story with interesting characters, beautiful imagery and decent actors. But like many other movies in the last years, this movie has a surprising plot twist at the end. In this movie I didn't particularly like it, and probably for two reasons. The first and main one is, the whole "plot twist" thing is getting rather old if you ask me. We've seen so many of these movies lately (The Sixth Sense, The Others, The Village, The Usual Suspects, Memento, The Illusionist, The Score, Unbreakable, etc. etc.) that it doesn't really impress anymore. Oh sure, it's nice to catch the viewers by surprise and say "Ha! You didn't see that coming, did you?" But then again, is it really that hard? In a world where the viewer is *expected* to "suspend his disbelief" and the writer has all the power to either show or not show information, you can make your viewers believe anything. In the beginning, or at least what was the beginning of this "genre" for me (The Sixth Sense, The Usual Suspects), it was still funny and unexpected. You felt tricked and kinda stupid when you learned the truth. But the more of these films you see, the more you realize how easy it is to surprise someone if you have absolute control over what information is or isn't shown. And, the more far-fetched the plot twists seem to get, which is the 2nd reason I wasn't really impressed by the ending of this film. It seems to have become a silly game among film makers much like the game in this film: a match to see who is best able to trick their audience, and who can come up with an even more insane plot twist. In this case it is insane indeed, or rather an insult the viewers intelligence if you want my opinion. Sure, just pull a proverbial bunny out of a hat by the end of the film like "Hey, what about THIS then eh?". Yeah, unexpected indeed, but cheap, really cheap. As someone else commented on this film: the makers seem to have worried more about delivering the best plot twist to date, than about making a good film, and executing the twist properly and credibly. Half way through the film, I was no longer really bothered by the issue that, at the end of the film, the plot twist appeared to offer a solution for. Part of this is because my "suspension of disbelief" had pushed the whole issue to the background. And part of it is because the film just doesn't keep you focused. There's so much other stuff going on that you aren't really sure what to look for. At a certain point I was waiting for unexpected answers when I didn't know what the question was.Nevertheless, I still gave this film a 7 out of 10, because in itself I thought it was a good story and I enjoyed watching most of it. However I do hope that film makers will invent a new genre and stop doing the plot twist thing because frankly, I think we've all seen how that trick works by now so it isn't really going to work anymore.
I don't like horror films, but these days, most thrillers tend to be packaged as horror films, so I was pleasantly surprised to see the commercials for the Prestige when it first came out. I didn't get to see it then. Too much going on, and more important movies to see when I did go to the theatre.I have to say, after waiting so long, I'm glad I didn't. I'm very underwhelmed by it.Hugh Jackman was a bit stiff in this, and that makes me worry, because I know he can pull off good acting. The rest of the performances were generally lovely, though.The flow was a bit confusing at first, but not overly so, and as time went on, everything was set in its proper time frame. But I do think people who like linear films would have difficulty with the first hour or so of the film.The sequences with Tesla felt like they should have been in a different story. Something more action-oriented. They didn't fit with the flow of the rest, really, and were only there for the big shocker, and to give Bowie his cameo. I would much rather have seen a growing thread of mishaps and attacks from each of them as Angier worked out the secret.The ending left me cold, and to be honest, rather ill. I think the writer sold himself short. Or thought they were writing an episode of Twilight Zone.Borden's secret was obvious less than halfway through the movie or so, and while it did seem as though at times they might have been working towards another explanation, in the end, it turned out to be just what it seemed.All in all, a vaguely interesting story if you're into stage magicians, or are fond of the actors involved, but not at all what it could have been, given the right attention.
As a guest at the world premier of this film, held at the El Capitan in Hollywood on October 17, 2006, I can say that not only did I enjoy it very much, but that the enthusiasm with which the audience received it seemed genuine and unaffected by the presence of those principals who attended.Among the many virtues of this film are the exquisite cinematography, the solid writing and story line, the respect with which magic is treated, and the fabulous acting. Michael Caine, to those paying attention, really steals the show with his characteristic understated mien.The presentation of magic is very well done; and the art of magic is obviously revered. As this reviewer understands it, the film was largely shot on a closed set, and only those who needed to be privy to how the actual magic effects were accomplished had access when those scenes were shot.The characters, for the most part, were three dimensional and their motives adequately justified their actions. If one could wish for more in this regard, it would be to have some more back-story on the leading characters.Which, as it happens, runs counter to my main criticism of this film: It is too long. It is too long by 15 or 20 minutes. Still, whence to cut those 15 or 20 minutes is very difficult to say. There is no one scene that, in retrospect, seems expendable. The paring might best be done one frame at a time; but however it is done, the film needs to be shorter.My only other criticisms of the film (and herein resides my spoiler) are that there is no explanation of how the Tesla device reproduces the object in its field, and neither is there an explanation of how the point at which the reproduction appears can be set. A minor criticism, because it could have been handled in one or two lines of dialog, is that Angier's (Hugh Jackman) dual consciousness is not explained. In fact, Cutter (Michael Caine) recounts a drowning story in such a way as to indicate that the transported Angier wouldn't know the agony of drowning. Yet the film briefly shows two Angiers simultaneously conscious, implying that both of them could have continued Angier's life with full access to his life's continuum.The film, although it tests the audience's ability to suspend disbelief, is rich enough overall to warrant a hearty recommendation. It will be an Oscar contender.
The answer to that question is "no." Although I found the story quite fascinating and overall, the film well done--another great performance by Michael Caine--in order for it to really work, the audience has to be rooting for someone. As the movie progresses, we find each of the 2 magicians and the women less and less likeable. A look at illusions and magic "backstage" was educational, and I certainly was not bored. However, the conclusion that one magician used cloning was a disappointment as it is impossible, at least in the way it was done in the film. But the worst pill to swallow: although I haven't read ALL the reviews here, I haven't found anyone who addressed the callousness of a twin sacrificing his brother's life as one of them did in the story. And do we REALLY know which one survived?
!!CONTAINS SPOLERS!!! One of the worst films I have seen in a while. Multiple mean-spirited characters doing nasty things to one another for over two hours does not constitute a good story. The only message I could possibly see here was that mean poor people should triumph over mean rich people. There was not one character that I felt any sympathy or empathy for by the end of the film. They all double crossed each other and sold each other out repeatedly. On top of that, the film makers double crossed the audience, by strategically leaving things out only to reveal the true facts of various interactions later on just to fool the viewer. How could anyone walk away from this feeling even okay, much less good, about the film? The high rating it is getting is an absolute amazement to me. The trend in films now seems to be if you can have enough screwy twists to keep the audience thinking about the twists, character development, moral lessons, decent plots and story lines don't need to exist. This really took off with "The Sixth Sense" (which was actually a pretty decent movie)and continues to be the trend. There have been a few good films with interesting plot twists but the popularity of misdirection just for its own sake has gotten completely out of hand.I wish the movie going public would stop rewarding these kind of lame efforts and pay more attention to the important elements of story telling. Like having at least one or more characters that you can empathize with at least a little bit. Or things like a story that doesn't have to have some bizarre deus ex machina to make it work.I may be living in a fantasy world, but one can at least hope.UPDATE 05-29-2008 - I like the actors in this film so much I gave it a second chance. Going in with lowered expectations after my first viewing helped, and I actually found myself enjoying the journey of the characters. The story itself is actually not bad just ambigous. I have to admit, even though I don't exaclty love this movie, it was not as bad as I initlially thought. Still not one I would highly recommend, but alright for late night cable TV fare.
If I were to judge this movie just on the quality of the acting and the beauty of the photography, costumes, set design, and even 90% of the dialog, this would get 9 stars. I wouldn't hesitate to recommend it to people who go to the movies to see a spectacular looking period piece. Jackman and Bale do superb jobs as the centerpieces of the film's story, the supporting case is dead on (including Michael Caine - which didn't surprise me - and David Bowie - which did).But the ambitious screenplay is so riddled with sloppy plotting and unfair plot devices that it almost sinks the film.I can appreciate the difficulty of what Nolan and Nolan are trying to pull off here, and I am familiar with the work of Christopher Priest (who wrote the novel the screenplay is based on). But, simply put, the screenplay cheats like a bastard. It promises us an amazingly clever game of cat-and-mouse between two gifted and obsessive geniuses. It promises us a dazzling resolution which will astound us with its deviousness and cause us to slap our foreheads in delight, because we "should have seen it coming". (Kind of like some of the old "Columbo" episodes). ***GENERAL SPOILERS FOLLOW*** Instead it presents an out-of-left-field plot development that is completely unjustified by what went before, lies to us about the premises of another plot device that it then uses to drive the entire latter portion of the movie, and presents us with a couple of protagonists who are morally repellent and seemingly dumber than rocks.***DETAILED SPOILERS FOLLOW****I don't want to waste your time (and mine) detailing all the ways the screenplay fouls up, but I will mention a couple.1) If Angier is so devastated by his wife's death in the stage accident early in the movie (as a result of Bordon's "carelessness" in tying the knots), and has such a need for vengeance, it seems to be that he ought to save at least SOME of his wrath for his friend Cutter, who designed the water tank in the first place. How hard would it have been to make one of the glass sides in the water tank thin enough (say, the one in the back that the audience couldn't see directly) so that it could be broken with one swing of a sledge in an emergency? How hard would it have been to TEST the tank when it was full to see how long it actually took to break it? For that matter, how hard would it have been to train Angier's wife to hold her breath for 3 minutes - a feat any stage magician and illusionist learns very early in his career? Any of these precautions would have saved the women's life when things went wrong, yet Angier blames Borden alone.2) Early on, trying to solve the puzzle of Borden's great trick "The Transported Man", Angier and Cutter discard the possibility that Borden is using a look-a-like because Angier's new assistant claims that the "double" also has mutilated fingers, and no double could duplicate Borden's mutilated fingers. That's not valid reasoning. Times back then were tough enough that people routinely mutilated themselves so they could pass as cripples to beg for money, and women prostituted themselves for small change. Plenty of people back then (and even now) would jump at the chance to trade two fingers for a steady income and financial security. OK, I'll buy it if the film insists...these are supposed to be the smartest guys in their field, after all...BUT: What do you know! It turns out that Borden not only uses a look-a-like after all, he has a TWIN who submitted to having his fingers mutilated! I got so angry when I saw this that I nearly walked out of the theater.That's cheating - it's not clever and magician-like at all....it's just the act of an obsessive creep who doesn't have the skill or the wit to live up to the art of deception and misdirection that is supposed to be the stage magician's reason for being. Most of all, it doesn't live up to the premise that drove the latter half of the screenplay - that he's not using a double because a double wouldn't have mutilated fingers.Similarly, Angier spends years and a fortune (where'd the money come from? The movie mostly shows us performances that end in disaster!) trying to solve Borden's "Transported Man" trick...instead of actually simply trying to come up with a BETTER trick. The guy is supposed to be this "brilliant" stage magician, and yet all he can do is copy another guy's act?? Does ANYone buy this? I've just scratched the surface here: Problems and psychological inconsistencies and morally repulsive actions riddle the movie from beginning to end...not the least of which ***BIG SPOILER FOLLOWS!**** is when the Nolan brothers choose to pull a freak science fiction plot device out of nowhere in what was an interesting period mystery piece and character study. Wait a minute - the whole premise of the film is the secrecy and mystery of illusion and stagecraft. To pull a trick off with HARD SCIENCE (no matter how impressive) is to basically say, "Nope, these characters suck, and we aren't smart enough to make our premise work. Sorry, hope you like the new direction!!" If the acting weren't so good, if most of the dialog wasn't so spot on, if the movie didn't look so brilliant, I'd slam "The Prestige" non stop to everyone I know. And yet I STILL like it enough to rank it as a "7" when the plot barely merits a "4". As it is, I have to advise the first time viewer to suspend his critical thinking facilities and just drink in the mood.
1.Genre- drama, mystery2. Rating- 7.5/103. One liner- Greatly entertained till the end, story line is quite unpredictable till the end. Well created by director Nolan4. Plot summary- Story revolves around two magicians Mr. Alfred Borden and Mr. Robert Angier who fight to outcast other over the trick of illusion and magic. To prove one dominant over other.
And they ought to loose on the path while doing it. 5. Events- The magic trick shown by Mr. Angier at the end when he used the machine created by Tesla mixing both science and magic6. Film making- 1800's era was well conceptualized along with all the costume work. It was commendable. And of course the famous dialogue there are three stages of magic!!- The pride where you show something ordinary, The turn- where you turn the ordinary into extraordinary and last is the prestige that is for the audiences to define!!7. Potential viewers- I guess who are well familiar with Christopher Nolan movies along with a top notch star cast. And to those who want to be amazed till the end.8. Verdict- Thumbs up!!


                
Rivalry between two magicians is a new concept explored by Christopher Nolan. It's originality is it's strength. It's weakness is it's predictability. Two and half hours long , but I still found this engaging till end. But the ending didn't go well with me. The ending is not exactly the ending . It gave away all the plot in about 2/3rd of movie. It was already known that Angier uses a double and that Borden must have used one . That double being a twin is not a surprise. And that the machine produces an another double is quite obvious when Angie dropped the hat and Tesla said 'All are yours'. And was it that difficult to tell Olivia that they were twins? Only good twist at the end was Angier being Lord Cadlow. I like the movie only for the first 110 minutes and not for the last 20. Due to Nolan's fine storytelling. The only bad part is when it tries to be intelligent without having that sort of story.
This movie is very engaging and intriguing. You are presented with a complete mess of scenes which go back and forth through time and are needlessly confusing, yet the core story and the characters were compelling enough to keep me interested and paying attention. The cinematography, the sound, the acting, and the visual elements are all perfectly in place, and overall its very entertaining.My only concern is that the film prevents itself from achieving greatness by relying heavily on a very cheap, shallow plot element. It becomes science fiction, which is fine but a bit strange after spending so long convincing me the characters are real. This is something I find with all of Nolan's movies, that they present themselves as being mysterious and secretive but fall a little flat if you apply any brain power to them.Still, I think this movie is worth watching if you're looking for something a little suspenseful, a little creepy, and very entertaining. Maybe the movie's ultimate goal is the same as a magician's, as said in the movie: that one moment where the audience is in awe and disbelief.


                
The main purpose of magic is not to impress others nor to deceive them, but to simply give the illusion of something fake appear real for artistic purposes. That is lesson incorporated in this dark fantasy period piece starring Hugh Jackman and Christian Bale as rival magicians in an intensifying battle to discover the truth of each other. Set with an intelligent, but convoluted plot and a visually alluring design of nineteenth century England, this movie sees director Christopher Nolan delivering his signature filmmaking tropes and bringing them together to form a dazzling mix of fantasy, suspense, and mystery elements in a story that like most of Nolan's works, drives with a fair amount of complexity and emotional twist; though suffers some occasional blemishes in the narrative department. Based on the novel by British author Christopher Priest, the film tells the story of Robert Angier (played by Hugh Jackman) and Alfred Bordon (played by Christian Bale), two magicians who sustain a friendship as assistants for their town's magic shows run by master magician John Cutter (played by Michael Caine). But one night during a show, their performance goes terribly wrong that results in tragedy. The fateful event turns their duo's friendship into a bitter rivalry and soon leads to the two in an obsessive battle to discover each other's secrets. It's not long before their heated rivalry escalates into a downward spiral of deceit that threatens to not only tear apart their careers on stage, but their own personal beings. As this film deals with magic and sorcery, it should come to no surprise that Christopher Nolan brings a wide plethora of twists to the mix; and with a smoothly compelling script and striking visual resonance, Nolan appears to be at the top of his game. Wielding with spectacular directorial talent, Nolan drives this film with plenty of nuance and astounding visual potency. As the story revolves around a heated competition of revenge and deception that makes for some very dark and occasionally morbid moments, it pulls into a dark, eerie journey of Christopher Priest's novel with plenty of surprises supplemented by Nolan's stylish direction. Though the plot holds a fair amount of intelligence, the unnecessarily slow pacing does tend to kill the interest of the story. Instead of introducing the lead magicians at the beginning, the film proceeds through a non-linear narrative opening with Christian Bale's character Alfred on murder trail (for reasons you don't learn until later) which becomes intertwined throughout the story until the very end, before giving us the proper introduction on the characters. Along with this another subplot centering on famous inventor Nikola Tesla who's oddly played by singer David Bowie, trying to invent a teleporter. Nolan's use of non-linear storytelling not only overcomplicates the plot, but he doesn't execute in a way that is effective as what he achieved in 'Memento'. On the bright side, this director manages to keep things moving at least most of the time, and builds up the story up to a shocking, unpredictable conclusion. The performances by Christian Bale , fresh off of Nolan's 'Batman Begins', and Hugh Jackman both stand out; and the supporting cast including Michael Caine and Scarlett Johansson as Robert Angier's assistant also make great appeal in their roles. While nothing particularly Oscar-worthy, these actors manage to fit the bill.The Prestige, though slightly inferior to Christoper Nolan's other works, is a smart, dazzling fantasy period piece with alluring energy of Nolan's directorial efforts and a fine array of charismatic performances by a likable cast. Though the level of complexity in the plot make the story a challenge for the most naive film goers to sit through, it also serves as a reminder of the fine cinematic talent Nolan never stops bringing to the screen.


                
This is my first Christopher Nolan movie and was curious to see his movie after so much buzz about his direction so We rented an DVD it was such a crap CD it took 5 hours and 2 systems plus four media planners and YouTube to watch climax, it was very tiring exercise because of crap CD still we took so much effort because we liked the movie!!This is the movie of two friends turned foes because of personal and professional reasons. Alfred Borden played by Christian Bale who is innovative, ready to work hard and take dangerous risks to come with breathtaking illusions and Robert Angier played by Hugh Jackman ,he is very good presenter who can enthrall audience with his presentation skills. They share complimentary skills. Unfortunately their complimentary skill doesn't make them partners but rivals. Difference begins when Julia played by Piper Perabo accidentally dies during performance and Borden doesn't clarify how he tied the knot during performance, so angier considers him responsible for his wife death. If there is such a fundamental difference between relationships it can only become worse. Then the rivalry begins between two to such an extent both appears on each other stage to destroy the performance one another.Finally Borden performs an ultimate illusion which wasn't done by any one before THE TRANSPORTED MAN, Which puts Angier into great obsession to do the same or perform something better than this or steal it from him and perform it through his excellent presentation skills. He does same illusion with the help of cutter (Michael Caine) his guru and his double. But not satisfied doing with double and thinks Borden is doing alone wants to know the trick and decides to send his assistant Olivia played by Scarlett Johansson to steal the trick from Bordan but she feels betrayed as she was in love with him and instead stealing the trick for Angier she decides to join Borden and take revenge against angier and reveals the trick angier is doing it do in his version transported man ,so Borden approaches angier double and convinces threats he can come across by being an double and woos him to his side and during much hyped and much awaited performance of Angier, Bordan appears in the place of Angier double and destroys the show, this puts angier in deep humiliation and deeply disturbed and decides to come up with an illusion which answer Bordan then he approaches Olivia to know why she betrayed him and manages to take dairy of Bordan against her will and takes his journey to places meets Tesla to come up with illusion never done before. Tesla is a scientist who was working on some next generation electricity machine and Angier decides to invest in the project which could help him in his illusion. So far it is good Then it become sillier and sillierFinally Tesla delivers it but has to runaway because was under attack by Einstein men. What the machine does, It emits electricity from different direction which looks like thunder, anyone who stands in it and receives electricity it will produce a double nearby place. This is so silly I don't need to tell who silly it is. He takes the machine even thou Tesla advices him to be very careful with it. Finally he realizes he has got what he was looking for. He decides to perform it in best theater in town and to large number of audience so he approaches his guru cutter to arrange for such a show and manage from front. Show was super successful and does one hundred such shows which finally move Bordan to watch his show and find out the trick behind it. Once Angier is performing the show and gets inside the floor Bordan moves towards the show to check it. Angier falls into water tank and starts feeling suffocating and locks gets closed he can't come out, Bordan takes an iron rod and starts hitting the glass to save him but wasn't successful and Bordan is taken to custody for killing him and sentenced to death and he will orphaning his daughter. Angier appears back to tell Bordan he is better than him. Bordan was shocked and surprised at this but he is helpless now. He is hanged then Angier decides to abandon his machine as it has served its purpose. He is standing near his machine being proud of his victory. He is shot by Bordan now it's time for Angier to shocked and surprised looking at Borden. Finally Borden reveals his trick of transported man He simply used double. His double loved Julia and his wife died because she thought he wasn't honest with her and he could not reveal his secret because of him. This comes as deep shock for Angier and dies. This came as deep shock for me also how come both find a double that identical and perform what they ask. This is story put in a straightforward way but Nolan has done an outstanding job I don't know what the industry word is for it I would refer it frame twisting how he has done it is better watched but I really like his approach. Even though some looks funny overall movie was good performance by all roles are fantastic. It is well paced and explains very well what really happens in magic behind the scenes that what made movie interesting for me.Finally,I would definitely like to see all his movies.
Christopher Nolan directed seven films so far, and The Prestige is his worst one. It's not necessarily bad though. The Prestige is typical Nolan filmmaking. There are no notable performances even though the cast consists of some of the most famous actors working today. Only David Bowie and Hugh Jackman make somewhat of an impression. The film is heavy-going and long. Nolan continues to aim for the noir look, but he can't capture it well in his film projects. So the film ends up being too dark and somber for its own good. The ending is meant to be clever, but with Nolan's direction it doesn't feel that way. Still, it's a solid release overall. There's nothing to distinguish it, however. Like all other films by Nolan it's overrated. He is not a great filmmaker. This is a man who's been influenced by Ridley Scott and the Wachowski brothers. He rarely comes up with anything original, and just continues to copy them. I don't recommend watching The Prestige. The magic tricks here are nothing to get excited about. Nolan erroneously aims for realism, but this approach leaves a bad taste in the mouth. This is far from being anywhere near Steven Spielberg's genius.


                
After seeing that this film is in the IMDb top 100, I thought it was a film I must see. Now that I've seen it, I feel a bit disappointed. Now I must admit that the film was terribly original and had some odd twists, though the film overall is awfully grim and lifeless--mostly because it was hard connecting with the characters.Christian Bale and Hugh Jackman play magicians who are partners. Things go very well for a while until Jackman's wife is accidentally killed doing a dangerous trick. Jackman blames Bale for this and you really can't tell if Bale did anything wrong or if it was just a sad tragedy. Regardless, Jackman spends the rest of the film persecuting Bale and trying to destroy him. After a while, Bale begins fighting back and it's an all-out war with horrible consequences. I won't say more--because I don't want to spoil the film. However, I will say that it gets really, really, really weird when Nicola Tesla (played very well by David Bowie) enters the fray--creating the ultimate magical box for Jackman.Aside from the magic box being ridiculously anachronistic, the film is so slow and hard to love--despite it's wonderful twists. It's hard to like either of the magicians (particularly Jackman) and after a while I lost interest--mostly because of the pacing and disagreeable characters. Overall, I greatly respect the film but also didn't particularly enjoy watching it.
Dark, brooding piece about the rivalry between two turn-of-the century stage illusionists outdoing each other. One of the young men, Borden (Christian Bale) may have been responsible for the death of the other's beloved blond wife, the other being Angier (Hugh Jackman). Angier and his mentor, Michael Caine, continue their careers, while Borden builds his own.The emotional tumult caused by the death of Angier's wife leads him to sabotage Borden's performance, actually shooting two of his fingers off. Borden, filled with resentment, retaliates by putting a major crimp into Angier's career. It gets a little complicated but they both wind up more or less at the top of the prestidigitative heap before the end.There are romances flung into the pot too, functional to the extent that they illustrate character development in the two magicians and act as links between the two competitors. Scarlette Johansson is surprisingly good as the bosomy stage assistant with the working-class Brit accent, even though the dialect suppresses her usual croak. Rebecca Hall is splendid as the perceptive woman who takes up with the lower-class Borden, even though she knows he's lying half the time when he tells her he loves her. (He's married to his job, you see.) Enter Nicolas Tesla, the very real historical figure who did all sorts of things, conceptual and physical, that strike some of us as a little outré today. A man ahead of his time, played by an unrecognizable David Bowie.At this point, what was a more or less cogent drama turns into something else. Tesla, like Baron Frankenstein, pulls off something that's half scientific and half supernatural. If you've seen "The Fly" you have some idea, only the idea you have is a little simpler than the one presented here. I was a little confused by the ending in which "all is explained" but somewhat too perfunctorily for me. Maybe I'm dull but the jigsaw puzzle remained mostly a table full of scattered and disjointed pieces.The photography captures the time and place nicely. Too nicely, maybe, because it's hard to imagine anyone wanting to live in a landscape of perpetual poverty and gloom. If there was a scene in bright daylight, I missed it. Do we learn anything about the tricks of stage magicians? Are you kidding? Illusionists have the kinds of social borders (us inside, them outside) that cops have, or airline pilots or doctors. The trick is told when the trick is sold. We do see some of the machinations but they're ones we might have easily figured out for ourselves. The ultimate trick, the one devised by Tesla, is of course never explained because it never happened.I hope you don't find these comments confusing. If you do, the film will present an even greater challenge. Still, it's worth watching for anyone with mature sensibilities. Confusing, maybe. Pandering, no.
By now we know that the unexpected would be for Christopher Nolan to make an expected film. Yet, 'The Prestige' is to some extend the most expected film of Nolan until now. It is an adaptation of a novel about the rivalry between two magicians turned into a life long obsessive fight, and although we do find interesting issues like the relationship between perception and reality and the border between life and illusion for an artist, the overall script is too much conventional in structure. The most disappointing is the ending, sure, we get an explanation for much of what we have seen, and the explanation makes sense, but then the magic is gone. You do not explain magic and expect for magic to stay.On the good side we have a strong hate story, which stays in the memory on the memorable stories of rivalry brought to screen, in the line of the 'Count of Monte Christo'. The script is well written, with some memorable lines. We also have Michael Caine whose every new act seems now to radiate personal charisma and the joy to be with us and act for us. Please Mr. Caine, stay with us and act for us forever.On the less good side I will put the acting in the two principal roles. Contrary to the majority of the opinions I do not believe that either Hugh Jackman or Christian Bale did a memorable job here. I mean they were OK, but the roles offered much better opportunities. Scarlett Johansson is undercast here, she deserves much more interesting roles. Cinematography and sets seem to be a little bit uninspired. Yet, the greater disappointment is that there is too little magic left when the film ends.


                
This was a movie that I had heard many good things about and I was looking forward to watching it. Did it live up to my expectations? If I am honest, I was slightly disappointed.The movie is stylish and very well filmed and the acting is also mostly fine. Of the two leads, Hugh Jackman is definitely better and gives probably the best performance in the movie. On reflection, Christian Bale isn't that great and his accent really seems put on and not natural. Michael Caine is fine and Scarlett Johansson is mostly OK, though she doesn't always convince. There is also a nice little cameo from David Bowie. The effects are clever and the actual story is pretty good. So why wasn't I more blown away with this film? I think that the movie relies a great deal on the twist or twists and I could kind of see them coming a mile off and this certainly diminished some of the impact. I also felt that the movie was trying too be just a little too clever at the end, trying to fit in too many twists.I didn't get ALL of them but certainly the most important ones. Obviously,I won't even hint at the outcome and it is fun trying to work out the story before it reaches it's conclusion.This is a movie worth watching but it may not live up to your expectations.


                
A great film!, 7 well earned stars for this movie; this is a little below the user's ranking, but in my personal standards is very high. I recommend deeply this movie; the way that you get involved with the tricks and the engineering behind some great magic shows makes you almost feel like a magician too; all the scenarios and cinematography is captivating, and the story keeps you at every single moment deeply involved with the film. Please watch the film and feel the magic behind the magic, the acting roles are performed excellent, the intensity of Angier and Borden is tense and captivating, and the involvement of Cutter with the tricks is great too, a magical film behind the magical tricks of the 19th century entertaining industry.


                
As a former professional magician, the concept of this movie is close to my heart. It was fun seeing Ricky Jay, a real magician, playing a small part. Equally fun was the faithfulness with which most of the magic was presented. Rather than stoop to the level of camera tricks, the magic presented is the same as it would be presented by any modern day magician.Similar to "Memento," this movie skips about in the time line where some information presented earlier makes more sense later when you see it in context. Be prepared for rather plodding plot more in keeping with the offerings of M. Night Shyamalan with a similar style twisting ending. Personally, I guessed the ending too early.Faithfully reproduces the time period.Personally, I think Hugh Jackman (as Robert Angier) and Christian Bale (as Alfred Borden) are too similar looking in appearance and demeanor, which made keep track of who was whom a bit distracting for me.


                
After a slow start, during which I was tempted to walk out of the movie (but I did not, because I'd read positive reviews here), "The Prestige" did cast its spell over me."The Prestige" is visually lush, with high production values. Ornate Victorian coaches, gleaming beaver-skin top hats, high and low rent theaters and slums are recreated in glorious, or inglorious, as appropriate, detail.The actors are all fine. Scarlett Johansson did not annoy me as she usually does; the director got a real performance out of her, as well as got her to wear her usual revealing neckline. Hugh Jackman is well cast as a man with a charming surface and a dangerous, secret interior life. I've never seen Michael Caine more appealing. He's the older mentor character here, and he doesn't seem so much to be performing as just being.Christian Bale is riveting as a young, scary, ambitious Cockney magician.I wasn't crazy about David Bowie as Nikola Tesla. (His name *was* "Nikola," not "Nicholas.") I think of Bowie as a man who shocks, and he was uninteresting here. Tesla is an historical figure who lived a fascinating, controversial life, and I just didn't see much of that on screen. And Bowie's accent was all wrong; it was a big deal that Tesla was a Serb. Depicting him with a Dutch accent, as Bowie seemed to be doing, is kind of like depicting an African American historical figure as a WASP.Andy Serkis, as Tesla's assistant, was one of the most fun things to watch in the whole movie. I kept thinking, as I was watching him, "Who is that guy? Have I seen that guy before? Whoever he is, he is really fun to watch." Dang if it wasn't Gollum, from LOTR.The movie offers a few tidbits from the world of magic -- a cameo by famed NY stage magician and historian of magic, Ricky Jay; discussions of how various tricks were performed; magic lore. But this is never heavy handed, and though I'm bored by discussions of stage magic, these scenes didn't put me off.The plot -- well, I can't say anything about the plot. Part of the reason for watching the movie is the pleasure of attempting to work out the puzzle as you watch the film.The plot is a device to depict two men going at each other's throats, and losing their own souls by doing so. Ambition, Envy, Pride, Competition, Secretiveness, Obsession: lotsa big themes we can all relate to, whether we are Victorian magicians or not.What was missing, for me, in this otherwise quite excellent movie, was any emotional depth.A couple of examples.In his early scenes, I had a hard time believing Hugh Jackman as a hungry young magician. He is in his late thirties, and he looks it.His character is married to a much younger woman, who is blonde and pretty, and passive, as a doll. She's little more than fringe on the stage. I had a hard time believing their marriage. Given the importance, to the plot, of their union, this inability to invest in their marriage was almost fatal to my ability to invest in the movie.A key female character's suicide rang false to me for a couple of reasons. This was a very likable character, and her suicide threw the movie terribly off. Her suicide was never reacted to with any appropriate depth. At that point, the movie really did seem like too much of a wind-up toy that existed only to serve its trick ending.This is especially unfortunate, because a key line, "I love you today," and its ultimate meaning, speaks volumes about the nature of love.Poor Scarlett Johansson, who may never overcome the curse of her lush body and director's urges to exploit it, is made to fall in love a couple of times, and her only motivation for taking this monumental step is that she is given seconds-long scenes in which she looks into a man's eyes and -- SNAP! -- falls in love.With just a little work and a few more lines of dialogue and action to fully animate its female characters, "The Prestige" could have been that most perfect of creations, a movie that entertains both men and women. For primarily male viewers, there is the clockwork plot and the cutthroat competition. For female viewers, there could have been fully realized characters, including fully realized female characters, inhabiting a film that has a heart as well as a crafty little head hiding schemes.Instead, the only real warmth in the movie comes from Michael Caine, the wise old man whom directors love in a way that they could never love disposable young female beauties like Scarlett Johansson, and a movie that this viewer could very much like, but never love.


                
This was a movie about rival illusionists who are hell-bent and obsessed with learning each other's secrets. After a trick goes horribly wrong, one becomes more obsessed. I liked the cast and the magic tricks, but feel like the movie dragged and was too slow in places. Christian Bale, Michael Caine, Hugh Jackman, David Bowie, and Scarlett Johansen were all good as the stars. If you want to see a movie about illusionists and magic and rivals, this might satisfy you.** out of ****


                
I saw this film on DVD with a few friends, one of which saw it in the cinema and thought it was the most amazing film ever!! One tip - don't watch with a friend who has seen it before and thought it was absolutely fantastic - ruins it a bit!! LOL! But, all that aside, it was a brilliant film - not as good as she was making it out to be but an overall good film. It is one that definitely needs the full attention of watchers as you can get confused easily but it's a film that everyone can enjoy really. Even David Bowie fans!! He was pretty good with his accent - reminds me of his song China Girl! It's a proper "expect the unexpected" film - don't want to spoil it for you so I'll leave it there. If you don't like complicated films then I wouldn't watch it but it is a must-see-before-you-die (sorry for the negative!!). It has action, romance, slight horror as well - a proper thriller!


                
STAR RATING: ***** Saturday Night **** Friday Night *** Friday Morning ** Sunday Night * Monday Morning London, the turn of the Century. Magic is where the money is, turning the crowds out in their droves. And the top magicians of the times are Robert Angier (Hugh Jackman) and Alfred Borden (Christian Bale.) They are rivals, but friendly rivals, engaging in a healthy sense of competition with each other. But Borden publicly denounces the tiredness of Angier repeatedly churning out the same crowd-pleasing tricks and demands something new. So they team up to pull off an idea of Borden's together, with tragic results. Angier's wife is killed and, blaming Borden, they become bitter rivals. But when Borden comes up with a new and innovative idea that wows the crowds, Angier becomes obsessed with trying to unwork it. So obsessed, bitterness, betrayal and murder become par for the course.Director Nolan seems obsessed with becoming Britain's answer to M Night Shyamalan with his high-concept sort of movies. He's doing a better job of it of late, that's for sure, and with the next Batman movie out soon, he's going to get the most commercial drive. But in between he's managed to make The Prestige, which will be unforgettable but not because it's great.Well, it's quite a good movie, if you can follow it, which I'm not sure many will be able to. This is such a complicated and multi-layered story that you'll be scratching your head more than once while it runs. But that, of course, actually makes it all the more intelligent, and you can't complain about that.The title, by the way, refers to the final act of the magic act, which Michael Caine's character guides us through in the early stages of the film. As he's stated before, he only acts for the joy of it these days without commanding a hefty fee, but there's nothing wrong with his performance here. He's just the start of the supporting cast, which also includes Andy Serkis and a surprise appearance from musician David Bowie.A good film, then, but maybe a bit too complicated and off-puttingly so for some viewers. #241 in the IMDb Top 250 is pushing it a bit. ***


                
The Good: Great plot twists, very cool magic tricks, and of course, Michael Caine.The Bad: Three alternating time lines is confusing most of the movie, some of the twists are easy to spot before they are revealed.Too Small: The role of Scarlett Johansson's character.Any movie about magicians has to satisfy one cardinal rule: have lots of magic tricks to totally dazzle the audience. The Prestige follows this with true style, and the first time you see Alfred (Bale) perform his trick, "The Transported Man," your jaw will be hanging down as you think, "how the hell did he just do that?" It's moments like that that make this movie lots of fun to watch, but you will certainly long for more than they give you, taking into account the length of the movie. At two hours and twenty-one minutes, it's like a roller-coaster going at half-speed. Sure, there's thrills, but it still leaves everyone hungry for a boost in the pace. Probably the best (and worst) example of this is a moment in the film's finale when, as a certain character dies, his last breath seems to come out twenty different times for him to spit out a Shakespearian soliloquy before he finally croaks. You can practically hear everybody in the theater thinking the same thing: "Just die already!" Before you check this movie off of you "must-see" list, however, take into account that despite the length, this movie is quite entertaining. The story of two competing magicians seems like it might be as dry as a bone, but the grudges that Alfred and Robert (Jackman) hold against each other are not just about pride; they are genuinely driven by heart and soul. It's easy to see how much these to guys hate each other, and don't worry about not knowing why, because you'll find out within the first half hour of the movie.As far as performances go, not enough can ever be said about Michael Caine. His brilliance as an actor steals ever scene he's in. Jackman has probably had his best performance thus far in his career, except maybe for Swordfish. Bale is terrific as always, bringing every part of Alfred right into your face. Scarlett Johansson also does a great job, but her role was far too small, and at the end of the film you'll be wondering why her character, Olivia, wasn't explored a little more.When you actually do go out and see the movie, a fit of confusion is going to come over you quickly, possibly lasting into the last 40 minutes. It's not the plot twists that will confuse you; those are pretty ambiguous, and many people will call them out before they are revealed. No, the way this movie hurts your brain is with its three time lines, which alternate between scenes. In the beginning, Robert is dead, and Alfred is going to prison. Then, all of a sudden, they are young, up-and-coming magicians. And before you know it, we're with Robert in Colorado, as he tries to find the secret behind Alfred's greatest magic trick. Sometimes, you will think that these time lines come in sync with each other, but I'll save you a lot of of confusion right here: they don't.


                
