What "The Prestige" does very well is recreate a period of show business history near the turn of the century in which competition between magicians was serious and intense. The workings of the complicated illusions are gorgeously brought to life via smartly detailed apparatus that replicate the actual mechanics of Victorian legerdemain. Much of the film rings very true, such as the all-consuming obsessions of the lead characters to be the best and outdo all others. It's an easy step to accept that such unwavering determination spills over into deadly territory, as rival magicians suave Rupert Angier (a riveting performance by Hugh Jackman) and audacious Alfred Borden (Christian Bale effortlessly playing a brooding lower-class Brit) each seek to wreak continuing revenge upon the other.The story, though adapted from a novel, feels like a perfect fit for director Nolan's sensibilities, as the machinations of the two men become increasingly convoluted during a back-and-forth tug of wits that keeps you guessing in the style of Nolan's "Memento." As the game grows increasingly deadly, and threatens to consume all they love, the film becomes a fascinating study in single-mindedness.The work is epic in sweep, beautifully filmed, and strongly acted. The only odd note in casting is David Bowie as Nikola Tesla (he looks nothing like the actual Tesla, if you care about these sort of things, and his appearance calls attention to itself as superstar casting often does), but Mr. Bowie holds his own. Solid performances are all around, with Michael Caine adding dignity and depth as the old master, Scarlett Johanssen as the as the lovely stage assistant who becomes the third point in a twisted love triangle, and even Andy Serkis (Gollum!) in a memorable supporting role.The introduction of Tesla adds yet another twist, as the film shifts from real-but-possible stage illusion to steam-punkish sci-fi. This transition is a hard note to pull off, since the beginning of the film doesn't quite suggest such a direction, but if you're willing to let Nolan lead you on the journey into increasingly fantastic realms, the narrative rewards you with thought-provoking moral and dramatic exploration of the issues raised.A truly entertaining movie, and an original, unusual, dark ride -- well worth seeing in a theater for its grand scope and vision.
The Prestige is a masterful exercise in storytelling with superb direction and powerful performances by a grand ensemble cast. From set and production design to cinematography, from script to presentation, Christopher Nolan has once again demonstrated why he is one of the film world's brightest up and coming directors. The Prestige only helps solidify his standing as one of the landmark directors of his generation.Told in a narrative that jumps between various points along its time line, playing out like a magic act itself, the story is that of two magicians on the rise in their careers. The first -- played by Christian Bale -- is an expert in understanding the fundamentals of any trick, but lacks showmanship. The second -- played by Hugh Jackman -- is a master showman who is more entertaining than technical. A tragic series of events pits the two performers against each other in a battle of wits that spirals further and further out of control, consuming both of them and everything and everyone they care about.With a story that requires actors with a great deal of emotive range, Nolan has assembled what could be described as a dream cast. Both Bale and Jackman suit their respective roles perfectly, and pitting these two performers against each other was a stroke of casting genius. Michael Caine takes what could have been a forgettable role by any lesser actor and elevates it with his demanding screen presence. Probably the most surprising performance comes from David Bowie whose unforgettable turn as master physicist Nikola Tesla absolutely shines. Add Andy Serkis to the mix, and what is assembled is a group of performers who know how to fully engage the audience.The Prestige is hard to pigeonhole into any specific genre as it walks the fine line between mystery, drama, suspense and fantasy. In that, the story becomes a never-ending stream of wonder for the mind: one can never tell exactly where the story is going to lead next, becoming more and more as time goes on. This gives Christopher Nolan ample opportunity to play. And play he does. With narration by several characters, each adding their own viewpoint to the events, and with a direction that moves between time to mystify and distract, the end result is a climax that itself is a series of puzzles that each unravel beautifully.The only major criticisms that can be leveled at the Prestige are a confusing play with the seasons during Tesla's introduction (winter suddenly becomes spring/summer and back again) and a strange choice of music for the closing credits (a pop song at the end of a film such as this seems tacky). However, neither is significant enough of a problem to warrant any need to avoid the film at all.In the end, the Prestige is a fantastic display of what can be accomplished when you bring together superior talent. It is certainly worth the price of admission and as good as any magic show you are to come across.


                
This enjoyable and fresh story about intense rivalry among magicians is set in turn-of-the last century, London.Robert Angier(Hugh Jackman) his wife Julie McCullough(Piper Perabo) and Alfred Borden(admirable Christian Bale) are friends and magician's assistants. Then Julie accidentally deceases during a sideshow , Robert accuses Alfred for her killing . A new assistant named Olivia(Scarlett Johansson) helps Robert and he falls in love with her, though later she fell in love with another man. The magicians use their powers to combat among them. Both become prestigious magicians and get mutual envy. Magician Robert sees the Borden's transportation show and he becomes obsessed with his magic trick. They battle each other for their magic tricks and Robert attempts disclose the secret about disappearance from his contender with fateful results.This splendid movie is stunning in many aspects and blends appropriately various genres: the lush romantic period piece during nineteenth century Victorian Era, mystery thriller and fantasy.The picture gets it all : suspense, mystery drama, star crossed lovers,plot twists, murders,tragedy and supernatural illusions . Featuring an excellent casting, as main actors, Jackman, Bale, Johansson as eclectic secondaries, Caine,David Bowie,Andie Serkis and Rebecca Hall.Luxurious attention to period detail in brilliant costumes and spectacular production design . Beautifully and mesmerizing cinematography by Wally Pfister. Intriguing and evocative musical score by David Julyan. The motion picture is perfectly directed by innovator director Christopher Nolan, author of various masterpieces: ¨ Insomnia,Memento,Batman begins, Dark night¨. At the same time was made another film(2006)with similar theme titled 'The illusionist'by Neal Burger with Edward Norton, Paul Giamatti and Jessica Biel which also achieved much success. Rating : Above average, it was throughly amusing and exciting, and no as predictable as you would think. The film results to be a complete pleasure to watch these actors at this work,it's highly recommended and keep you guessing until final.


                
I was stoked to see The Prestige from the moment it first began gaining buzz. Hugh Jackman. Christian Bale. Scarlett Johansson. Michael Caine. Christopher Nolan. It just had the marks for something great, and the trailers only continued to perpetuate this ideally amazing film. While the film does deliver in many instances, I cannot help but feel that it was anywhere near as good as I could have imagined. Whether I hyped it up far too much or not, is up to interpretation.It is the late 1800s, and magicians are the key theatrical acts in London. Rupert Angier (Jackman) and Alfred Borden (Bale) are two up-and-comers who work together, and then instantly turn into rivals after a particularly devastating incident early in their careers. What follows is a tale of both men finding a means of one-upping each other at every turn, whether it be physically sabotaging the other person's act, using the sexy assistant Olivia (Johansson) to help get secret information, or gaining help from the even more secretive "wizard" Nikola Tesla (David Bowie, in a rare film appearance).The thing about the film is that you have to pay attention at all times. It has moments where the film feels speedy, and others where it feels downright slow. But no matter what, something integral is always happening. Despite it being told in a particularly bizarre narrative structure (the present flashbacking to the past flashbacking even further into the past, and then back again), the film follows the key three-part magic act sequence (which any trailer fan should probably already know about). The film suffers here because it does not really stay consistent with the direction it wants to go in, and becomes a bit confusing and inane as a result. It may be a bit of a struggle to grasp the structure at first, but slowly becomes more easily accessible. At times it works strongly, but in others, it just feels like it wants to toy with the audience and do nothing else. We know every little detail matters, but should the material not be a little more solidified than it is? A bit of extra padding and focus here could have helped greatly.Being a period piece, you can see the great care and devotion taken to ensure that the film looks like it is occurring at the turn of the twentieth century. It may be dark, but there is just enough light to shine through and make everything all the more colourful. The costumes are all lavishly gorgeous, as are the backdrops and set pieces. It feels distinctive and authentic, but not to the point of being overkill. The score is just about perfect, and the editing really helps to act as the drive of the film. The great British accents are all highly in tune with the rest of the feeling of the film as well, even from the American actors.Jackman and Bale are excellent in their respective roles. Right from the start, you can tell these two are steering towards destruction, and as their characters slowly move into becoming downright evil, it becomes even more of a pleasure for the audience to watch. They play off each other well in their scenes together, and their presences are downright smoldering. These young actors really show off their chops, and show off the deeper range that only a few select modern actors can even pray to be able to show. While I really enjoy Jackman as an actor, I cannot help but realize this is one of his deepest roles yet. He's very striking in the role, but at times you can see that this is one of his first real attempts at doing so. Bale on the other hand, can add this right next to his already brooding library of ranged works (his most astonishing being his turn in American Psycho), and looks like he is right at home with the material. I know they probably will not get recognition during the awards season, but I can only hope this is a taste of things to come from both of them.Caine is great as the wise manager character that he has perfected over the years, and Bowie's small performance is practically intoxicating. He does not play the character up too much, but he plays it with just the right amount of intensity demanded. He is complemented by Andy Serkis, who thankfully plays a real-life character and not one made totally out of CGI. It was something different to actually see him literally acting, and I was pleasantly surprised to see it be just as good, if not better, than his CGI-work. Although they only have so much they can do, the three main female characters, Johansson, Piper Perabo, and newcomer Rebecca Hall all perform excellently, and work well off their co-stars. I would have liked to have seen a bit more material being used by these three, but they really stand up well against their much more heavily used male co-stars.Inevitably, the comparison to this year's "other magician" film, Neil Burger's The Illusionist, must come up, and thankfully, it works at about the same level. They both have strong acting (although the female acting is far superior here), a good storyline, and beautiful sets. If anything, The Prestige feels like it wants to accomplish more than it can handle. Thankfully, it does not become too overbearing, but some of the confusion the film generates really does detract from it.Although not as good as Memento or Batman Begins, Christopher Nolan has added another strong film to his short resume, and continues to prove his worth in Hollywood. I can only hope that the audience does not get too overly distracted by the film's structure problems, and can truly appreciate this all-around great film.8/10.


                
After watching 3 of Christopher Nolan's shows, I really have a high expectation of this movie. In addition to the great director, the cast selection is superb as well. Well, thankfully I'm not disappointed by this movie."The Prestige" is filled with twists and turns. I think how you see the twists and turns will affect what you think of the movie eventually. Some people will be fascinated by them (like me), while others won't. Well, the story can be basically summarized to two themes, Deceit and Obsession. I thought Nolan chooses a great way to present the story. Though the back and forth narration may confused some people, I thought it really works well for the movie, teasing audience to figure out how the story really goes. I feel that the type of flashbacks here is different from those used in Nolan's "Insomnia" and "Memento", though they are effective for their respective movies.I watched the show with some book spoilers in mind. To those who had read the book, well, the story is rather different from the book. The ending especially. The movie does not mention about the descendants of the Magicians at all.Hugh Jackman's and Christian Bale's acting are amazing. One supporting actor which I think stands out is David Bowie's Nikola Tesla. His charisma really makes his character interesting.Like other Nolan's movies, this movie is visually stunning. You won't be disappointed by its cinematography.Despite being a great movie, I don't think that this movie will be one of the major contenders for Oscar. The genre doesn't really suit well with Oscar type of movies.Nevertheless, in my opinion, this movie is one of the best movies this year, and is definitely a must watch.


                
If all you read are some of the other comments here, you might think  "The Prestige" is a cheat and a disappointment. And maybe if you are  watching it with a superficial mindset, it is. But if you really pay  attention, and delve into the many layers of story, you will see the  movie as so much better than that.  Two magicians rival to be the best, and this movie takes you through  many years of that rivalry, along with the resulting jealousy, anger,  betrayal, and ethic and moral dilemma. Oh, and did I mention death,  disfigurement, and deception? The performances are gripping, and the  production is stunning, creating a believable setting that draws you  into the story. I did experience some moments of confusion when the  time lines jumped into the past or present a bit abruptly. But in the  end, most questions will be answered. It's important to remember,  though, that the most compelling question is not what was real and what  was deception, but rather, how far do you allow yourself to go to prove  you're the best?


                
A historical story line which demands a lot of attention to detail and art. Selection of the best in the class cast. Fantasy with realistic touch with scientists as characters. Salute you .. director. you did it well. I have a different view point for a certain point. I believe to keep the essence of the story 'importance of keeping secrets', you could have taken another mystical point to conclude the story. Like the live characters do not able to find out the secrecy even at the climax. May be for a commercial success of the movie, after that point, you could have indicated some points to the audience. Anyway the villain character's reactions to his false beliefs could not be captured then. But I believe, a person who sacrificed friendship & love (and many others..I cannot be a spoiler here!) will not do this at certain point to prove something to person who is no longer important to him. once again.. I salute you sir... a brilliant topic and a good canvas.


                
I went to this movie not completely sure what to expect. I knew it was directed by Christopher Nolan (Memento, Batman Begins) and starred Christian Bale (Batman Begins, American Psycho), Hugh Jackman (X-Men 1, 2, and 3), and Michael Caine (Batman Begins). I knew it was about magicians. I knew it looked cool as hell. This movie blew away all expectations. The acting was first rate and the direction, par for Christopher Nolan, was superb. This movie will definitely exercise your mind with more twists and turns than all of M. Night's combined. The quest for fame and one-upping a rival becomes an obsession that makes for a riveting piece of entertainment. Only Christopher Nolan could undertake such a complicated storyline and deliver it so perfectly. Definitely worth the seven bucks and two hours spent.


                
The Prestige is quality modern film-making at its very best. Christopher Nolan has proved himself to be a director to watch after his successful reinvention of the Batman series, and now this film; different in theme and tone to Batman, and for my money, much better! The brilliance of this film comes from many different areas - the acting performances and the professionalism of the film shown throughout go a long way towards ensuring that The Prestige is an excellent film, but really it is the story that makes this one stand out. The film is based on a novel by Christopher Priest and focuses on magicians in nineteenth century London. Robert Angier and Alfred Borden are magicians and friends working as assistants to another successful magician. Their friendship turns sour, however, when Alfred makes a mistake that leads to the death of Robert's girlfriend on stage. This leads to a fierce rivalry between the two magicians, and after each one sabotages the others' magic show; the rivalry takes a new turn as they battle to see who can carry out the greatest magic trick...The plot doesn't develop linearly, rather Christopher Nolan chops and changes the exact point in the story where the film is running from, and this works really well as everything always feels fresh and inventive and Christopher Nolan is clearly a director capable of handling this sort of feat. The Prestige features an all star cast, and all perform excellently. The male leads are obviously the main standout. Christian Bale has really proved what a great actor he can be over the past couple of years, and his performance here still works despite the fact that he sounds a lot like Grant Mitchell from Eastenders. Hugh Jackman is good also and he gets to show more of himself than he did in the X-Men films, while the likes of Michael Caine and David Bowie fill out the supporting cast. The cinematography on display is absolutely fantastic, and the film does an extremely good job of recreating nineteenth century London. The special effects are good also, and the scenes involving Tesla's machine are all standouts. It all boils down to a terrific and suitably mystifying conclusion and overall, I really recommend that everyone takes the time to see this film. The Prestige really is one of the best modern films I've seen in years.


                
There seems to be a strongly defined split in posters' opinions about this movie. On the one hand, there are those who didn't see the two big story twists coming and thought the film was the best of 2006. Then there are those who did see the twists coming and felt cheated, just like audience who booed Bale's Chinese ring magic early in the film. One poster went so far as to say that because THE SIXTH SENSE kept him guessing then all came together but he didn't like the way the ending of THE PRESTIGE had to be explained by the narration, then the latter film somehow failed.I fall into the "Didn't see the twists coming" category (whereas I knew Bruce Willis was a ghost pretty much straight away in SIXTH SENSE).I'm afraid I didn't figure out Christian Bale's secret until it was pointed out at the climax of the film, though I did have an inkling of how Hugh Jackman's Tesla machine worked (the clue was in the hats and cats)But none of this matters. The real value of a movie is not the same as the value of a magic trick. Even if the film is ABOUT magic tricks. A film doesn't fail only because you figure out the twist ending. The journey is every bit as important as the destination. (And then there's films that DON'T have twist endings at all - are they automatically bad?) I know how the special effects are done in STAR WARS - doesn't spoil my enjoyment of the film one jot!No - in my opinion THE PRESTIGE is an ingenious examination of the obsession magic generates in its adherents where the entire film is a metaphor for the nature of performance magic.And it has TWO great twist endings. Surely, that should satisfy anyone?
Cinema and stage magicians share a common secret about us, the viewers: we don't want to believe the reality - we enjoy the sensation of being transported to a world where we can gasp at the magic. "The secret impresses no-one: the trick you use it for is everything." Exploiting this parallel in a darkly sinister period piece, The Prestige weaves a tense and gripping tale of a fatal feud between two rival magicians.In the skilfully recreated Victorian London, Director Christopher Nolan performs another sinister and chilling sleight of hand that forces us to look closely at every frame, just as we did in his backwards-moving masterpiece Memento (about a desperate man trying to avenge his wife's murder while suffering from the loss of all short-term memory). The two magicians (played by Bale and Jackman) are poised somewhere between being scientists and conmen and risk all for the secret of the greatest stage trick - and the two women in their lives weave in and out trying to discover the inner secrets of these men with whom they are involved. Seeing the story from several angles, the viewer shifts perspectives to work out what is real.Almost like another conjuring trick, David Bowie, and to an extent all the actors except Michael Caine, are subsumed in their characters and barely recognisable at first glance. Caine, as the magician's ingeneur (the person who designs illusions behind the scenes) is a lynchpin, giving a powerful and convincing performance he can believe in. Scarlett Johansson, as the inexperienced but devoted magician's assistant, creeps up on us subtly and, thrown between the two main characters, is another one who might not be all she seems.Cutter, (Michael Caine) explains the format: "Every great magic trick consists of three acts. The first act is called The Pledge: the magician shows you something ordinary, but of course, it probably isn't. The second act is called The Turn. The magician makes his ordinary something do something extraordinary. Now, if you're looking for the secret<U+0085>you won't find it. That's why there's a third act, called The Prestige. This is the part with the twists and turns, where lives hang in the balance, and you see something shocking you've never seen before." Gone is the image of the jolly magician. This is no Paul Daniels era of hocus pocus. If it goes wrong, things might get nasty. If it goes right, you are left with that gasp of amazement on your face that every magician craves and every filmmaker seeks. Perhaps the feeling is more important than deciding whether you actually want to find out or be fooled. Whodunnit or thriller, The Prestige is a rather clever piece of entertainment.


                
Christopher Nolan's THE PRESTIGE is one of the most shockingly-original films I've ever seen; rather, the book of the same name by Christopher Priest is really the most original. Christian Bale and Hugh Jackman seem ingeniously cast, with Bale as the inwardly-focused, pensive, quiet magician, and Jackman as his rival, a boastful, flashy showman. These characters also mirror the two actors' styles; Bale is more of a deeper character actor, and Jackman is, and always has been, very entertaining to watch, but his acting has always been like a bucket of buttery popcorn; it tastes good when you eat it, but you feel slightly sick after you eat it, and it has no nutritive value. Having said this, the two actors have never been better. The story is ultimately clever, albeit quite confusing at times. Much like the TV show "Lost", the pertinent, plot-heavy duologue is intentionally vague, leaving the audience on the edge of their seats. Just like a good magic trick - or a good Prestige, rather - the audience willingly immerses themselves in this twisting, creepy world; you WANT to be confused. (This is also the last line of the movie.) AWESOME.


                
I am not the biggest fan of Nolan's works (some are good but imho some are pretty overrated/praised like Dunkirk and Interstellar), but this one is (like Inception) a really nice gem with an unusual story.A unique plot woven around two obsessed and rival magicians/illusionists with an amazing cast - Christian Bale, Hugh Jackman, Scarlett Johansson, Rebecca Hall and Michael Caine. And on top we get a nice painting of the times around the end of the Nineteenth Century.Good and entertaining.


                
Christopher Priest's novel is given a class A film treatment here. With Jonathan Nolan and Christopher Nolan's top notch screenplay, and Christopher's Directing talents, this film comes off very well.Michael Caines Cutter character is good and his being the narrator is even better. Hugh Jackman as Robert Angier, and Christian Bale as Alfred Borden, the feuding magic men, and Scarlett Johanssons role as Olivia, the woman assistant between them are well acted roles.Magic and deception are the keys to the plot. There is a little romance but the key elements here are the feud between the men, who will stop at nothing to outwit each other.In the beginning, one lovely lady assistant dies as the result of a mistake by one of these guys when they are doing a joint act. After that, they split up because the dead woman was a wife of one of them. Then the rivalry begins.They claw each other until the death trying to find out each others secrets. This all takes place in the late 19th century, and the settings for this are magnificent. There are 3 elements to each magic act, and the final curtain is the Prestige, where the audience gets something they do not expect.In the case of this film, you have to watch the end of it to get what the movie viewer does not expect. It is very much worth watching. Very good film making here and the Nolans would go on to do Inception later on. This is a solid effort that shows how they got to the later film.
The story, the cast, the overall atmosphere, twists, all smooth, elegant and with style... and the awesome finale. Rarely good movie.8,5/10


                
An interesting and well acted mystery drama. Great story and characters, plenty of twists and highly enjoyable. The Victorian London setting is excellent.


                
Movie Review: "The Prestige" (2006)Just a year out of the release of career-defining "Batman Begins" (2005), director Christopher Nolan takes on this even more personal enchantment of adapting a novel by Christopher Priest, published in 1995 under the same title, with his brother Jonathan Nolan to twist and mingled extraordinary horror as hints of science-fiction elements into a non-stop gripping, juvenile PG-13 version of a 120 Minutes, concerning two rivaling magicians in 19th century Cross-State-USA, which could not be better cast as with leading actors Christian Bale as Alfred Borden and Hugh Jackman as Robert Angier, who keep onto a consecutive show-raving conflict in favor for audience's fascinations, life-threatening stage-acts of manipulative magic to indulge on obsessions beyond imagination, when encountering real-life outcast inventor Nikola Tesla (1856-1943), here toward casting lucky strikes, performed by splenidly acting-out-musician David Bowie (1947-2016) alongside with a faithful sidekick character of Alley, portrayed by Andy Serkis, when stunningly-montage techniques ignited by Academy-Award-nominated editor Lee Smith covers cinematographic beats of magic for one-time engaging Touchstone Pictures & Warner Bros. Studios to witness a rising star director going astray with unusual partially-indecisive handheld camera works by nevertheless atmospheric-lid scenario-penetrating show-stealing efforts by cinematographer Wally Pfister.Co-producing director Christopher Nolan gathers exceptional film-makers around the production table with producing partners Emma Thomas and Aaron Ryder, who make the most out of a seemingly restraining 40-Million-Dollar production budget, when "The Prestige" lives from relentless forward-pushing action beats of its protagonists to near-death-situations for a life's dream of delivering the ultimate effect ("The Prestige") on any given audience; accompanied, triggered and infllicted by a sublime supporting cast from Michael Caine as theater-running character Cutter, Rebecca Hall as a down-on-his-luck financée of Christian Bale's versatile interpretations of Alfred Borden, who gets tested more than usual by his already-entrusted director of playing ranging scenes from chained imprisonment to champagne-drinking restaurant beats, when actress Scarlett Johansson seems to pull strings on scene-owning appearances as double-crossing character of Olivia Wenscombe in favors for Christopher Nolan, who seemingly looks even better as director by the end of post-production due to haunting as mesmerizing final collaboration with composer David Julyan, who delivers the score of a life-time coming along with high-suspense conclusion, owned by a director's up, close and personal researches of idol-figure Alfred Hitchcock (1899-1980) and translated so ultimately in favors of a digital-revolution-indulging movie-going young adult audiences.© 2018 Felix Alexander Dausend
(Cinemajesty Entertainments LLC)


                
The whole movie is a massive magic trick and it deserves a second viewing just to comprehend the whole thing, which seems to be a constant thing regarding Nolan's movies.The movie is about two magicians (Bale and Jackman) who compete with each other as to who has the best trick, escalating to insanely extreme situations. Bale's biggest trick for example was that he had a twin brother and they swapped places the whole time! The twins went as far as cutting one's finger to match his twin brother. This was pretty awesome, especially if you know that real life magicians have gone to similar lengths. James Randy for example used to carry a piece of paper in his pocket for years. That piece of paper had "today's" date on it, saying that "today I will die". If he had a fatal accident, would you believe that he predicted his own death or that he wrote a piece of paper each day for years?! Talking about devotion! The movie explores that devotion and the sacrifices someone must do to deceive others. But the greatest deception of the movie was fooling the audience itself! The movie is very realistic but the explanation about the cloning machine was not something I could accept, so I looked around to see what other people thought about the ending. In my research pretty much everyone was agreeing with the explanation given, that Tesla gave Jackman a cloning machine, and Jackman in his every act kills one of his clones (or dies himself). That's pretty awesome and the audience bought it. But it's a lie nobody really saw! Michael Cain gives the secret 10 minutes before the end. Earlier he told a story about a sailor but he reveals now that the story was a lie. This is a hint that Jackman's story was also a lie, and Bale and the audience bought it.Cain tells the audience in the end that you don't want to know what happened, you want to be fooled. So what happened? Over the course of the movie, many bad things happen. Bale kills Jackman's wife and Jackman shoots Bale's fingers. Bale takes Johansson to his side, manipulates Root (Jackman's double) and humiliates Jackman on stage while braking his leg. Jackman kidnaps and buries Bale's friend to blackmail him for his secret. The secret was planned and Bale sends Jackman to a wild goose chase to America. There, Tesla fools Jackman with some hats and some cats to get away with the money.Jackman returns the favor by giving a fake diary to the imprisoned Bale. Everything regarding Tesla's machine, is only known from Jackman's diary. And knowing that Bale lied in his diary, then surely Jackman lied in his as well.So to wrap this up. Jackman was obsessed to find Bale's secret and it was only revealed to him in his last breath. The Tesla story was a lie and the machine never worked (that would be completely unrealistic, even for Tesla), but Jackman used it in his favor. Jackman used and killed Root to frame Bale. Bale dies, but his twin brother takes revenge by shooting Jackman.Almost perfect score because it fooled almost everyone!
After the success of Batman Begins, Christopher Nolan took on magicians for his fourth original film. Two magicians, Robert Angier (Hugh Jackman) and Alfred Borden (Christian Bale) compete for the greatest illusion. The stage manager Cutter (Michael Caine) accuses Alfred of attempting to steal Angier's trick but murdering him instead and sends him to jail in the furthest forward storyline. The film operates on multiple story lines, one that follows Robert searching for the great inventor Tesla (David Bowie) and his assistant Alley (Andy Serkis) in Colorado, and another storyline that tells the history of Angier and Borden as young magicians. These stories come from diaries that the men read of each other. Alfred meets Sarah (Rebecca Hall) at a magic show and falls for her quickly. In the past, Borden tries a special knot that ends up killing Julia (Piper Perabo), Angier's lover. As Borden starts a solo career, Angier confronts him during a bullet catch trick and shoots his finger off. Having had his revenge, Angier reignites his career with a new name as the Great Danton and a new assistant Olivia Wenscombe (Scarlett Johansson). With the help of Cutter, he performs new tricks with special gadgets but Borden shows up to bust the birdcage and injure a participant. Desperate for a new trick and out of a show, Angier meets with Alley and finally is allowed to meet with Tesla in his hideout. This story parallels the real rivalry between Tesla and Edison over the conducting of electricity. Check out more of this review and others at swilliky.com
The Prestige. Where do we begin? Let's name all the good things about this movie: Chirstopher Nolan, Christian Bale, Hugh Jackman, Michael Caine, the plot. Despite allegedly being nothing like the book The Prestige, Nolan directed a spectacular film. Part of it was how Nolan put the scenes all out of order, yet you lost no sense of what took place in what order. In addition, the scenes were in just the order to make you say, "Wow, that makes total sense now!" at the end of the movie. For instance, the movie opens with a shot that you don't think about until many scenes later at which point you go exclaim the aforementioned exclamation. Bale, Jackman, and Caine did stellar performances in The Prestige. Bale masterfully played Alfred Borden, the great magician couldn't book a decent theater, or make his tricks look good. Jackman was incredible as Robert Angier, the not-as-good, yet obsessed magician who could make his tricks look like something unbelievable. Michael Caine, also did amazing as the illusion engineer who was the source of most of Angier's tricks. The Prestige's plot was full of twists, turns, and parts that made made you say "Woah." Upon re-watching the movie, one notices that the script is riddled with hints that reveal the end. The plot contains a bitter rivalry, revenge, and things you have to notice to figure it out before the movie ends. Once the ending is revealed, the audience's jaw drops when the end is not what it seems. The cover to the DVD says "You want to see it again the second its over." That's probably the best way to put it. The first time you watch it , you're not really looking for how the story comes together, you want to be shocked. 10 stars. This movie was awesome.
The Prestige sees two rivaling magicians, Borden and Angier, in an intensive battle of wits that goes so far that their lives at stake. The two are portrayed by Christian Bale and Hugh Jackman who deliver powerful performances, supported by an excellent cast of Michael Caine, Andy Serkis and, guess who, yep, David Bowie.Director Chris Nolan again shows his trademark by going back and forth the storyline as the film progresses, much as he's done with the critically-acclaimed Memento and Batman Begins, which, through his skillful execution, is used to tremendous effect. With involvement from his brother, Jonathan Nolan, the duo are able to recreate the suspense and complexity as shown in Memento, intriguing the audience as they are brought deeper and deeper into the story.This is story-telling at its finest. With a tremendous twist ending that ties up the knots neatly but also leaves out some tiny loose ends, the movie is satisfying but will make you sit through the credits, thinking you might have missed something...


                
Utterly gripping turn of the century English theater tale. Excellent period feel, costumes, sets, engaging interplay between all the characters, pacing, cinematography, all first rate. The audience is mesmerized by the magic acts, the romantic entanglements, but at the same time, is left utterly cold by the complete lack of warmth and humanity. This is not a movie for someone looking for a uplifting, positive two hours. This movie is devoid of any warmth. There are no heroes, no good guys, no role models.Scientist/inventor Nikola Tesla, whose work all movie goers have seen, even though they may not know it, figures prominently in this movie. Among other things, he invented the Tesla Coil, which is frequently featured in science fiction movies. The coil generates impressive electric displays, like controlled lightning, arcing between electrodes. The main plot of this movie revolves around the use of this electric "magic". The movie is not, however, a scientific documentary, and the leaps of logic from Tesla's scientific experimentation, to magic tricks shown in the movie, requires accepting highly implausible events requiring much suspended disbelief, but that fact doesn't detract too much from the movie's allure. The magic is well enough performed to be engaging and plausible. You want to believe it. It works. The movie doesn't entirely satisfy however. The main thing that does diminish the movie's appeal is the unlikable nature of all the principle characters. You just can't "like" them, any of them. The movie well worth seeing however. Just don't go when you're in a bad mood already. This movie will only make it worse.


                
There's not much that can be said about The Prestige that has not already been said in its positive reviews. Christopher Nolan makes yet another remarkable achievement after the groundbreaking Memento and the extraordinary Batman Begins. Once again, Nolan does not for a moment prioritize the "Ooohs!" and "Ahhhs!" before strong character development and plot. By the end, Nolan can use these powerful cinematic tools to create those audience reactions instead of fantastical elements. Nolan is not the only one, however, that makes this movie work as a whole. With his brother, Jonathan Nolan, at the hands of the screenplay, and Christian Bale and Hugh Jackman as the leads, people reading this review are only getting the tip of the iceberg with understanding the quality of this movie. You will have to see this movie for yourself.For those who were disappointed by this year's earlier entry in the "Magician Genre", The Illusionist, then The Prestige is the movie for you. On terms of quality, the two movies are just about polar opposites. While Edward Norton portrays the most wooden performance I've ever seen from him, Christian Bale shines once more. While Norton and Biel couldn't develop chemistry to save their life, the chemistry is magic between Jackman and Johansson and Bale and Rebecca Hall. While Giamatti and some of the cinematography play as the saving grace of the otherwise disastrous Illusionist, there is really only the overlong ending as a weak spot for The Prestige.I would be really ashamed if Bale does not get some Oscar consideration for this year's upcoming awards season. There is not a scene he doesn't shine in, and time and time again, he proves to be one of the best young actors in Hollywood. It is still a toss up for me on which film is the best of the year. It's either this or The Departed, but you cannot go wrong with either. In the scheme of things, despite the minor flaw at the end, this movie gets a perfect 10, and I now await The Dark Knight even more eagerly. Summer 2008 cannot come soon enough. It takes three great movies for me to label a director a genius. Mr. Nolan, you have a fan.
This was an unusual story, told and acted very well. It took me awhile (and I'm usually very quick) to see where it was going. Like the Illusionist it opens up many a moral dilemma for the audience. The cutting back and forth, at first, is a little hard to follow but then suddenly it becomes much easier and clearer as the movie slows down. The critics who thought that it was too slow in parts were wrong. It has to slow down in order to let the audience catch up. this movie allowed itself to be suspenseful, sad, funny and thought provoking all at the same time. It might not be Number #1 this week at the box office but it's interesting enough that people will go see if for week after week.


                
I really enjoyed this film and Christian Bale turns in yet another solid performance in Christopher Nolan's capable hands. I'll admit that it didn't take me very long to figure out most of the Jackman side of the plot but I freely admit that I never considered the 'twins' twist. I barely recognized Scarlett Johansson and Michael Caine did his usual seamless work.I was confused for a bit but when the story threads started to come together, I began to really get into it. The story was fascinating and David Bowie as Tesla was an inspired casting choice, adding just the right touch of murky mysteriousness. The sets were just awesome and the cinematography was spot on, conveying a dark but not oppressive mood. I usually judge a film by the impression that it leaves (or doesn't) on me hours or even days after viewing it, and this one had me running through all of the puzzle pieces in my mind for some time afterward. It was dark and somber but not enough to make one feel like it was a 'downer' experience. It did, however, leave me in a contemplative state of mind--and that's a good thing. This was a smartly written, solid piece of entertainment on all fronts.***-As a side note, I wish that Chris Nolan would get another sound designer---I'm sick of all of his movies having dialogue that you can barely hear, even with your sound system cranked up, only to have the next scene rattling the windows!***
