I went to see a critics preview of The Prestige this afternoon and to  my surprise I found the film to be one of the best I have seen all year  so far, and that writers can come up with an excellent script it they  would only try a little harder. The acting performances by Hugh  Jackman, Christian Bale and Michael Caine were the best I have see in  a long while. The only objection I had to the film was that it was a  little long, but once you leave the theater you will discuss the film  and it many twists and turns. My wife and myself discussed it all the  way home from the movie theater. This is a winner and should be up for  some academy award statues, and my recommendation is go see this as  soon as you can, you will not be disappointed.


                
Director Christopher Nolan has a proclivity for warped narratives (Memento) and in The Prestige he serves up a deliciously twisty tale, puffed full of magic theatricality and inventive cinematic devices. With his remarkably sleight-of-hand direction, he spins the tale of two rivaling magicians in Victorian-era London, creating a cerebrally stimulating 2 hour long mise-en-scene in which the audience is literally left guessing and gasping at its rare uniqueness through magic acts and bitter behind-the-stage intrigue.The final pay-off of any magic act <U+0096> the prestige <U+0096> is of the essence, and preluding it is the pledge, followed by the turn. Together these three key components are slotted in unique positions in 'The Prestige's arrestingly clever script but it is the titular act that propels the film. The pledge introduces our main characters: magicians Alfred Borden (Christian Bale) and Robert Angier (Hugh Jackman) in turn-of-the-century London and we see how their friendship abruptly becomes a fully-fledged rivalry and hostility with a magic act gone horribly wrong in front of an audience. There is a death, and it lights the fuse of an onslaught of reel revelations and the one-upmanship that will ensue between the two competitors. 'The turn' comes to offers twists by the bucketload in the form of love-interests, and technologically marvelous magic acts. I gasped, I scratched my head, I watched on in awe. No description will do it justice.The prestige as the end note to the show <U+0096> in which, for example, the disappearer reappears to the deafening applause of the crowd <U+0096> is so meticulously composed in the film through foreshadowing and fractured chronology that rigorously intersects, intertwines, intercuts, fast-forwards, rewinds and replays key parts of the story that the whole spectacle floors you. Christopher Nolan and his brother Jonathan have worked out a template script that is more twisty and turny than a mountain road and for that reason I am very reluctant to spoil even the slightest detail of the story of 'The Prestige'<U+0096> of all of its acts, in fact. If you are shaking your head thinking a clever twist ending does not make the movie (and I agree), know that this is not a "gotcha"-kind of Shyamalan trick where you want to stop the film, rewind it and watch it meticulous foreshadowing up to the cheap pay-off, but a tightly-written ever-shifting hall of mirrors with so many intrinsic twists that on your way home you will still be scratching you head and searching for clues.Our two magicians are perfectly-cast with Hugh Jackman capturing the showy, slick, ambition-driven nature of his character Angier in contrast to Bale's technique-driven purist who may be well on his way to perfecting the craft, but lacks the 'Abracadabra' entertainment value. I had always crowned the latter the more capable actor of the two, but the fact is that Jackman performs just as well in the film. Having said that, Borden has more layers to his complex, contradictory (keyword) persona than the flashy, greedy Angier which perhaps begs more weight from the actor behind the role, shifting more demand on Christian Bale. The sad fact of it is that neither of these two men are likable characters and elicit nothing more than temporary sympathy. However, the secrecy with which the intricate story approaches them makes it impossible for the viewer to slot them in protagonist vs. antagonist positions, and indeed they are given almost the exact same screen-time and voice-over narration throughout, a subtle and brilliant accolade of Nolan's.To further evaluate the cast of The Prestige, David Bowie and Michael Caine undoubtedly merit a great deal of praise for supporting the two moody, unlikeable leading men. It is a crying shame then that Scarlett Johansson <U+0096> always an incapable actress except for the rare occasions in which she plays a sultry American vixen (Match Point) <U+0096> performs so badly in the role of Olivia Wenscombe, a magic assistant pending between Borden and Angier. Here she is actually given a very good and important character who is not necessarily bad like the rest, but botches her interpretation by giving an unspeakably hammy London accent. Nolan picks up on her shortcomings as an actress, and resorts to boob-shots en masse. This he should be fully entitled to do as a director, for a beautiful diversion will always camouflage the process and any of its potential missteps, as Michael Caine's character puts forward.With Scarlett as a pleasurable paint-job, twists by the bucket-load and flashy magic tricks as windowdressing to a solid mystery film, there is little or no need to delve deeper into the psyches of its characters to keep our attention. Yet this is done, and superbly so, by Christopher Nolan. 'Antihero' gets a whole new spin to it in The Prestige with two friends-turned-rivals so bitterly poised on the brink of obsession of outshining the other that succeeding with the ultimate 'prestige' of magic followed by applause is enough to drive them to murder, bankruptcy, deceit and sabotage. Borden simply wants to be better on a technical level, while Angier wants the public's recognition and wide-spread fame. Their ambition is in effect largely the same: create the definitive deceptive illusion and do it through any means necessary.'The Prestige' is a majestic film that nevertheless spans across too long a running time. Condensation would have done wonders and surely bumped it up a notch, as would underpinning some humour at one or two points (it is VERY gloomy), but it truly is a great cinematic achievement and a shoe-in for my top 10 of 1006, and easily the most inventive film I have seen in years. I am eagerly anticipated director Christopher Nolan's next sleight-of-hand direction, and it looks like the closest is The Dark Knight (2008).9 out of 10


                
Long ago I watched The Prestige and The Illusionist in the same weekend. Comparisons are odious but it is inevitable for me to think of the second when talking about the first. You want to know why, keep reading.Magic is present in everybody's childhood, but it is something we lose, as we get older, in part because there are not many movies about magic to watch when you grow up. But if you want to turn the clock back and feel excited about how magicians perform tricks and get some answers about "how it is possible" or "what's the trick", lucky you because there are two movies which will definitely satisfy your curiosity.Both movies take place in England at the end of the XIX century. They not only have in common their genre, drama-mystery but also a fantastic cast. Edward Norton' remarkable portrayal of Eisenheim in The Illusionist is as memorable as Hugh Jackman and Christian Bales's in the Prestige. The appealing special effects, the convincing costumes and the compelling dialogue; you will enjoy these movies from the beginning to the end.Although there are several similarities between the two movies their plots are quite different. The Illusionist is, without a doubt, a much more romantic interpretation of the life of a magician. The Prestige, on the other hand portrays the rivalry between two magicians where revenge is the main feeling. The second movie is, indeed, more action-packed but no less moving than The Illusionist.These two must sees will trap you and will carry you to an enjoyable world full of magic. But if you really love cinema and good stories the one I highly recommended to you is the Illusionist.


                
In the end of the Nineteenth Century, in London, Robert Angier (Hugh Jackman), his beloved wife Julia McCullough (Piper Perabo) and Alfred Borden (Christian Bale) are friends and assistants of a magician. When Julia accidentally dies during a performance, Robert blames Alfred for her death and they become enemies. Both become famous and rival magicians, sabotaging the performance of the other on the stage. When Alfred performs a successful trick, Robert becomes obsessed trying to disclose the secret of his competitor with tragic consequences."The Prestige" is a great tale of rivalry, obsession, revenge and sacrifice. The unpredictable screenplay has many twists, disclosing unusual situations and hooking the attention of the viewer until the very last scene. Christopher Nolan, after the masterpiece "Memento", offers another excellent movie for the cinema lovers, better and better than the Oscar winner "The Departed". The amazing dispute between the outstanding Christian Bale and Hugh Jackman is supported by the extraordinary Michael Caine and a wonderful cinematography. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil): "O Grande Truque" ("The Great Trick")


                
Screenplay , story telling and characterisation . nolan at his best . twist after twist . must watch movie for movie lovers


                
Let's face it, there aren't many good writers for cinema. Yet the bar has gotten higher while certain narrative structures have become more acceptable. Nolan has earned a place as one of the best without a Spanish surname. It seems he starts with a notion of multiple parallelisms in narrative, then fleshes them out using some of the techniques common in or best literature, but always envisioned first cinematically. The five parallelisms here are:<U+0097> Warring magicians (mirrored by the warring real life magicians Tesla and Edison).<U+0097> The realities of life and pretended or performed life, with the common fold of the play we see and the performance(s) they make.<U+0097> Multiple existence of beings<U+0097> Different slices of time as the narrative is unrolled backwards and forwards in bits.<U+0097> The way the stories are recounted in two overlapping diaries, each a lure. Pay particular attention to this, and the fairly literate references, starting with Van Helsing and covering at least a few Shakespearean phrases.Its therefore 5 times more clever, engaging and rewarding than "The Illusionist," itself a competent oneway fold.Spend some time with this. That Batman thing went over well with some folks, I know. But it was a waste of talent. This is where the man belongs. Welcome home Chris. Stay away from comics.The acting is irrelevant. Good thing.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.
This film seems to have polarised IMDb posters like no other for a while.I don't know if it is a trick (sic) of time but the posts at the top of this list seem to love it and the posts at the bottom hate it. Is this due to having had time to think about it before commenting? In my case no. I came out of the theatre thinking what a good film, but by the morning, what a great film.The mere fact that it plays on the mind, and requires a lot of thought to see some of the holes (yes there are some but not as clearly dismissed as in some other films)gives an indication of the impact it had on me.I had to laugh at the comments over the accents and "mumbling". It's called English. It is not "American English". I don't criticise American actors for talking in American accents, so please don't do the same to my native tongue.My only advice here is go and see it for yourself if you have not already. Oh and look up a certain Nikola Tesla on Wikipedia if this name is not familiar to you.And finally, don't forget, it's a film. And fiction. It's not real, or historic. Enjoy it. I did.


                
Now this was a movie that made you stop and think and then think again, and then go buy a ticket to watch again and think. Most of the people in the audience looked stupefied at the end of this flick. No greater tribute can be given for a movie based on magicians, magic, and science fiction. This is every magicians dream and to do it through the cinema is quite a trick in itself. The performances are excellent and Christian Bale as always is the character in life and breathe. Hugh Jackman is so turning out to be more than an eye catcher and can act in the most excellent and gentlemanly fashion. Michael Caine.......when don't you turn in an awesome performance. Scarlett Johanson does an excellent job and surrounded by such thundering performances, how can she not excel in the pouted way of hers and it is put most excellently to use in this movie. Take the rabbit out of the hat and take a bow, this was definitely a magic trick of a movie.


                
Along with INSOMNIA, the 2006 film that Nolan directed, THE PRESTIGE is probably one of his least known and least viewed films and that is too bad for it is a wonderful motion picture that proves he is a strong director with a strong vision.Dubbed "The Warring Magicians" film, THE PRESTIGE stars Christian Bale and Hugh Jackman as two 19th Century Magicians who are...well...at war with each other. Of course, they started out as partners, but soon became enemies, each trying to out do each other and to discover the other magician's secrets.Cleverly written by Nolan and his frequent collaborator, his brother Jonathan Nolan - and based on the novel by Christopher Priest, THE PRESTIGE will keep you guessing throughout, trying to figure out "how they did it" and are constantly being surprised by double turns, back stabbing and second guessing.Bale, by this time in his career, has established himself as a powerful actor - and he shines here. Joining Bale is Nolan regular Michael Caine as the mentor of the two magicians, a young-ish Scarlett Johannsen as a a woman who falls in love with both of them (of course) and Rebecca Hall and Piper Perabo as Bale's and Jackman's wives, respectively. But...the surprise to me in this film when I first saw it - and again when I recently re-viewed it - is the performance of Hugh Jackman. This film shows that Jackman is more than just Wolverine - that dude can act. As a magician, he is showing glimpses of being "THE GREATEST SHOWMAN" (but that is another movie for another day) and more than holds his own against a fierce Bale. Finally...special notice needs to be made to the actor who portrays inventor Nikola Tesla - perfectly cast in this role is Ziggy Stardust himself, David Bowie. It's a shame that Bowie did not act in more films for he captures the screen in the brief appearances he makes in this film.As for Nolan - he is now coming into his own as a Director. The action is fast paced, the twists and turns are "honestly" played, the composition of the pictures on the screen are interesting and beautiful to look at and I walked away satisfied.If you haven't seen THE PRESTIGE (or if you haven't seen it in awhile) - check this one out. You'll be glad you did.Letter Grade: A (and...that's a surprise to me, I figured it would be a B+/A- film)9 (out of 10) stars and you can take that to the Bank (ofMarquis)


                
The Prestige is directed by Christopher Nolan and stars Hugh Jackman and Christian Bale as two magicians that worked side by side until a tragic accident lead them to separate and now, they develop a deadly feud between them. This is a fantastic movie. One of Nolan's best yet again. Nolan is such an inspiration, he hasn't made a bad film, and I hope he doesn't. This guy knows how to make a film. The story was written by his brother, and Chris turned it into a film, just like "Memento". Christian Bale gives a great performance as Alfred Borden, a magician known as the Professor. Same goes for Hugh Jackman as Robert Angier. Very well depicted characters, each with a sole purpose. The writing in this film is excellent. Nolan brought the script to life with these nailbiting scenes. The death of Angier's wife was the point in which Alfred and Robert separated their friendship and became rivals. They then go on their separate performances and make new tricks. Some of the tricks would be sabotaged by the either Robert or Alfred, for instance, one scene where Alfred is displaying a trick with a gun, he has a volunteer. That volunteer is Angier, who takes the gun and slips in a real bullet then shoots off Alfred's fingers. That was where the violence started in their rivalry. The friction between Angier and Borden is very great. Hugh and Bale have great chemistry on screen together and I love how they got back at each other. The death of Borden's wife, Sarah, was unexpected for me. That was a mighty surprise where I was like WHAT?! Then, at the end, the plot twist was revealed, where Alfred actually had a twin who was his double. His double was the one that was going to prison and he was actually the other man, I forgot his name, who then revealed himself to Angier at the end. It was a very good twist and I loved it. However, there is one thing I didn't like. During the time Angier went to see Tesla, played by David Bowie, there was always a shift in seasons, where it snowed and then it was green again, and it was confusing to get my head around it, but that is all. Overall: 9/10
Christopher Nolan's The Prestige tells the story of two rival magicians, Borden (Bale) and Angier (Jackman). The two battle over deceiving and outsmarting each other as they try to be the better magician. Spanning several years and often jumping backwards and forwards in time, The Prestige is a beautiful, brooding tale about obsession and how far it can and shouldn't go.Being one of Christopher Nolan's more modest films (being made between Batman Begins and The Dark Knight and on nowhere near a larger scale), The Prestige is one of those films that only those who pay attention understand it's true greatness. With a typical Nolan-esque cast (Christian Bale, Michael Caine<U+0085>), the film is setup for quality cinema and does not disappoint. From start to finish you are fixated and deprived of attachment to the world around you much like Borden and Angier as you too do not want to miss any of the films trickery.One of the best things I like about The Prestige is how it deceives the viewer just as a magician would to their own audience. 'Are you watching closely?' a line which is repeated throughout The Prestige hints at the films very own nature. 'You want to be fooled," the last lines of the film as uttered by the legendary Michael Caine, leave the viewer in a bewildered state as they reconsider what they have just seen.The cinematography is grand. DOP Wally Pfister who has worked on all of Nolan's films I believe, deserves just as much credit as the director himself. From the dark and electrifying theaters to the eerie Colorado Mountains, The Prestige looks fantastic. Having seen the film several times and enjoyed each viewing as much as the next, The Prestige continues to amaze me. It truly is a mesmerizing and brilliant film which just cannot go unseen by anyone.


                
One of my most favourite films ever; 'The Prestige' is Christopher Nolan's most fascinating and engrossing film to date, pipping 'Memento' and 'Dark Knight', for me. The story of two rival magicians with a tragic history linking them, trying to outshine one another and the mysteries surrounding makes the premise of a magical two hour narrative.There ARE holes in this movie and the story is not as compact as some other Nolan films; having a few weak moments. But this is where the genius of Nolan comes in - he makes it work completely, despite those problems - which is why I rate this movie as one of his best directed films.This film doesn't have the heavy-handedness of 'Inception' (which is overrated IMO), isn't too clever for its own good (again, like 'Inception' and 'Memento' to an extend though I think the latter is Nolan's strongest in terms of sheer narrative brilliance)or the slightly impersonal feel of 'Insomnia' (a great film nonetheless; an underrated Nolan film I think). It is, in my opinion, the right mix of entertainment and quality. You will just not get bored with this film - in fact, I was left wanting more!The acting in the film is flawless and is what makes the film such a compelling watch. The entire cast is brilliant, without exception, from Rebecca Hall to Scarlett Johansson to Michael Caine. As the two rival protagonist magicians, Christian Bale and Hugh Jackman seem to go one better that the other with each passing scene. Ultimately, it is Jackman who shines more as Robert Angier though. As the mentally distraught, obsessive but consummate showman, he pretty much steals the show from perhaps an actor who may, in retrospect, be superior in sheer acting quality.In a nutshell, 'The Prestige' is unlike any other Nolan movie. The sheer "watchability" value of 'The Prestige' beats the other Nolan movies blue and black. I have watched it four times completely; I enjoy it more and more each time. Without doubt, my favourite Nolan movie.Watch it; it is truly magical.


                
What sets Nolan and this film apart is the content of this film, not the acting (the only weakness being the Scarlett Johannsons accent, which is easily overlooked) and not even so much the story (which is also quite good). The story is okay, but what really took my breath away was the atmosphere (much like in Memento). He creates the perfect atmosphere for his movies, his style is brilliant. The shots are just gorgeous. In my opinion he is leading the charge in giving movie-goers a different experience; watching a Christopher Nolan film is a hugely different and a much more absorbing experience than nearly any other director. Well, for me anyway, obviously the experience is a hugely subjective thing.This film is special. There are no real good guys, no real bad guys, just human struggles with that hedging of the supernatural that really gets you thinking. His films are not perfect in that they don't fit molds or answer all the questions. That is what makes this film special, it draws you in and really makes you question things; important things.However, the important thing is that it is a truly absorbing experience, what more can you ask of a film?


                
"The Prestige" is the kind of movie you wish will come after sitting through 25 other bad movies. Simply put, this is the best drama I've seen all year. Set in the late 1800's in (mostly) London, the film is about two rival magicians who continually "one up" another on magic acts. The film stars Hugh Jackman, Christian Bale, and Michael Caine. Caine plays the mentor of both magicians. The movie is shot out of order and sort of begins with the end. But just when you think you know how the movie really ends, it throws you for a huge twist. I won't divulge into the plot because if I do I'll spoil a lot of it. Let me just say this: I've seen so many movies that very, very few of them are able to surprise me at the end. This is one of those few movies. I was caught completely off guard with the final twist.In the first hour of the film I quickly realized that this movie is NOT the movie you've seen advertised in theaters and on TV. The trailer makes Bale out to have real magical powers and Jackman out to be the copycat magician. As it turns out, neither is true. (That is NOT a spoiler). This is quickly realized within the first 30 minutes of the movie. The trailer's deception left a sour taste in my mouth, but by the end of the movie you soon figure out why the film's trailer was so deceptive; it's all part of the magic. I can only surmise the trailer was so deceptive because they simply didn't want to give away juicy plot details and spoilers. And I'm glad for it! Normally I despise a film when it's misrepresented in a trailer, but by the end of the movie I had forgotten all about the stupid trailer.The performances were all very, very strong. However, it's Christian Bale that shines in this film. This is probably his strongest performance yet. (The 2nd strongest being his manic role in "The Machinist.") That's right folks, he was nothing in Batman Begins compared to this movie. Anyways, don't be surprised if he gets some sort of nod from the Academy or the Globes for his role in this.This is the movie that "The Illusionist" tried to be. If you were left disappointed with "The Illusionist" (as I was), you owe it to yourself to see this magic movie. You'll be happy you did.


                
Maybe I'm still bitter, because I was hoping to see a dark tale about evil magicians and, possibly, some wizardry. Instead, what I got was an overdrawn, dragged out costume flick that gave away all of its suspense way too early. Anybody, who can't figure this film out within a half hour needs to get off the Xanax and stop daydreaming. I knew from the start that there was no way that Batman killed Wolverine, at least not the way he was being accused. Like the movie repeatedly asks "are you watching?", all the answers are given quite early. When Borden's wife makes the assertion that some days he loves her and others he doesn't, that alone tells you there is another. I know I'll probably be ripped to shreds for my opinion on this film, but it's mine and I'll stick to it. And for god's sake what was Scarlett Johansson even doing here. Don't get me wrong, I love Scarlett, she's a great talent, but every scene she was in dragged, she looked like she would rather be somewhere else the whole time. I assume she and Jessica Biel have both sworn off magicians for life. The one thing I really enjoyed in this film? David Bowie. The man still has a presence that musicians and actors of today would kill for. One last thing? Was Edison really such an evil bastard that he would destroy any competition that came? I'll have to look into it.
When Christopher Nolan decided not to make the follow up to Batman Begins in order to concentrate on this, my reaction could be gauged as somewhere between disappointment and pathetic, howling cries of grief and anguish as I wept fanboy tears of despair. However, upon seeing it, I am definitely glad he did because The Prestige is one of the most enjoyable films from 2006 I've seen: a twisty turny epic about two rival magicians in Victorian era London trying to out do each other with more twists than a contortionists convention.The story revolves around two men: Robert Angier (Hugh Jackman) and Alfred Borden (Christian Bale), former friends turned bitter enemies after a tragic accident during one of their shows. Angier is the showman of the two, a good magician blessed with the fact he's got natural charisma practically gushing out of his ears. Borden on the other hand is a man brimming over with skill and invention, but has a rather dull personality compared to his rival. Constantly trying to outdo one another, Angier discovers that Borden has invented a new illusion called The Transported Man and becomes obsessed with discovering his secrets. Unable to do so, he creates his own version and sets in motion a spiralling chain of events that can only lead to the destruction of them both...From out of this premise, Nolan creates an engrossing and highly enjoyable film. Jackman and Bale quite rightly burn up the screen, with Bale in particular going a long way towards justifying his reputation as one of the finest actors of his generation. There's a very strong emphasis on the spectacle of the magic industry as well, so to watch the two men performing their tricks is a riveting experience, not least of all when Angier perfects his version of the Transported Man and winds up travelling to the other side of a vast theatre in the space of two seconds. As with all magic, half the fun is trying to figure out how they do it, the other half is not knowing.Unlike real life magic shows however, it's not all fun and games because for all it's showboating, The Prestige is still a very dark movie. Angry young men have always been strongly characterised in Nolan's movies and Angier and Borden are no exceptions. They are both sympathetic, realistic and detestable in equal measure, each man getting multi faceted characterisations to the extent that it's difficult to know which one to root for. The only downside of this is that the rest of the cast, with the exception of Michael Caine's venerable old master, don't get such loving time devoted to them. Rebecca Hall as Borden's wife Sarah in particular is a very sad character, worthy of a lot more screen time given Hall's fantastic performance.Thankfully though, this is the only real complaint about the entire movie and isn't quite so noticeable on the first viewing when you get swept up in the duo's battle of wits amidst the fantastically recreated Victorian London. This confirms Nolan's reputation as one of the most talented storytellers in Hollywood today and is another glowing addition to his already impressive resume. And if the attraction of two men locked in a complex and vicious cycle of revenge isn't enough to justify a viewing...well, it also has Scarlet Johansson waltzing around in a skimpy corset. Try and resist it now.


                
The Prestige is one of the best films I've ever seen. It is totally unique, keeps you gripped throughout and the plot is so clever and original. You don't see many films about magicians, maybe thats why I found this to be so interesting, and I doubt we'll ever see a better one. The film is not really about magic though. It is about obsession. It is about deception. By the end, Robert Angier (Jackman) is a magician for totally different reasons than when he started, and I think this quote shows his obsession not just to be a better magician than Borden (Bale), but to make Borden crash and burn. "I need to know his secret." "Why?" "So I can do it better."By the end, it is difficult to tell who you are supposed to be rooting for, because both main characters aren't exactly good guys, and I think this makes the film very unique. It is not about good triumphing over evil, rather it is about how you can get so caught up in one thing that it rules the rest of your life, and the dangers of becoming obsessed.The acting in the film is superb. If you went to see a professional magician, you'd see the showmanship and antics that Christian Bale and Hugh Jackman perform in The Prestige. The special effects are fantastic, as are the illusions that are performed. Michael Caine is, as always, brilliant. He is still proving to be one of the best supporting actors in the business. Scarlett Johansson is also excellent.Christopher Nolan's direction is, obviously, brilliant. This is a fantasy film, and he has still made it look completely real. I also think his screenplay for all of his films, especially this one, is the best by anybody. Never does he just put things in front of you to watch. The non-chronological order he uses means that as you go along, any questions you may have are answered along the way, and this makes for a wonderful cinematic experience. I think this sets his films apart from other directors'. In summary, I think it's safe to say that Christopher Nolan is the real magician here.


                
When The Illusionist ended, it felt like there just wasn't enough of the theme. Just how perfect was this movie? Period piece, great cinematography, great editing, colors, contrasts, actors, script, plot, revelation and it was all about a turn of the century magician. Here's an era that hasn't been explored much in Cinema. It got a 5 outta 5 from this reviewer.The Prestige gathers Batman Begins' two stars, Christian Bale and Michael Caine and thankfully forgot to include the dreadful Katie Holmes. So with the perfect trifecta of players known to work well together, Nolan adds another player, Hugh Jackman, aka The Wolverine. But the superb actor roster does not end here. Andy Serkis of Gollum fame plays the eccentric assistant to the even more eccentric real-world historical figure, Tesla, played by the best actor to play such freaks, and a true Rock God, David Bowie, who is barely recognizable in the his first scenes. And of course the feminine presence is filled by current Thinking Man's Goddess, Scarlett Johansson as the lovely assistant to our dueling magicians. You see the story isn't plain, it's quite complicated.Two aspiring magicians, are hired as crowd plants for the star magician's tricks that involve the use of spectators. Here's the setup. We have an aging magician touring around Europe and his trustee engineer Cutter, or ingénieur, as he tells the court, played by Michael Caine, brilliantly of course. There's of course the lovely assistant who happens to be the wife of crowd plant, Robert Angier (Jackman). During the preparation for the water tank escape, it is Angier's job to tie her legs and Alfred Borden's (Bale) responsibility to tie her hands. On one fateful evening, even after being told not to use certain not, Borden does so. The assistant unable to escape drowns in the tank. This drives a rift between Angier and Borden and in sue turns them into rivals; a vindictive rivalry that goes beyond the ends of science, physics and ethics.At first we see the sides of both magicians trying to pick up the remains after the tragedy. But always watchful of each other they will endlessly pursue the crippling of the other's life and career as magicians. Whether it's ruining the act or even using real ammunition during a bullet catching trick. There's nothing one won't do to one-up his adversary. When Borden comes up with The Transported Man, a trick where he seemingly enters a placard and comes out another one on the stage, within the time it takes for a ball to bounce; Angier is haunted with this astonishing trick which he can't seem to reproduce without using an actor as a double. This very trick begins the downward spiral into madness both men will experience. Angier's interpretation of the act is exposed by a disguised Borden. The event leaves a humiliated Angier with a very broken leg and with an empty theater.This leads him to sequester Borden's assistant for ransom. The demanded ransom is the key word to decrypt Borden's stolen magic trick book. This key, which is of course trickery, leads Angier to Colorado Springs to meet the eccentric Tesla facing hostilities from his own personal rival, Thomas Edison. This is where we learn about obsession and how it drives men like Tesla and Angier. Tesla believes he has created a teleportation device. But it has a few bugs that need working out. But Angier' is too eager to spend his fortune acquiring this device to bring his career back to greatness and finally defeat his nemesis, Borden.For those who don't know about Tesla, he is considered to have invented the 20th century. He created wireless communication in 1893 and Alternative Current (AC) and was the object of utmost frustration and competition to the better known Edison. Tesla was considered mad by some for theories about science-fiction worthy concepts, like a global wireless telecommunications network. Yeah he sure was wacky huh? Now I won't say much more about The Prestige's story line simply because it would ruin the fun. But be assured that this movie is great and parallels the brilliance that was The Illusionist but with the slight difference, that The Transported Man isn't a trick. And there are many, many twists in the storyline that may or may not be expected but only add to the complexity and richness of the story.Every little detail in the environment is taken care of as much as possible to transport the viewer into this magical world. Nothing is spared to make the storytelling as real and believable as possible, even in its most fantastical moments. Every major actor in this movie gives Oscar worthy performances. Not just one of them, but all of them. Nolan cannot go unnoticed this year for the best movie statuette, best writing, and best direction.If someone can reinvent intelligent cinema, it's a man like Nolan. He's proved it time after time. Memento, Batman Begins and now The Prestige.I will end this review here, for fear of revealing too much of its secrets. It would be like taking off the icing and leaving you with the cake. This movie must be seen by anyone who loves cinema that isn't packed with Hollywoodisms, clichés, gratuitous fireballs and puerile sexiness. If you haven't figured it out yet, The Prestige gets 5 abracadabras outta 5.


                
The Prestige is an entertaining thriller from writer/director Christpher Nothan the man behind films like Memento, Insomnia, Batman Begins, and The Dark Knight. The Prestige is about two magicians Robert Angier and Alfred Borden whose friendship turns into an intense rivalry that leads them on a life long battle for supremacy. Hugh Jackman stars as Angier and Christian Bale plays Borden who also worked with Nolan on Batman Begins and The Dark Knight. Jackman and Bale are great in their roles portraying men who are driven to be the greatest magician in the world. Michael Caine is fantastic as always playing Cutter a man who builds and constructs illusion tricks. Scarlet Johannssan is strikingly beautiful as both Angier's and Borden's lover assistant Olivia. She brings a lot to the small role she does have in the film. David Bowie also does a solid job with his role as brilliant scientist Nikola Tesla. The rest of the cast including Piper Perabo as Angier's wife Julia, Rebecca Hall as Bordens wife Sarah, and Andy Serkis as Telsa's friend Allie are believable in their supporting roles. Director Christopher Nolan does a great job with the period setting and the mood of the film. Even with a running time of 130 minutes the film is never slow which helps draw the audience into the story. The plot for the most part is complex but never complicated but does require a couple of viewings to full understand what the movie was all about. From the twists and turns to the superb acting The Prestige is an entertaining thriller that is sure to please anyone looking for a good film to watch.


                
Antici..................................pation! ( With apologies to the Rocky Horror etc,etc.)The Prestige is the third act in a magic show where the magic is presented. (The first two are called the pledge and the turn)The basic premise is of two magicians at the end of the 19th Century who become mortal enemies over a woman. And, as important, their rivalry in search of the greatest magic trick. And naturally the dilemma of what you can lose when you want to win, damn the consequences. The protagonists are superbly played by Hugh Jackman and Christian Bale, ably supported by Michael Caine and assisted by Scarlet (why her, again?) Johannssen.Bale who was the boy in the exquisite EMPIRE OF THE SUN (9/10) and, of course, the not so personable anti-hero in American PSYCHO (8/10) as well as the latest Batman incarnation, is growing into his roles. He is on the cusp of A list status and thoroughly deserves it. This film is like an exotic buffet; exquisitely crafted, beautifully presented with oddities and interests available throughout. Moody and electric, it captures the time and era beautifully. It is another feather in the amazing Christopher (MEMENTO (9/10) Nolan's cap. He's become a name director that you can trust with your hard-earned moolah.Especially interesting in reality was the whole story of the Edison/Tesla feud which was only touched on here. Tesla was basically the person who invented AC current and then was shafted by Edison. Watch for an interesting cameo appearance here. And Andy (gollum) Serkis in a non-digitized role.THE PRESTIGE was really magic.


                
A very different setting, a very different story of the art of magic and illusions makes the movie a classic. Bale and Jackman fight it out for the top spot in the theatrical worlds of magic and trickery. And they weave a spell of magic doing so. i was spellbound in the entire movie, drawn into making hypothesis of how each trick was being performed, and they managed to trick me every step of the way. Both actors are geniuses and deliver a powerful presence on-screen. The dialogs are good, performances great but what makes the flick stand apart from the rest is the imaginative storyline that made me sit the entire movie, moth agape. In the end, when the truth is revealed, one is left speechless. words don't do justice to the film. A must see for all. A slow movie, but that adds to the beauty of it. A definite 9/10.


                
This film is about the unscrupulous rivalry between two magicians, who tried to do everything to be better than the other.I have already heard that it is a very good film before I saw the film. Indeed, the film has not disappointed me. This is the best film I have seen in a long time! First of all, the plot is excellent. A story about magic is in itself intriguing. Coupled with a lot of very unexpected and unimaginable and yet realistic twists, this film leaves you surprised until the very end. There are many chilling moments, and many moments where the viewers are made to fidget in their seat because of immense suspense. When everything was unveiled and demystified in the end, I was in astonishment of the outstanding quality of the film.The character development is excellent. The viewers can all understand the cause of the rivalry, and we can all relate and sympathise with he characters.Acting is great. The set designs are visually attractive and nostalgic, and it can easily be seen that a lot of effort has been put into this.


                
Robert Angier and Alfred Borden have worked together since stage hands. Both wish to be the grandest magician, creating tricks that the world has never seen. Their friendship goes sour after Angier's wife, Julia, dies during 'the drowning woman' trick. Angier continues to build his act with craftsman Cutter, a designer for the illusions. Borden tries to crown himself as the greatest magician, yet lacks the style to drawn an audience. Borden and Angier's rivalry thickens after Borden performs the greatest trick 'The Transported Man'. Obsessed to know his secret, Angier is consumed to discover Borden's method.Angier is a showman. Style, grace and charm are his weapons. A magician relies on miss direction to fool us all. Angier is his own miss direction. His showman ship out reaches his craft, knowing his limitations and playing to that strength. After his wife death, revenge is his only driving force. He doesn't want to be the greatest magician, Angier wants Borden to know he will always be better than him, with no restraint to his conquest. Borden is no showman. Lacks pizazz and style, unable to make the simplest of tricks seem unreal to the audience. His hubris strains his progression, over confident in himself; but with reason. 'The Transported Man' is the greatest illusion beheld by any magician, he finally makes the simplest trick into the grandest of all; no wonder Angier becomes consumed with figuring out the method. They are each others opposite and equal, their antithesis. Their rivalry isn't one of brawn nor of words; they don't talk much after Julia's death. Their fights are of the mind, psychologically and game of wits to sabotage the other.Obsession and identity crisis is deeply explored through out The Prestige. Stated by Cutter, you can't be afraid to get your hands dirty. Though this is not about the death of a little bird for the sake of a trick, lives are torn and destroyed over two mens bitterness. Obsessed with each other, Angier and Borden's original identities are unrecognisable, with those they hold dear holding the brunt of each ones torture. The real magician of this act is director Christopher Nolan. Like a magician, Nolan draws us in nice and close. Cinematography by Wally Pfister, our view of the periodic time is confined and constricted. Our surroundings are blinded by whats happening. Smoke and mirrors, miss direction utilising the non linear time sequence, confuse us from what we are meant too see. Nolan is gifted with his craft as a film maker, playing with the audience. Offering his pledge, creating the turn, then the prestige of the final act, where the revelation finally emerges.Hugh Jackman and Christian Bale as Angier and Borden respectively, are both amazing. Jackman greatly evolves with Angier from a man of craft, to a man torn of revenge and obsession. Bale perfectly shows Borden torn between his love and his love of magic. Michael Caine shows his talent and perfect as Cutter. David Bowie is a real stand out in his minor role as Tesla. Scarlett Johansson wraps beauty and talent nicely.The Prestige is one film that is simple magic. Another mile stone from Nolan.
Typically, if there is a book and then a movie, the book is the better by far. Enter Christopher Nolan, and this is no longer the case.As two friends' different philosophies on magic set tensions in motion, it is a tragic death that forever puts a wedge between them. A rivalry ensues between the more penetrating Borden (Bale) and the showman Angiers (Jackman). With three different time lines moving all at once through most of the movie, there's really never a moment's boredom. This storytelling is efficient and compelling.There is enough foreshadowing throughout the movie to make one giddy. I loved how Nolan chose to focus much more on Borden's personal life than Priest did in the novel. All of the developing back story is gone, but what is gained is worth it in my opinion. Borden's wife, played by Rebecca Hall, was an unexpected treat. She certainly out-performed the other female lead. . .At times, the movie was a little too enunciated, my reason for giving it a 9 and not a 10. Just a little more faith in the audience, especially at the very end, would have been nice.As always, Bale was perfect. Cane was able to really shine as well, especially when reprimanding Angier at the end of the movie. A real surprise though was Hugh Jackman. Of X-Men and Kate and Leopald fame, I was more than worried for his quality of performance in this movie. Thankfully, there was never any reason to be, however. It wasn't till the very end when perhaps he was just a little too over the top (and he kind of earns it) that I thought, "Wait, that's Hugh Jackman. Oh dear, good for him." Never for a second was I ever tempted to think of Wolverine or elevators.Splendid entertainment.


                
"The Prestige" is by far one of the best films I have seen in recent months. The actors pulled together a finely written script, and the directing was seamless. Many movies throw in "plot fillers" just to make up time or fill in some blank space due to lack of...something - but Christopher Nolan not only tied all the loose ends together, he threw in far more than normal and still managed to clean it up by the time the credits rolled. Yes, it makes you think, but it also makes you 'feel' the movie itself. Jackman and Bale played their roles to a "T" and I can't speak highly enough of them. And of course Michael Caine was brilliant. I've never been a big fan of Johansson, but I feel she really did pull this character from the pages of the script and make her real. Piper Parabo was also a fully dimensional character...a big step up from Violet Sanford. Two days later and this movie is still running through my mind in vivid images. Excellent.


                
