I liked the premise of the film: A boy is raised from infancy in a controlled environment for the benefit of, NOT SCIENCE, but for the benefit of a rapt television audience. The possibilities were there for tremendous tension and confrontation. However, what we got was a feel-good, cop-out ending of such massive proportion that I literally felt like shaking the filmmakers and saying, WHAT WERE YOU THINKING?SPOILERS AHEAD
The main reason for my wrath was the ending. If you have not seen the film, you are duly warned to stop reading here.We are supposed to cheer for Truman along with the television audience as he finds the doorway to freedom. I felt that to be a MAJOR cop-out. Truman needed to confront the people who turned his entire life into a lie. I wanted to see him confront his "so-called" best friend who lied to Truman POINT-BLANK. Where was the payback? Where was the justice? Where was the ethical outrage? We get humorous scenes of "Free Truman" factions attempting to alert Truman to his plight, but does Truman ever make anyone feel bad for what they did to him? Christof certainly felt justified in his approach, as did all of the paid actors AND the TV audience. But, if I was Truman, I'd use the opportunity to teach Christof, the actors, AND the TV audience a lesson about how to treat people. But it was an opportunity squandered.In my opinion, there were only 2 good characters in the film: Truman, and the woman he loved. Other than that, EVERY OTHER CHARACTER lies to Truman. EVERY OTHER CHARACTER deceives Truman. There needed to be some satisfactory confrontation, but there wasn't. It was the most empty feeling I've ever had watching a movie. I only rated it on film quality and not script content because the film is actually very artfully executed.But my point is this: Escape (in this case, Truman's) sometimes isn't enough. You sometimes must teach those who wronged you a lesson. You must show them the error in their ways, and those responsible should pay dearly for their moral and ethical transgressions. This movie THOROUGHLY disappointed me.
Cliched, simpleton nonsense. That Jim Carrey was able to tone his   Ace Ventura act down to moderately annoying, as opposed to the usual extremely annoying, is not enough to warrant nods for acting. Coupled with a script that borders on Made-For-Tv fare, the result is painful to watch.


                
After reading the reviews, I went to see The Truman Show expecting some kind of an epiphany.  Well it didn't happen. What I got was an interesting premise executed like some high school play.  I think what we have here is people trying to read way too much into this movie. You know folks, sometimes a banana IS just a banana.


                
This movie is not a reflection about the invasiveness of television: this is a movie on a man who discovers (quite quickly in fact) that his own life is a TV show and decides to escape. The movie is just the history of how he tries and succeeds to escape. A really bad movie.


                
I thought this movie was over rated.  Once you realize what is going on the movie gets real dull.  The idea that someone grew to adulthood without ever leaving the town is ridiculous.  With all the hype I thought it would be much better.   A more entertaining movie with a TV theme is Ed TV.


                
I really hate Jim Carrey and my friends assured me I would like this film. How wrong could they be? I thought this movie was terrible, I can't see how anyone can like such an evil concept because that is what it is. A person lives their entire life for the satisfaction and enjoyment of a population of sickminded couch potatoes. To keep someone in a place and intrude on their life is not in my mind good viewing but evil. Ed Harris' character should have been arrested for kidnapping not given awards. I thought Carrey's acting was just the same as the rest of his stuff just toned down slightly. The ending was totally implausible and unbelievable. I do not have one nice thing to say about this film, all Truman's co-workers obviously were too greedy to see what they were doing was wrong. I know it is just a film but with the way television is going this type of thing is potentially just round the corner and it will be a big mistake the day that someone actually does this. This film is totally unbelievable, a big waste of money and it was a complete waste of my time.


                
Rarely have I seen a major motion picture that looked as awful as this one does. We get the fact that modern suburbia is supposed to look like a plastic paradise out of a TV commercial, but the colors here are tepid, the camera set-ups dull and unimaginative, and the direction mechanical and without a hint of inspiration. Jim Carrey, playing Truman (whose life is a TV show though he doesn't know it), shows off his dreaded "range" as a performer; he's always on-camera a second too soon and stays there seconds too long. This is also the fault of the director (Peter Weir?!) and the editor, who hope we in the audience don't miss any of their tricks. How could we when the whole set-up of this story is as plastic as the town's inhabitants, or when every gesture is as subtle as a pack of stampeding elephants? *1/2 from ****


                
Thye whole point of the film is that Truman is the only one who is unaware that since his birth he has been on TV, and that all the other people are actors. Truman is married, did he ever have sex with his wife or ids he still a virgin. When he sees children walking about, did he not wonder where they came from. Or did he he sex with his actress wife? This above all else is what spoils the story completely for me. He never wanted to go on holiday to France, or to Hawaii? He never once wanted to leave town? Find out who his real parents were if possible. Lastly why would any government, especially the USA let this type of thing happen? Its totally against human rights, and everyone involved with the project should have been put in jail. Hype made this picture popular, and some high brow reviewers.


                
The Truman Show is truly one of the worst movies that I have ever come across and I don't understand why people think it is good. I thought it would be a Tv show based off of the title but the creator didn't seem to mind ling to me and the audience. The main issue with this film is that it tries to make you feel sad or happy throughout the movie but it completely lacks emotion. How am I supposed to care about the movie when the characters are so poorly written and unrelatable. The next complaint I have is that the movie never lets the actors get into the role they are supposed to play, and on top of this the movie keeps reminding you that they are just actors and there is no reasoning behind this, I guess the director jut had no idea what he was doing. If you are thinking of watching this do yourself a favor and watch something which is actually good like black mirror. I mean that show is basically this entire movie but longer, better written, and has real emotion put into it.


                
People rave about this film, it pops up regularly on their best film lists.I ask the question why? Because lets be honest, it's a one joke idea that is strung out for all its worth over the 99 minute running time.I can't fault Jim Carrey, he plays his part well, but what the script really needed was somewhere else to go. There are questions you have while watching this film that you think "oh, they'll answer that in a minute", but they don't, preferring instead to cover the same old ground.I was surprised to see that Peter Weir (Dead Poet's Society') directed this because although that film was longer, it had more fresh ideas than this film manages in less time.People rave about this film. I won't be joining them.


                
