"The Truman Show" owes a lot to the direction of Peter Weir. Weir refuses to pump out the movies in a search for extra dollars. Instead he chooses wisely and directs brilliantly. Just by looking at a list of his movies will surprise and even amaze you. So as you would imagine "The Truman Show" is another success.Truman Burbank has the perfect life, or so he thought until finally his life long suspicions about his world begin to unravel. Even though the idea for Truman is not totally original, it is thought provoking enough and allows the audience to wonder, what if? If you think this couldn't happen, just look back over the years at the stupidity of the human race and think again.Jim Carrey once again nails his role, as do the entire cast. It is rare he fails to perform at a level that perfectly complements the movie and its genre. This is something he does not receive enough credit for. Acting for a comical role or a more dramatic role requires no less effort for the performance to be spot on.


                
It's not often a Hollywood film arrives with such lofty ambitions as this. On one hand this is a high concept comedy in the vein of "Groundhog Day" about an unwitting man whose entire life has been a TV show.  This is also a Jim Carrey vehicle designed to display his charms.  On the other hand this a very satirical look at the way the media manipulates our reality.  The film also wants to take a philosophical look at free will vs. a higher power and reality vs. fantasy.  It doesn't always work as the satire often keeps you from thinking too deeply about the underlying themes and the philosophical stuff keeps the satire from biting as well as it could.  Credit engaging performances and solid and thoughtful direction from Weir for keeping things afloat and entertaining.  There are some great cinematic moments here.  I loved the "stolen kiss on the beach at night" and "Cue the sun!"In the end this film is closer in spirit to psychological dramas and sci-fi movies where a person suddenly realizes they are the pawn in some grand experiment or a prisoner in an alien world than it is to anything in our current "reality TV" obsessed culture.  Eventually it touches on a very basic conflict all humans must face (most people do so in childhood, some I fear never do).  The universe does not revolve around us.  In the closing moments we are excited for Truman because he finally realizes there is a whole new world out there to explore, but also slightly saddened because we know all to well that he will never be able to return to that idyllic "childhood" existence.  How's it going to end?  Who knows...but things will never be the same.


                
As many fans know, Jim Carrey is the man when it comes to slapstick comedy. His comical physicality is outrageous and his ability to emulate anything from cartoons to other actors is top notch. But anytime before 1998 I think I can safely say that not many people saw Carrey try and jump out of his shell and try a role that wasn't truly in the comedy genre. I definitely didn't see it coming. And to be honest, I wasn't sure if I would really enjoy it. But in the end, I did, not only because of how well Carrey portrayed his character but with an excellent story to back if up.The plot is about Truman Burbank (Jim Carrey) who is viewed live 24 hours a day, uncensored, as a soap opera to the real world through public broadcasting. The thing is, Truman Burbank is the only one who doesn't know this. Everything else around is all a set-up. And when I mean everything,...everything...is a set-up. Even the sun is fake! Nothing is real. All the people Burbank knows are all actors. People who go through the same routine every day.And that's partially what makes this film so great. Every piece of the "set" that Truman Burbank lives in is so believable. Along with this is Christof, acted by Ed Harris. Christof is the creator of Truman's world and he essentially plays God. Everything that Truman Burbank is as a person, was created under the supervision of Christof. The whole story itself, written by Andrew Niccol, brings up the controversial issue of nature vs nurture. Who should have control over whose life. Well I think that answer is obvious.Jim Carrey himself actually does have some comedic moments but it's not because he wants the movie to be a comedy. Carrey does what he does because it is the connection to how a human would react to such a situation that makes it funny. And along with those funny moments comes a real emotional performance. Sure Carrey can deliver laughs but also proves that he can portray human drama. That's a question a lot of people wanted to see if Carrey could pull off and he did it well.Adding to the emotion is composer Philip Glass' score. Yes, it did evoke the right emotions and I don't think it needed a theme either for this particular story. Usually I do, but it didn't seem necessary here. Unfortunately for me, I prefer to see Jim Carrey in his comedic skin. I didn't mind the different role that he took on here but it didn't feel like I was watching the movie I wanted to see. And I'll admit, I put too much thought into believing Jim Carrey would've made the film more comedy than drama, so basically I disappointed myself. So on that note, it could be disappointing to fans of Carrey for his comedic films as well.As the first drama film that comic gut buster Jim Carrey stars in, it is not that bad as some would expect it to be. Carrey can deliver a performance like real human but for the hardcore fans, it may upset.


                
I sometimes wonder how my life will be if it were a TV show, I see this movie and i quit the wonder.The Truman Show was written by Andrew Niccol who got the inspiration from an episode of The Twilight Zone called "Special Service".After the script had gone through some re-writes, Jim Carrey was picked for the role, although the makers had to wait for him to have a clear schedule before he could start shooting.Made with a budget of over $ 60 million dollars, The Truman Show was a financial success and also was nominated for three categories in the Academy Awards, but did not win any awards.The movie tells the tale of an Insurance salesman Truman Burbank (Jim Carrey) who lived his entire life, since before birth, in front of cameras for The Truman Show.Unaware of this fact, Truman's life is filmed through thousands of hidden cameras, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, and broadcast live around the world, allowing executive producer Christof (Ed Harris) to capture Truman's real emotion and human behavior when put in certain situations that are concocted by the writers.The thrill about Truman's life is that everything is arranged for him, down to the woman he married to his best friend.The movie cinematography is such a way that you get to see mistakes from the show makers and how they arrange things in the back end to make Truman do some particular things.The script and the movie lines are fun, especially when the Actors had to advertise on the show. The could be a conversation going on then one of the actors will just drift to talk about an object in such a manner you wonder if they have lost it, only for you to figure out seconds later that it was an advert in the show, that was very creative.Before making this masterpiece, Jim Carrey had just finish Cable Guy (1996) and Liar Liar (1997).The movie is directed by Peter Weir (Master and Commander: The Far Side of the World (2003)), who did a great job pulling the viewers along as they watch a movie of a show. Andrew Niccol went ahead to do more great movies from S1m0ne with Al pacino in 2002 to The Terminal with Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks in 2004.


                
The Truman Show is a tale that will tug at your heart strings. It's the movie that showed the world that Jim Carrey could play drama. His wild gesticulating or face distortion barely make an appearance compared to his previous incarnations.The film feels a little tacky, but it's dealing with a tacky subject: reality TV. It rode the wave of its inception as well as initial popularity and at the same time as it was making fun of it. Each character, but the main one, is a caricature of reality TV and its entourage, even its dissidents. It feels as fake as its subject, yet it brings important points. Is happy ignorance better than truth? Do you define yourself, or does your environment?The sweetness of it all will capture you. Truman's predicament will rivet you. The last scene will move you.See it, it's worth it.


                
This is among Pete Weir's best ,just a notch or two under "fearless" or "witness" and much more worthwhile than weepies like "dead poets society".Jim Carrey is ,relatively speaking,sparing of gestures and ,hem!grimaces.However,in my humble opinion ,the best performance comes from Laura Linney,who's very funny,delivering lines as she would do commercials,and always with that suave smile on her face:she really acts as if she's in a play,and she 's anyway, as Paul Mac Cartney sang in "Penny Lane".Ed Harris is effective as a sort of God (TV has replaced God in many a home,like it or not),his spectacles and his bonnet make him almost unrecognizable.The humanism displayed by Weir is very close to that of Frank Capra,and Jim Carrey is some kind of James Stewart of the nineties,naïve,with a big heart.And like Colombus (his boat isn't it called "Santa Maria"?),he has discovered a brand new world.Whether it's the best one remains to be seen.


                
I think this is a fantastic film. It is one of my favorites. I think it is funny, touching and even sad. You can't help but feel badly for poor Truman when he starts discovering things aren't what they seem. I think my absolute favorite line in this movie is from Christof when he said "Cue the sun". Sure, maybe its impossibly expensive to build an entire town inside a sphere and create a TV show about a persons life without them knowing it. But when was the last time you saw the Star Ship Enterprise (or Voyager) flying over earth ? Its a great fantasy movie, thats all it is. The acting in this movie is superb, especially that of Jim Carry and Ed Harris. Ed Harris' character is so evil, the way he thinks he knows what's best for Truman. One line he says "I am the creator...(pause)....of a television show that brings hope and joy to millions" Its almost as if he has a God complex. Well, I think he does. I have to wonder, if such a show actually aired, where a persons life was on the air 24/7 from infancy to adult, would we actually watch it ?


                
I remember watching this film when I was younger not understanding anything until the end of the film when he crashed the boat into the wall. Now I got a whole different story and I loved it even more than the first time. Truman is a man who has been imprisoned without knowing it for many years, and is the biggest star of the outer world. People have followed his life since the his birth to this day. It starts off with Truman clueless of what is going on, but the fake world around him is starting to catch up with him, and he suspects something isn't right. And when he meets a girl in the library she lets the secret out. She takes him to the beach to let him know everything, but its not long before the actors are called in to save the show. This time a man playing a dad to the girl, who saves everything by saying she is mentally ill and drives her away. Truman is left with nothing but questions and an ambiguous mind. He's doubting everything, questioning everything, and starts to think he is going insane. The director of the show is well prepared and got everything figured out to keep Truman in the pretend world that The Truman Show is reliant on. The smartest move of them all, was probably making him and his dad go sailing, killing the dad by creating a storm, and drown the dad. And that would sooner lead to a phobia of water, very clever since the town is surrounded by water, which would make Truman stay there forever. The hidden subjects about, The higher power/god, ownership of our own life and Ethics was in the back of my mind throughout the whole film. It would be unethical to keep someone imprisoned like that, not only that but to share his life with the whole world, showing no respect or giving Truman privacy. The idea of the story that the film is built upon is truly phenomenal, so intriguing. I can't imagine what I would have done if I found out I was the star of a show like "The Truman Show".
What to say about this film, which could influence you to consider watching this film. Well, the honest answer is to consider for a moment if you have thought to yourself did anyone see that or I wish that was caught on film, as it would have made good TV. In modern society with Smart-Phones every day we are coming close to constant streaming of life in motion. I think that this film was before its time in many ways. Good performance by all actors in this film and I liked the Product Placement to move the production forward to the green light at that time.If you enjoy this film then you got the good taste.


                
The Truman show is not only a great original movie but probably Jim Carrey's best performance. The film is about An ordinary man who figures out his entire life was a lie and he was being filmed the whole time in a reality TV show with paid Actors. This film is probably one of the most original ideas and I think most people can relate to at certain times of their lives and has spawned movies that are close in idea. I would give The Truman show an 8/10 and I believe the film deserved at least one Oscar for the amount of work and creativity put on the film.


                
The Truman Show is a fantasy film that was released back in 1998. The first thing that caught my attention was the concept of this film. The concept of this film was related to the influence of media in everyday life. The Truman Show is about a person called Truman Burbank who lives in a small island called Seahaven near the coast of Florida where nothing really happens. Everything in life almost perfect, but certain events of the past often disturb his feelings towards the life he lives. The sudden turn of events and suspicious happenings around him makes him more curious to discover the world he lives in. Therefore, Truman sets out on his voyage to unlock the mysterious happenings and seeks for the answers to his questions. The first person to be credited is story writer Andrew Niccol who also co-produced this film. His writing showed futuristic thinking and thought provoking ideas that were quite absent at that time zone. Director Peter Weir should be given a huge congratulation for taking up this story and delivering it in great fashion which entertaining, engaging, thought provoking and heartwarming at the end. The film starts in a slow pace as editing were quite sloppy and elevation of scenes which potentially confuses its viewers. As time went on, the introductory of characters and comic timing of the dialogues really pulled me into whole scenario of weird behaviors of each and every character in the film. The curiosity to know the answers to Truman's questions slowly crept into me and the only reason could be the ever relate-able Truman's character to real life and again, full credits had to go to Peter Weir for creating a great character that could gain our sympathy.The next thing which I was really impressed with is the dialogues of this film which was co-jointly written by Andrew Niccol and Peter Weir. The dialogues in the film really worked well with every character in the film especially in the comedy department that gave good laughs throughout the film. Coming to the backbone of this film, Jim Carrey who absolutely carried this film as his child. Jim Carrey lived as Truman in this film. The smartness, stupidity and curiosity were shown in his ever expressive face and the ambiance of his expressions could be felt throughout the film which made it a more amazing experience. Jim Carrey was the only actor that could pull off this role with such perfection. Hats off.Supporting casts in the film like Noah Emmerich and Ed Harris had important roles in the film and played them really well. The more important among them was Ed Harris' character in the film. A sense of seriousness enters the screen every time he shows up just because of his menacing and hard look throughout the film. The cast is roundly superb even if the majority of them are in minor roles. The cinematography of Peter Biziou was great all along, my favorites were the scenes at the sea and aerial shots at night. The editing of this film was good overall despite feeling slightly off place and sloppy at times. The only reason is the inconsistent screenplay of this film especially in the first hour. Some scenes were elevated in a slow pace which made the film a bit lengthy. This is the only drawback in this filmOverall, The Truman Show is a mind boggling futuristic piece of film making that is thought provoking and entertaining at the same time. It might not have won anything at the Academy Awards, but it certainly won hearts of millions watching it. This is one of those movies which is a classified classic, certainly worth watching a few times, hats off to the makers.


                
Sometimes l thought that the life is a reality show like that,around me of course it's just a flat thought...but with Jim Carrey happening all the time since the beginning....fantastic plot exploring wide potential from Jim Carrey's skills,providing a high dramatic performance who looking for years to prove that he was more than a comedy guy...the movie isn't original but works...sounds like new and fresh...l'm suspicious to talk about Jim cos l'm a big fan from his previous works...anyway another great acting the remarkable and unique guy called Jim Carrey!!! Resume: First watch: 2017 / How many: 1 / Source: Netflix / Rating: 8


                
The Truman Show is a satirical movie about a man named Truman. He is trapped beneath a bubble and is being filmed for a popular TV show. Everyone around Truman knows they are being filmed and knows that they are underneath this dome. Everythings to be going smoothly until one day when Truman finds a girl and it is love at first. She tells him the truth that everything is fake and everyone is pretending. She is then whisked away by her "dad." Her "dad" then mentions that they are moving to Fiji. Flash forward a few years and Truman is out of high school and questioning everything around him. He then suddenly wants to go to FIji and find this girl. When Truman tries to leave there is always something that stops him from going anywhere. This is of course where the producers of the show come into play and the question of whether the show is treating Truman like a human being. One second it is that all the flights are booked, the next is the traffic, and then there is a hazardous waste spillage on the road out of town and he is tackled and subdued back into his own personal house. The directors sit there and feed lines to all of the people around the place to make sure that Truman never goes anywhere. Bringing his father back from the dead. Whenever Truman decided that he really wanted to leave they cut the stream for the first time ever and made it so that no one would know what is going on behind the scenes. He was so determined to leave at the end of the story they have to almost kill him to keep him in the dome. In the end Truman is confronted by the director of this whole story and he is told the truth. He has a very important choice to make will he stay in the dome and continue entertaining or will he leave.
Truman Burbank thinks he is an ordinary person doing an ordinary job in a fairly ordinary town... he does not realise that he is the star of a reality show. He has lived in the town of Seahaven all of his life; never suspecting that cameras are watching his every move and that everybody else, including his wife, mother and his friends are merely cast members and that the town itself is under a giant dome. Strange things occasionally happen but excuses are quickly made; for example a falling spotlight is explained away as something that fell from a plane. From an early age Truman has been conditioned so that he won't try to leave the town; the drowning of his father gave him a terror of the sea and any time he thinks about leaving an obstacle appears. Eventually he starts to realise that something is wrong and decides that he must leave to prove that he isn't paranoid.'The Truman Show' is a fine satire of reality television made when the genre was just starting. The idea that Truman might live for thirty years before he realises something isn't right with his world might seem unlikely at first but one has to remember that this reality is all that he has ever known. Jim Carrey can be a bit annoying at times but here he is on top form and gives one of his best performances as the eponymous Truman; he manages to be funny without being silly and makes the viewer sympathise with Truman. Ed Harris is also impressive as Christof, the creator of the show who has directed Truman's entire life and is determined that the show must go on. The reality of Truman's world is fun with lots of digs at modern media; characters talk as though they are in commercial<U+0085> which of course they are and a travel agent's shop is decorated with posters guaranteed to put you off flying! There are also touching moments such as Truman falling for an extra who is quickly taken 'off to Fiji' by her 'father'. Not only do we see what is happening to Truman; we are shown the fans of the show who are obsessed with his life which emphasises just how public Truman's life is. Overall I strongly recommend this; the concepts may be quite dark but it is presented in such a way that it can be enjoyed by people of all ages.
The Truman Show is an interesting story about a man named Truman who has spent his entire life in a literal bubble, with all of his friends and family actually being actors for a television show just about his life. As the story progresses the satire of the story becomes obvious. The satire of the Truman Show is the amount of manipulation that the media goes through in order to produce something for their audiences. The producers built an entire town for Truman, ruined lives, and psychologically scarred Truman with the "death" of his father. Another interesting point concerning the Truman Show is the way that nothing is truly fake, it's just manipulated. Most of the characters had genuine emotions concerning Truman, but they were fed their lines as to manipulate the scenes in the way that the producers wanted for it to go. The Truman Show also brings up the private vs. public life argument. Celebrities are often struggle long and hard for a private life. This causes damage to relationships for those celebrities. The Truman Show illustrates that with the fact that the television show is 24/7. Truman is watched while sleeping, while brushing his teeth, and while they do pan-away during restroom scenes we hope, one of the goals that the producers have is the first ever live conception. The Truman Show has many different satires targeting a wide range of topics surrounding the spectrum of media influence.


                
The Truman show was a satire that I feel was aiming to target the way that people choose to live. I got to this because of a quote that sounded really strong and powerful, it said "We choose to live in the world that we are put in". I took this as saying that like Truman in the film we tend to get stuck in routines by whatever the world throws at us and we don't do anything to try and change it, like Truman who went into adulthood before finally realizing his whole life has been planned. This quote could also hint at the way the media affects how people live. Reality TV shows have been very popular lately and the fact that there lives are in front of the whole world to see changes them by not doing things to make them happy but doing things to make an audience happy.
The Truman show is a thought-provoking film with a deeper analyzation of the coming digital age. In the film Truman seems like a typical man with an indefectible lifestyle. However, what soon comes to follow as a shock for Truman is that most of his life is a set-up and he is the star of a reality t.v. show. Truman's suspicions starts as a plethora of deplorable actions from the crew occur; from common mess-ups to breaks in character. He soon realizes that this is not the life he wants to lead and that there's something more than SeaHaven: the truth. One of the more interesting aspects of the movie is the fact that it is actually a very satirical piece. The film calls to notice media manipulation, it inflates the concept and uses a blame by praise to scrutinize the issue. If you do watch this I'd personally suggest actually looking into and interpreting the deeper meaning rather than just watching the movie without a thought. If you are more into Carrey's funnier movies only manufactured for laughs then I wouldn't suggest this in consideration of the fact that it hits closer to sci-fi, drama and is a lot more than just a comedy. All in all it is an interesting movie and definitely one of Carrey's better works.


                
I think that the 'Truman Show' was a great film purely because i have never seen one like it. It really made me think about the real world and that it is maybe not so good to have everything perfect. In this film the main character Jim Carrey was very controlled and likable compared to other movies he has stared in such as the Mask and Ace Ventura.This movie the 'Truman Show' is about a man called Truman, who has been put in a fake world since birth and everyone around him is acting. This world is placed in the middle of Hollywood and everyone is watching him from their TV sets.I think the main point the director was trying to put across was that maybe the perfect world would not be a good place to live eg. Nothing exciting and new happens. I think the director was successful with this.This film is very good and i would recommend it to anyone who likes Jim Carrey's acting style.
Truman (Jim Carrey) is an insurance salesman, with a pretty ordinary and fairly routine life. He Lives on an beautiful island, with good friends and a lovely wife; but he longs for more, he longs to leave his life and seek pastures new. The trouble is he can't cross the water after his father drowned, when he was just a boy.Truman grows increasingly paranoid, that the world is watching him, and he couldn't be closer to the truth. His entire life, from birth has been witnessed by the world, because his life is a reality TV Show that has millions of avid viewers. In the beginning there was just one camera, but as he has grown, so has the scale of the farce in which he lives.Jim Carrey's performance is outstanding, he avoids his usual mad-cap style, and relies on a much more solid and touching side to his ability. With a fine script, good support and wonderful direction, the Truman Show is a compelling, original and Moving exploration of Human Trials and Emotions.Reality TV with a difference, and its great.8/10
It's been about a decade since this film came out, and the sad truth is, the majority of people haven't learned. Reality TV is not dead, but has rather flourished, and is gradually becoming more and more perverse(indeed making the idea presented here seem almost tame by comparison, which is a very unpleasant notion to consider), digging deeper into the lowest common denominator to grab attention(worse still, it's working), and they are at least as shallow as they've always been, quite possibly worse(I won't claim that I watch them), and costing depth in real people, by abandoning it in favor of more ratings-grabbing "entertainment". Niccol is not a man who favors superficiality, or that which seems, at first glance, to be perfect, beautiful, or even right... nor is he one who keeps quiet about his view on said subject. One needs to look no further than two other movies he wrote, Gattaca and S1m0ne, both of which he also directed(he is perhaps less shrill in his protesting in the former and this, compared to S1m0ne). I've not watched much of Weir's work... to this day, only this and Dead Poets Society, which my review will immediately reveal, I did not find to be anything special. Therefore, I don't know whose idea it actually was to let the imaginary hidden cameras be our eye into the world of Truman... whether Niccol had it in the script, or Weir thought it fitting... but I commend and respect whomever thought of it. The score and music are fitting. The acting is good, all-round... Carrey surprises. Harris is marvelous. Carrey may have some sillier moments in this, but it is a film separate from his comedy work. Those seeking his typical brand of humor(which it should be noted, I am somewhat fond of) won't find that satisfied herein. Exposition is delivered with fairly good subtlety. The writing in general is excellent... Niccol hits the mark entirely, and maintains a realistic tone, steering carefully clear of the pitfall of mockery to the point of the ludicrous, which he would later fall into with S1m0ne, and his continued exploration of reality is interesting. I personally make it a point to keep up with what the man is working on. The satire and cleverness found in his work deserves recognition. This, as The Cable Guy, has some social commentary on the viewers, but on the whole, this is by far the superior film(sorry, Ben). It is but saddening that it would seem that the film caused exactly what it may have been trying to prevent. I recommend this to fans of science fiction, Andrew Niccol and Jim Carrey as a dramatic actor. 8/10


                
I had heard a little bit of The Truman Show, I was watching a program where they were discussing Jim Carrey's career and they mentioned how The Truman Show was like his first major drama and how well he had performed in it. I never realized that this film was so well liked, especially when I went onto IMDb and people seemed to love this film very much. So of course I rented it at Hollywood Video and watched it last night and I have to say that I have pretty much the same opinion as most of the users, it's a great film that had a great dramatic story with a little dark comedy.Truman Burbank seems to have the most perfect life, he has a beautiful wife, a close nit community, a desk job, and a loving mother. But is it a little too perfect? Especially since everyone always seems to know his name? He meets a girl, Lauren, and they hit it off, but she tells him that she cannot speak to him or "they'll" take her away from him, she tells him that his life is a TV show and that his whole life has been a set up. He slowly discovers what his life has been and how it's either too perfect or the dramatics come at the perfect time. But is the world ready to let go of The Truman Show? The Truman Show is a well acted film with an incredible story that I'm more than certain any one could enjoy, it was very charming and had the perfect elements to the plot. Jim Carrey did a terrific job and this movie proved how great he could be in a drama instead of all comedy. Laura Linney was just perfect, I loved her constant details of everything she bought and how she presented it like a commercial. I think you will enjoy this film, it's a good one to watch.8/10


                
Back in 1998, the concept of Jim Carrey appearing in a more serious movie than his usual fare was unthinkable. Surely, the man who gurned his way through Ace Ventura couldn't handle a thoughtful, well-written drama without the shadow of those tropical shirts, ridiculous catchphrases and ludicrous facial expressions looming all over it? Well, while the studio may not have thought so either (consider the marketing campaign which focused mainly on the comedy), the results speak for themselves and established the man as more than just a one-dimensional funny man.Carrey is Truman Burbank, a man with a seemingly great life who just can't shake the feeling something is wrong. His world seems so neat and organised, too perfect to possibly be real and when a camera mysteriously falls from the sky for no immediate reason, it kicks off a chain of events that lead to him questioning the authenticity of his very existence. For unbeknown to him, he is the star attraction of The Truman Show, a program all about his life within a sealed idealistic, Eisenhower era world of apple pie and sunshine and everyone around him is an actor. Every second of his life has been watched by millions.With a concept such as this, it is no surprise that the movie raises a lot of troubling issues. The philosophical nature for instance is not unlike that of The Matrix, in that it is difficult to sit through it without wondering if there are limits to the very world around us. Furthermore, the moral issue of reality TV rears its ugly head, asking us what price we pay when we glamorise the ordinary and make everyday people our entertainment? Sure, Truman has had a good life and is totally safe from harm, but how much of that life did he choose for himself? Carrey of course is a magnetic focal point. He was clearly keen to stretch his very capable acting muscles by this stage in his career, but that isn't to say his comic side has been totally abandoned. Just watch his attempted road trip to New Orleans for example, the man barking and ranting maniacally as he careens almost out of control through town in his car with his hysterical wife on the passenger seat trying to reel him in. It is a very funny moment in the film, but his actions here are brought about not by the inherent zaniness in his personality, but more by the growing frustration at his inability to get out of the town.However, the scene where he really comes into his own comes in the moments following his encounter with his supposedly dead father. Driving to work one morning, his radio malfunctions and after beating the thing with his fists like we've all done at some point, he suddenly picks up radio transmissions detailing his every move. He parks his car and wanders the street, trying to draw attention to himself but failing, even stopping a bus in the middle of the road to no reaction, the occupants simply waiting for him to get out the way. What if he really were the exact centre of the universe and everything else just revolved around him? That isn't to say this is a one man show however. Laura Linney as his wife Meryl is also well cast, her wholesome nature at first being very sweet, then growing ever more troubling as Carrey's paranoia escalates. Then of course there's Ed Harris as the eye in the sky directing his every move. At first, he is a benign guiding influence crafting a Utopian vision for his progeny. But then the child begins to resist the father and events spiral out of control, soon Harris has become a fascist dictator denying Truman the choices he so desperately needs to make himself.As a whole then, The Truman Show is a rewarding experience. It contains one of Carrey's finest dramatic turns to date and while we can revel in the philosophical and moral issues at work here, it can also be enjoyed simply as a very charming and uplifting movie. Come the climax, I doubt there'll be a dry eye in the house.


                
The Truman Show is Jim Carrey as you have never seen him before. This is straight out of The Twilight Zone(in fact writer Andrew Nicchol based the screenplay on an episode of The Twilight Zone. Jim Carrey plays an insurance salesman who has no idea that his entire life is scripted and part of a television show. This is a departure of sorts for Peter Weir also and though I have forgotten much of this film I remember liking it a lot. There are many underlying themes and the entire presentation is something you don't see often. This is a healthy recommendation regardless of whether you are a fan of Carrey or not.


                
I was expecting some overrated Jim Carrey movie but this one is really good and I love it!


                
The Truman Show shook me by its audacity of premise and execution. This is straight out of The Twilight Zone(in fact writer Andrew Nicchol based the screenplay on an episode of The Twilight Zone. Jim Carrey plays an insurance salesman who has no idea that his entire life is scripted and part of a television show. This is a departure of sorts for Peter Weir also and though I have forgotten much of this film I remember liking it a lot. There are many underlying themes and the entire presentation is something you don't see often. This is a healthy recommendation regardless of whether you are a fan of Carrey or not.


                
