I've seen The Truman Show a multitude of times, and each time it gets better. First watching it at a young age (Roughly 10 years old), I never picked up on much of the deeper meaning behind the film. The idea of someone's whole life being a television program was simply entertaining. Now, as an older viewer and with more experience in analyzing books and movies, I can really pick up on the satirical meaning behind the plot. Truman plays the star of a 24/7 television program. His entire life is broadcasted for all the world to see. He is raised to believe that there is no real reason to try and leave his perfect "island". Throughout the film, we watch as Truman tries time and time again to discover the truth behind his life, and as he attempts to escape. The struggle he experiences while trying to break free from the artificial world can be seen as a satirical message. The world is trying to oppress you, and although difficult, you can escape. This is supported by a statement made by the creator of the Truman show. He said, "We accept the reality of the world with which we are presented. It's as simple as that". Several other hidden messages (Ideas) appear throughout the film. All the actors who play roles in Truman's life, are indeed fake. Despite directly lying to a person whose life is immediately affected by that lie, the actors/actresses show no emotion for Truman. This is comparable to the lack of care society has for the majority of its citizens. Overall, The Truman Show is filled with subliminal messages and hidden meanings, all of which can be directly tied back to daily life.


                
A Solar eclipse occurs when a relatively small,  dark,  cold object comes between an observer and the brilliance of the sun.  A Best Picture eclipse occurs when "Saved-By-The-Bell"-meets-"Amadeus" and "Saving Private Shmaltzy" comes between the movie-going-public and the brilliance of "The Truman Show."Frankly,  I don't know how this script got past the powers-that-be in Hollywood.  It is a scathing indictment of the media.  My only guess is that they saw the word "comedy" and "Jim Carrey" and decided not to look at it too hard.  And judging from some of the comments here, it went over the heads of a pretty good slice of the viewing public as well.  This story is a modern-day fable -- for those with the eyes to see.If you are watching this to be entertained by Jim Carrey or to see a great sci-fi flick,  you will be disappointed.  If you are watching this to see the most elegant satire ever to grace the silver screen (maybe ever), then this movie is for you.I will have this one on DVD.  9/10 ---
"The Truman Show" is a unique film about the television obsession (or - as a true allegory - any kind of obsession) and the limits that people seem to leave behind when they're talking much about profit. Human dignity, law, any type of principals are pretty much dead during the first half of the film. Alongside Truman of course, the movie make you realise all the above and highlights the unfairness of the case.The Picture's end where the two guards just change channel after just a second of the end of a 30-years-program, seems to only give more emphasis to the moral of the whole film!"The Truman Show" is a masterpiece and a MUST watch with friends or family!
You may not like it, but you have to respect it.Brilliant, thoughtful director Peter Weir (The Last Wave AKA Black Rain, Picnic at Hanging Rock, Master and Commander, Gallipoli, Dead Poets Society, Fearless and many others) teams up with excellent screenwriter Andrew Niccol and a great cast to give us a science fiction film with a range of emotions exceedingly rare for big budget mainstream cinema. In addition to the really disturbing questions the film raises about the nature of reality, metaphysics, religion, entertainment, human cruelty, voyeurism, and the concept of freedom, the film also offers a glimpse of humanity simultaneously occupying its worst and best aspects.The cast is phenomenally good. Carrey gives Truman the life his rich and sympathetic character he deserves - providing some of the most disturbing comedy I have ever witnessed. Tasha McElhone, Ed Harris, Peter Krause and Laura Linney are all excellent - though you may end up hating most of them for various reasons as the film progresses.Truman's entire life, from his birth onward has been one long TV show. He is literally being broadcast 24/7/365 and he knows nothing of it. His mom, wife, best friend, and everybody around him are all cast members. And the show is shot in a giant set which simulates an island. Because of a traumatic experience with the sea during his childhood, Truman does not feel free to travel away from his island home.Yet Truman is oddly compelled to explore the world and has begun to suspect that something is very wrong. Meanwhile, in what we like to think of as the REAL WORLD, everybody is watching him. People stay home from work to participate vicariously in his life in hopes that they will somehow catch a clue to "how it will end." This film is pretty heavy. You might find it amusing the first time you watch it, but once you've allowed it to exhaust you a few times, all that is left is the superb craft and the intense and disturbing ideas it constantly bombards you with. The film has a dark side and a hopeful, light (but never airy) side which - amazingly - is exposed concurrently with the heavy stuff.The cinematography is as picture-perfect as most of the work Weir is associated with. The acting is remarkably good all around, with those mentioned above in the outstanding roles. Sound is usually a very important component of Weir's films, but it's a little underexploited in the Truman Show - perhaps to (sometimes with painful force) draw the audience's attention to the profoundly insane dialog.The Truman Show is plot heavy, heavy, a little funny, and profoundly smart. Do not see it under the influence of anything detrimental to your mind or emotional balance......FLEX YOUR HEAD.


                
I have never liked Jim Carey's humor. I have found it to very broad and boorish. However, I was very happy that I saw "The Truman Show" and am surprised I did considering my feelings about his earlier 'comedies'. Thankfully, Carey showed he could act and NOT ham it up--a tribute to his native talents as well as the director and writer. With a weak director, Carey might have begun to seek laughs in 1001 crazy ways. Here, however, it's straight and quite endearing. I could talk about the plot, but there are already a bazillion reviews for this one. The bottom line is that don't assume because you don't like "Dumb and Dumber" or "Ace Ventura" you won't love this film. And, I really loved "The Truman Show" and think it's a lovely film with a lot of heart and an awful lot of imagination.By the way, I would say the same things about Will Farrell and Adam Sandler. Despite disliking some of there very broad films, there serious films (such as "Reign Over Me" or "Stranger Than Fiction") are exceptional. Additionally, I gotta admit that I did enjoy a few of their 'stupid' films such as "Water Boy" and "Talladega Nights". So don't assume that just because you may not like a few of their films means they all are not your cup of tea.


                
Jim Carry deserved an Oscar for this film but yeah they don't give Oscar to a comedian actor. This film is all about Jim Carry's acting. You are living a happy life and suddenly you find out that your life is not your life. Everything has been scripted in your life, then what happen? What will you do?


                
The Truman show is one of those rare films that stand out all on their own. It's an interesting twist on telling a story about ones life. You would think this couldn't work, but it did.Director Peter Weir gets full credit for doing this right! Starring Jim Carrey, Ed Harris, Laura Linney and Noah Emmerich, this was perfectly cast with a note on the great performance by Jim Carrey. For a comedian, he really came out of his wheelhouse for this role and nailed it.It's a 9/10 from me!


                
This film hasn't aged a minute.It's an incredible exploration of the human psyche and spirit, to be sure, but it's also a love story. The love story is between Truman Burbank and his true self. In his trueness to himself, he cannot accept this reality as presented by Christof. When he starts trying to escape it, things and people start to look more transparent, and he begins to see illusions everywhere.It all starts with a stage light dropping out of the sky onto the street. Whoops! As he is given more and more clues, he starts trying new unpredictable things and observing the towns response. This escalates and it becomes truly fascinating.His obsession with Lauren, or Sylvia as it were, -is- just a little creepy, yes, but just how anyone would respond to being put in this situation is completely up for debate. Just what is the "correct" way to respond to this situation anyway? Remember he was born into it. This is his whole life.Christof's response to his escape attempt is indicative of his mindset: Truman is a Christof production--that is, Christof owns him. There was never any doubt that Truman's spirit would overcome everything that'd been programmed into him, because this is the story of a man who refuses to be a product. To be owned. To be a slave. "You don't have cameras in my mind!"I saw this for the first time when it came out, and it has remained one of my favorite movies of all time. I found the ending to be stunning, watching this illusion fall like a house of cards is almost spiritual. There are no fancy special effects (other than the aerial view of the Truman's set; any other effects are quite transparent,) no out of control self-indulgent fanciness, no blockbusterism present at all. Merely solid craft work and an incredibly well done story.That's all it needs. If you haven't already, see it.
The Truman Show is a great satirical piece. Staged within a giant dome, Truman lives his life alongside actors, and he is the only one that doesn't know he is star. During the video, he begins to figure out that his life is a lie. He ends up escaping in a boat, overcoming his fears, to find freedom. The Truman Show is a representation of the control media has over our lives. Wherever we go, we are surrounded by it. In the show, there are a couple of occurrences in which people try to alert Truman of the control the media has over him. In response, the character is removed and the media tries to destroy their credibility. Later on, Truman is able to avoid the cameras by covering some of the cameras and pretending to sleep creating a gateway to escape. The directors of the Truman Show (the movie, not the show) are able to create some sense of freedom, showing how escaping the prying eyes of the public and media allowed him to have his own liberties and control his life. Near the end of the movie, as Truman is trying to escape, Christof, the director with a God complex, tries to scare Truman into going back to the city and living a "normal" life. Instead, he chooses to die rather than living as a slave and continues on his path (but he survives). In one of his final lines, Truman says, "You never had a camera in my head," in response to Christof stating that he knew Truman better than he did himself. The accuracy of how the media feels it is in control was brought to mind by the techniques used by the directors of the movie. Overall, the Truman Show is a great satirical piece, helping to bring its audience into the realization of the effect and control the media has over them.
To quickly explain the movie for those who have not seen it or don't know the basic plot, Truman is a a huge celebrity on a TV show, unbeknownst to him. Everyone in his daily life, even his mom, wife, and best friend, are all actors on the show. Throughout the movie he begins picking up on clues like actors telling him "it's a TV show", the same actors walking around the block over and over again for no reason, and the fact that somehow, everyone seems to know what he's doing, where he's going, and stops him whenever Truman does something that's out of his "character". I personally thought that The Truman Show was a fantastic movie, for many reasons. I find it interesting that the movie is so unlike any other movie I've seen, for the movie itself almost appears to be The Truman Show. While it messes with your mind a little, it really makes you think about what true reality is. I also liked the overall theme of the movie, that we accept the reality that is given to us; it's an interesting concept that could be applied to our lives today, making it a great movie and theme for people even today.Not only did I like the movie for those reasons, but The Truman Show is also an excellent example of satirical techniques and devices. It's easy to identify dramatic irony in the beginning, as the audience knows that Truman is in a TV show while he does not. It's also ironic that the character Truman seems to have a sense of freedom, although he couldn't be more confined. The audience can also see deflation and inflation, two very important satire devices. Deflation is apparent through the demoralizing of human life in comparison to corporate success, and inflation is obvious through the exaggerated use of props (in once scene a forest fire is instantaneous, in the next there's a sudden meltdown at a nuclear plant, showing that the producers will do literally anything to stop Truman from leaving the island). I would highly suggest this movie for anyone that wants a fun and interesting movie to watch, or examples of satirical techniques in media. The Truman Show is, in my opinion, a great movie for anyone to watch, especially those who feel "trapped in the world they're presented with".
The Truman Show was very enjoyable to watch. The show seemed to fulfill a very strong satirical purpose. The show evoked fear and made me feel sad, giving me the impression that it is Juvenalian satire. The show had great examples of purpose, acceptance of the status quo, and morality. First, the purpose of the show was to make the audience reconsider their opinions on capitalism, and our current society. Watching a large company sell someone's life makes one relate to their emotions. This gives the impression of a deep impact on the watcher's viewpoint, and helps them understand the intended impact. The viewer finds a relationship to Truman, and begin to root for him while watching the show. This is relating to the humans ethos, and deflating the worth of human life. Second, the show has a deeper message about humans as a race. Generally, humans accept what they know, and live with the status quo. The whole movie, all Truman knows is the life that he has been shown. He takes over 30 years to actually start reaching out, and desiring to find new things. The system dampered his desires to travel and adventure, but he eventually wanted to overcome. This tells us that we need to try and go beyond what we accept. The directed target seems to big businesses and media, yet seems to give direction to the audience as a whole, no matter if they are the target. Last, the show makes you question the morality of large businesses. As you watch all of the satirical elements, and mainly the inflation of a desire for success, the viewer begins to question what limit we should hold to capitalism. Where should morality be weighed against a human desire to win? The show was highly entertaining, and with the funny moments such as product placement, and ironic/ evident moments of control, the show always keeps the viewer interested.
The Truman Show is a satirical film that represents the craze of "reality" television and the media's manipulation of society. Though the film was made over 18 years ago, it is still very relevant today. In a giant domed community, Truman Burbank is living a perfect life that revolves around him. There are cameras everywhere and everyone, including his loved ones, are actors. The only person who doesn't know his life is a television show is Truman. In our current society we are heavily influenced by media. Throughout the film you can draw many connections to the media's influence on our lives. The media influences what we believe and what we do with our lives. Perhaps we are all being controlled under a figurative dome which is being held up by the media. The Truman Show also targets "reality" television. As reality television continues to grow in popularity, (such as Keeping up with the Kardashians, The Real Housewives, Duck Dynasty, Jersey Shore) the movie attacks the connotation of "reality" in these shows. We believe that life can really be like what we see in television, even though life is far from what goes on in reality television.While I was young I had liked to think about the concept of what if my life was a television show. This made The Truman Show extremely enjoyable as it brought back those memories and truly showed this concept in action. The movie contains great humor along with a perfect example of dramatic irony, being that Truman is the only person that doesn't know his life is a reality TV show. Overall, the movie is very enjoyable as it has a dramatic plot full of humor and entertainment. However, this movie is far different than others as it requires far more thought about how society is being portrayed in the film.


                
The Truman show was a very excellent representation of the things in life that people chase but cannot have. From the seemingly cliché lifestyle Truman lives, with friendly neighbors, a steady job, and even the typical adult look with his suit and briefcase, Truman lives the life that the average American in the 80s would want to have, and there is nothing wrong with his life at all. But is his life really perfect? Since meeting his first love, nothing in his life has seemed to be quite the same, and he wants to know why. This movie is a perfectly executed film about how the perfect life is unachievable, but his life may not be as great as everyone seems to think.The film was very well done. A few of the things that the movie did well were the way that it gave the main character, Truman, personality with almost everything he did, whether it be his personality quirks or the very catchy things he says, almost every part of Truman is extremely memorable. All of the characters meshed well, and had very good acting to go along with it. Despite being a funny twist on a problem that society faces, being the media and the issues with it, you do not really find yourself laughing at this movie. It takes a tone that really drags you into the thought processes and feelings of Truman using dark humor which is hard to catch onto. Going with the actual movie and its plot, many small things fit the movie perfectly to add to the overall experience, such as the soundtrack, and make the movie really great. The greatest part of the film is one that you will really feel upon seeing it, and it is the ending (no spoilers). It was perfectly executed and left a huge lasting impression on me after seeing the film, wishing that the movie was not yet over. Overall, the movie was well done, with a genius way of presenting a satire. If you would like a great movie that will require some thinking to really get involved in, this is the movie for you.


                
This is the kind of movie that you will remember for the rest of your lives. Even though I am no fan of Jim Carrey, I thought he played Truman Burbank perfectly. Going in to the movie I was aware of the premise that Truman was oblivious to the fact that his life was a TV show. However, I didn't know that everybody in his town was actually an actor. I thought Sea haven was just a normal town (not a set). Once I become accustomed what was actually going on, I started to relish every second of this great movie. There is nothing wrong with this movie. It has humor, drama, and a fresh script; everything you would want in a movie
I love movies, good and bad, new and old. With the countless and awful remakes in today's world it's hard to find a movie that's original and unique today. I rarely watch new films since I think the older ones are better imo.I wouldn't consider myself a huge Jim Carrey fan, I like some of his movies, but not all of them. I had the honor of watching this great film several years ago in a college psychology class, and loved it. The basic idea of the film is that a man who believe what he is experiencing the real world, is in fact a staged TV show that has been going on for years and has no idea about it.The film itself is unique because to my knowledge nothing like this has been done before until EdTV, but that was different. The movie itself brings up an interesting point. Is everything that we do in life just part of some gran scheme and somebody is watching out lives. This film also has a quote that I would like to point out "We accept the reality of the world with which we are presented." This quote itself imo sums up the entire film. We don't question the reality that exists as we see it. We accept it, but how do we know it's real. How do we know it's not some person's dream and that once they wake up we die? We don't know that, nobody knows. We just accept it and deal with it. Truman doesn't question at first the world he is in. Little by little he questions the system and overall learns about his "wolrd" that he lives in.If you have not seen this film then I would strong suggest you watch it, especially those who have psychology background.
Jim Carrey's performance is so impactful that it bring tears in eyes. The story and screenplay is its main hero. The concept is spectacular.


                
Loved it! Amazing story,brilliantly written and a very satisfying end. Definately one of the better movies of its time!


                
My Rating : 9/10If you've ever wondered whether your life is just one big sitcom, The Truman Show illustrates what happens when one man, played by Jim Carrey, realizes that his entire life is scripted for television.A thoroughly enjoyable movie and one of my favourite Jim Carrey movies.Truly thought-provoking!


                
This is one heck of a good movie.The movie is seriously good for TV show Lovers.I had a good time watching it. Worth Watching!!!


                
The movie is a good one and can still be a very good lesson for today's audiences. A lot of our society could still be considered the target, relating back to things such as reality television. The shows of even today are idyllic and display an improperly perfect version of our society. The same could be said for those who create video blogs, or vlogs, and videograph the best parts of their lives as if that is all of it.
It was almost aggravating to watch, considering how much I wanted Truman to realize the truth of his reality and speak out about it. It made me both sad and mad to watch the movie because of how it felt like a cruel joke against him to me. But, despite that, I really enjoyed the movie. The way the movie shows the reactions of those watching The Truman Show is a very good addition in my opinion.
The irony of the audience knowing that Truman's life is fake but him not knowing is the most essential part of the movie. Though it could have been shot entirely inside the set of Seahaven, with the audience realizing that it is a television show set along with or slightly before Truman, it would have been a far different movie than what it actually is and watches like. It is hard to say whether that lack of irony would improve the movie or not, as it is such a stark difference.
One of my favorite film, the concept it's fantastic, and the film is never boring, even if you watch it 200 times in the same day.a realistic rapresentation of the mass media .


                
4/4What if your entire existence on this Earth was one big lie? What if you were a business, and you didn't even know it? The Truman Show seems to tackle the answers, and your emotions definitely play a part in making the experience great.A baby named Truman Burbank was adopted by a TV corporation, and everyone who would EVER enter his life was a mere actor. When things go awry, he has a sensation that "the world revolves around him". Then, he "goes rogue" (as far as the TV producers and directors are concerned) as he tries to find the truth at all costs.Jim Carrey gives a very emotional preformance as Truman. His life is one to die for: no controversy or chaos, but he feels empty and unfulfilled. There are many moments of Truman is overjoyed, but on the other side of the curtain are actors, simply paid to manipulate his emotions. On the other side of "Sea Haven" is a sick man controlling the strings.It's an excellent movie about a person who has been robbed of their life, and their dreams. Once he takes matters into his own hands, he makes it all happen for himself. Accompanied by a great musical score, The Truman Show stands as a winner, and your pity will not be spared!


                
The film really questions the perception of reality. By whom is the real? What is the truth? At the same time, it has been a very good criticism for the ever-increasing human life, especially the commodification of private life and human relations. The film has taken up the growing television madness during the filming period and has drawn attention to a possible danger, and when it says that it will be so in the future in the future, the television madness is suddenly replaced by computer internet and social media madness. While the film really makes people think about this kind of things, it also feels the happiness that being free to live on their own (again free and according to what is free and how it is discussed), but the play of Jim Carrey, who can directly convey these happiness and feelings to us, Even the seeing of Jim Carrey's face in the Wild Animal Detective Jim Carrey is causing people to grin or I said to myself that most movie stars are actually a bit of a Truman movie.


                
This movie can be explained by quoting one of Nirvana song lyrics: "Just because you're paranoid don't mean they're not after you."


                
My review for this movie was 9 out 10 because there weren't enough twist in this movie. Also, why I picked 9 out of 10 was because Truman did not know that is life was a show but the other cast did so that's not fair.
