May contain some general spoilers, but i'll try to keep it as spoiler-free as possible.I've now watched 7 episodes of Spartacus, and withheld from rating it because fans said "wait, it'll get better". Well, it hasn't.The acting is strictly average, with some highs, and a lot of lows. Hannah and Lawless do passable jobs, they are veteran actors after all. A few others also hold their own (Varro, Doctore), but the rest is just plain abysmal. The acting of the main actor makes me want to cry at times, i really find it that bad.The series is filmed with a minimal set, using mostly CGI (i swear 90 percent of the scenes could have been shot in someones backyard). That is not initially a problem, but when the CGI is bad, then it becomes a problem. And when its bad not because their graphical artists suck, but because the director wants it to look bad, it becomes ridiculous.The fighting scenes is very similar to the movie 300, with slowdown shots, flying limbs, buckets of CGI blood, etc (there were even some utterly ridiculous "inside the helmet" shots in some fight scenes that had me giggling in disbelief.The show also has a monster budget apparently (4.5 mill per episode or thereabouts.. god knows where they put that money, it certainly wasn't in good actors, sets, passable CGI, etc). I've seen 10 year old video games with better and more believable graphics than this :) The progression of the show is basically fight - sex - fight - some stupid plot - fight. They throw boobs at you like you've never seen, not because it fits the setting, but because they can. Im male, and love boobs as much as the next guy, but that was interesting for all of 5 minutes. Its very much like the wet dream of a teenager who just hit puberty, which may say something about who they aim for as their target audience.Its difficult to describe it properly, words simply escape me when i try to express how bad it is. As a series, the only thing it can be compared to is Rome, and while Rome had lots of nudity and fighting, it was always when it was appropriate to the setting. Spartacus does it "just because", and tons of it. If one adds movies to the comparison, the natural thing to compare it to would be 300 and Gladiator.It is very similar to 300 in fight progression (but 300 had far superior actors), and it would be a gigantic insult to Gladiator to try to measure Spartacus up against it.So in short, to sum it up, this literally... sucks
I was really quite excited about this series as I love a bit of action and it seemed like an excellent premise. However, I've watched about 4 episodes now in the hope it'll get better and I have to say, I cannot force myself to watch anymore. Now, I like watching a bit of sex and blood as much as the next person, but this is ridiculous. There is every opportunity for unnecessary sex and nudity, the awful slow-mo fighting scenes FOR EVERY FIGHT, the diabolical dialogue, appalling sets... urgh I could go on and on. I'd imagine that it's a teenage boys fantasy, but for me, it's a no no. Maybe you have to be male to like it? When I'm watching it, I'm not grossed out or anything by the sex and fighting, rather more annoyed as it completely dominates the script and I feel that this could have been an excellent drama if they'd focused more on the politics but maybe it's not for people with intellect. Anyway, on the plus side, many of the gladiators are rather hot so maybe that's why I'll end up tuning in next week...


                
If you are thinking of watching this, just watch the first 10 minutes, and you'll know whether you like it or not. 'Spartacus' is a style-over-substance (the catch being, that the 'style' is done extremely poor, too) show that places emphasis on graphics, slow-motion violence, nudity, slow-motion-blood spatter, 'cool' dialogue, slow-motion 'awesomeness', boring clichés, and anything else you might possibly want to display in slow-motion.For the sake of that, it sacrifices story, good writing, character development, depth and any kind of subtleness. Subject matter is the only thing that remotely connects 'Spartacus' to the vastly superior HBO drama 'Rome' or the supreme 'I, Claudius'. Quality-wise it is a lot closer to guilty-pleasure trash, whereas I could find little pleasure in watching it, to be honest. If you want some easy-to-digest popcorn series, you'll probably find it to your liking, though. I'd like to write some more about it, but, to be honest, it is so bad that it kind of defies belief. Watch for yourself (20 minutes will suffice) to find out how utterly awful it is.
i just got done watching a few episodes of this show .which was more then i needed to see.i understand its on t.v and you have a budget but this show is horrible it's like a cheesy scifi channel rip off of 300 .the CGI graphic's are laughable .the gore and violence is almost slapstick .the nudity and sex of course are thrown in to sell the show .my opinion most times when any kind of show or film throws in excessive nudity or graphic almost pornographic sex scene .You know it's to distract from the lack of quality of that particular show or film your watching . or to attract .the dialogue by far is the worst part of the show .even in 300 they didn't speak like as if they were modern day new yorkers ..it feels like this show was written by a bunch of high school seniors who skipped or didn't study hard enough in there history class during school.it's insulting to anyone with a half a brain .which according to the ratings given on this board the viewers are lacking big time . This show is a disgrace to the movie it's not even a close resemblance If you want a true spartacus experience watch the movie .its more accurate to the story and history .They should of just saved half of the money they put into hiring those writers and instead given them history lessons as well as writing lessons blah what a waste of time


                
So let's start with the positive aspects: Breasts. I like them, i don't have any hypocritical religious reasons for not enjoying seeing nice boobs on television.Now let's come to the negative aspects: I can enjoy movies with violence. I liked Irréversible, i liked 300, i liked Srpski Film (A Serbian Film). Why? Because those movies can reflect about violence, about what it does to us. Unfortunately "Spartacus: Blood and Sand" can not deliver such. The only message it provides is is that murdering people is justified and can be pretty cool (even though i find the CGI-Slow-Motion effects pretty embarrassing) Well what is there really to find in this show apart from fascination for blood and breasts. Nothing, right. I'll certainly not fill the waiting for Season 2 of Game of Thrones with this garbage.


                
I have only watched three episodes of the first series and cannot watch any more. There are so many things wrong with this program that it is difficult to know where to start. The storyline is just boring. The characters are all so unlikeable. The acting is wooden. The production values are cheaper than K-Mart. The CGI is laughable. The incessant "300" action scenes and the blood spatter are more comic book than realistic. The frequent nudity is unlike "Game of Thrones" in that it is completely unnecessary and does little to contribute to the story telling process. I'm sure that the IMDb rating must be a huge error and actually mocks the great shows and movies out there that have similar ratings.


                
This is overly stylized tripe. Full of pointless sexual imagery, poor acting, terrible dialog and very few redeeming qualities. It looks as if it was filmed by a group of grade 10 film students that wanted to cram in as many "300" style film effects as they could. Filmed largely against a green screen, initially the look is interesting, but it wears thin very quickly. To me, it would be rather like watching 300 on LSD, with small town cable actors. Really surprised that Lucy Lawless is involved. Really surprised that Netflix shows 39 episodes. REALLY surprised that IMDb has it rated so highly.Not at all surprised that it has been canceled after three seasons.Garbage.
Started out not to bad, the sex and violence bearable. I can stand a rational amount of swearing but what I don't get is why the writers of these shows think that the people of this era had a word like fxxx and all its derivative forms. They have dialogue that is supposed to be roman or Gaul or Syrian or whatever but they always have to throw in f this f-ing f-er and f his wife and children to death. I mean seriously. I had to stop watching after the 3rd episode of the second season (the prequel) because the dialogue seemed more concerned about swearing than telling me a story. Some have compared it to 300 but this could not be further from the truth 300 told a story this show just swears and swears with a little gladiator stuff to fill in.


                
This show turns violence into stylized entertainment for our young boys (mine was no exception). Graphic slow-motion montages of blood spraying all over the screen, not even bothering to care what injuries were depicted. (In the very first episode, the protagonist is hit on the back of the head with the shaft of an axe, and blood erupts over the whole screen. How? Why?) These are interspersed liberally with nude body parts (strangely, those were always clean even when they are rolling in dirt *sigh*)The plot, in addition to being historical fiction, is so full of holes it looks like a sieve. I won't go into details, because other reviews have already done so. Suffice it to say this show exists only to stop young people from doing something more productive with their time (like read a book about this period, or get involved with your community, talk to others (young or old) about things of substance, get involved with the community...I could go on for hours. But I am a parent of 4, and I actually believe in our young people and what they can do.)The only reason I didn't rate this show a '1' was because there are actually shows even worse than this one.
Nonsense, ultra violent, artifical computer aided scenes.


                
Why does sex scenes and nudity make a show great? What's so special about rape scenes? Lucy Lawless is hot, but that is the only draw to this show.
The acting stinks, the scenery looks like a bad set from the 1960s, and i don't even want to think about the historical 'accuracy' of this whole mind-in-the-gutter, sensationalised pile of you know what. Every single blow struck by every single actor is done is low-rent slowmotion regardless of whether it has any significance whatsoever. The special effects are mediocre. The budget was obviously shoestring. If you ask me, the only reason why this god-awful series has high ratings is because there are plenty of people out there who like their porn clicks to have a slightly more highbrow storyline than what you get on YouPorn. Give it a miss if you want storyline, historical accuracy or depth though, you'll be disappointed.


                
