There seems to be a tendency in making "historical" television shows that excessive cursing and full frontal male and female nudity equates to "authenticity". "Rome", as a perfect example, had massive amounts of f-bombs and the like, yet managed to balance it out with a very well developed script and adherence to historical sources and events, making it very accurate in its portrayal of the way events were perceived by contemporaries and modern historians. One can never get 100% accuracy, so certain elements are always sacrificed on the altar of entertainment. A fact that can be easily accepted if it's done properly. Deadwood took the cursing a bit too far for my taste, but I suppose people of that era had less class. Spartacus: Blood and Sand, takes it to a ridiculous level. Not because of the frequency but because of the way it is incorporated into the extremely wooden dialogue, which frankly tries much too hard to be "authentic". There are good elements in it, though. Lucy Lawless and John Hannah are well cast and fight to elevate the bad writing to something more acceptable. Whitfield is not horrible but not a vision either. The main problem with this particular show lies in what came before it. I have seen those who state that you cannot compare this to "Rome" even though it has obviously been spawned by a wish to create a show of equal quality, much like many writes attempted to create the new "Lost", which never really succeeded. "Spartacus" tries to combine the intrigues and well-written script of "Rome" with the macho images and fighting from "300", yet the graphics department on this show were either not very talented, ill-instructed or poorly funded. Or maybe even all three because the CGI is horrible. It looks like the cinematics of computer games from the mid-1990s and while they looked awesome then, now, they look old-fashioned and less realistic. Additionally, it hurts itself by drawing inspiration from "300", which was really, really, really bad. I mean super horrible. The constant slow motion fight scenes and super-buffed and oiled men gets old really fast. Bottom line is, that "Spartacus" had the potential for being fantastic. Had they brought in more inspiration from "Rome" and the original "Spartacus", with Kirk Douglas, instead of letting itself be diluted with the unmitigated crap that excretes from "300", it could have brought us a great spectacle, which would have been utterly enjoyed. Instead, you find yourself waiting for it to end, so you can move on to better things. Ducktales, perhaps.
This series started out pretty decently, with generous lashings of sex & nudity & some of the most imaginative CG killing & maiming you'll ever witness, but it also had a lot of vividly well-rounded characters! Sadly, after the first season the lead actor, Andy Whitfield, suddenly died & had to be replaced by Liam McIntyre, an actor not quite as intense, tho not for want of trying. (The continual strain of trying to live up to Whitfield's charisma probably contributed to McIntyre's slightly wooden Spartacus. He did what he could, but stepping into a lead role already popularized by someone else has got to be a hard row to hoe no matter what & Whitfield was a hard act to follow.) To make matters worse, Batiatus (the brilliant John Hannah), the almost likable rogue who owns the lutus, gets killed off at the end of the first season. As do Batiatus' rival lanista Solonius (excellently played by Craig Walsh-Wrightson) & Spartacus' bumbling friend Varro (Jai Courtney). But what the hey, we still have plenty of great characters left.By end of the second season tho, the remaining characters portrayed with any real depth — the conniving Assyrian Ashur (Nick E Tarabay), Batiatus' scheming wife Lucretia (Lucy Lawless), her snooty airhead frenemy Ilythia (Viva Bianca) & even the indomitably dignified Oenameaus (Peter Mensah) all get whacked too.Tho the script tries to compensate with lots of bombast, the surviving characters become increasingly shallow & the third season rapidly degenerates into a lot of verbal & physical wrangling interspersed with wooden love scenes & otherwise unrelenting slash & bash action. No matter how brilliantly choreographed, after two seasons, all this fighting stuff gets pretty tedious. Two new characters do manage to somewhat enliven the third season tho: Attius (Cohen Holloway), the venal but plainspoken Roman blacksmith who casts his lot with the rebels but — unfortunately — lasts only two episodes & Laeta (Anna Hutchison), the public-spirited young Roman matron who ends up a slave herself. Nevertheless, by the end of the final ep, I was impatient for the mortally wounded Spartacus to just hurry up & finish dying so the series could finally be over.
I had high hopes for this series being a bit of a fan of history. Unfortunately my hopes were dashed after about 20 minutes of the first episode. Poor writing, poor acting and constant anachronisms make it painful at times. While there is a lot of visually impressive elements that may make you think it's better than it is, the obvious bias for violence and sex makes it come across as juvenile and base. Perhaps the most disappointing element is how good it could have been. I would have been happy to overlook the need for the character's to say "Fu*k" in every other sentence and the often fake looking sets if it had just been written a little better. If I'd cared at all about the characters. And considering the wealth of available source material for a great script, the fact that this is what they made is almost unbelievable.


                
Exec "Hey guys, focus groups in the 12-15 year old male demographic( i'm aware that's not a real demographic) love 300 but are WAY bored by all the talking and character development in Rome." Other exec:" Yeah, no kidding! Here's an idea, let's make 300 minus all that silly aesthetic quality and make it ABOUT rome!" First exec: " Yeah! You know what else, let's make every other word of dialogue c**k, p**s, or s**t! Oh and lots, I mean LOTS of boobies!" Second exec " You're such a genius, can i have your babies?" Seriously? Seriously. Now, i like nudity and decapitation as much as the next red blooded American male, but this is ridiculous. No substance in the characters, and what may or may not be good acting is obscured by dialogue so fraught with profanity it sounds like a 12 year old who just learned to swear wrote it. Recycled imagery abounds(he actually screams " I AM SPARTACUS!!!") Pass.


                
If you're into blood spurting all over the place and soft porn scenes at every other turn, then this series is for you. And since this series has received such a high rating (8.8), there must be a lot of people out there who like blood spurting all over the place and soft porn scenes at every other turn. Gets the blood flowing, eh mate (uh, figuratively speaking of course). And oh, those skies over Batiatus' villa. Almost always ominous scudding clouds or dark and gloomy. Makes it seem almost like a supernatural horror flick. The location is supposed to be Capua, near Naples. Southern Italy, you know. Hey I guess back then sunshine there was less frequent. Maybe Vesuvius had recently erupted and spewed up a bunch of ash into the air.Any good points? I found the rendition of 1st century BC Capua with its narrow streets, animals being driven to market, slave sales in the street, the open public latrines where passersby could relieve themselves, the rather primitive amphitheater typical for that time and so forth sufficiently convincing as were the costumes. Did all Romans treat their slaves like subhuman chattel? Some did. Some didn't. Batiatus was clearly one that did.Re the gladiatorial games depicted, most fights to the death were between convicted criminals, not gladiators. Think about it. A man purchasing a slave and having him trained as a gladiator meant that a significant amount of money was invested in the guy.* He was expected to fight skillfully and display his courage in the face of possible death. He was, however, generally not expected to die (kind of like losing a bundle in the stock market). Of course some gladiators did die in the amphitheater, but their chief purpose was to entertain the spectators with skillful fighting, not die a bloody death. Gladiators that lacked skill or showed cowardice were allowed to be killed.The chief problem I have with this series though is there's a lot more to life, even among the Romans, than blood spurting all over the place and soft porn scenes at every other turn. But you won't find it in Spartacus. The characters are pretty one-dimensional. The HBO/BBC series Rome, which takes place chronologically about twenty-five years later, captures ancient Rome with its political and social complexities a lot better that Spartacus does. Admittedly I've only watched Season 1 of Spartacus, and perhaps the series improves in its later seasons. Right now though the series seems aimed chiefly at the high-on-adrenaline crowd.4/10 * BTW there were female gladiators also. Not as many as men, but they did exist.
I really wanted to write this because of my admiration for Andy Whitfield. He was by all estimates in reality a good husband and father. And a hard worker. He started out in engineering and construction and was a late bloomer in show business. He went first mostly into print. He was in his mid-30's when he booked Spartacus and it was his big move. He lasted one season before being tormented and killed by cancer and dying at 39. Just terribly sad. As he told his little children, his body would not work any more he aid. He told them he was like "a butterfly with broken wings." But, on to Spartacus. It's over the top. It fools the eye and does it very well. It is sometimes outrageous and over the top. It lives for one fight scene after the next and one nude scene after the next with not a whole lot in between.Put away your thoughts of Romans, historical accuracy and all that other silliness and just take it for what it is: over the top eye candy. There are places in the screenplay that are just dreadful. Slow, ,moronic and preachy. There were times I wanted to call up the directer and say,"We get it now. You can move on with the story." And some of the dialog is like listening to a couple of Chicago construction workers having a beer after work. It's NOT a masterpiece. It is however very good eye candy and lots of blood and gore. Some people live for it.Now to why I check ed the spoiler alert. I won't spoil any of the plot for anyone. Go see for yourself. BUT, I spent 3 years in film school (a LONG time ago) before I decided I was better off selling condos. I made close friends with a married couple who are still in the business and expert make up artists. (Sci-fi blood and gore a specialty.) The sex scenes are FAKE my friends. Guaranteed.Remember the Seinfeld scene between Jerry and Elaine discussing "faking it?" One time after another she says, "Fake, Fake, Fake." But that's how it is supposed to be. Without going into all the details of SAG & AFTRA regs, contract clauses and exhibitor demands here's the scoop: Frontal female scenes are almost universally done using a mer-kin. Prosthetics and socks and make up for men is very, very common. Some actors (male and female) are assigned body doubles (not stunts) for some scenes either due to restrictions negotiated by their management or due to other personal circumstances. YES, it looks real. NO in mainstream film and TV it is not. It's staged. That's what, in fact, makes it all so "hot" as commenter's have said.Costumers and make up artists work at this fake very hard. They protect their trade secrets. Moreover, producers and directors and even the actors want you to THINK they did all that even though they didn't. Contracts generally specify that actors and crew are prohibited from revealing what was done and how on pain of salary hits and not working.Stage work is different with different rules. And unrated stuff like Caligula, 9 Songs and Intimacy all fall into a different category (and a usually far less profitable one). So enjoy this series and think of Andy who left us all way too soon. Just don't make too much of it.
Such a shame. This show could have been s do good. There's so much wrong with this. I need TV shows to at least try to convince me. First, what bothers me the most is the dialog. What? It's way way too modern and when it isn't, it seems like the dialog is way overdone. "F!=k" is constantly used yet realistically, such a word was never said at the time- especially in that context. At one point a fighter tells, "I'm going to f#&k all your women". What? No. He would have said rape or anything else. Mascara? Why must shows like this have women airbrushed and wearing mascara? These women are older than me yet have no imperfections on their face. Rough them up a bit. At least Waking Dead got that right. Attire. Really? Those are some awfully modern looking clothes. I'm pretty site that polka dots weren't a thing back then. Why do all of the women look like sluts? Wait, why ARE all of the women sluts? Why must there be so much sex? If I wanted to watch a porn I would. That being said, if this show were classified as a porn, it'd be amazing. But.... It's not. Why aren't the men a little dirtier looking? Don't get me wrong, they're hot as hell but men didn't look remotely like that. Seriously, they look like models trying to play the roll of a gladiator. Why are men always naked in these types of films? Really hot but would someone just not make these more real? I hate this show. Can't do it. People need to fact check history before making such a film. Oh and the cgi is horrendous!!That being said... I do love the slow motion effect that it's frequently used and the exaggeration of blood. Win. (Hence the rating of 4)


                
Apparently more people watch this show than watch the terminated Star series "Boss", which was vastly superior on every level. Spartacus cost WAY more to make than "Boss" but still it remained. So I am seriously trying to figure out who watched Spartacus in numbers enough to usurp "Boss" AND justify the high budget and I cannot come to any logical conclusion. Religious folks wont watch it- too much nudity and the "F & C" bombs. Nerds don't watch it because its not sci-fi. Women don't watch it because its too gory and testosterone loaded. Teenagers don't watch it because they're too cynical and are too busy in their school and socials lives. College students don't watch it for the same reason teenagers do along with the fact most college students don't own a TV. Educated people don't watch it simply because its so stupid and pointless. The only demographic I can come up with is older male rednecks. The series is wildly inaccurate on all fronts: dialog, story, history of Rome, geography, gladiators. They steal a lot from the movie 300 with oodles and oodles of semi- naked men with CGI abs, and steroid -fed muscles, ridiculous amounts of ( poorly-rendered) blood gushing, and over- used slow-mo. The F and C words didn't exist at that time, neither did English accents in Rome. By the time the 4th season rolled around SOME of the gratuitous nudity was abated, which obviously was ONLY there for blatant pandering to pervy T&A appeal. The music score never seemed to make up its mind as it meandered from African Tribal to Pseudo- Phrygian Arabic to generic "Roman" ala Miklos Rozsa-to cyber electronica to Barbaresque strings ( think Platoon) . The worst of the post production values was the ADR blending with the folly, sound FX and music tracks: MOst of the dialog was at whisper level which competed with the folly and ambient audio tracks. Whenever there was any type of action sequence the audio program would elevate 6-24dB above the level of the dialog track. I am guessing when the audio was mixed it was done so in surround with the vocal center channel being up too high in the studio for the mixing engineers to make qualified decisions on how the overall mix sounded, OR maybe it was the producers way of glossing over the 2-dimensional script. At any rate, this is the last season-so sorry to see you go.....


                
Almost devoid of merit - only worth viewing if you are turned on by well-oiled body builders.The problems are many: far too low-budget to pull off the visuals (the cheap CGI backdrops are particularly poor), uninteresting plot, banal dialogue, lots of appalling acting from a group of body builders and soft porn actresses. Even the action is of questionable merit - the fighting is straight out of a pulp comic book. I'm disappointed because I first watched the prequel and found it to be quite good. The gods only know how this series managed to make it beyond the pilot. It is only redeemed for TV mediocrity by a reasonably characterful John Hannah.


                
