Such a good show until Whitfield died. It was still decent after, but he definitely left his mark. Surprised this show is 8 years old. The production values were better than other shows made now!


                
I felt skeptical about the upcoming series when I first saw the trailers but thought; maybe it will be better ... the voice-overs did promise greater things. However, from the first episode I felt real disappointment. Rather than being more realistic it's more Hollywood. Yes, it does offer graphic violence - more on that later - and full frontal nudity but it falls short in a number of other areas. But first let me digress to some of the other points: By far the best performance I've enjoyed in this offering is that of John Hannah as Batiatus. His consummate skill as an actor leaves me feeling he deserves more success. His significant other is Lucy Lawless as Lucretia. She is well cast and certainly entertains and keeps up with Hannah. She's beautiful and shows it and comes through feeling like there's a nice bit of underlying intelligence I'd like to know better. One of the most fun characters is Viva Bianca as Ilithyia. She plays the part with a kind of delicious wickedness that's absent malice. She is also quite something special to look at, especially disrobed; which brings us to the male flesh offerings. Andy Whitfield as the title character Spartacus does a credible job but I can't overcome the idea he's in the part because someone in Hollywood thought he'd just look good. His antagonist in much of the episodes I saw is Manu Bennett as the gladiator Crixus and Peter Mensah as Doctore; a sort of gladiator teacher/overseer. Whitfield and Bennett snarl at each other appropriately and put up with full body depilation as their major sacrifice for their art.The costumes, makeup, sets, and other production are rendered with quality if not historic accuracy. Without researching the issue, I find it hard to swallow the prevalence of depilation. It just doesn't ring true to what I recall from studying ancient history. The ancients were rather proud of their body hair as proof of their maturity and not even females shaved anywhere; none of that is evident here. But I suppose it's a minor point but I just felt that it flew in the face of the claims that they were striving for more historic accuracy. That gets us to the gritty parts, the violence, nudity and sex. The violence depicted here is over-the-top Hollywood all the way. The copious amounts of arterial blood that appear at the slightest wounds just smacks of sensationalist violence rather than accuracy. That - the violence - is a subject I know all too much about. Even severing an artery doesn't produce that much blood that fast. The sort of violence in the real world also produces a good deal more gore; not to mention that none of the film makers can ever hope to duplicate the accompanying odors. Worse, to me, by far is the fact that the bloodiest parts seem to be uniformly rendered in slow motion; thereby seeming to emphasize the bloodiest violence as the most important part of the offering. This aspect disappointed me the most.The nudity and sex are more realistic than likely anything that has been presented by the modern media thus far, but it still falls far short of the reality of those times. Nudity then was a lot more prevalent, a lot more common and a lot more matter-of-fact.I found it curious that the violence is far more emphasized that any other part of the equation; even the nudity and sex. I had the certain thought that if the sex were given an emphasis equal to that of the violence then we'd be treated to full screen sized vaginas opening in slow motion. It all left me feeling that the sad fact is that violence - even the most brutal types of depictions - are still far more socially acceptable than the relatively calm and peaceful pursuits involving nudity and sex. That still feels like an indictment against modern society. At least the ancients were more-or-less uniformly and honestly depraved. If I watch the remainder of the series it will more than likely be to enjoy the non-violent performances of Hannah, Lawless and Bianca. They are the best of it.


                
I just finished watching the first season, and I must say that if this show gets better and better with each episode (and it does), then the last episode is simply outstanding! I don't remember being so thrilled and excited at the end of any season of any show. The first episode is a bit weak, but after that there is simply no decline for this show. At first it might seem that there is too much blood, sex and violence, but later it becomes a crucial factor to the atmosphere of the story. More than once I was surprised by the complicated twists to the seemingly simple storyline, and found myself guessing the outcome. To sum it all up: This show has a unique atmosphere, an amazing script, great sound track, beautifully choreographed fights, and even the acting is good! My hopes are that the next season will be at least just as good as the first one.


                
I stayed away from this show initially, after viewing Episode 1. It was weak, over the top and overall bad. Episodes 2-3 were not much better and I thought this show was as good as canceled.However starting around Episode 4-5 the show gained immense momentum. It became a much more accurate (well not as accurate as HBO's Rome) portrayal of a society extremely different from our own, where what we now considered morals were non-existent. Remember this happens before Christianity and widespread Judaism, so morality is of a different nature.The show is violent, bloody, almost pornographic and extremely incorrect from a 21st century political point of view, but at the same time it feels fresh, bold and unchained by the conventions most shows shove down our throats. It's as much a step forward in TV shows and BG was a few years ago. The characters are maybe not as humanized as we are used to, but considering the period they have the level of depth required (with a few exceptions - Crixus and Doctore which I find a bit bland).Combat is bloody, over the top and uncensored, this is not a show you should let your 10 year old watch. Sex is treated as just another commodity, human flesh is bought and sold by the pound.The writing starts off weak but as you gain accustomed to the style (which matches the writings of the period to a degree) it begins to grow on you. The different speech patterns and expressions help with immersion, help transport you to the society that, along with Greece, gave birth to our modern Western civilization.My only complaint, besides the slow start, is actually about the main character. He seems too flat, even when rebellious. I feel it's not the writing but the actor.
This show is entertaining - if you like action scenes - but historically inaccurate. There is too much gutter language, and the characters use vulgar Anglo-Saxon terms that were unknown in the Roman/Latin culture. A bit more historical research would improve this show - as would some variety in the sets. The costumes are historically accurate. The actors are attractive and the show is fun to watch. There is a bit too much repetition of the gladiator fights. Also, many of the scenes are too talky and run much too long. Where was the scene timer? Also, the "outdoor" scenes are obviously done on stages. More back lot scenes and more variety in the situations would improve this show.


                
I personally loathed the Stanley Kubrick version of this tale. . .although he was a great director, for sure, it was still the early 60s, and studios hadn't gotten over the Quo Vadis, Ben Hur slog that mandated stories set in the Ancient World had to be viewed through that 50s, Judeo-Christian mindset, even if the story itself had nothing to do with Jesus or the early Christians (just watch the opening of Kubrick's movie to see what I mean). Here, the producers at Starz have created what many thought at first must be a rip-off of 300, complete with poor script, green screen effects, and pointless sex. And that's what I thought at first as well. . But keep watching! Believe me when I say , it gets so much better. Around episode 4 or so, the writing takes a gigantic leap in terms of quality, the acting starts to crystallize as the performers grow comfortable in their roles, and you start to forget that there isn't actually an ampitheatre there (surely saving the show millions in production costs, unlike the doomed HBO series Rome). The story, for the most part, is set in a Ludus (gladiator training school) and the Domus (townhouse) attached to it, in the Roman city of Capua in southern Italy in about 80 BCE. The townhouse and training school are owned by Quintus Batiatus (John Hannah), a scheming social climber, aided and abetted by his equally ambitious wife, Lucretia (Lucy Lawless). Into their world comes Claudius Glaber, a Legatus (commander) in the Army of the Republic. Fearful of losing the opportunity to defeat Mithridates, King of Pontus, menacing the Roman colonies in Asia, Glaber breaks his promise to destroy the barbarian tribes threatening the homes of his Thracian soldiers, who rebel when he orders them to march to Asia Minor. Those rebels not killed are taken in chains back to Italy, to be executed in the arena for treason, it just so happens, in Capua, home of Senator Albinius, father of Glaber's wife, Ilythia. All are killed quite quickly in gladiatorial combat, all, that is, except for the very man who led the rebellion in the first place. Watching the executions is Batiatus, keen on winning favor with the Roman elite by providing ever more sophisticated blood sports for popular festivals. As the rebel kills every single gladiator sent to do him in, Batiatus is duly impressed, and offers to buy him from Glaber. As a pretense, he insists that the rebel won't last two weeks among his school of professional gladiators. The man, whose name no one has cared to ask, is thus inducted into the Ludus, and given the name Spartacus, "after that Thracian king of old". The rest of the series lets the viewer into a front row seat to the hellish world of the unluckiest of the unlucky in Ancient Rome. The Senators, schemers, Kings and Queens, Emperors and Courtesans are all pushed into the background as we see the stories of the 90+ percent of people in the Roman world; the slaves, the poorest of the poor, and the people just above them on the social ladder, struggling to climb up while equally terrified of falling into the abyss. This is the story of human beings who have lost even the designation of "human being", to become, in effect, living tools, sacrificial entertainment for the wealthiest of the wealthy, or sex toys for bored housewives. It is an unforgiving, despicable world, but not without it's points of light and levity. These people love their children very much, treasure their husbands and wives, and fight for what they think is right. They also have no qualms about watching a man be brutally slaughtered for their child's entertainment. This show is heavy on the blood and sex, sure. But that doesn't mean it isn't also a deep character study of people making a life in one of the worst situations imaginable. It's also one of the most frank depictions of life for the slaves and the downtrodden in the ancient world that I've ever seen.
What is nice writing and execution for season 1.
And i do say that you should stop watching there and then you feel like starting a different series all together from season 2.
I sustain the special season for greater good of further episodes but i do demand a proper/correct ending.
Some episodes are written like giving cheat codes to Roman. Specially crassus being on advantage multiple time. Caesar is another character written with some super powers.
Just finished Episode 10 of "Vegeance" with a degree of sadness. So much guilty pleasure now gone. Nothing like homo-erotic tits'n'ass softporn mixed with vats of fake blood, hacked limbs, ingenious death strokes (the guy who got his face chopped off: outfrickingstanding!) and more conspiracy than November 22, 1963. But, as I feared, all of my favorite characters died. (SPOILER) That's because I find the evil Romans far more interesting than the virtuous slaves. "Vengeance," like "Arena" before it, was jammed with villains I loved to hate and nominal heroes I hated to love; the ignoble Romans had a variety of character flaws with saving attributes-- their motives were base but believable, their actions debauched but presented without hypocrisy, their manipulations far more creative, their energy levels far more sustained than the competition on the other side of the line. Spartacus, now played by Liam McIntyre, has become a pompous bore, speechifying at a moment's notice about all the words that came through the rain in shouts to Lt. Henry in "Farewell to Arms," while Crixus is a baby, Doctore doesn't have much to do and Gannicus is far too pretty and shallow. And, yes, the slow-mo eruptions of corn-syrup plasma do become tiring. More importantly, how will the series survive without (SPOILERS) Glabus and Ashur the Syrian, much less Lucretia (it does look like Ilytheia has survived, and perhaps she'll arrive in "War of the Damned" as Crassus's new mistress; and speaking of Crassus, whoever plays him in "Damned" better have some chops. I could see John Hannah, in modest disguise, for he had the snivelly cunning necessary, and it would be a help, as this year certainly missed his diabolical energy.) Still, with great episodes in three and four and the sudden, bloody demise of simpering Seppia lighting up nine, it offered enough pleasure to get a little more than by. I thought the vine gag to get the boys off Vesuvias was thin, and Glabus vs. Spartacus not much in sword choreography and the flying fireball machines a little too convenient as force multipliers The whole ending was thin, except for Lucretia's death dive, an unexpected moment exactly appropriate revelatory magnificence. I will indeed pony up for "Damned," in hopes that DeKnight can regain the tragic yet epic grace of the original. But Doctore DeKnight, get us a Crassus equal to Olivier's; what about . . . Christian Bale?
Overall, I was pretty impressed with this show. I was expecting it to be full of sex and violence; that sort of material is characteristic of channels like Starz and HBO. I was, however, pleasantly surprised with the amount of emotion and tension outside of the prevalence of the arena. I'm not saying that it was always well done; rather, it added an unexpected element amongst the constant blood. However, I do think that the sex did at times become a bit much. I get that the Romans were enthusiastic about sex, but I didn't really need to see them orgy all over the place. The cast was excellent as well, and the CGI, though iffy at times, was quite good. I wouldn't really call this a spoiler, but there is a moderate of penis in this movie. It didn't bother me, but some people may be offended, especially given the fact that one of the primary characters likes to flaunt his junk a little too much. I would recommend giving it a try. But, uh, you should be like 17 or something. Just check out the content advisory.


                
Since I get Starz on Demand for free due to some tiny extra payment on my cable plan, it's generally my biggest source of movies and other time-wasters while I'm waiting for something else better to do. No offense to Starz in particular, because that's all TV is to me these days. Filler-time until something else comes up.I started seeing previews for Spartacus in front of my movies and was instantly intrigues and slightly troubled that they seemed to be taking notes from 300 a bit too much. A lot of people add "Gladiator" to the mix, but Spartacus has enough differences in story... so I disagree. However, the "300" inspiration is painfully obvious.Now, I liked 300 for the most part, minus that borderline pornographic sex scene... And now Spartacus is trying to take too many notes and try to fit in at least one sex scene, one set of breasts and maybe one bare penis for good measure at least in every single episode. I'll never understand this. Yes, sex happens from time to time, we get it. I'm not going to sit here and type "Think of the children!" because I'm a 21 year old who STILL thinks there's no room for it in this.The worst part is, they seem to be trying to hard. It's like all the sex was filmed after the REAL episode and everyone thought "Let's just plug this in anywhere". 90% of the sex in this has no place. Scenes like that should be used sparingly, and it's not.Pointless sex aside, the rest is admirable. Good actors, they all seem to fit in the role they're in. I don't mind the liberal use of slow-motion, but can understand how it might be annoying for some people. Like the sex, the slow-motion should get some more careful use. Still, I find it neat.The actual character development could use improvement but the story seems to be going forward rather well. I don't expect this to last more than a season or two, but it'll be a fun ride.
Highly entertaining. Action, sex and scandal outweigh the poor dialogue and poor acting. I imagine it's what Xena would have been like had it been filmed now instead of the 90's. Lucy Lawless and the cast all do fantastic jobs.Season 2 is not nearly as good though. Not without trying as there seems to be 10x's more gore and nudity than season 1.Andy Whitfield's replacement, Liam is totally miscast. He's underweight, younger looking and has soft facial features which make you miss Andy all the more. Every time he's onscreen I find myself wondering how much better it would have been.Andy Whitfield would have been a star no doubt, and it's incredibly sad he passed before his star had fully risen.RIP Andy.


                
Now and then there comes along a series that captures the imagination of the viewers, and becomes a phenomenon, whether mainstream hit or elevated to cult show status, there's something in it that captures the attention and imagination and sets itself apart from the others. This is one of those series. The extensive blood and gore, computer generated to staggering levels, along with plenty of sex scenes and semi and full nudity, will guarantee that the viewing figures will be high, but add to the fact that once the adult comic-book violence slightly lessens after episode three or four, the plot becomes far more character-driven, and you start to see that this is one of those rare things - an original TV show. Don't get me wrong, there is still an abundance of extremely graphic violence, nudity and sex, enough to shake the proverbial stick at, but steadily more and more detail is given to character development and the dramatisation of the known historical events. Decadence abounds as if lifted directly from the script of Caligula (1979) and the gladiators stride around like extras from 300 (2006). There's no subtlety to this series, there's no doubt who are the 'goodies' and who are the 'baddies', you're not expected to work hard in trying to find any 'hidden meaning' in any event, it's all there in front of you. Don't get me wrong, that's not a criticism. This series delivers what it promises in every way, just like other series or films have in the past - but what makes this series different and stand apart from the others is in the manner in which it delivers. They even take the trouble to try to couch the script into translated Latin syntax, which can sound a bit cumbersome at times, but adds to the uniqueness of this show.'Spartacus: Blood and Sand' is bound to invite criticism from many, but taken at face value it's a adult comic-book series come to life, and as such I enjoyed it. The acting in the early episodes can be cringe-worthy at times, but persevere - it does get better, and along the way there are some good performances. In particular John Hannah comes across as wonderfully corrupt and scheming. In short, if you liked Gladiator and 300, give this a go and you shouldn't be disappointed.I'm looking forward to series two, and wish Andy Whitfield a speedy recovery and return to work.
There is a cultural war going on and the anticipated debut of Spartacus will fuel much heated debate. Our country is deeply polarized, and although many from either side of the divide will be watching Spartacus, they will be watching from polar opposite points of view.First off, Spartacus is filled with what people are drawn to ... there are men and women in high degree of physical development with plenty of nudity and semi nudity to help display those assets. There is a plethora of violence well filmed and directed, interspersed with copious quantities of hot and sweaty sex. If you like blood and macho, this is your ticket. If you like straight up lusty sex, you're also going to love Spartacus. So where does the cultural divide come into play? Lots of people, both conservative and liberal love or secretly love violence and sex. Liberals often claim to be repulsed by violence but appreciate displays of sexuality, and Conservatives love violence but claim to be repulsed by free sexuality. Well there's the rub ... people from both sides will be loving this show but for one reason or another they'll be preaching against it. Admittedly I am a liberal, but the violence in Spartacus doesn't repulse me. The violence here is performed by men who are capable of fantastic physical acts. In general I'm opposed to violence, but when it comes from raw muscle power, I at least find it interesting. The violence and threats of violence that arm chair conservatives love is purchased from gun manufacturers. Guns allow those who are generally unsuited for actual human combat to feel like powerful people. Guns grant the weakest among us the pretense of macho without investing the time or discipline to actually develop it. The danger of guns is that it makes cowards and cripples into pseudo supermen - at least in their own minds ... And when those acts of gun fueled violence manifest it is usually the innocent that suffer. Ancient Rome revered the human body for all that it was capable of - violence and the love of flesh included. Spartacus revels in the gore of combat and the sweet smell of human sexuality. Combat was used as the measure of a man. There was unabashed sex for everyone with sufficient beauty to pay the price of admission. Spartacus' first hour episode has a touch of boy on boy sex, a large splash of girl on girl along with noblewoman on sexy smelly gladiator. It will give the right wing plenty to complain about, and the more they will protest the immorality of homosexuality and free sex, the larger the crowd watching it will become. I'm going to love the ensuing cultural debate.Garth Libre


                
The Seven Star Only goes for the flawless first Season. The blood and nudity is great and fit the shows style and aesthetics perfect.
Sadly after Andy's passning after the first Season the show becomes a Real downer In quality. The physique and acting skills of the new spartacus actor Is far from the original blood crazed spartacus we come to know.
Blood is far less and nudity is more sparse.
Sadly that is the main drawing to this show.
A Wicked Caligula soft erotic bloody spectacle
That i loved. Now its even worse then the last season of GOT
I was pleasantly surprised by this mini-series. On first impression you assume it is a Rome rip-off, quite badly done while overusing 300 style visual effects and throwing in far too much nudity.Those of us who get off on scoffing at historical (and geographic) inaccuracies are richly catered for. But that was to be expected when recreating such a famous tale on a small budget. Unlike the 300 it didn't bother me that the entire cast spent half the film wearing nothing but banana hammocks, as they spent the other half fully naked, so you were relieved they were at least wearing budgie smugglers for the some of the time.But, and this is a big but, actually if you can overlook the lack of a wardrobe department, the plot is quite good! The dialogue is for the most part believable, there are plenty of twists and turns to keep you guessing. It is basically a pretty good yarn.A note of warning, I was disappointed that the sequel 'gods of the arena' did not pick up the story where blood and sand finished. I don't think it's a spoiler to say that events leading up to Spartacus' revolt, where blood and sand finished, is only half the story. The historical Spartacus went on to raise a slave / gladiator army, rout a couple of legions against the odds but was ultimately defeated by Crassus once Rome awoke to the danger. Worthy of a sequel, or even a movie I'd say. Oh wait a minute, did someone make that already?Blood and Sand is no 'Rome', but worthy of a couple of hours of your time.


                
