I can't stand much of whats on TV. What I love about this show is the amount of sensuality and poetry it brings to the table, while not being sensory with respect to sexuality, violence, and ethics. I usually hate romance, but the romance in this movie is genuine, there are several forms of love and lust that are identified in the episodes. The fact that they have homosexuality in it despite possible conflicting interest--what would seem to attract small target audience--does suggest a good portrayal of sexuality at that time (Although i doubt that only a couple of them would be subject to homosexual lust because many of the mentors and mentees mated at that time).As a previous rater stated, the characters have shades of evil and good. Their ethics seems to match what values were imbedded in the roman civilization. The reason there is so much blood and it over indulges is because the show not only explicitly includes sensual dialogue, but the way it is directed and the tactics of capturing violence and glory are not 2D and speak to its sensuality. Bottom line: if you are a passionate person, you will enjoy the dramatic dialogue and poetry, the sexuality, and the brutality.


                
I've been looking very forward to the Starz original series "Spartacus: Blood and Sand." And I'm happy to say that if you were looking forward to it, you're in for a wild ride.They tell you right in the front of this show that this is meant to be an intense depiction of Rome. And it is to a certain point. There is definitely a ton of blood, language, and sexuality (one of the female characters is fully naked), but it is all there for a reason and it defines the characters, shows you who they are.Many won't like this the same way they didn't like 300. And I can say that no one will be able to watch this without thinking about 300, and that's the biggest flaw. It has a speed up slow motion and blood flowing everywhere. It is one of the most graphic TV shows I've ever seen.However, if you liked 300 (which I did) and you see the slow motion as a way to rise the intensity and that the graphic violence/sexual content is meant to connect with the characters towards some degree, you will enjoy this show. But it's not only a story full of blood and gore and sex and nudity; it also has a lot of character to it and a lot of substance.Andy Whitfield is brilliant as "Spartacus." He drives the character and makes you feel for him. His acting is perfect. In fact, all the actors are incredible, including Lucy Lawless, Craig Parker, and John Hannah.The battle scenes in this show are outstanding. Again, very bloody, 300 style battles, but still entertaining. The gladiator fights are well shot and very gritty.I know it's television and the visuals aren't always the best, best the visuals in this show are gorgeous. There was one moment where it looked like a video game, but only for a second.it's not only a story full of blood and gore and sex and nudity; it also has a lot of character to it and a lot of substance.So if you like sword and sandal epics and you don't mind gore and nudity, Spartacus: Blood and Sand is the show for you. I personally thought it was a fun, kick ass, macho show, and while it does have a little too much sex and reminds me a lot about 300, it'll definitely keep my attention for the next episode.Spartacus: Blood and Sand airs on Friday at 10 o' clock on Starz.


                
Now, let's face the elephant in the room; there's a lot of sex, a lot of blood, a lot of gore, and a lot of foul mouthed characters. I for one couldn't care less about this, but in no way does it diminish it's writing; in fact, it enhances it.This show does a very good job depicting the brutality of the ancient Roman society without political correctness standing in it's way. Watch as sick schemes, plots, and breathtaking twists unfold with the help of very dynamic character development. One thing about this show is that it's not afraid to kill off main characters, and if anyone is familiar with the history of Spartacus, you would know that a few characters, their death is inevitable. So not much of a spoiler there.The writers wrote into this at a amazing angle. Now, the Spartacus legend has adopted this mob mentality in the house of Batiatus, which all comes together beautifully. Batiatus and his wife Lucretia is a match made in hell. You'll see their true love burn bridges and form allies with unpredictable consequences. All the while Spartacus is adapting to becoming a gladiator, not knowing nor having any intention of becoming the leader of the largest slave rebellion that waged war against Rome. It doesn't follow history to the point where it's educational, but it does manage to fill in the blanks about the story of Spartacus with an outstanding imagination. All that being said, this show does have a few flaws. The armor in the show is pretty much pointless; even a butter knife can penetrate it. Aside from a few scenes in the second season & third season, there really isn't any real military tactics used at all in the battle scenes like we saw in Troy or in 300. They usually consist of slow motion swinging and grunting followed by poor CGI. The language seems to be a mixture of Shakespeare and Pulp Fiction, which may ruin the immersion for a moment. But you shouldn't allow that to stop you from watching this, nor should the mediocre pilot, because believe me; it gets way better. Spartacus consists of four total seasons, including Gods Of The Arena, which is a total of 39 episodes. Watching the vast plots, characters, environments, twists and emotionally captivating scenes will leave you hanging at the edge of your seat. You will get consumed in this exciting, disturbing, sad, psychotic f*cked up roller coaster and you'll love every minute of it.


                
Overall all the four series are visually stunning. The show was meant to have a graphic novel look. The stunt co-ordination is outstanding. Costumes are magnificent. The score is beautiful. The acting on this show is stellar. The actors gave it their all. Unafraid to show raw emotions, and yet be capable of subtle expressions as well. The writing, well my rating says it all, very impressive. The linguistics on the show has a subtle modern-English quality that flows easily, is accessible to everyone, and gives it an historical flavor. The show encompasses plenty of gender role reversals situations. Gay relationships are not seen as a big deal. Indeed completely normal, and beautiful as shown with Agron and Nasir. FYI: the sex scenes(not rape scenes) on this show are smokin hot! Sensual. Well done. I've seen people call this show nothing but pornography. Makes me wonder if they've ever seen a porn flick? I say no they haven't. But if I'm wrong and they have, and still see this is porn, take it as an alert of their low-brow personality no matter how superior they try and sound. Once those words break, the cat's out of the bag, run for the hills and find better friends. PORN IS ONLY ABOUT SEX. They aren't even well done to begin with! Not hot. Not sensual! It's only about the next sex scene....and the next sex scene....and the next sex scene...... etc. with bad everything else. THIS SHOW IS ABOUT THE STORY-LINES, with stellar acting and top-notch everything else. Can you see the difference now? If not I feel sorry for your brain that it's so hard for you to tell. Well not really, but I'm amused at people's stupidity.>>>>>>>>>>>>>Spartacus Blood and SandThe writing first season was a thing of beauty. Filled with richly weaved plots and intrigue. There are shocking and surprising, moments which make you want stand up and cheer because of how damn good it feels to be stunned and wowed! Andy Whitfield doesn't have many lines, but he has this way of expressing his feelings and emotions with eyes and facial expressions. Lucy Lawless and John Hannah stole the show as Lucretia and Batiatus. They are the best characters in season one. Their ambitions drives them to do outrageous terrible things. Yet they are utterly devoted to one another.These two characters are multilayered with emotions, and you see that they aren't necessary as evil as one may think. It's a testament of stellar acting to get across the screen to the viewers villainous characters that do despicable things, and yet the audience, though they don't excuse them, empathize with them, and even love them. There is a built up of all the plots which explodes into a powerful season finale. 10/10>>>>>>>>>>>>> Spartacus VengeanceIn Vengeance two new actors came in. Liam McIntyre as Spartacus. Cynthia Addai-Robinson as Naevia. A little jarring at first, but after a while I got use to them. They did a respectable job holding up the integrity of the characters that were played by different actors in season one. There are some plots holes, and well frankly I had to suspend my disbelief at times because there were some unbelievable things taking place, or characters doing dumb things. Spartacus speeches were necessary I suppose, but after a ga-billion of them, it got tiring. The running around the woods scenes, bored me too tears. There were rape scenes(implied one scene) of the same character 3 episodes straight. What a turn-off that was! Even offensive! Lucy Lawless does an impeccable job playing mad Lucretia, switching from crazy to lucid with complete ease. You never know for sure if she's really crazy or just pretending. The season builds up to a climax with all story lines and characters coming full circle in the season finale, save for the war itself. 7/10>>>>>>>>>>>>> Spartacus War of the Damned In War of the Damned, the richly woven writing from season one and the prequel is back. Liam McIntyre really comes into his own playing Spartacus. Watching him strategize against Crassus kept me glued to the television. There were some other story lines I wasn't too crazy about, such as Gannicus falling for his hero worshipping stalker, Sibyl. The powerful Romans appearing bumbling in their formations was not believable. There are once again some shocking, even disturbing moments. The show culminates into a final battle that is both sad and touchingly beautiful. 9/10>>>>>>>>>>>>> GOTA has a different IMDb, but I gave it a 10. My last thoughts are that of Andy Whitfield. I think the series honoured the legacy that he left behind with his brilliant performance in season one. Kudos all the way around!8.6 average which I rounded up to 9/10
Appropriately being played at past 11 o'clock at night, this show could have easily escaped this reviewer's attention, despite its announcement during the day. However, I am glad I did not miss it - and these words come from a man who despises shows. Spartacus has been a drug since the first episode, and proved popular not only with my testosterone filled male friends, but with the females as well.Spartacus has everything that today's public truly desires: violence, sex and a good story, ironically the same things we desired back in the Roman times when the sand was wet with blood in the arenas. And Spartacus is better than other productions that offer the same because Spartacus simply offers ten times more of it. The episodes do not drag on trying to stretch the material beyond its worth, like most other shows do. It is intense. The show warns at the beginning that it is simply violent because it is trying to portray realistically the life in Roman times. Nice excuse, but in true series' fashion I would like to say, "what a load of @*$%". The show simply shows what the public wants to be shown, and we thank it for it.The acting and script is brilliant, not without flaws, but nonetheless brilliant. Sometimes the character development is hard to buy; the naked warriors in the snow make you wonder if the show decided to disregard the laws of physics and commons sense, but those flaws are quickly overshadowed by the awesomeness of the acting and the interesting plot twists. The metaphors of the plot are thought-provoking, yet do not require one to turn the brain on to the fullest like some of the productions that try to be deep and artistic rather than simply entertain. We see a few familiar actor names return in this epic journey and they bring it to life marvelously, but the B-folks do their job a well.The visual style of the show borrows much from the blood festival of a movie from 2006 called 300 and, speaking of the blood, it could have been a bit more realistic looking. Nonetheless this fakeness soon becomes a welcome signature style for the rest of the show, which quite frankly overshadows the movie 300 and makes it look like a rip-off from Spartacus.Spartacus is not a horror movie, but the youngest of the youngest probably should not watch this sobering spectacle. Spartacus is not for the older ones either as the violent and sexual filler (the purpose of teenagers' lives) is too great and the story is not of fine flavour, like a good wine, but rather of an overwhelming taste, like a big juicy steak - great for some, but others just can't chew through it.Edit: it seems the website played a prank. This review is NOT for Spartacus Vengeance. It is for the Blood and Sand and the prequel. It looks like someone changed titles. Vengeance is nothing like the first seasons. Extremely cheap and dodgy dialogue. Story convenient and simplistic...Yakh


                
It was an amazing show, not recommended to a family members.


                
It's an amazing TV series and it's worth watching. The story as well as the scenes are excellent.


                
Have to say that while this has the feel of somewhat lesser than the likes of 300. it has many of the same elements if they lack the same polish who am i to complain. I love this genre of story telling, there is something great about Romans and their debacherous lives and lack of respect for other humans they consider beneath them. Spartacus has all the makings of something great. compared to a lot of drib drab TV we are subjected to these days its quite refreshing to have your senses blasted with raw Spartacus action. * Awesome fight scenes. complete with slow mo blood splatters/fountains, * lots of nudity, and its not all all girls there definitely something for the ladies too. maybe a bit too much nudity actually. story line is interesting enough with enough going on to distract you from the predictable end game. Acting is very good, apart from a few New Zealand accents that went clang in my ears . Lucy Lawless and John Hannah do a great job, and really sell their ambitions to rise in status and wealth. and who would of thought good Ole Lucy Lawless was going to get her gears off at 42, but thank you Lucy. much appreciated :) probably deserves an R18 rating but for those of age.. definitely worth a watch.
Liam McIntyre is no Spartacus. Andy Whitfield (R.I.P.) turned out to be irreplaceable. I wonder why Vengeance (Season 2) and Blood and Sand (Season 1) have a single rating. These two seasons are so different from each other that they deserve separate ratings. And the new season doesn't deserve anything above 5.Dialogues are stupid and pompous, action doesn't move and what is presented as a leader of gladiators is nothing but a pretty face attached to a clumsy untrained body. The true spirit of Spartacus was destroyed by an epic casting fail. And unfortunately neither Crixus nor Doctore can save it.


                
Spartacus: Blood And Sand Season 1 review I watched this series with great reluctance, having been urged to do so by my 20 year old son. Episode 1 actually does it a disservice, being overly influenced by 300. Gratuitous, slo-mo violence and gore, and a stunning palette of colours. I declined to watch it again. However. As luck would have it, I walked into the room when episode 5 was on weeks later. Mocked, sat for a few minutes intending to depart. And was hooked. By the incredible dialogue, brilliant acting and excellent casting. I have watched every episode of season 1 since. When I saw the finale- we were actually clutching each other and shouting at the TV.I would URGE people to see 'Spartacus: Blood and Sand'. Take a deep breath as regards the violence and nudity. Because plot,dialogue and character-wise? This was redolent of the best of English theatre acting, such as the Royal Shakespeare Company, or the National Theatre.John Hannah- an actor I have never rated- was MAGNIFICENT as Battiatus, the owner of the Ludus (gladiator camp).Cunning, ambitious,humorous, vicious. Villainous, yet at times getting the audience's sympathy. Lucy Lawless was a revelation as his wife, Lucretia. I loved her in Xena, but would have pegged her as a light comedy actress. But here? She showed a range and power that made me long for some theatre producer to grab both her and Hannah and get them to do 'MacBeth'.Yes, Lucy Lawless would make a phenomenal Lady Macbeth, based on her performance over this series.Lawless and Hannah are playing complex,three dimensional characters. As are the rest of the cast. Ordinarily, in a show like this,you get a great lead character, then one or two good ones and the supporting characters are two dimensional. Not here. The writers-led by Stephen DeKnight, fleshed out a good 15-20 characters. The casting directors then did an incredible job in finding the actors to portray them. Characters like Crixus, Barca, Varro, Ithylia, Doctore, Solonius, Naevia,Ashur, Mira, and of course Spartcus (Andy Whitfield) make this a powerful ensemble.Experienced character actors who usually don't get to have the story focused on them, took the opportunity and ran with it. The level of talent is on par with HBO's 'Rome', and at times exceeds it.I grew up on 'I,Claudius' and would have said there would never be a series about historical events in ancient Rome that could match it.Wrong. 'Spartacus:Blood and Sand' is 'I,Claudius' on steroids. Its 'Rome' on crack. Watching it as a viewer became addictive. I will be bingewatching the other series that make up the whole 'War of the Damned'.The main actors should have been nominated for Emmys,was a travesty that it didn't get the full range of prestigious TV awards. It should have got a Peabody Like Battlestar Galactica. Awesome


                
Sometimes i feel like banging my head against the wall especially when you read some of the reviews on here........"OMG the swearing""OMG the sex""OMG the CGI"And then i just get bored.OK rant over but lets start with some simple things as some people continually focus on just ONE aspect. If you are on the border of whether to watch this or not I will try and help you:Sex - there is a lot........no there isn't!! I timed the 1st episode yes I was bored and frustrated with bias reviews, there is maybe 2-3 minutes of simulation. This carries on for the next 3 episodes. OK through out there is constant breast/penis etc but after a while you get bored of it and are paying attention to the script.CGI - Don't know how to spell it out to some people - this is exactly how this is meant to look, and they get it perfectly right. Its meant to be a comic book. Anyone who is a comic fan will notice all the effects used. Blurred back grounds, the front on shot (when they are fighting), over the top blood. Geeze people really need to sometimes relax and try to enjoy things.The acting and characters are also very solid. The characters are well thought out and after the 5th episode you can see the development. Someone really summed it up - all the characters are a shade of grey. The 1st few episodes is all "Ahhhhhhh poor Spartacus", the second and 3rd are all like "My god that guy is a bastard - kill him Spartacus, kill him NOW", but after its "Well he's not soooo bad" and this is great.This show falls into the Fun genre - if you like serious don't bother with this, if you like your Smallvilles, 2 and a half men, big bang theory etc and you also like swords, this is for you9/10
The Good= Spartacus delivers! When I saw the first episode, I was hooked. Yes, it had the cheesy 300 CGI, but it had the awesome messenger of the Persians and plenty of action! Spartacus is full of blood, gore, sex, and profanity. This is NOT a show for your kids. However, it isn't supposed to be! There are plenty of other themes and conflicts going on with the plots and subplots to give this show credibility, besides the violence/sex. Many people complain about that--"the show is just boobs and blood". Well, it has plenty of those, and maybe a bit too much, but the actors and script are amazing for such a show. Each episode is better than many actual movies in theaters. I can forgive the CGI blood, the overused naked people, gay love affairs, etc. when the script and historical setting are this well-written and interesting. Overall, a fantastic and bold show that I have longed to see on TV since I was a kid.The Bad= Some of the dialogue is funny, and borders on absurdity, with all the F-bombs and 4 letter words. However, I assume the writers are trying to make it realistic to today's viewers who hear the same banter in daily life, and we are to assume that this is just a rendition of whatever crude profanity and insults they might have used. The CGI is cheesy, I admit, but probably works easier with their budget and production. I can deal with it, as much of it is done for effect or even to change to the next scene, after a deadly gladiator match. To me, the pros far outweigh the cons for this show, as long as you can deal with adult subjects and nudity/violence.The Ugly= So sad that Andy Whitfield died, and had to be replaced, as well as Naevia. The creators did a GREAT job, however, of throwing out a short prequel season that ended up being as good or arguably better than the regular seasons. Gannicus was introduced as the total bad- ass that he was, and we got to see the beginnings of the devious Batiatus and the deadly Oenameus.
That was just a great great first season. Not for the weak of heart and certainly sometimes as close to porn on TV that you will see, but what fun. The story line is complex and all of the character development is dense and interesting.The last episode "KILL THEM ALL!". After twelve episodes of watching these horrible Roman's you want to see the entire Roman civilization destroyed. Even though we know where this is all going to end- who could forget "I am Spartacus! No I am Spartacus. NO I'M SPARTACUS", it will be loads of fun getting there.This could be STARZ biggest hit and I can't wait for the new season.


                
A story of a Thracian warrior who suffered cruelty from Romans: separated from his wife, turned into slave and condemned to die as a gladiator. Told that he could regain freedom and reunite with his wife, he rose as a formidable gladiator and champion of the arena. But his wife was killed and learned it as machination of his Roman Dominus. Then he began his plot of vengeance and desire to free all enslaved by Romans. Its an action/drama series with compelling characters filled with emotions, epic fight scenes, violence blood, and sexuality. The gratuitous nudity, poor production value and the horrible first few episodes could make you think to stop watching. But the story telling and the character build up are so effective that you'll find yourself attached to series and struggles of Spartacus. It gets better and better every episode on every aspect.But why is it phenomenal? It may not have the most grandiose effects, and sets; but it is true to its style and has the best entertainment value for the sword-and-sandals genre. At the last episode you'll realize how crucial are the previous and the once-you-thought unnecessary scenes to give you the most heart wrenching yet satisfying finale of epic proportions! A must see!
Spartacus was probably one of the best television series I have ever watched in my life. So good I had to, for the first time, write about a TV show. It really draws your attention and you can't take your eyes off the screen until the show is over. Production is amazing, great cgi, great stunts that bring lots of reality to the fight and war scenes. The plot and script are perfect. Lots of twists, drama, action, some soft porn (sometimes they do exaggerate to bring up the audience) and all the ingredients needed on a good TV show. Somehow the production managed to put together a great cast of no well known actors, but they all blended in perfectly and really got into the characters. Great acting from the main actors. To bad the first Spartacus died (the actor) on season one, he was better (more believable) tham the second guy, but the show managed to keep it up and honor him with a great season two and three. The side stories are very good too. Bring lots or realism into the show, showing how corrupted Roman society was. Really gets your attention. I could go on and on, but to make it short: WATCH IT and draw your conclusions. Don't listen to the haters or the so called critics that have never done anything, but criticize!


                
The 1st season was frigging awesome. But after the unfortunate death of lead actor Andy Whitfield, they were left with no choice but to chase the reputation left by 1st season. For me the 1st season was 9 stars. 7 and 8 stars for 2nd and 3rd seasons respectively.Now the show itself is very memorable. The acting is bit awkward. Soundtracks are really emotional, so is the story itself. The plot is the most attracting part of the show. They've managed to achieve greatness in portraying violence despite cheap special effects. Another awkward part of the show is the porn level nudity. It is big downer for the show.I'd really like to see another remake in distance future.


                
This show has all mankind needs. Sex, love, hate, joy, suffering, a lot of violence, even more blood and absolute stunning visuals.It's about humans who do what we have done since day one and keep doing till all flesh will perish from this insanely beautiful planet which mankind just doesn't deserve.If you like to f*ck, fight, hate, love, cry, smile, LIVE, you like this show. Everybody who claims not to like it is probably not human.I could tell you there's such a deep story and so well defined characters. But there's not! It's a good show with awesome visuals and if you didn't already know you'll learn what live is about. And that's all there is.


                
I have to hand it to the people at Starz and Steven DeKnight Productions for a really top notch TV programme.When you come across so many series that are constrained from letting their writers 'let rip' both from an age restrictive angle and the ever present feeling of 'don't give the viewer too much because we need to string them along to season 4', Spartacus is such a breath of fresh air.It takes no shame in being gloriously adult replete with graphic violence, swearing and nudity. Some could dismiss it as childish but I prefer to think of it as TV for the grown ups.Likewise it is happy to throw in set pieces of a length and quality that other franchises would only leave for the opening or closing episodes. Whereas as many other productions fabricate ridiculous cliff hangers to hoodwink the audience into having to tune in next time, Spartacus gives you a glorious season, that can serve as a stand alone if the plug is pulled and doesn't leave you feeling cheated by the end.Whilst other shows give you a main course but then hold off the dessert to entice you to tune in for the next season, Spartacus is happy to offer you a filling and nourishing full meal, safe & confident in the knowledge that you'll return next time not because you've been duped or forced but simply because you want to enjoy a similar experience.When the 'drawn out' format of so many recent series is becoming so apparent, you have to take your hat off to the confidence and bravery of the makers.And as for the actual series, well I'm sure it's easy to dismiss it all as a 300 style clone with slo mo violence and swirling Roman capes but it is so much more than that. Characters are given the chance to develop and flourish. You genuinely feel connections being made and that you aren't just receiving some kind of surface gloss.Likewise the writing is bold and confident and there has been many a time where you'd be outraged at the actions of a character, vocalise your response as a viewer and then amazingly a character on screen would express a similar sentiment/reaction.Characters are killed off to generate a sense of peril that people do die and hence not feel that every fight is a one sided affair and when they do go down they are given the room to do so rather than being a rushed affair.Despite the obvious budgetary restrictions when placed against a movie, Spartacus still rocks in the look, feel and invention of the moves and set pieces. Maybe they use the slow motion effect a little too often but that really is a small grumble compared to just how entertaining and enjoyable this is.Some shows, such as the Walking Dead, start with an enjoyable premise but then descend into tedious, soap opera melodrama. Others such as Hawaii Five O or The Mentalist attempt to tell an arc but have to keep including filler episodes to placate the casual, 'I've tuned in to see a forensic criminal case' crowd.I'm impressed with the makers for not dropping the ball when Andy Whitfield (the guy who played Spartacus) got cancer, for doing everything they could to hold off the production of the 2nd series to allow him to recover and producing a prologue series (Gods of the Arena) which was equally entertaining, and then maintaining the quality in their selection of Liam McIntyre to replace Andy when it was obvious he couldn't continue and unfortunately passed away.There are few series that manage to stand head and shoulders above the competition but for me Spartacus belongs in the pantheon of greatness along with some other distinguished favourites of mine such as Jericho, Angel, Quantum Leap and Babylon 5.


                
Guys nobody is recognizing the role of batiatus.....i see no single comment mentioning about him....it is he who played long duration in all the episodes....and with his performance, has brought life to spartacus TV series...he was the one with highest dialogues in the serial, but he never made us feel bored of his role either in blood and sand or gods of the arena....he really showed us a true lanista......i agree that all the actors performed to their best.Anyways its a great entertainer for our period showing us about the lifestyle during the period of gladiators.I really love the politics in this series especially those played by lucretia and batiatus together in both blood and sand and also gods of the arena.....i really bow before the dialogue writer particularly for the phrase 'jupitor's c**k' during the scenes of frustration.....


                
The trailer accentuates the more lascivious aspects of this show but there is quite a bit more to it than violence, sex, and Lucy Lawless' nudity. Think of Crowe's Gladiator but with more story and character development. There is a lot of stylized, 300ish violence but the characters are intriguing, the dialogue more or less convincing, and the story superb. I know some people have been put off by the some of the fight scenes but to me they are a minor quibble when compared to the overarching storyline. As for the sex and nudity, they *say* it's to give the show a sense of historical authenticity, which is debatable. However I didn't find it to be gratuitous at all.Lawless and Hannah do an excellent job, as does Whitfield of course, but the supporting cast is equally good and compelling. It really how they assembled such a great group of characters most of whom are relative unknowns. And the season finale will blow your socks off!


                
Spartacus became of interest to me in the old movie with Kirk Douglas as a boy. In college I took a history class that covered this period so I did a paper on Spartacus and the slave rebellion as a term paper. Getting rock solid FACT on events from the last millennium before Christ is a bit difficult, but his fame at the time was so great that there were 3 sources considered relatively accurate at a high level for the period and left me with a life long interest in the person, the period, and the events of his life. I think this is a relatively accurate telling of a compelling story without much variance from what is considered historical fact. The gore is over done with all the slow motion spurting of blood, but as the series progressed the gore and nudity became less absurd as the quality of the story was sufficient to provide quality entertainment. Given by all accounts of my studies Spartacus was never confirmed as captured or killed and lean towards that he escaped to return to end his life with the many slaves he freed. The facts about the crucifixion of the many that were captured in the final battle along the roadway into Rome to scare the BeJesus out of slaves from further uprising is well documented making it easy to have the story end with his death. Given it was over 2000 years ago we'll never truly know so all I can say on the finale with his death is it would not have changed the overall quality and been just has accurate to have him escape AND live instead of having him escape and die from the wounds inflicted during the final battle to procure safe escape for the slaves that weren't the core band of warriors. I find the story awesome and this script well done. The over use of gory shots of blood gushing got old, and the graphic use of naked men and women "just because they could" got old, but the times were such that the slaves were treated as property and the Romans were recorded as being quite "loose" in their morals as their thirst for blood in their entertainment in the games with the Gladiators. Men taught to fight to the death is easy to use as the basis for a group that would make up a formidable fighting force when set against warriors, and the success of Spartacus, Crixus and the leaders in the rebellion believable. His training as a commander and his unorthodox strategy brought them recorded success as their army of freed slaves grew to be a large one that had they had the ability to deal with the logistics of staying supplied while fighting Rome could have had them have even more success in wrecking havoc on the empire at the time. I watched the series on Netflix streaming all 4 seasons in a month and once I numbed myself to the overuse of low quality gore was quite pleased with the telling of what I believe to be a great story in history. Given the lack of information as fact it was good to see the writing stick to a largely supported set of underlying facts for the story to play out and produce a good show. When watching season 2 I was surprised by use of an entire season to tell the story of what was history by the end of season 1, but when all was said and done I thing the choice was a good one to allow the additional characters to be brought in for seasons 3 and 4 and have it make sense. Someday a truly good series will be made to tell the story without the unnecessary gore. But this was the best job to date and I love it!
Wow, what a show.. This is one of my favorite show(s) in existence. Now, onto the detailed review. To do this review, I'm going to break it up into two main parts; Spartacus Blood and Sand & Spartacus Vengeance. Spartacus Blood and Sand (9.5/10) .:Plot & Twists:. -Absolutely fantastic. Steven has created a perfect balance of drama and action. I can't say enough of how tremendous it is. Each episode will leave you wanting for more and more! .:Acting & Characters:. -To put it simply, fantastic. Even with a dozen characters roaming around, there is no lack of professional acting. Andy, Manu and Lucy really spearhead the way and invoke the imagination. -Now, onto the characters. I have to say, the characters are amazing once again (shocker, eh?). Both Spartacus and Crixus share the sand as near equal rivals, each with their own personality and agenda. Never once did I favor Spartacus, to my surprise. Lucretia, Batiatus and a host of other characters make a strong drama filled backing to the inter-Gladiator events. .:Action:. -Bloody, to put it simply. Though it does not overkill on blood, if you were not a fan of the level of gore that a movie such as 300 had, then you might not be fond of this. Overall very well done. Spartacus Vengeance (7/10) .:Plot & Twists:. -Solid. Unlike the previous, Vengeance does not do as fantastic as a job as its predecessor. The Season starts off in a oddly dysfunctional environment and goes on a fairly linear path. It does not start to get truly enticing until the mid-late part of the season where tensions rise and it gets interesting. The ending is very satisfying and is very redeeming. .:Acting & Characters:. -Acting was marvelous. Really well done, with the exception of Andy's successor, Liam. Liam did his best, I can tell but he clearly did not fit the role. -Now, the characters were mixed. Both good, and not so good. Spartacus seemed to lack proper leadership skills, Crixus was mopey and plainly lacked his Gladiator prowess (not sure why), Gannicus was the neutral party, "Doctore" was mentally unstable and it was just a mix of emotions. On the Roman side, tensions sky-rocketed to a whole new level and was very amusing. More so, then the Gladiator counterpart. The inclusion Asher and the Egyptian were much needed and refreshing. .:Action:. -Meh. Not nearly as action packed as the previous seasons (by a long shot). Romans were like sheep to the slaughter (which was amusing at first, but got old) and the Gladiator on Gladiator fights were sparse (to be expected). Though there were some redeeming scenes particularly near the end. Overall decent job.
A really well acted and produced gripping drama... forget the historical goofs it is a dam good series and well worth watching.The acting and cast are perfect for the show, don't expect a dry history lesson, it is far from it! I have watched all three seasons and "Gods of the Arena" and I was hesitant after the tragic death of the lead, however the mantle is extremely well taken up, under no doubt great pressure. There is no attempt to pretend to be anything other than what this is and I respect that.Fantastic cast! and Ripping, Gripping story line...enjoy!!!!.......


                
I thought this was an absolutely fantastic show. I do think it did start off a bit poor. The green screen was pretty terrible and most of the acting wasn't too great. However, mid-way into the 1st season and afterwards, it became much much better. Unfortunately Adam Whitfield passed away after the first season. However, Liam did an amazing job as Spartacus as well. I also loved Manu Bennett. The third season was very great, and the finale was truly moving. I will definitely miss seeing this show.If you can't handle a ton of violence, gore, and some extremely graphic nudity(Game of Thrones is child's play compared to this) then this show might not be for you. However, if you want to see a fantastically done show, this is it.


                
After the first episode of Spartacus: Blood and Sand I was rather disappointed. The background and blood looked fake, the lightning effects were bad (just look at the scene with the campfire: the light reflected on the faces looks like light from a strong lamp), and these are just three of a whole lot of flaws that I saw while watching the first episode. And I must mention the sex scenes... ridiculously many of them. It was simply boring to watch.However I kept on going and within the next 2 episodes I was stuck. These series differs from what I've seen before, but in a good way of course.If you enjoy watching violence, blood, conspiracies and so on, you should definitely give this a shot. There are endless fights that last for long, where flying blood in all directions and well done effects have you looking through it all with enormous excitement.Oh and if you don't mind watching female boobs, actually a lot of female boobs, then go ahead and look through the first season of Spartacus: Blood and Sand! GLORY AND HONOR!!


                
