It has nice stark images and a cool sound track .But Reality Check: The boy is being taken from the two people who have shown they love him, who are his real parents even if not his biological parents, and handed to a someone who is a stranger and clearly has serious issues about relationships of any sort. Sure she sends a sum of money at regular intervals but given that she has made no attempt to contact him for for years it clearly is not about real love. People who like the film talk about how it deals with loss, alienation and an inability to communicate. Fine. But why is it supposed to be a good thing to dump the boy into that nightmare? Just to sacrifice him on the altar of DNA?
I haven't seen this movie in many years and "perhaps" I should watch it again...BUT I remember trying to get through it the first time was sheer torture. I kept waiting for ANYTHING to happen. You know how you will stick with a movie ten minutes at a time after the first half you think, "It's got to get better". Not this one. It was the most boring piece of crap I have EVER seen. One of these days, maybe...when I'm in a vegetative state and nobody is around to change the channel, I'll watch it again. NOT!!!!!!!!!!!For some reason the hamsters here think that it requires some long drawn out critique of a movie for us to express ourselves. Unlike "professional" movie critics who blow smoke and pat each other on the back praising their pseudo-intellect. We can actually say whether we like or dislike a movie in a few succinct sentences. So, hopefully my entry is long enough now. It's a shame isn't it?


                
Yes, the photography is excellent, but come on, how many movies have lousy photography? This is a film with such long pauses and such ham-fisted staging that I keep thinking one of the actors will break and ask, "line?" Ry Cooder, as usual, seems to be composing for another movie entirely, as his twangs and plucks do nothing but annoy. And who can abide the Euromorality of the film (meaning "none"), wherein the least qualified person to take care of the child in any capacity is the one the film makers deem the only one do to the job. In certain cultures, rotten eggs buried for months are considered a delicacy, and if you enjoy such sulphurous tastes, eat hearty, for Paris, Texas serves a generous portion. If any film stock deserved to be recycled, it is the film stock for this. Truly detestable.


                
This movie was miserable.  The dialogue was too much, the film was too long, nothing much happened.  Harry Dean Stanton and Kinski are not believable as a couple, being that she would have been in her early 20s at the time of filming and Stanton would have been 58 years old.Remember critics always give awards to bad films.  The English Patient got 8 of them.This post is required for a class about film.  Hope you see it, Herr Genco.


                
This was painful to watch. Maybe like fine wine this movie will get better with time. But I,as a 24 year old at the time,had little use for this slow,(how slow does radium decay?) painful, melodrama.


                
I went to see this film when it came out. Even so many decades on it is still there at number 1 as the worst film I have ever seen. I has no redeeming features. It is too long It has no story - honestly. It is poorly shot. The music is annoying making it impossibly to even sleep through it. The acting is abysmal. There was, I seem to remember, some gratuitous nudity as well. A waste of film-stock. What makes it even worse is that it is not just crap, but pretentious crap. I am have been waiting for it to appear on television just to confirm my suspicions, but I guess the advertiser would not touch it with a 10 foot pole. Usually even bad films have some redeeming features, but this film does not.


                
