I would say that Paris, Texas is not for everyone, but, truly, that can be said about every movie. But I will say this: fans of methodically paced, beautifully shot, existentially rooted, and purely experiential cinema will not be disappointed. Paris, Texas is virtually my favorite movie, and a movie that, whether you like it or not, will leave some impact on you. It is a journey, an experience, an odyssey. Yes, it is long. Yes, it is slow. Defined plot points? Please.But what this movie does do is place into the mind of it's lead character. Travis Henderson, an older man, gruff and worn out with age, wanders out of the Texas desert after missing from his family for four years. He is mute, and apparently unaware of who he is. His brother Walt finds him, and tries to rehabilitate him back into sanity. The film then covers Travis's journey to reconnect with a past which he has long since forgotten. He reunites with his son, his sister in-law, and eventually, in a scene which I tear up just thinking about, his wife.But that is all I will divulge about his wife. That is a scene which you really have to see to believe. While this film really doesn't rely on plot, it does have structure and tone. And what carries us through this mystical story is the unbelievably beautiful photography. We see the world as it should be seen: a starkly beautiful, but uncompromising, place. The use of color and motifs really makes this film a marvel to look at. And then we get to performances. Everyone's great, so I will focus on our two truly main characters. Harry Dean Stanton plays Travis, a gentle, kind man, that, despite having personal demons, is a great fatherly figure (fine, maybe he isn't the best father...but there's no denying he left an impact on his son's life). And seeing Stanton bring this character to life in the most subtle and somber way possible is amazing. And then we have Natassja Kinski, who plays Jane, his wife. She doesn't show up until the third act, and 95% percent of her performance takes place in one room. But Kinski's portrayal of emotion...and her quiet, yet powerful demeanor...and the way she talks...god, it's unbelievable. Stanton and Kinski have some of the best chemistry ever, which is even more impressive considering they're never in the same room (see the movie...you'll understand). In the end, these two carry the movie on their backs, and do an amazing job doing it.You may not cry, but you will think about crying. You will think about all the sad moments in your life. And it will all be washed out of you by movie's end. Believe me, I know this from personal experience. This movie is almost therapeutic in the way. Because the story is healing our own souls at the same time as it is healing Travis's. So. What's more to say about Paris, Texas? It's a beautiful movie, one that relies on photography and performances to tell it's story, and a movie that portrays emotions on a master class level. And what do I mean by 'Anti-Romance'? It's not worth explaining here. See the movie, you'll understand.


                
I first saw this film almost fifteen years ago and thought about almost nothing else for at least a month.  I have never seen a film before or since that presents the extremes of love, pain, and loss with such immediacy and ruthless candor.  Watching this film with openness, identifying with the characters, made me wince and writhe in sympathetic agony.  I didn't cry; rather, I was reminded of all the times I have wept in my life, and why.Perhaps each person person has a film -- usually a masterpiece -- which affects him or her so strongly that it is beyond description.  This is mine.


                
It's hard for me to select just one movie as my very favorite, but if I had to, "Paris, Texas" would probably be it.As I recall, I first saw it while I was a student in a small theater in '84 or '85; a year or two later I recorded it from cable to Beta tape.  After not having watched it for years, I've played it again a few times over the last couple of years.  Many movies I recall having liked in the past are just big disappointments when I watch them years later.  That's not the case with this one!  Then I was single; now I'm married.  That alone makes a big difference, but I also find that even some small elements now have more meaning.  I previously attached no significance to the scene where Travis was determined to find the same rental car in which he and Walt had previously driven.  But how often people do sentimentally and fiercely cling to, objectively, unimportant things in reaction to having had their hearts and spirits broken more than a few times over important things.  I often recall this scene when observing some instance of this in myself or others.I am struck by what opposite opinions people have of this movie.  If you have few problems relating to other people, or you don't care much about relating to other humans, and little in your life disappoints you over long spells of your life, you will probably find this movie very boring. I sort of envy people in this situation, though before I would want to wish myself to be like that, I pause at how much my life would be changed and how little of my personality would be left, if I did.I, too, eagerly await the release of this movie on high quality DVD, and hope that my still barely viewable Beta will last til then."Oh, Travis."


                
"Paris, Texas" is by far one of the best films ever made. It's a well-photographed film; it's almost like a portrait. In the center you have the characters: Travis, Walt, Hunter, Jane, and Anne; and all around them you see the desert and the empty space and the places they inhabit. The major characters are all memorable, especially Harry Dean Stanton as Travis and Dean Stockwell as Walt.The film is about reunion. The first third of the film, dealing with the reunion of brothers Travis and Walt in the Texas desert, is both very touching and very real. You can sense the frustration on Walt's face when Travis doesn't want to talk to him about anything, and throughout the road trip, you begin to get more interested in Travis' ramblings to Walt about Paris, Texas. The second third deals with the reunion of Travis with his son, Hunter, and, to a lesser extent, since he's only been gone for less than a week, the reunion of Walt with his wife Anna and Hunter. This is by far my favorite part of the film, because it shows a young boy (Hunter) trying to readjust after his father returns after a four-year absence. Hunter (by the way, he's a great actor) is nice to Travis at first, but refuses to walk home from school with him because "Everyone drives." The fact that director Wim Wenders focuses on this little portion of the film shows true family life--it expands the little "sin" that Hunter has done. This event sets up perhaps my favorite scene in any film: Hunter and Travis walking home "together"--on opposite sides of the street--with the boy mimicking the movements of his real father. In the following scene I'm touched because the neighborhood reminds me of home--Hunter stops and allows his father to cross the street to join him. There is also a scene (also with no dialogue) that deserves mention--the family watching Super 8mm film of a family fishing trip. Here we see Jane for the first time (a beauty), and we get a portrait of the happy family while the film plays background music for us. It's a wonderful scene that's executed beautifully. The film of the fishing trip allows Hunter to make an observation to Anne about his father--he sees by the way Travis looked at Jane that Travis still loves her very much.The last third of the film comes as a real shock, and I won't spoil it for anyone because this third of the film is what made me REALLY love the entire film. The sequence of events in the final third actually came out of left field, because I was never really expecting that. You should have figured out, though, that there is a reunion between Travis and his estranged wife, Jane. Harry Dean Stanton's monologue is perhaps one of the best ever caught on film. It's really long but you hear every word and every pause. And what I like about that particular scene is the lighting--notice how the sunlight comes in through the window in Jane's room, and suddenly near the end you realize that it's been artificial light after all. There is a similar lighting effect in "A Clockwork Orange"--during Alex's chat with F. Alexander and his two co-conspirators over wine and spaghetti.Overall, "Paris, Texas" is a great film that should be noted both for its photography and for its realistic look at family life. These are people who are a real family--opinionated, angry, happy, sad, melodramatic, judgmental, high-strung, incommunicado, etc. They refuse sometimes to admit their true feelings and that is exactly what makes a family a family sometimes, the fact that you can't say what you really want to say at a certain time.This is the kind of film directors really want to make--small, realistic, poignant...and with zero special effects.


                
It might seem odd to call this an "American" film, as its director, Wim Wenders is a German film director, who , unlike his predecessors, Lang, Murnau, Pabst, Von Sternberg , and Billy Wilder, has chosen to remain aloof from the Hollywood film industry. But Paris Texas is as much an  American film as Tocquevillle's "Democracy in America" is an American book. Sometimes it takes a foreigner ( In Wim Wenders' case, a foriegner who loves American music, American movies and American literature.) to look  into the American soul. In this case,it helps  that he is working with a great-and misunderstood- American  writer, Sam Shephard, and a great-and under appreciated- American actor, Harry Dean Stanton. I can not begin to convey who poetic, how haunting, and how beautiful this film is, and how artfully it probes the American heart. The scene where Stanton confronts his wife, and tells what he did and why he did it, must rank among the supreme scenes, not just of film, but of human life. It echoed  the great scenes of our literature, such as Ulysses meeting with Penelope, and the return of the prodigal son. In short, the only film which goes beyond it in the eighties is Raging Bull, and that is largely because of the volcanic power of Scorsese, that most self-crucifying of auteurs. in short, I would go so far as to say that Paris Texas is more than a "ten'...Like Citizen Kane, like 2001, like Andrei Roublev, like Raging Bull , like the Searchers, like Pickpocket, Tokyo Story, Seven Samurai and Ordet,it is an ELEVEN. Sublime AND beautiful.


                
Directed by cinematic lyricist Wim Wenders, "Paris, Texas" is a slow-burning masterpiece. Marked at first by stark, beautiful photography of the American Southwest, later by memorable dialogue and conversational intercourse, and lastly by sublime and emotionally involving character development, the film transcends the idea of an atmospheric mood piece to deliver an engrossing meditation on loneliness, alienation, family, and redemption.Character actor Harry Dean Stanton is fantastic in the lead role of Travis -- a man who had fallen into an emotional black hole and is then reunited with his brother (Dean Stockwell), who has been raising Travis' young son, Hunter (Hunter Carson), in an idyllic and loving suburban landscape with his foreign wife, Ann (Aurore Clement). As Travis slowly begins to grapple with his past and bond with his son, he soon realizes he must find his long, lost wife, Jane (an excellent and understated Nastassja Kinksi), whom he still deeply loves on some level, and abandoned their son years ago shortly after Travis went off the deep end.This all could've been the plot of Lifetime TV movie, but the European filmmaker's perspective on an all American slice of melodrama adds an undercurrent of intrigue in that you never know what these characters are going to do next. We soon find Travis practically abducting his son (who eagerly plays along) from his happy new family life to go on a trek to Houston to find Jane.The closing in scene in a Houston hotel where son and mother are reunited is one of the most fascinatingly rich scenes ever put on screen. Rarely does any one scene work to engage a viewer on so many levels: Firstly: There is a complex psychological framework that is set into place in the scenes prior between Stanton and Kinski in the peep show booth where she now works which are two of the most expertly photographed and brilliantly acted scenes I've ever witnessed. Travis has confessed all to his lost love, Jane, and she is clearly in dire straits. His attempt to reunite her with their son is both selfish (in that it is clearly not in the child's best interest to be raised by his emotionally troubled mother when he has loving foster parents waiting for him back home) and selfless, in that he truly feels his only way to repair the damage he has done is to leave after getting mother and son back together.Secondly: It is beautifully acted with Kinski's ghost-like entrance and young Hunter Carson's trepidation. Witness his hand slide across the wall looking for something to grip, and then his hands running through his hair before he finally decides to embrace her.Thirdly: It is exquisitely photographed. Earlier we see scenes of stark isolation as the child waits in the hotel room. Sofia Coppola later used a similar photographic technique in "Lost in Translation" to show how being alone in a big city and looking down from an anonymous hotel room window can be one of the loneliest things in the world.The final scene is both beautiful and emotional, and at the same time makes the viewer wonder, how will this all end? Yes, it is wonderful to see the child and mother reunite, but their new life could easily turn into an emotional hell because of the now absent Travis' misguided attempt at his own redemption.A film working on so many levels like this is best summed up in its own dialogue. In one scene where Travis is drunk and telling his son some family history, he essentially says that his father was more in love with an "idea of her" than with his actual mother. This is a fantastic movie for people more in love with the romantic "idea of movies" and their potential power as an art form than with any one movie in particular. As such, this ranks among the best I have ever seen.
The first time that I saw this movie, it didn't really have an impact on me. I think that this was because I wasn't giving it my full attention. But the few times that I have seen it since it has made deep impressions on me that only a few films have done. Harry Dean Stanton's performance should be ranked among the great performances of all time in the movies. He doesn't have to say much in the first half of the film but the expressions on his face tell us he is in pain, almost like his soul has been ripped from his body. But we only find out later the reason for this.(Spoilers) Travis (Stanton) we find is suffering from guilt and the pain of losing the things in life that he loved the most. Most men that have loved will see part of themselves in Travis' stories of how jealousy drove him to not let his wife out of his sight, but we don't take it as far as Travis, drink drove his jealousy to new heights. Even though some of his stories would appall us, now we have seen how he destroyed his life, or the drink destroyed him, we now feel sorry for him. The two monologues with Jane are, in my opinion, two scenes that will stay with every viewer for a long time. Travis cannot even look at Jane because it would cause him too much pain and break him even further. But before he leaves Jane he needs to tell her why he did the things to her that he did, only then could Travis find some peace and maybe regain a part of the soul that he lost.Like John Wayne in "The Searchers" Travis realises at the end of the film that he has to go and leave alone, that he ruined his chance of a happy life with Hunter and Jane, or he realised that he could never be happy with her, for the intense love that he felt for Jane would always bring jealousy and suspicion would that would always be at the front of his mind.The music also deserve a mention. The southern, bluesy slide guitar by Ry Cooder is so simple but so effective in adding to the lazy pace of the movie.
Harry Dean Stanton gives the performance of his life in this stunning and bleak journey into a mans soul and whats left when everything thats ever mattered is gone! yes it really is that desolate as stanton creates a feeling of utter  loneliness and reaches out to the audience with what can only be described as inner pain, as the film unfolds the story of how he came to be so alone and why he in fact wanted this isolation is told intelligently and sensitively, Natassa Kinski, is excellent in an understated role as stantons estranged lover, the  film  might  be  seen as a  downer  by  some  but  it  ends  in  hope  as stanton  faces  his demons, and the son that stanton had in his relationship with kinski is reunited with his mother, if this had been  made  in  the  usa  i  fear it would  have ended up  being a terribly corny affair, but wenders brilliant direction and the haunting soundtrack by rye cooder make it a must see for any leonard cohen devotee:)
Throughout the entirety of Paris, Texas's two-and-a-half-hour running time (and not one minute of it wasted), it's nearly impossible to take your eyes off Harry Dean Stanton. When he first appears, he's animalistic, not talking, motivated only by his strange, unreadable desires. Later on he starts talking and starts having more conventional desires, but there's always that wild, uncertain edge to his performance, so that there's always a step remove between us and him. His Travis is a dangerous character, as much for the audience as the other characters. He's entranced by spectacle -- the vast emptiness of the Texas horizon, the story of his own conception, the falsity of a peep show, the million artificial lights of Los Angeles, and the obsession that gives the film its name, the story of his conception in a fake Paris. He tries, but is ultimately unable to deal with the reality of his actions, and in the end is reduced to passively watching a spectacle again, seeing his son end ex-wife embrace from a distance.Travis's brother Walt seems to be the opposition to his wild ways, someone the audience can relate to in their attempts to deal with the strangeness of Travis. But Walt also lives in a world trapped by images: he creates billboards, simulacra if there ever were any, and creates a model family that is ultimately an untenable attempt at playing house (his wife is notably French, tying in his obsessions to Travis's). We are presented with two quintessential American images: the warm suburban nuclear family and the rugged loner prowling the frontier, but both are illusions and both bring only suffering.All of this is to say nothing of the technical excellence of Paris, Texas: the gorgeous cinematography, the note-perfect acting from not just Stanton but the rest of the cast as well, those two heartbreaking long scenes near the end... but all of this is also spectacle, and at the same time the film is drawing us in with its execution it's warning us of the dangers of the seductive image. My favourite films are, for the most part, films that are at least in part about the act of watching. Paris, Texas falls into these two overlapping categories neatly.
A brilliant, searingly emotional examination of relationships and life.A man stumbles out of the desert in southern Texas. He appears to be mute, and doesn't respond to questions. The hospital he ends up in calls his brother in California, who comes to take him back to LA. His brother hasn't seen him in four years. What caused him to be catatonic and wandering around in the desert?Directed by Wim Wenders, Paris, Texas is an incredibly emotional journey, with a great deal of mystery attached too. Wenders drip- feeds information, slowly building a picture of the characters and their stories. The dialogue is rich with symbolism and allegories, giving hints to characters' situations...and lessons in life.The air of mystery and emotion is heightened by hauntingly desolate yet beautiful scenery and cinematography and a superb soundtrack by Ry Cooder.The conclusion is incredibly moving - one of the most emotional passages in any movie I've ever seen, and is a great insight into the pressures on modern relationships.Might feel slow sometimes but it is never dull, especially if you like character-driven dramas, and the ending is well worth the wait.


                
This film left me totally stunned in the cinema. I really felt like I had cried through large parts of the film because it was so gripping.In my opinion it features some of the best photography ever in filmmaking with long lasting shots on the huge landscapes that the poor characters wander around in. The music by Ry Cooder is simply perfect, it gives you a wonderful feeling of melancholy (which I think could be the word that really describes this film).Paris Texas is very slow paced. I remember sitting in the chair in the cinema, thinking what would happen next. And every time I thought that I knew what Wenders was up to - he did exactly the opposite. I loved it every time, it felt as if the director was reading my thoughts - or at least, knows how an ordinary film is usually set - and since he makes quite the opposite - I dare call the film extraordinary.It would be interesting to know if others who have seen this film also are buffs of Dr. Zhivago because these two films have a lot in common. (Yes, I like it! :-)This is a film I saw in 1994. I still haven't seen anything better and I doubt very much that I will.


                
This is one of two films by Wim Wenders that focuses on a child. "Alice in the Cities", the earlier film, focused on the relationship of a young child with a depressed wanderer, but "Paris, Texas" is more about the wanderer himself. This time, he (played by Harry Dean Stanton) is more than just lost, having gone into the wilderness in an apparent amnesiac stupor. He is found by his brother (Dean Stockwell), who brings him somewhat back to reality. The kid (Hunter Carson) is a central, meaningful key bringing everything together. He is the innocent victim of a confusing circle of jealously and violence that only becomes clear in the final scenes of the film."Paris, Texas" is a quiet, quiet film. Sam Shepard wrote a script that is more about actions than dialogue, which makes it all the more curious that the final twenty-some minutes of the film feature little but conversation. The final scene between Harry Dean Stanton and Nastassja Kinski drags on into the heart of darkness, the deeply painful memories of two terribly broken individuals and how they go on with life. This isn't a quick interaction that draws tears to the surface and lets you continue with your life. It dives in deep and doesn't come up for air until every last inch of emotion is pulled to the surface.Robby Müller, the cinematographer who worked with Wenders on many of his films, helps to make "Paris, Texas" one of the most breathtakingly beautiful visual experiences ever. The colours are so vibrant yet stunningly realistic. For all of its emotional depth, this is a thing of great surface beauty. Inside and out, it is achingly powerful film.


                
What is it, where is it, how will it affect me? A man stumbles out of a desert after 4 years gone missing, and travels back to Los Angeles with his brother to reunite him with his son, before leaving again to find his past lover and the mother of his son. Behind its endlessly clever jiving title lies a totally complete, sentimental and sophisticated work. Seeing Paris, Texas through developed, hardened and scarred eyes is just as poignant as when it splashes over the tabula rasa mind of a supple and innocent child. One of the most wondrous aspects of this film is how Wim Wenders sets off from Europe to the south-west and immediately captures its natural beauty. I remember the opening shot well. When I sat down to watch Paris, Texas, aged 12 or so, my dad came in and said: "Oh that's a great film. But you have to turn up the volume (on the tiny TV). You can't watch a film with that good a soundtrack with the volume that quiet." What follows has become a very personally affecting journey. Analytically, Paris, Texas bears no fruits of profound wisdom or revelations, but then it never sets out to. I'm drawn powerlessly to the way that Wenders treats movement as a completely different entity throughout Paris, Texas, changing his cinematographic aura and mood whenever the characters in focus are travelling, seeking panning shots of everything that the non-studio surrounding has to offer the lens: neon, alien landforms, concrete, scrap metal, cars and interchanges, all with the blissful haunting and chilling score by Ry Cooder: truly one of the most masterful pieces of music ever written. However, when the characters are still: in monologue, in deep conversation, or in thought, the tempo and mood instantly change. Such chameleon-like versatility is immensely impressive, regardless of its content. Taking my two favourite scenes in the film: starting with movement: the protagonist, a closed and intriguing man that silently infatuates the audience from the very beginning, crosses a bridge over a freeway whilst a deranged man screams rapturous gospel in a piercing, timeless voice, whilst Cooder's slide guitar becomes agitated, and Wenders' camera sticks tightly to the protagonist's steps. I read a conversation with the actor who played he who is dubbed Paris, Texas's 'screaming man', and he told me most of the scene was adlibbed. I like that. Don't you? By contrast, the film's climax, its most hailed stationary scene, begins with the protagonist walking through a club, draped in a low and fuzzy light, to a booth, where his past lover comes to join him, unaware of who she is talking to. Her (Natasha Kinskji) and him (Harry-Dead Stanton) play out an overwhelmingly intimate and emotionally power screenplay, whilst the camera doesn't move a muscle. Preamble over: the point I'm getting it as that most scenes in Paris Texas are like this. They're ridden with charm and accessibility whilst still managing to be of breathtaking aesthetic beauty.


                
First of all i just want to say WOW,what a great movie. I,ve seen a lot of them and this one just blew my mind completely. The beginning is a marvelous opening with Ry Cooder's wonderful blues guitar (it is one of the best soundtrack's iv'e ever heard). And who's that? Well if it isn't the presence of Harry Dean Stanton in his best role to this day(the performance is really captivating),as he wanders to the path of nothing in the lonely desert. He soon makes his way in to a bar and passes out,and thats when the movie "begins" if you know what i mean. The man we just saw has no name,no past,nothing. Soon the doctor that takes him in finds a number which is his brother(Dean Stockwell). The brother rushes down to the deserts of Texas and finds a hurting and scarred man with no life in him. One of the many brilliant things about this movie is that Stanton doesn't say a word until 20 minutes in to this film,and you get to do some real character study of him in this time. We soon find out Stanton has a son and that his brother has taken care of him for the years Stanton's been gone. When they arrive to LA,many things happen very quickly for Stanton. He meets the son that doesn't remember him(Hunter Carson),Stockwells wife(Aurore Clement in one of her best roles,i haven't seen her in much,and she deserves more,because she is a very good actor) and later,when they see film clips,we find out that Stanton also has a long lost wife in which he remembers. But Carson and Stanton really hit it off as father and son in a memorable 3 minutes where Stanton jokes around with the Son. Stanton is determined to find the wife but only hear rumors of where she is which is that she is working in Houston.Pretty shockingly,Stanton and Carson make there way to Houston without telling Stockwell or Clement. The finest scene of ALL,is when Stanton finds The wife(Nastassja Kinski in such a gripping and flawless performance that makes this movie a masterpiece). There is a long talk with the two of them that you just can't explain on a computer,and the tension is marvelous. The ending is just to good to be true and you can really see that Wim Wenders has put a lot of work in this movie. And yes i started crying. A LOT. Please see this movie. Everything about it is great,the cinematography,the acting,the soundtrack,the melancholic "thing" about it.It is really worth it.
"Thus, did Moses wander the desert for 40 years. And though he was allowed to see the promised land, he was not able to enter it. His only solace was leading others to it, that they might enter and lead a better life than him."This was an idea from the Bible that had always stuck with me from Sunday School classes from my childhood. Paris, Texas is a modernised version of that passage, and it struck such a chord in me emotionally that I had to re-watch it the day after. I now consider it one of the, if not the, greatest film of all time.Travis (a mercurial Harry Dean Stanton) wanders out of the desert not knowing who he is. His brother (the always reliable Dean Stockwell) finds him, and helps to pull his memory back of the life he led before he walked out on his family and disappeared four years earlier. Travis decides to reunite his family, leading him and his young son, Hunter, on a journey in search of his wife, Jane.Even though Robby Müller's cinematography is perfection throughout. (Seriously, the colours pop in such a way that the film regularly looks like a work of art) The true beauty of the film is Wim Wenders' and Sam Shepard's ability to create characters that feel so real. I never thought I'd be able to emphasise with every single character of a film, but it's testament to both Wenders and Shepard's genius as filmmakers that it's possible in this film. The phrase "cinematic poetry" always struck me as an empty compliment, but it makes total sense to use it to describe this film. The one way mirrors of Jane's occupation speak so much volumes and furthers the divide between the man and his wife. It is not until Travis explains his behaviour that the barrier between them is broken. They are fully able to understand each other, and realise that the possibility of reuniting is truly unavailable. The physical barrier still exists, but the emotions they feel are able to conquer any border. Like all art for me, I can appreciate it even more if I feel an emotional connection to it. No other film has struck me emotionally in such a strong way in years. Travis leading Hunter to Jane in the hope of starting afresh as a family, and then leaving because he knew he couldn't be with them is just such a heartbreaking and beautiful idea to me. He wanted the best for the ones he loved more than his own life, and the best was not to be with him. So the man has to go on, leaving all that he holds dear and start again on his own accord with only the knowledge that they're happy together to keep him comfort. Truly stunning. That freaking gorgeous pink jumper that Kinski wears may be my favourite movie costume of all time.
Wim Wenders' Paris, Texas is one of the best movies that I have seen in along time, as well as being one of the most heartbreaking. The movie tells the extraordinary story about a man named Travis (played by Harry Dean Stanton who gives the finest performance of his career) who is nowhere to be found for 4 years until his brother Walter (played by Dean Stockwell) finds him and takes him home with back to Los Angeles where he encounters his sister in law Anne (played by Aurore Clement), and Travis's son Hunter (played by Hunter Carson). Then after a few days Travis and Hunter spend a lot of time together, and then start heading down to Texas to find Travis's wife and Hunter's mother Jane (played by Natassja Kinski).This movie is not only heartbreaking it is also heartwarming, the movie is one of the best road trip movies that I have seen in along time including Rain Man (1988), and Nebraska (2013, especially for that reason because of the wonderful screenplay by Sam Shepard. But in the end I really do think this movie is for everyone to watch depending if you really want to see it or not, it also depends on what type of genre you like for movies.
"Paris, Texas" is almost too beautiful for words - a sublime poem of love, loneliness, loss, alienation & redemption. Superbly acted by Harry Dean Stanton, Nastassja Kinski, Hunter Carson, Aurore Clement and Dean Stockwell; written by Sam Shepard and L.M. Kit Carson, and directed by Wim Wenders ("Wings of Desire"), this is one of the best films of the 80's and, well, of all-time.Well-deserved winner of the Golden Palm at Cannes '84, the story of Travis Henderson (probably the best performance of Harry Dean Stanton's long, underrated career - the man's a real American treasure, yet is never mentioned in most Great Actors' list) and his little son, Hunter (Hunter Carson), as they hit the road looking for their ex-wife/mother (Nastassja Kinski), respectively, paints a picture of tortured lives in southwest America. The feeling of the very German Wenders's narrative, though, is universal. I'd compare it to the fantastic Taiwanese Ang Lee's vision of America in masterpieces such as "The Ice Storm" and "Brokeback Mountain". Ry Cooder's score is also spotless and helps create the perfect mood for the story. A film to be seen over and over again. 10/10.


                
in 1984, Wim Wenders brought his European eyes to America's Los Angeles, and a modern masterpiece of a film was conjured from his many-nuanced observations. Through the character of Travis (Harry Dean Stanton) and his haunting tale of redemption, Wenders subtley explores themes of obsession, possesiveness, familial bonds and the ability of people to adapt to their circumstances and surroundings. Essentially a 'road movie', Travis's travels allow the audience a sense of the vast expanses of Los Angeles, captured and enhanced by the stunning cinematography and Ry Cooder's beautiful-but-minimal soundtrack. Wenders contrasts the cultures of the Spaniards, who once owned Los Angeles, with that of the European settlers in a poignant and sublime way; Travis's half-learnt Spanish heritage is no more apparent in his character than the obsessiveness he obviously inherited from his white father, the angst Walt and Anne develop concerning Hunter's future with Travis differs greatly from the practical advice a Spanish maid gives to Travis to 'fix' the problem - Wenders doesn't make a direct statement on the co-existence of these different cultures, but he certainly identifies and explores those differences. The entire cast is uniformly superb, Dean Stockwell and Harry Dean Stanton are a treat as always, but they shine no brighter than Kinski, Clement or Hunter Carson. And I haven't even really touched upon the mysterious story of the iconic Travis !
There is so much to say about this film that saying anything at all would undermine it. I haven't met anyone who wasn't proufoundly touched by the humanity director Wim Wenders and his amazing team captures. I'll go a step farther and say that this film is, to me, what America is all about; that is, the Johnny Cash kind of America of hidden pasts, broken hearts, and tiny moments of redemption. Wim Wenders obsession with the American West is apparent in the bleak cinematography and simple yet effective dialogue. A German doctor and French wife infuse a curious European mix that is markedly congrous with the universality of the story. I am madly in love with this film. You don't hear much about it except in certain independent film circles, but I believe it is one of the most effective English language films next to Citizen Kane and Midnight Cowboy.


                
'Paris, Texas' is a slow, subtle, dark and moody film that deals with love, forgiveness and redemption. It starts off with some stunning desert images where a Harry Dean Stanton wanders around until he is found by his brother. The enigmatic soundtrack stays in tune with the situations. The cinematography adds a spacious but lonely feel. Harry Dean Stanton, Dean Stockwell and Natassja Kinski are exceptional performers. They all excelletnly downplay their parts. The film starts off with little dialogue but as the goings-on proceed, the dialogues/monologues more or less take over and become stronger as they reveal a starkness of the characters' inner thoughts. This is especially beautifully captured in the later scenes between Stanton and Kinski. 'Paris, Texas' is also intricately layered and I am sure to discover more things with each repeat viewing. Sheperd's writing is wonderful as he weaves complex themes into the story and memerizes the viewer. In a nutshell, 'Paris, Texas' is a haunting and powerful picture that, once it captivates the audience, it lingers in mind long after the closing credits have rolled.


                
Wim Wenders was one of the doyens of New German Cinema in the 1970s. I first learned of him when my parents rented his "Until the End of the World" (my mom even bought a copy of the soundtrack). One of his most famous works is 1984's "Paris, Texas", winner of the Golden Palm at the Cannes Film Festival that year. Even understanding the plot, the movie is not easy to define. It's as though the movie itself is as vast as as the desert traversed by Harry Dean Stanton's character. One might interpret the movie as a search for life's overall meaning, whether in the swanky suburbs of Los Angeles or in a gritty peep show club in Houston. Indeed, the movie's length emphasizes the long time that it can take to achieve a goal.I don't know how much more I can say about the movie, except that no film buff can afford to miss it. A true classic (although I contend that "Until the End of the World" is Wenders's greatest).
If action movies are your thing, you'd probably best steer clear of this one.This is a wonderful poignant story of a failed relationship and human flaws re-lived in hindsight. It is a bit of an art-house movie that won't appeal to the masses. But for those of you who like a movie to slowly unfold and tell a simple story in a tender way, you will love it. The movie cleverly allows the audience to absorb the story at their own pace.I re-visit this movie every few years and it still evokes tremendous emotion for me. The one scene where they are talking through one-way glass and their heads appear as one is one of the most beautiful cinematographic images ever seen. The way the two characters talk about their failed relationship in hindsight is just heart-wrenching. Have a box of tissues handy - you'll need them! There's a lot of raw emotion and a young child involved. The re-born relationship between father and son is delightful - maybe not very realistic, but that doesn't matter!! This is my idea of a great movie!!
A 2001 beautiful desert scene as the start features the Wandering Man dressed in a City Slicking suit with a suitably intelligent tool, a bottle of water.The Established Brother starts the film with the aspects of the establishment, a wife, a caring wife, a house, a car, an adopted child, a business. He ends the film in the same established position. Unmoved by his often-careless, restless brother's plight.The film is a beautiful view of Texas, the US and the planet. It features no violence, no murder, no mutilation.Sexually it is interesting to see Kinski in a participatory voyeuristic sexual setting mirrored thesedays a URL away. Not much has changed. When mankind conquers Star Trek style a distant planet, assumedly it'll appear not to have changed then either; looking at a carbon-based life's planet's desert it's difficult to see prosperity and life.The Young Lady in her Twenties is seen clearly only in the present tense in artificial light. The continuity cuts to night when The Absent Father, with a toy horses head illusionally up his rectum, a note to later when he encounters a lady dressed up in a nurses uniform wearing an inflatable horse around her waist, tells The Child that informing his family of his whereabouts will stop them worrying.The view of Kinski, quill-like, her world upturned and this time gracious to her past nemesis for providing to her her child. Knelt down in front of him while he's abandoning her again himself unable to meet his own expectations, his rocky, still face present. This image is lingering.Ry Cooders music is innately apt.The shown image of a quiet, neon-lit, tumbleweed American town night is echoed rarely, for instance in Jarmuch's Night Train, and Lynch & Frost's Twin Peaks the TV series.Travis has already survived before the film starts. He experiences a intra-US road trip with his brother, and another with his son, à la Persig's Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintennance. Yet he communicates at length, the culmination of a story after a story with no guarantee of discovering the former, only with his ex-partner after literally turning his back on her. She follows him by turning her back on him and telling him about the past, yet does not change his plans. He also says a little to Hunter when drunk and being selfish.A classic piece of cinema.--- by Jerome, computer coder, author, and voter of 1,000 films.
I usually rent and buy my movies at this great outlet branch in Bryn Mawr, PA - TLA Video. I go in there several times each week, checking what's new, browsing the shelves. I knew "Paris, Texas" was due soon. However, I expected a little marketing fanfare and a hefty price tag. But there on the shelf was a single DVD copy, tagged at "$8.95"!!!!! The knowledgeable clerk and I just shook our heads together in awe, that this film would be let out as if it were some discount bargain."Paris, Texas" is a very unique film, with Sam Shepard offering his classic style of plain Western characters ending up hitting you like voices of the universal from Greek tragedy. Harry Dean Stanton's finest hour. Nastasia Kinski giving him a good match.One clear instance of Wim Wender's frequently out-of-bounds ambition kept to a powerful focus, despite the length and slow pace of the film.Go out and find a copy, or order it on line. Don't bother renting, this is one to keep for re-viewing.


                
What a delight: no car chases, explosions, bloody deaths, or computer generated bilge so prevalent today. The bottleneck guitar added a nice flavor to the production, also. Travis wandered alone in the desert in a self made hell because of his own sinful nature. Marrying a much younger woman only fueled his inner demons leading to a mess for his entire family. What a fool. Both he and his wife searched for years for a replacement for something they considered permanently lost only to lead unfulfilled existences on the border of living. I liked the way the story went on and on with no explanations about what caused Travis to trek into the wilds and then sprung it on the viewer in one gut wrenching scene in a Houston cubicle. The dialogue was never boring, but instead concise and well delivered, however, I did have a bit of trouble understanding the German lady's accent. 4 stars.


                
