This is a very different kind of movie. I agree with a lot of IMDb users that it's not for everybody. I myself had never heard of it originally, I had in interest in seeing because I had dated a guy from Paris Texas and the title intrigued me(just being honest.)That said-this is an unusual movie that I really want to see again before I make any final judgments. What I will say is the the movie does move slowly-REEEEALL slowly-if your someone who can't handle really slow moving movies this may not appeal to you. Yet, I myself don't usually like that either. I will be honest and say what intrigued me most about this movie was the beautiful imagery. An IMDb commenter had mentioned that this movie has really good photography and I agree. I like movies in general that are big on ATMOSPHERE, Atmosphere is very important to me, and can sometimes make or break a movie. A few of my favorite movies are ones that are able to bring a certain dreaminess to the film, a surreal feeling and this had that. I thought this movie was hopelessly boring in certain places but also the characters were very complex and there was something a bit riveting about the pic though I can't say I loved it or give it a 10.Put it this way: fans of movies like what I just described(slow going on action but free flowing on mood and sound) might want to check it out for those very reasons, definitely a complex picture.


                
Paris, Texas (1984)I know there is an appeal to long, downer movies where you drift with some sorry sort through a wide open western landscape of dirty bars and motels with 1960s signs. I get sucked into it, too, for awhile. Wim Wenders appreciates it from afar, I suppose, and gives it a gritty nostalgia even though it's present tense. Or I should say Sam Shepard does, since he wrote the play (and gives the whole thing its flavor). The main drifter, Travis (Harry Dean Stanton) is an archetype of someone lost in sadness and worn by weeks wandering in the wind and sun. He's compelling in his sorrow, and hopelessness. The events that follow are relatively predictable in some sense. He confronts his past in different ways.The real twist at the end is a fabulous play on voyeurism and power, between two people who once loved each other. It drags on too long, but it's really moving at first.Then there is the very end, which seems to just throw it all to a mild sensational withdrawal, one last abuse by a maladjusted man. And while there are all kinds of people who do all kinds of things, it strikes me as a playwright's indulgence more than a reality for anyone.


                
I'd heard about this film for quite some time and I had put if off, but still looking forward to it. I don't know, it's a good film, very elegantly and meticulously directed, but it didn't really have any lasting profound impact. The performances are very good, especially Harry Dean Stanton, who does a remarkable job leading the film in his quiet, conflicted character and not always doing things that the audience may see as presentable or likable, and also we have Natassja Kinski, who does nothing less than almost steal the show in the last act. I'd heard some all-time worthy mentions regarding her, and although I don't know if I'd ever go that far, I still found her compelling and able to create such a real, complex persona in such short screen time. Overall, a disappointing film, but a good one nonetheless.


                
Travis Henderson (Harry Dean Stanton) walks out of the South Texas desert in an almost catatonic state wearing a dusty suit and tie. A doctor finds and calls his brother Walt Henderson (Dean Stockwell) in L.A. who comes out to reunite with him after 4 years absence. Travis is fixated on going to Paris, Texas. One day, he and his wife Jane (Nastassja Kinski) disappeared and had left behind his son Hunter. Walt and his wife Anne (Aurore Clément) took Hunter in.Harry Dean Stanton and Dean Stockwell drive the film forward as it teases what this eventually is going. It's like walking in the desert with Travis. It is fascinating but one must surrender to it. The kid is quite good. The movie does turn into something even more compelling with Nastassja Kinski. However it is a long road to get there.


                
At the dawn of the 80's, the monumental flop of Michael Cimino's "Heaven's Gate" put the final nail on the made-in-America auteur coffin, and one of the greatest and most inventive periods of Hollywood, the one that started with "Bonnie and Clyde" in 1967 and ended with "Raging Bull". Spielberg and Lucas had changed the game and 1984 was one of the peaks of the blockbusters' era with series' starter such as "Beverly Hills Cop", "Ghostbusters" or "Gremlins". Movies had to be as phenomenal as a Michael Jackson or a Madonna's clip and as far as pop culture went, there was a before and after 1984.And if you look at the Best Picture nominees of the year, you'll recognize immediately the winner (and it's quite deserved) Milos Forman's "Amadeus" but the rest is relatively unknown no offense meant, but who remembers "Places of the Heart", "The Killing Fields", "A Soldier's Story" or "A Passage to India"? To make things worse, the best movie of the year was probably Sergio Leon's epitaph masterpiece "Once Upon a Time in America", what a title, but it had to be sacrificed at the altar of simplification-for-the-masses and be cut from 100 minutes and be victim of a disastrous editing, ruining forever the project of a lifetime.It is a height of irony that at a time were the mass-entertainment status of Cinema provided some of its most popular movies but also prevented, a real masterpiece to sweep all the awards... and it was a European Festival, Cannes, that had the decency to screen the film in its totality, Europe respected America more than it respected itself, so maybe it's understandable that WimWenders' "Paris, Texas", literally, a European ode to American culture that won the Golden Palm that year. It is not as great as the troubled, haunting, hypnotic and personal, Leone's movie but in the context of 1984, it makes sense. Even the title works like the bridge between two schools of film-making that couldn't have been more opposite yet seem to make a truce."Paris, Texas" is the story of a man with no past and a future, or a past and no future; wandering in Texan no man's lands with an empty look that speak a thousand words and a baseball cap so red it looks as impacting as a stain on a canvas. Speaking for myself, I thought the red cap was supposed to symbolize the "woman in red" he had in mind (in his head) literally, played by NastassjaKinski, I won't spoil the rest of the film but I had to watch it twice to figure out what the symbolism was meant to define. And I liked the 'road movie' approach, the film turns into a sort of spiritual quest where a man tries to find the missing link between the present and a future to build out of painful memories. The film is all about people trying to find connections, and I also empathize with the struggle of Dean Stockwell's character trying to reconnect with his estranged and mute brother, or his brother trying to reconnect with his son, wonderfully played by Hunter Carson. The film was powerfully conveying these attempts to make communication possible between people from different worlds, ages, memories. It overplayed it a little with Aurore Clément. Did she need to be French? Her thick accent and struggle to speak English make almost every line she said ring false, and I swear one of her "let me finish" lines sounded almost like Tommy Wiseau. She was distracting to say the least and a Razzie nomination wouldn't have surprised me.Wenders was probably more fascinated by the sight of Texas than the Germany he grew up in and we can hardly blame it as movie lover, the Western setting that has always been a source of inspiration for the New Hollywood directors, "Bonnie and Clyde", "Badlands" or "The Last Picture Show" were indirect nods to the genre and Scorsese made more explicit references to John Ford's "The Searchers" in his breakthrough debut "I Call First".There's something cyclical in the way directors have all started to be fans and now it's Scorsese and John Ford who inspire one European filmmaker, deserts, baseball caps, motels prostitutes, all these archetypes and a protagonist named Travis, this is literally "The Searches" meeting "Taxi Driver" and ending not with an orgy of blood, but an orgy of color symbolized by NastassjaKinski's sweater.The two Traviseswere lost souls in a quest that involves the reconciliation between their failed actions and a future that could be less grim. I can't say I didn't enjoy the film's approach, I just think it moved on too slowly and never tried to subdue the whole philosophical aspect. The first act is great, so was the third, the film kind of loses its way in the middle. And I read that Sam Shepard who was the writer, struggled to find the proper ending, somewhat this made me regard the film in higher esteem but God, did they need to have Aurore Clément?But with European art house films, you never know, any flaws might be deliberate. I loved the imagery, I loved Stanton, Stockwell and Kinski but maybe I could find something in "Bagdad Café" that was precisely missing in "Paris, Texas", but I understand its iconic status "Paris, Texas" doesn't celebrate America as much as it exhilarates the European fascination for America. Europe is basically returning the favor after its own cinema inspired so many great American classics during the New Hollywood period, from 1967 to 1980.
And it's only fitting that in a year where European cinema applauded "Paris, Texas", the American Best Picture winner would be made by a European director, celebrating a European icon "Mozart", 1984 was weird indeed.


                
"Paris, Texas" from 1984 is a unique film in several ways. It's an American film made by a German (Wim Wenders); it has no plot; and its pace is deadly. Yet somehow you are drawn into it.A man, Travis Henderson (Harry Dean Stanton) who appears to be mute becomes ill in the Texas desert, and the doctor calls his brother Walt (Dean Stockwell) to come and get him. Walt is shocked -- he hasn't seen Travis since he disappeared four years earlier, leaving behind his young son, Hunter. Walt and his wife Anne (Aurore Clement) have been raising the boy and think of him as their own. Walt has to break it to her that Travis is still alive, and they have to tell Hunter.Travis was probably a little strange but now he's downright weird. Walt has to go after him twice when he runs away. They can't fly back to Los Angeles because Travis won't fly; unfortunately he doesn't realize it until they are on the plane, and they have to be removed. He wants the same car they rented to get to the airport to take them home. He finally starts talking, however.I think my favorite part of the film was Travis talking about how he wanted to live in Paris, except it's Paris, Texas, where he owns land. Why does he own land there? It's where his parents first made love, and he thinks he might have been conceived there.Reunited with his son, the little boy has some trouble adjusting to two dads. We learn something of the past -- Travis was married and deeply in love -- obsessed, in fact, with his wife Jane (Nastassja Kinski) who left him abruptly when Hunter was very small.Travis finally takes a trip with Hunter to find Jane and reunite her with her son.The story of one man's journey to get back to his life, face his faults, and make things right is a compelling one, and Harry Dean Stanton does a magnificent job of evolving this character. His monologue toward the end of the film is fantastic -- and he started the movie not talking! As Jane, the beautiful Nastassja Kinski is radiant, sweet, and childlike, giving a wonderful performance.You can't fault the acting here -- it's low key, natural, and believable. The problem I had with this film is that it's a little style over substance -- wonderfully photographed and atmospheric, but too long and too slow.Nevertheless, Paris, Texas is well worth seeing for Harry Dean Stanton and the great warmth that Wenders gives the film. During a time of so many special effects, it's a nice and needed break.


                
This movie is both very similar and very different to the other Wenders movie I've seen, Alice in den Stadten. The same dislocated, travelling emptiness is felt in a reporter sent to America and finding nothing to report on as a traumatized, nearly amnesiac Texan searching for redemption for his family. On the other hand, the worlds are completely different... the flatness and lack of deep fields in "Alice" are met with gorgeous pastiche of deep reds, blues, and greens in Paris, Texas. Indeed, in this latter movie, visuals sometimes overtake the narrative thread.Wenders certainly has a relationship with vagabond sensibilities that I really dig. In this movie, however, it is almost surprising to see the movie come to a narrative conclusion. Better than the surprise felt at actual closure is the 20 minute long reveal at the ending itself, which is just as satisfying and heartbreaking as the long build-up would bring the audience to expect. I could watch that ending over and over and over again, and it's been a long time since I've seen something so satisfying.--PolarisDiB
This cinematically stark West Texas landscape contains a soul-searching, existential odyssey of one man and his search for the meaning of life and re-connection with family. Sad, depressive encounters, and resignation redefine his once high expectations.Strong performances by all actors, (including a remarkable young boy), keep the interest high throughout, and inspire a desire to know everything about their character's lives. This is a tour de force for its European director, Wim Wenders, and other foreign cast and crew members. Unusual for its time, in that a European crew came to one of the bleakest areas of the United States to produce a film, instead of the more typical American film being shot on location overseas.


                
