Exceptionally well-done series. Although originally envisioned as appealing to adolescent girls, it has a universal appeal because of its authentic story-line, realistic portrayal of characters, great writing and pacing, but most of all.... its intelligence. Yes, intelligence! Skam doesn't dumb down the lives of the teens it portrays, the challenges and issues that they face, or their own intelligence and motivations. It doesn't exploit them. It treasures them. It is deeply respectful of the lives that they lead, and values their intelligence and authentic striving -- their essential humanity. It's a rare piece of television. And great stuff.How sad that the US/UK television rights have been bought by Simon Fuller. The US/UK version will undoubtedly miss all that is good and noble about this series and go right to the ratings formulas, giving us a self-absorbed, teeny bopper melodrama that turns characters into stereotypes and sensationalizes (i.e. exploits pornographically) the lives of the young people portrayed. What Fuller will do will have NOTHING to do with what this series is about. But he'll steal the rights, steal the name, and do the teensploitation. Shame on him!!Skip what will surely be the US/UK abortion. Watch the original - thanks to all those wonderful people who translated and embedded subtitles. Once you watch, you'll have no doubt that Fuller hasn't the intelligence or decency to do what's right by this series.


                
Skam certainly makes me relive my teenage years all over again. Usually I'm not really into high school shows, but this is not your average high school drama at all! In fact, it actually feels more like you're watching a documentary rather than a fictional show, and that's exactly why Skam stands out from the rest. Every character is unique and you can definitely relate to their personalities and problems. You can even recognize yourself and your friends in many of the characters. What makes Skam stand out even more though, is the way its characters interact with the viewers. They're not just actors and actresses playing a role. They "become" the characters so to say. The show runners have done this by creating Instagram and Facebook accounts for every character, as well as posting screen dumps from text messages between the characters on the shows official website. Combining this social media aspect with the show adds something unique, that I've never seen before, hence making Skam feel much more real.Skam doesn't try to be overly dramatic nor does it try to be picture perfect. It's the perfect combination of both and it manages to stay this way all the way through. I've already binged through season 1 and 2 in no time, and I can't wait to watch more of this fantastic show! If you want to feel 16 again, I would definitely recommend this show!Good job Norway!


                
I've seen a lot of TV shows during my life (probably more than most people) and I am having serious issues finding a show that is better than this.As a 24 year old guy I am probably not the primary audience for this, but I've never once felt like I am too old for this or that this was written for somebody else. It instead made me feel nostalgic and reminded me of my high school experience, which was pretty similar to what is shown here (just with less partying). There are no classic "jocks and nerds" groups in this, just different groups of friends that interact with each other. I don't know if this is because the high school experience is different in Europe than in the US (where most popular TV shows are from) or something else. But it certainly felt closer to home. The first two seasons were brilliant, but season 3 felt so real that it made me cry more than once. The character of Isak could have been written after any closeted gay boy during high school. And that basically struck so close to home. I pretty much fell in love with Tarjei Sandvik Moe and his character. His acting ability at 17 pretty much makes every other actor seem like an amateur. He expresses so much emotion through his body language and facial expressions that I believed that this is actually what he was feeling.Season 4 has just started and I am going to watch the first episode after I finish writing this. Sure it probably won't be as good as season 3 (mostly because I pretty much saw myself in season 3), but I have no doubt that it will be brilliant. The main issue is - where do we go after Season 4? Season 4 is supposed to be the last one and I have serious issues finding a suitable replacement. To be honest... I pretty much lost interest in all other TV shows because none of them can compare to this.


                
SKAM creators really know how to portrait relationships between young people on a tender yet realistic and raw way. All kind of interactions are showed on the episodes (friendship, romantic plots, betrayals, fights<U+0085>). The show also displays really interesting topics such as bullying, religion, multiculturality, eating disorders or sexuality among many others. The script shows a realistic portrait not only of the Norwegian youth, but also of most European youth.The way the show is edited is great as well: The music chosen for each scene, the way the camera sometimes focuses on facial expressions of the characters because those are more valuable on certain moments than the spoken words, the close-ups of eyes, hands or smiles<U+0085> everything is really thought out.The first season shows Eva as the main character and introduces most of the cast we'll be watching on next seasons. Eva is dealing with many issues such as bullying, carefree parents, trust missing to Jonas, her boyfriend and her own infidelity.Noora, second season's main character is a young girl who lives with two flatmates. She is a powerful person with strong beliefs about violence, feminism and worldwide war issues, during the season she will have to deal with her values because of the person she falls in love with.Third season's main character it's Isak, who we have met before during season one and two. Isak is a seventeen year old who is dealing with his homosexuality. The way this plot is portrayed on the show it's just astonishing realistic.Gay story lines are growing more and more these days on TV shows, movies and books and I think that is fantastic. Most people fall in love with the romantic scenes, I do too, but the most interesting thing to me is discovering how the characters deal with transition to self-acceptance of their sexuality. I have always felt that those important moments about dealing with sexuality are not always represented on a realistic way when portrayed on screen or, if they are, there are not given the value they really have: Many times we just see a person trying to hide it and then boom! he or she decides to come out. There are only tiny little pieces about the struggle of dealing with self-acceptance of being gay. I feel that SKAM has managed to go beyond on that.The short clip "Gay" that showed Isak on his computer at 3.03 taking an online gay test and looking for tips and tricks to feel sexually attracted to girls caused a big impact on me, while watching it you can really feel that he is fighting a huge battle because he doesn't want to be who he really is. The way Tarjei Sandvik Moe portraits that little yet special moment it's just heartbreaking, absolutely wonderful.As the plot continues, we can see more and more about Isak loneliness and how he keeps pushing away everyone who cares about him just because he keeps fighting against his feelings and his identity.
I just love Skam. And I am not alone. Despite being in Norwegian, the show has managed to draw viewers around the world. The target group were initially Norwegian teenage girls, but Skam also has its share of adult fans. Actually, you don't have to be a teenager, Norwegian or Scandinavian to appreciate Skam.Here are some of the reasons that I love this series: Skam has a tight and well written storyline, as well as lovely, believable faulty characters, that really evolve during their own seasons. The shifting point of view makes us realize that "everyone fights a battle you know nothing about". The show has good, realistic dialogues, fantastic acting and beautiful high-impact visual scenes, we get close to the characters, also visually. At times it is as if we are them, and feel what they feel. The music is great, and fits the scenes perfectly. Skam is playful when it comes to genre and style, it has a mix of realism, drama and comedy, and it works.The series tackles important issues for the target group and the whole modern society, in a smart, straightforward and not admonishing manner. The issues the show tackles, from Islamophobia and homophobia to date rape, eating disorders and mental illness, feel authentic because they are presented earnestly. The show mirrors all of us, and lets us look at our own hidden fears and prejudices in a clever way.The fact that we can follow the characters in real time is also fantastic. Skam is pioneering in the way that clips are posted in real time online, as if its characters truly exist. Fans can interact with their favorite Skam characters on Facebook or Instagram. A new clip, Message or Insta can come anytime during the night or day. This also makes the show highly addictive. I also love the show because of all the lovely easter eggs, "messages" to fans and references to literature, movies, music, religion and philosophy that it provides.And finally there is the one thing that makes this show the best. It aims to reduce the kids' shame, and it uses humor to show that we all are human, we make mistakes. And it's OK.


                
Skam does a wonderful job in portraying the world of teenagers with a very fresh perspective. Each season focuses on one of the main characters and takes us into a sincere journey with them with 360 perspective; their emotions, ideas, and interactions with people around them which makes you feel like you are a teenager again and even though you are from a completely different culture, you feel like one of them. It shares the essence of being a teenager in today's world thanks to Julie Andem's prior research with teenagers. The strongest aspect of Skam is the openness of characters to different cultures, ideologies, and sexual orientations. We see them doing all the mistakes that we have thought once to be the end of our lives. However, with a little help from their friends and a realistically depicted maturation, they find the strength to go on and discover some more. Skam touches upon the most important subjects in an interesting and intelligent way; religion, homosexuality, sexual abuse, discovering sexuality, building one's identity. These teenagers build the most interesting dialogues that go far beyond being politically correct. They get stronger together and stand for their rights and freedom against the most unfortunate experiences. There is no victimization but only an emphasis on strength. Each episode, there is a valuable insight you get from the main characters. They are not always right or they don't always do the right thing but they are also open to change and learn from others. It is the first time that I have seen a Muslim woman portrayed as a random human with ideas, passions, objectivity, and open-mindedness. The misunderstandings based on religious and cultural differences are also handled in a great way. Changing the lenses each season, taking a new character's perspective makes you understand the value of open interaction and accepting everybody as their selves. Unlike the American high school series, there is no vengeance and master plans, nothing is told in an unrealistic way, nothing is overly romantic; it is about the complicated, messy but purposeful process we have all been through. It's been a delight to join these teenagers' journey for four seasons and I am excited to learn more about Sana this season. After a very long time, I am happy that I found a 10 out of 10 show that takes me back to my high school years and takes me through a roller coaster of emotions.
A teenage drama with a very good soundtrack about friendship, love life, partying, violence, drinking, sex and much more It's funny, charming, realistic and addictive!So far it's only people in the Scandinavian countries who can easily understand this Norwegian series, and up to now there have been no subtitlesBut recently some kindhearted angels did the hard work for free and uploaded it at Dailymotion and Vimeo, so just google "skam English", stream and enjoy ;) Give it a try, you will not regret!Russ = 3rd year student, some students buy a van together and make it a "russebil", others buy a bus and make it a "russebuss", those vehicles are mainly used between May 1st and May 17th(Norway's Constitution Day) for a 17 day long party


                
SKAM was an experience, from beginning to end, that I firmly believe people of all ages can enjoy, though I will admit it will probably appeal most to the teenage mind. This show combines well-written characters with interesting plot lines and development to create an amazing show viewers will fall in love with. It does have its issues with a few somewhat dull scenes, including one scene that consists solely of characters eating breakfast in silence, but that can be forgiven.SKAM is the first show I've seen in a very long time that has cast teenagers to play teenagers. Not only that, but the actors are a part of the production and do get a hand in deciding things about their character. The show itself contains some great messages about standing by your friends, accepting yourself, and coming to terms with your identity, and they do it in a tasteful and realistic way. No one gets their happy ending without making a few mistakes along the way. The show does contain some themes that are often considered taboo for teenagers to do or even talk about in today's society, like drinking, sex, partying, and drugs. SKAM does a great job of portraying the teenage party scene in a realistic but still kind of tasteful way.Overall, SKAM is a great show that I would encourage most people to watch. Maybe not a show to watch with your little sibling or kid, but a good show for people over the age of thirteen.


                
I literally signed up for IMDb just to rate this show a 10 out of 10. Honestly watching this show is the best decision I've made in 2017 and it has not even been 24 hours since the Times Square ball drop. You know one of those stories where you can kinda guess what the characters are going to say next, or those in which the characters talk so fast it's too witty to be real, none of that in this beautiful TV show and it's so refreshing. I jumped straight to season 3 cause I was sceptical about the first two seasons cause I thought how original could it be..., but having finished season 3, I'm completely sold. Very interesting characters and view on numerous issues, excellent soundtrack choice..., just absolutely beautiful.


                
The season 3 is so amazing , i didn't heard anything about the show before...Season 3 goes the whole series to another level, is so worth watching it... it is one of the best shows i've ever seen... The characters are charming and the plot is realistic... The season explores the feelings and behaves of a young gay man... In one hand we have a more deliberative gay man who is openly about his sexuality and in the other hand a young man who struggles with his feelings.... additional some times we can see an explore of bisexuality... <U+0399>n other words the show explores so many different people but in a way you will fall in love with that... I love it and i wait to see more of it...


                
I started watching this only because so many people on my twitter timeline were raving about it. And tbh, I like teenage drama.As some stated before, yes, it is a very "white" series. But I don't see what's bad about that. It is very well-made, in that it's very time-effective. The episodes are very short, but you get so much of that character in that short time. It's like a regular series, except they removed all the "filler" scenes, things like a car approaching, a house seen from far away for 30 seconds, stupid lines between people that don't matter. That's the one thing I like about this series. Very focused, very time effective, focused on feelings and characters. Also, the soundtrack is on fleek.Just give it a shot and watch the first 1-2 episodes. They are short anyway. I'm 99% sure you'll like it.


                
SKAM isn't perfect, it's still (3 seasons in) very white and some problematic things have popped up here and there without it being discussed on the show.Nevertheless, can we talk about how SKAM manages to give us such amazing plot and character development in just one season? (this goes for all seasons but especially season 3)The whole fandom roared in anger when they changed last week's clip from 45min to 18min but then cried together in joy because the writers managed to give us so much in those six new minutes. Something most TV shows spend a whole season TRYING to achieve. I believe the reason is the friendships the show has built up and letting us see, both in the clips and also in all the social media posts. (I highly recommend checking out the social media posts over at Skam's webpage!) Because real friends push each other. So instead of spending hours of screen time where the character has to figure out how to solve a problem or move past something, the friends are there. Calling out BS, listening, reasoning, supporting. They are all growing together, and I'm so glad we get the chance to grow as well. <U+2764><U+FE0E>


                
I discovered this amazing and unique Norwegian series, set around an Oslo high school, this summer (2017) with S3 (Isak & Even), which got more global attention and was published on more platforms and more commented on by fans because of its appealing and destined-to-be-classic gay teen coming-out love story, and then watched S1 (Jonas & Eva) & S2 (Noora & William), moving on just in time for the current, ongoing S4 (Sana) up the the end, seeing the final episode of S4 on its actual final real-time day The Eid (Eid al-Fitr ) June 25. The real-time, of- the-moment quality was essential to the authenticity of the series and its proximity to the present teenage generation. (We are told that the series was made up as it went along, with input from teens, and nobody knew during S3 who was going to be featured in S4.) Amazingly all this that I watched was not officially published but local fans' artisanal publications on various platforms with homemade but spot-on idiomatic English subtitles (including all the text messages and explanations of wordplay, maybe the best subtitles ever). It was easy to get hooked and hunt for more and more wherever you could find them. There was nothing like it ever. It was so good and these kids and their talk were so fascinating it made you study the texts and want to learn Norwegian (which I loved the sound of, but found pretty baffling). All this came at kind of a serendipitous time right after I'd devoured all but the last not yet translated of Karl Ove Knausgård's addictive 6-vol. series of autobiographical novels, "My Struggle," so I was used to living vicariously in Norway.Besides being innovatively naturalistic with its real-time scenes and online broadcast, heavy use of SMS etc., it also boldly covers a social range using appropriate actors, notably Tarjei Sandvik Moe as "Isak," who became a global gay heartthrob, yet was a an actual 15, 16, 17-year-old student at the Hartvig Nissens high school featured in the series. And what a compelling, watchable young actor he is! We live through his lies and dodges, double-takes and self-discoveries moment by moment. Each of the 4 seasons is the love story of one couple, all connected with the others through the school. S1 is an ordinary (cute) couple, and the boy, Jonas (Marlon Langeland of the imposing eyebrows) spoils their love through excessive jealousy of the beautiful Eva (Lisa Teige). S2 is a screwed-up couple, a snobbish, particular girl and a rich, spoiled, damaged top dog. Noora's and William's story is painful and as true as Isak & Even's. When N & W finally connect, it's super-intense, but also fragile. S3 is Isak, the gay-questioning boy who has to come out to himself, while pursued by the older, more sure Even, who yet has psychological issues. Their first dates are romantic, a scene based on Baz Luhrman's Romeo & Juliet. Then, after the requisite heartbreak and Isak's difficult coming out to his (totally accepting) pals, who sort of knew it all along, as did Emma (Ruby Dagnall), the girl he was stringing along and using as a facade, "Evak" wind up moving in together and being the most loving and stable couple of all, a pearl of a romance cultivated in adversity. Also interesting, a microcosm of the school social groupings, is Isak's loyal little posse of Jonas, Magnus and Mahdi and himself, who talk of nothing but sex though only one, Jonas, of S1, may know anything about it so far. Magnus is the one who has to get laid, his naive eagerness a running joke, till he finds a gf, somebody we've been seeing all along. S4, though it continues with all the former characters, focuses primarily on the most baddass and arguably the most complex and interesting character, the Muslim, hijab-wearing Sana (the excellent Iman Meskini), who as time goes on very much finds a boy she loves, Yousef, who's from a Muslim family, but sadly, her religious beliefs don't allow her to be with him when she discovers his attitude to God.The joyous party at the end both celebrates the young actor's esprit-de- corps and underlines that "SKAM" is throughout very much an ensemble piece, with no minor characters, because they all count, Chris, Vilde, Isak's gay roommate and scold Eskild, the bus groups, the top dog boys, everybody. Mostly to these kids, adults don't count that much, and are seen only from the neck down,except for Sana's parents, who do count for her, and the hilarious, wise school "nurse", more an offbeat counselor, Dr. Skrulle (Astrid Elise Arefjord), whose little scenes of quirky advice-giving are priceless. I confess to by now having watched some "SKAM" episodes three, four, or more times. Each time gets better and I marvel more at the wit, adorableness, and how, say, Isak and his posse play off each other when they're together. These kids are incredible. You may think of the UK series "Skins," which is remarkable in its own way, but it is totally different, bent on grimness, and dark humor and absurdity, and not as real and true, or as helpful. Because watching "SKAM" can be healing and enlightening, as well as touching and fun. And it's basically about togetherness and love.


                
I have been watching this show from the beginning of season one. I some days hit the refresh button a million times! Just to get a small update, if only a transcript of a SMS- chat or message log. NRK makes the show realistic by "hiding" the actors (refuse media to interview them), giving every character a Instagram account and/or a Facebook account, and the "live" updates. This gives us, the viewers, the feeling of that the characters are real. Many, many times the actors have been called by their characters name - Ulrikke Falch gets angry by people calling her Vilde e.g.(told by people knowing Ulrikke in real life)This show have it all: strong female characters, religious character, gay characters - what more can we get?Oh, I want more of boy Chris!!
I watched this show from the start, and now rewatched before watching the Italian version of it (and what I have seen looks good too) but the original SKAM was legendary tv show about teenagers who faced real struggles. The representation this show has from different aspects is thrilling, from mental health to LGBT. Amazing show with drama that is written interestingly. And the teenagers are actually teenagers in real life. Would recommend.


                
My thanks go to Tarjei Sandvik Moe for his powerful performance in series 3 of SKAM. HIs Isak is one of the most realistic, nuanced, fully developed characterizations of someone discovering his truth that I have seen on screen. Some moments made me laugh (the interview with the 'doctor'); others were achingly restrained (his sharing of his dilemma with Jonas.j The most sublime were the church and following scene. The music made those scenes unbearably intense and climactic. Tarjei brought to the character an array of facial expressions—vulnerability, uncertainty, tenderness, curiosity, wonder, sadness, skepticism, happiness; his many voices, from whispers to boisterousness, brought dimension to his character. Tarjei's performance is so nuanced and subtle, I wondered how much of the detail was directed by Julie Andem and how much was his? My guess is that much of his character was basic Tarjei. Other things i liked about the production were the close camera work, the amount of silence (no continuous soundtrack), and of course his group of friends. And the great team of translators who brought the show to the English speaking world. My deepest appreciation to Tarjei and all that made the show possible.It would be great if, once SKAM is finished with this season, the whole thing would be made available on DVD, with the wonderful English translations.
I finished all 3 seasons in two days and I felt so connected to the show, I almost sound crazy but it's so addicting and i could not get enough. I re-watched all the seasons like 4 times since and now I don't even know what to do while I'm waiting for season four and my heart feels so empty. My family gets annoyed with me talking about it all of the time. I feel so close with the characters even though they're half way across the world, it really is crazy how addicting the show is and I 110% recommend everyone to watch it. But, I'm warning you because it can take over your whole life, which isn't a bad thing because the show is just that good.


                
Relatable and different than other high school tv series!


                
It's a Norwegian TV show made for teenagers in Norway...just about average teenagers struggling with daily life problems, nothing more fancy than that...as life is difficult enough already. It was never advertised...teens had to find it themselves on the internet...as a hidden secret no adults knew about. And it's geoblocked...Norway only...so U have to struggle a bit to find the subtitled versions made of fans. A lot of work then...BUT IT'S WORTH IT :) This is by far the best TV show made on this planet so far.No kidding, it will change your life forever and for the better. Not only for teens, but ALL ages :) Still reading??? What the hell is wrong with you? Google drive is your best friend, so stop everything, and start the hard work :) Life is now, and not long enough to miss this masterpiece :)If still in any doubt, check this stories here from viewers around the world: http://www.thankyouskam.com Have fun, and enjoy :)


                
I started watching this series after a friend of mine, who had previously watched Skins, recommended both of them to me. I decided to start by watching this one because the episodes where shorter and I would, therefore, get to watch both in less time. I watched the first and the second episodes in some spare time I had and wondered where the big deal was. They made me feel nothing but a little sorry for the main character. I thought it was a matter of perseverance. And it was. In two days I had finished the first season and I'm sure I would have come to the end of the series in a weekend if it had been holidays and I had had nothing else to do. The second season was the best for my friend, but it felt a little cold after the first one for me. I knew the third would change my life, so I went for it and watched the second in record time, too. It's not that I disliked it completely; I just didn't like it as much as the first one. And then the third season came. I had felt really related to what happened with the girls in the two first seasons, but it was more of a "that happens around me, too"-thing. In the third season, however, that changed into "that's me in a Norwegian TV-show". Everything was done carefully, nothing was exaggerated. I don't think it would've been better if everything had been taken to the limit. Everything happened at its pace, matching the time those things take in real life. Nothing was utterly unrealistic. I have realized that the best movies, books, etc. I watch or read are simply those that make me feel something. That's why this series and this third season in particular are the best thing I have ever watched. I have felt everything the main character felt during the season, sometimes even more strongly than he did. I have fallen in love with his love story, wishing it for myself, even with its disadvantages. I have felt sorry for him, I have cried for how unfair everything was at times.It's true that teenagers will feel more related to the series than others taking into account that the actors and the characters are really close to us in age and in general. This is a show, however, that I would recommend to anyone (I'm actually already doing it). It is a depiction of how the modern world works, about how things are, whether we want or not. It helps, by the way, to get to know a country which isn't known to most of us. I, myself, have been learning Swedish for some time and I don't regret it for many reasons, one of them being that, due to the closeness between Swedish and Norwegian, I have been able to understand most of the things that appeared written on the screen in Norwegian but didn't show up in my English or Spanish subtitles. This show has encouraged me to learn Norwegian, too, and I can't wait to re-watch it after I have learned a bit of the beautiful language that Norwegian is, another positive fact when considering watching this series: the way Norwegian is spoken in this series is something very different from all the other languages I've heard being spoken, even on series.I have had to apologize to my friend, but I simply can't watch Skins or any TV-show that has the slightest similarity with Skam, because I don't want to underrate them and I know I will if I watch them now. I am really keen on following the fourth season from the beginning, on being attached to the webpage waiting for updates. I also have some things I would like to see in it, but I won't care if it is not like that in the end. It'll be difficult for me to like another season better than the third, but that will not keep me from watching the new seasons that appear. By my praising the third season, I don't want you to watch the third season and forget about the other ones. I highly recommend watching the first and the second before the third, which is a gift for having been faithful to the order established by the creators.


                
This series is extremely well written and well acted. It is a completely new format (mainly for the Norwegian audience) as they cam follow it in real time, with mini-clips (adding up to an episode by the end of the week) live instagram posts, texts, snapchat-photos and facebook-updates. The series is progressive and very authentic from a Scandinavian (perhaps even European?) point of view. Its is some kind of cultural heritage of our time. I strongly recommend watching this series!


                
The show is geared towards teenagers but I feel would be appreciated by adults of any age. Thought provoking and emotional, each season takes you on a journey through one characters point of view, each season being a different character. It's not a typical teenage angst approach but a more intelligent, in depth, gripping drama on the realities of the world we live in today and how the characters navigate through them. Some topics covered are relationships, racism, sexual assault, bullying, homosexuality, mental illness, learning to become true to oneself and the courage it takes in getting there. The cinematography pulls you in each moment along with the music...the music is excellent. It has superb writing, characters and incredibly impressive actors for being so young. I can't recommend this show enough. I heard there's an American version in the works. If that's true, not quite sure I want to watch it. It's going to be incredibly tough to even come close to the original.
Impressively realistic and well-acted tv show depicting teenagers. Most American tv shows about the same demographic completely miss the mark, but this show delivers. Highly recommend.


                
Most amazing show I had ever seen. Plot, cast, everything perfect


                
This show takes a step back from Hollywood clichés and drama for the sake of drama. It explores important themes and stories without losing contact with reality. You get the feeling that the show creators really want to depict how growing up can be fun, difficult, lonely, wonderful and confusing. The show dares to keep a minimal tone, and focuses on everyday life - in real time! Don't forget to read the interactions between the characters that happens on social media.The show also has a keen focus. Every season follows the life of one character, and the rest of the characters are more or less prominent that season, depending on their relationship with the main character. This is sort of similar to how it was done in SKINS for every episode, but works really well this way too. You really get attached to the main character and get the opportunity to really immerse into that person's life.Enjoy!


                
