I was roughly 10 years old when this film first hit the theaters. And when I saw it, I fell in love with it, maybe that should have been a warning that I wouldn't like it much once I've reached maturity.Fast Forward 13 years, and being nostalgic as I am, I decide to watch all 3 Terminator movies in order for old times sake. I couldn't believe the surprise I felt when I found out how horrible this film was. It's earlier installment was a masterpiece, even with the fraction of the budget that James Cameron had for this film. The second incarnation of the Terminator series totally ignores what made the 1st one so good, and instead replaces it as a popcorn, 50's esquire comic book style filming trying to appeal to kids and people with vocabularies limited to 4 lettered words. And it did very well in dumbing down Teriminator into the mess it was in Terminator 2.James Cameron made the biggest amateur mistake with this film in that they made the Terminator into this cheesy compassionate good guy character, which was not only ludicrous, but also very laughable. The potential for irony was strong with a boy growing so attracted to a cold, emotionless machine, as well as the irony of a machine being the ideal protector as opposed to the father John never had. Yet all of this was wasted on this half-assed 'almost human' machine who gives funny one liners and smiles.As if this wasn't enough to destroy this film, We're also treated to an Edward Furlong being well timed into his changing voice. Hearing a squeaky annoying child's voice swearing and trying to act tough which will the audience petition for a mute button in the theaters. I can understand Linda Hamilton's character's transformation from a naive waitress into a more hardened and tough woman after battling a terminator before. There's no chemistry between John and Sarah in the movie, And Furlong's portrayal seemed so plain and simple for such a troubled and traumatized child he was supposed to depict.The only good things in this film is perhaps the action and the eye-candy. Both of which is very nice to see but the slop of a plot and character use. Terminator 1 was obviously a B movie, But the plot, the mood and the rational use of characters made it thought provoking as well as frightening. Terminator 2 feels as if it's trying to make violence and cheap thrills with a Disney touch behind it.He did this with the Titanic as well. Tsk task.
Let's make it clear - the special effects in this movie are pretty good, and it's as well made as Hollywood actioners get. But am I the only one who despises the way the film is blatantly aimed at the type of people who describe things as "awesome" or "kick-ass"?James Cameron is a very clever man, not for his movie-making qualities (of which we'll get to later!) but for his knowing of a sure thing when he sees one. The first Terminator had a fraction of the budget, and a very much lesser-known star at the time, and it managed to create a convincingly dark and menacing bad guy, and a pretty tight action thriller.T2, however, has seen Mr Cameron simply throw together a whole pile of things that will appeal to  the comic-book generation - big guns, throbbing motorbikes, and the kind of silly set-pieces that are designed purely to whoop up an audience which has few demands. I'm not expecting an intellectual feast when I watch a movie like this, but I at least hope that the director won't patronise me by cobbling these stock elements together, adding some risible dialogue and pretending it is a complete film.And how wholly predictable that we have Arnie in the good guy role this time, further sealing the commercial certainty of this film. Every aspect of the movie seems tailored to bring in as much money as possible, from the aforementioned comic-book elements, to the awful product placement - witness the technician who comes into a room awkwardly carrying a well-known brand of cola, label to the camera, and the same brand-name on a prominent vending machine in a corridor shoot-out.Ever since the travesty that was ALIENS, James Cameron has been putting together garish films like this which simply do not appeal to me. He may be a competent director, but he is no master of character or originality, favouring instead the kind of technical accomplishment or macho nonsense (and, let's face it, his female characters are males in all but name) that appeals to young, male Americans. It leaves me cold, and it makes me mad, when he, and his fans, try to convince me otherwise.


                
I was a big fan of the original. The plot was a good one, the actors convincing, even Arnie (although perhaps having 42 words in the entire film helped.)and the action took place largely at night. Five minutes into T2 when Arnie has killed no-one and nicked one guy's sunglasses, I thought *uh-oh* - one-liner ahoy, and sure enough, later one of many such gut-wrenchingly bad lines emerges, delivered with enough lack of Acting ability to cover his compatriots in splinters. Now sometimes a Movie can be salvaged by it's co-stars, but unfortunately although Linda Hamilton is the only member of the cast that emerges with any credibility, the young John Connor is so incredibly irritating that 30 minutes into the film, I wanted to kill him myself. That leaves the quintessential "Baddie" to sustain some sort of suspense and danger. Alas, James was still obviously obsessed with the morphing techniques he discovered while making "The Abyss" with the result that we end up with a robot that is supposed to be made up of liquid metal capable of altering it's colour, texture and size, and even reforming itself. All movies of this type call for a certain degree of suspension of disbelief, but this is just ludicrous. Even in "non-liquid" mode, the new wimpy looking terminator runs around with his head inclined - apparently this is supposed to be frightening. Throughout the film, we have lots of explosions, laughable dialog and in the end, Arnie the philosophical friendly cyborg. This film could have been a damn sight better, even with Arnie in the lead, but this seems to have been targeted at a preview audience of teenagers in the mid-west with all the ingredients that they tend to expect. It is quite simply yet another standard formulaic attempt to make money, not a decent film, but hey, Isn't that what Hollywood is about?Dan Marcus


                
In the first Terminator the time portal machine was smashed as Reese related to Sarah Connor during a conversation, in effect canceling out the Terminator part 2. And could they of not of chosen a more suitable kid to be John Connor than the Dufus they chose? Not a movie to recommend to watch today as the effects are cheesy and story is very thick on narratives. Having to believe Sarah Connor went from a 21 year old wimpy powder puff waitress to a martial arts monster within several years whilst committed to an insane asylum really pushes the limit of believability.I believe the plot line of part 3 of killing all his lieutenants should of been the main quest line of part 1 and part 2 should of been the futuristic aftermath of the war.
I can't believe the number of fools which liked this sequel, and thats what it was, better than the original.  How did Miss Conner develop into this Guerrilla Warfare Extraordinaire without any formal training, in a limited time, and stay sharp enough while under psychotic medication to stay alive for more than five minutes?  Sorry, can't get past that.  Furthermore, take away the special effects and the T2 villain gets a beat down from my little sister, he does not come close to comparing with Arnold for #1 bad guy, and in the 90's John Conner's teenage character is doing drugs not trying to save the world.  None of the story is believible, even for science fiction. If you think special effects make the movie, more power to you.  Go watch The ONE over and over again, I'll stick with Enter the Dragon.  Almost NEVER will Pt.2 be the Originals equal.  The characters in T2 don't even come close and neither does the dialog.


                
Yes, this movie has everything you expected, but is it necessarily as good as it is made out to be? The answer is a resounding no. These movies these days seem to be a dime a dozen, add a big name, add some crazy ridiculous storyline and add a few million in special effects and that equals Hollywood success these days. Great movie if you don't want to think about anything or if you're upset and need to see a bunch of explosions. Arnold is everything he is cut out to be... big and strong and a terrible actor. The movie is worth a watch, but this cult phenonmenon that has arisen from this movie is kind of ridiculous to me. I'd like to see movies that have more thought in them then Terminator 2 start to get rewarded.


                
This is a terrible, terrible movie. Let's start with the script. It is lame and does not feature one great line. Next, the special effects. These are all good and fine but stuff blowing up does not a movie make. The "emotion". This movie is in no way touching or anything else like that as the back cover would make you believe. The plot. There is some kind of plot but mostly it's just there so that we can get to the special effects. And finally the acting. The acting is ATROCIOUS. The John O' Connor kid is so amazingly bad that I muted this movie every time he started talking. A high-pitched kid swearing and trying to act big and bad is the last thing I am entertained by. Arnold Schwarzzeneger and John O' Connor's mother put on performances not quite as bad as the kid but close. I do not see how anyone could like this movie, but apparently some people do. They can have their opinions, but I personally believe that there is not a single redeeming value about this "film".


                
It was such a shame to see a sequel as lame as this made from one of the better sci-fi movies of all time.Sure, the effects (particularly the T1000) were brilliant for their time, and worth seeing the movie for, but special effects do not a great film make. And just about everything else in this film was average to very poor. The "acting", the inclusion of a child as the main character, the story, all lame.There is something wrong with this film being at a higher spot than it's prequel.


                
I can't understand how such a stupid argument can be praised for lots of people.The special effects are good, but it is the only thing you can recognize in this nonsense movie.For me it is Garbage and a waste of time.


                
It's hard to find nothing to like about a movie, but there's nothing good about this one. The first movie was bad enough, and it served as an excuse for bullies to try to invite people over and try to force them to watch it. I'm not sure what they get out of it. I just know they do it. The films are horribly written movies about machines coming back from the future to destroy a guy who is supposed to be all that and a box of cracker jacks. He isn't. In this movie, he's a brat to beat all brats, even for a kid. You just hope he gets killed and the movie ends. None of the characters are likable. The idea of time travel to change the future could be done better than in this movie series by a two year old kid. There's a lot of noise that passes for action, but the action is shot in such a way that you don't really know what's going on. This is how not to make a movie. Too bad you can't vote negative numbers for junk like this. If you haven't seen it, believe me, you aren't missing a thing.


                
Dreadful and I mean an absolute waste of time. This film is simply awful and that is about the easiest way I can describe it. Good and evil interact here and you reach the point where you can't tell which is which.The only good thing about this clunker is the special effects. The chase scenes and the constant destruction are admirable tasks done by the film makers, but you are left asking what is going on here?The pure evil just cannot be terminated. He keeps coming back to unleash more fury, more destruction and more mayhem.How did the Linda Hamilton character know all this? Why must her son be protected? Who is Dyson? Was he a force for evil? He certainly complies with the so called good guys.The ending of living sacrifice even makes this horror display more unbelievable qualities than one could ever imagine. Terrible.
Not only does it have worst acting I have seen a movie in a long time the Visual effects are so horrible nowadays, how could they want awards for editing what do you mean nominated when almost every window that gets broken brakes or explodes before anything gets near it This movie has the worst green screen visual effects how bad were all the other movies this year for this to win so many Oscars


                
Sometime ago I watched this movie to see what the hype was all about. Clearly it was overblown. This movie is a typical Hollywood shoot 'em up, nothing special. I would never ever watch this movie again or recommend it to anyone. If I could rate it lower than 1 star I would. Movies like this add no value.There's still something more to say about this film, however. Again, this film, like the first one in the series, in 1984, was directed by James Cameron. Not surprisingly, it received critical acclaim, making this review within the minority of those whom disliked this film. Perhaps what I dislike about this film is the grotesque, unrelenting violence by the protagonist, played by Arnold Schwarzenegger. Otherwise I don't have much else to say about this film.With that, this film clearly deserves a rating of 1 out of 10.


                
What a steaming pile of dog manure Mindless boring noisy assault and battery of the senses all to tell a cliched story line No imagination just an endless barrage of action scenes meant to entertain mindless morons Judging by the reviews a lot of people fell for it So pathetic it kind of makes me lose faith in humanity Mindless trash !!!!


                
