Okay, I dislike this movie intensely.  I saw it before I saw Terminator, and I almost didn't watch the original because of it.  I love the original, it had character and drama, and you felt something when you watched it.The thing that most upsets me about this movie is that it all but totally disregards the original.  Sure, the psychiatrist shows up, but that does not continuity make.  Sarah was supposed to be strong and brave, and teach and guide her son.  I didn't think that meant being an alcoholic female Rambo. That glimpse of her we caught at the end of Terminator was what she was all about.  Sure, she was strong, but she had vulnerability.John, though tough for a kid, lacks something.And the cyborg (also 800 series) looks exactly like the first one?  If they all looked alike, it would be pretty easy to pick them out after one revealed itself.Ah, and the plot was absolutely grade-schoolish.  Killing machine is redeem himself.  While I have no problem with this plot in general, the Iron Giant (an animated film) managed to pull it off better than T2.


                
I know, Iknow, I am in a minority but I feel compelled to write (for the first time ever) because this film is rubbish in comparison to the original. Yes I do mean RUBBISH, GARBAGE or whatever else you may care to call it. I've rated it a two because if you just want to see Arnie flex his muscles, grunt in an Austrian accent, and generally shoot the place up, I'd have to give it 10 out of 10 and if I was then to say that the special effects were way ahead of their time, why I'd go so far as to give it a 12. The plot's well paced, the acting is good and it makes a decent mindless action film. However this is NOT what I want from a movie, not even an Arnie number.Much of my disappointment is probably due to the time I saw the first film. I will never forget the fear I felt of the implacable terminator ruthlessly tracking ITS prey without regard for anything but fulfilling ITS programmed objectives. The first Terminator film now looks dated beyond belief, but it was way, way ahead of its time. Nonetheless in the sequel there's nothing amazing (apart from the special effects) to freak anyone out. Instead, James Cameron sets out to prove that vacuum cleaners too can have complex personalities. Sorry, it just doesn't wash. And neither does the anti-war theme which is so lightly graffiti-ed over the entire film with the subtlety of a skinhead wielding a baseball bat at a gay pride demonstration. The final little speech made at the end of the film is so unashamedly and outrightly didactic that its saccharin taste leaves one with the need to reach for the bucket. (It still makes me want to wretch just writing about it.)What I love in a good film is coming out of the cinema, forgetting it, but then continually thinking about it over the next few days. What I loathed about Terminator 2 was coming out of the cinema, forgetting about it, and then continually thinking about its inconsistencies for the next few years. Poor though the third film is, at least it attempts to sort out the muddle of illogical time lines left by the second film. It's downright illogical that the mainframe in the future, knowing it had been destroyed would firstly send a model of a Terminator with a surprisingly large batch run, then realize it had failed and so send a new and better number. Why didn't it just send the more advanced prototype first? (If it had lost the war at the hands of John Connor, what else was the thing going to be used for?) If it weren't for the third film, which was desperately needed to explain this mess, the mainframe computer must have known it had lost the battle instantly. After all, it must have found out through its own non-existence. I know I'm pedantic, but I can't really be the only one out there. However, if you are capable of leaving your brain somewhere else, be my guest. Otherwise I must seriously warn you: this film will do serious damage to your IQ and should be given a government health warning. Give it a miss or start talking more kindly to your household appliances.


                
Think I'm joking? I'm not. I would go so far as to say that if you saw and understood The Terminator, then saw and understood T2, you could only like the sequel if concepts such as consistency and plot integrity were of no value to you whatsoever. If you like a cheap grab-bag of special effects tacked onto the top of a cynical, lazy effort to rehash the original film and make loads of money, I can see why you might like T2. As a sequel to one of the most intelligent action films of the 80s, however, this is an abomination of a movie. If you think the two stories can be viewed as mutually compatible, you have a very poor grasp of the logic and metaphysics of the narrative universe set up in The Terminator. Basically Cameron and Wisher set out their rules in The Terminator, and then proceed to break them at every step here, hoping that the audience will be too stupid to notice or care. Sadly, for the most part they were proved correct.


                
Once upon a time there was a talented young director called James Cameron. He made a classic low-budget sci-fi thriller called The Terminator, and followed it up with other minor classics such as Aliens and The Abyss. Then he was seduced by the Dark Side of the Force and started making s***.***PLOT SPOILERS FOLLOW*** Terminator 2 is an appalling film. Certainly, the special effects were ground-breaking (although look ordinary now)but I'm more than a little sick of hearing people say this in its defence. Special Effects alone are not enough. There needs to be a plausible story, decent dialogue, solid acting performances and a basic artistic integrity. Linda Hamilton excepted, the performances here all suck. Arnie was perfectly cast in the original as a cyborg villain - for once his mechanical tics and twitches actually worked in his favour. His attempts to make the robot in T2 more human are just tragic. The plot is totally lacking in plausibility. Edward Furlong, we are supposed to believe, turns into a ruthless future guerilla leader. Someone who orders his troops not to kill the enemy (as he tells Arnie in that patronising "You can't kill anybody" sequence)clearly isn't meant to be a general. In the first film, we were told that the time-travel equipment had been blown up after Kyle Reese had been sent back in time. So how come it's now working again? And if they're capable of sending more Terminators back, why didn't they just send back a cyborg to kill Sarah Connor when she was in labour? She could hardly have fought back then. It seems as though Cameron thought he could blind his audience to these obvious discrepancies by bombarding them with special effects. The whole film is a mess. Everything that made the first Terminator film great was sacrificed to make a gaudy, crass effects-fest. I had been looking forward to a sequel set in the future, featuring John Connor fighting against the machines. Instead, they made the biggest fake in history. And the thumbs-up bit at the end? I vomited a river.


                
The best visual effects ever, but the rest, really, really, really S#@t. I can understand why people like this movie because there's plenty of action visual effects and killing, but that doesn't make a movie good.This movie has no directional talent, no acting ability, shocking script and too many butch women. The same goes for The Matrix, stunning visual effects but one hell of a bad movie. But unfortunately, that's the way it is. People don't want to see Casablanca, Gone With The Wind and Citizen Kane anymore, they want Terminator 2: Judgement Day.My score -- 2 out of 10


                
