Many people thinks this movie is better than the first. I do not agree. The first had a great story, great acting and REAL exitment. Arnold was a ROBOT in that one, not an actor who tries to do a likeable version of a robot. It was also more thrilling becourse Sarah didn´t have a robot who never needed sleep to watch over her. She only had a vulnerable young boy from the future who she fell in love with and lost. I don´t say the second was bad. But the most touching scenes was those who reminded me of the first movie. Like when John wonders about his dad and they show Sarah photos from the policestation 1984. Its also is hard to see "father unknown" when the computer scrolls down information about John. The first one left the future hanging in the air. The other one was good, but should of been more of a "human" story like the first one was.T1 10/10 T2  8/10Sorry for bad english.


                
I was really looking forward to this movie when it first came out. The first Terminator was and remains an absolute classic. A sequel promised more of the same with cutting edge effects, it should have been awesome. Instead, what we got was a fuzzy, cuddly terminator sent back to protect a masculine Sarah Conner and her unbelievably bratty son from the T1000 which was the only thing worth watching in this huge disappointment. The special effects WERE brilliant, I still love the sequence when the T1000 comes up through the floor but everything else about this bloated mess was over the top. Instead of the cold killer from the first movie, Arnie is almost human; certainly more so than the miserable portrayal Linda Hamilton gave. It's easy to see where Lena Headey got her inspiration from for her awful portrayal of the character. Also, are we seriously expected to believe that the nauseating, thieving little toe-rag played so badly by Edward Furlong could possibly grow up to be the saviour of humanity? Add to that the cheesy dialogue and all the silly one liners, catchphrases and explosions and what you are left with is nothing more than a Disney style movie with Michael Bay delusions. I gave this movie four and that was for the special effects, otherwise I would have given it a 1. It's a pity IMDb don't allow us to vote turkey, because this film deserved one.
