I am not a big fan of sequels,as most of them disappoint,but T2 certainly does not.In fact,it's a rare case,at least in my opinion, of a sequel actually surpassing the original film in terms of greatness.As in 99.9% of his films,Arnold Schwarzenegger is the good guy once again,but you don't mind once you witness the incredible villain performance of Robert Patrick.This film is nothing short of a beginning to end thrill ride.Let us not forget the talents of Linda Hamilton and Edward Furlong,who gave great supporting efforts.Thumbs up!


                
A strange lightning forms a circular opening in mid-air, and in the sudden flare of light we see a figure in a sphere of energy... It is the figure of a naked man... 'Terminator' has come through... He stands, and impassively surveys its surroundings...His physique is massive and perfect... His face devoid of emotion... He's not here to kill Sara Connor... His mission now is to protect the future savior of mankind, her son John... Thirty years from now, Terminator was reprogrammed to be John Connor's protector here, in this time... Terminator would never leave him... Terminator would never hurt him... Terminator would die to defend him against any danger... But Skynet, the computer which controlled the Machines, sent an advanced prototype back through time, to destroy the leader of the human Resistance, little John... T-1000 is very menacing... His features are handsome bordering on severe... Its face is simple, unformed... His eyes are gray ice, penetrating... He is certainly not built like Terminator with complex hydraulics and cables... He is human-shaped but far from human... Arnold Schwarzenegger is perfect as the super-hero... He never threatens, that's a human thing! He just takes... He can jerk any knife out without slowing a stride... His hand blurs out like a striking cobra...We watch him smashing the cover plate off the phone's cash box with the heel of his hand... And when the bullets rake his chest, he doesn't even draw back... We observe him in slow motion how he fights for control, how he jumps his bike, sweeps a street kid off his machine with one arm and swings him in front of him... Robert Patrick is a super-villain, a perfect chameleon... He can change shape and color... He can imitate anything it touches, anything it samples by physical contact, any object of equal size... He is a 'killing machine' with the ultimate skills of mimicry for infiltration of human society... He looks and acts exactly like a 'cop' but with quite a few surprises... His arms and fingers can be turned smoothly into something else... He spins at a sound... His blow is lighting fast... He pulls the trigger so fast it almost seems like a machine-pistol... He is cool, alert, confident in his power... His expression emotionless and judgmental... Linda Hamilton is not a mission priority... She is the same woman we remember from last time... Her body is straight and taut... Her arms are lean and muscular... Her eyes peer out through a wild tangle of hair like those of a cornered animal... Her voice is a low and chilling monotone... Her expression cold and impassive... She is defiant and intense... She looks hard... Hamilton seems to have the weight of the whole world on her shoulder.. She draws her knife from its belt sheath, and idly starts to carve something on the table top, the letter "N." Something changes in her eyes... Her face is an impassive mask... We see the forces at war behind her eyes... She has become a 'Terminator,' intending to change the future somehow... Edward Furlong is young John Connor... He is a ten-year tough delinquent, targeted for termination... He has short yellowish hair and a sullen mouth... His eyes reveal an intelligence as sharp as a scalpel... His interactions with his 'protector' give the movie effective moments of psychological depth... He reluctantly shows his friend a shot of his mother, pregnant, in a jeep near the Mexican border... John doesn't know it now, but he will carry the photo with him for over 30 years, and give it to a young man named Kyle Reese, who will travel back in time to become his father...Joe Morton is Miles Dyson, the star of the Special Projects at Cyberdyne Systems Corporation... He is a man in a hurry, a man with much to do... He's brilliant, aggressive, driven.. In a few months he creates a revolutionary type of microprocessor... He can be the man most directly responsible for 3 billion deaths on August 29th, 1997... The survivors of the nuclear fire called the war Judgment Day, will live only to face a new nightmare, the war against the Machines...His face, his posture, his ragged voice express soul-wrenching terror... This is a man ripped out of normal life into a grim world... He looks up, through his pain and incomprehension, and asks himself: Why is this nightmare happening? The level of violence in Cameron's film is pretty intense... The special effects are outstanding... They look realistic... The action scenes are amazing, very well executed... James Cameron tries to provide a message of peace... The music score is almost perfect... The plot is intriguing... The motion picture features excellent performances... 'Terminator 2: Judgment Day' is a blazing big-budget sci-fi thriller, very creative, to be entirely experienced... A definite must-see movie...
It's a rarity that a sequel actually outshines its predecessor. Yes, James Cameron was allowed a budget for 'Terminator 2: Judgment Day' due to his own success, as well as the cult following part one had. But, he didn't stop at simple special effects. He took his original, interesting and origin story and blasted it in fast forward, excellently. Hamilton apparently refused to return unless her character expanded, and it did, tenfold. Schwarzenegger was given more lines, most hilarious, and a lot more in depth was his cyborg. Also, was the addition of excellent acting of Morton, Patrick and soon-to-be notorious Furlong, a full-length story of his own origins. Not only was 'T2' a perfect summer movie, not only did it surpass the original, it is absolutely one of the best action movies of all time. And, like part 1, it's mostly about the story and acting. I cringe at most so-called "action" movies of today (SEE: 'Transformers' 1 & 2. Sure there's FX to spare, but where's the story? Where's the acting?) This movie, a continuation of part one with Sarah, now the mother of the future resistance leader John, protecting him (or is he protecting her?) while a new duo of terminators sent back in time to protect and/or destroy. They up'd the ante for action, dialogue, comedy, score, suspense, heart with special and original effects – this one set the "liquid metal" stage. I can go on and on, but seriously, this is what real big budgeted movies should model themselves after. First, get a great and original story. Then hire accomplished actors who can, yes, act. Next, employ real FX-experts. How hard of a code is that? I truly believe parts 1 and 2 are a complete story. It should've ended here.Side Note and Spoiler: Though I loved the deleted and reinserted closing with Grandma Conner and Senator Conner playing in a no-war zone decades later, it was the most unrealistic aspect. For, how could those two ever expect not only to make it out of the events of 'T2,' despite the humanitarian efforts, without being completely hunted or on the FBI's most wanted list? We must of missed the President's pardoning and the American's forgiveness for John to become a Senator. Only in Hollywood.
Most action movies follow a pretty predictable sequence. There's nothing written in stone, but the movie tends to have an introduction, an epic conclusion, and then fills the intervening hour or two carefully switching between scenes of suspense, heroics, setbacks, triumphs, evil ploys and noble sacrifices. The more you watch, the more you notice the formula.Terminator 2 is one of the few good action movies that dares to throw the formula out the window, and that is what makes it so great. Instead of structuring the plot to build suspense by the book, Terminator 2 makes the bold move of telling a linear story where every scene actually has to be multi-dimensional and build the plot in a creative and new way. This is very hard to do, each scene practically has to be written from scratch like a chapter of a good book, and the difficulty of making that style of film-making succeed is why so many films rely on the trusty old formula.The structuring of Terminator 2 is a subtle thing to notice, but I do think it contributed to its success, and certainly to the relatively serious respect its given as a film. No one is going to confuse it with an art house film, of course, but at the same time, it does something that formula thrillers like "Air Force One" don't even try to do, it tells a story in an original, genuinely creative way without relying on traditional suspense-building clichés. In its own way, this film is a work of art.Of course, the film has much more obvious assets. The film's calling card will always be the epic action and special effects sequences - Arnold riding his bike off a ledge, twirling his shotgun around to reload it, tearing aside his fake skin to reveal the metal parts below - "Terminator 2" was a stunningly exciting film when it came out, and its visuals don't feel dated at all even 18 years later.Still, though, a lot of other films have had competent special effects. Why do people consider T2 a classic instead of films like "Independence Day", which also invested heavily in effects? It's not enough to just generate 15 minutes of jaw-dropping visuals in a 2 hour movie. You need to be creative about what you're actually depicting. A $10 million scene that's carefully crafted into the film's narrative is always going to do more for the audience than a similarly expensive scene that doesn't bother to give the audience any real reason to care about what's happening. Terminator 2 is a movie where the director spends time on the non-action scenes, treating them as more than just filler, and this really pays off because instead of seeing a nifty visual sequence with some character you don't particularly care about, the excitement of the action scenes in Terminator 2 is actually enhanced greatly because you like the good guys on a deeper level than in a formulaic action film.T2 is one of the high watermarks of action films. Everyone should see it, it's that simple.


                
After watching every Terminator movie, I can honestly say this one is the best: a sequel that surpasses the original, the landmark that sequels are compared to. The plot is tight, logical and constantly surprises you (compare to the plot problems in Terminator Salvation). T2 can even be seen before all others as I did many years ago as it stands by itself. The cinematography and camera shots are beautiful. Notice the color schemes particularly in the asylum (blue-gray) and the foundry (orange-red). The "visions" scenes are very inspired and memorable. The action is intense, engrossing and escalating as it should be. The visual effects are very impressive and were revolutionary back then, especially anything involving the T-1000. The actors are top-notch particularly Linda Hamilton who shines in the strong yet fragile, tough yet conflicted Sarah Connor, the role of her life.The terminators, supposed to be unemotional, are quite cool, menacing and relentless yet fascinating. The interactions between John Connor and the terminator are wonderful and add depth to both characters. After seeing T2 for the first time, I was so awed by Robert Patrick's performance that I kept looking for him in other movies. Everything is in the physicality and the deliberate movements with no small nod to the talents of the director. Compare the T-1000 to the terminatrix in T3 who for some reason was much less memorable. The music is much better and grandiose than the first (such a good percussive theme) and the sound effects are so good they won 2 academy awards. Let's finish by mentioning the powerful unforgettable ending that is not only moving but ties up neatly the loose ends. There's actually something big that does not make sense (darn time travel paradoxes) but even after seeing T2 more than once, it just doesn't bug you when you actually watch the film. It's definitely worth buying but be careful with the different DVD editions. Rating: 9 out of 10


                
This film is a mini-gun of action scenes, tearing you apart before throwing you several meters across the cinema. But nowhere does a dystopian film start more aptly than in the opening shots of a sweltering LA traffic jam transposing into nuclear fire.The dynamic difference between Terminator 2 and the original Terminator is that Arnie now plays an anti-hero. Despite that being common knowledge before the film was released, for me that is a spoiler. Because the first meeting of the T-1000 and the T-800 should lead us to suspect that the machine in police uniform is the saviour, and the robot in biker leathers is the monster. And when the T-800 protects John Connor instead of killing him, we are thrust into the There are so many fantastic action scenes to relish in this film - the bike chase scene with one-handed shotgun reloads, the police shootout scene with the T-800 brandishing a helicopter mini-gun, the T-800 surfing the upturned nitrogen truck. This is the standard of the action genre.You should acknowledge, however, that Terminator 3 has action scenes, perhaps on an even greater scale than Terminator 2. But this film is more. The industrial soundtrack emphasises the unstoppable, pitiless drive of the machine. The development of mother and son develops, somehow, what should be unchanging machine. Taking the place of the missing father-figure for John Connor, the T-800 becomes the protector we desperately need in the face of the relentless T-1000.Credit must extend to Cameron's unique direction, who mixes an intense and serious action with occasional dark humour - witness John's attempts to make the T-800 speak 'cool language'. In painful contrast, the tone becomes franchise slapstick under Jonathan Mostow's direction in Terminator 3 - hear the self-congratulatory bird singing in the aftermath of the mini-gun shootout.Your final focus, however, should be on the implications that the T-800 has on our relationships with each other. To take the words of Fight Club's Tyler Durden, "Our fathers left us. If our fathers were role-models for God, what does that say about God?" Sarah Connor offers us one possible reply to this indictment, "Because if a machine, a Terminator, can learn the value of human life, maybe we can too."
This is many Terminator fans' favorite installment, but I don't believe it topped the original.  Maybe I just liked seeing Arnold as the bad guy for a change in that movie, but it just seemed funner.T2 soars on many levels.  Special effects to knock your socks off, but sometimes less is more.  Arnie in the original I thought was more menacing than the T-1000.  It could be Arnold's mere appearance to however.The chase scenes in this movie are awesome, as is the exciting climax.***/****


                
In my opinion, Terminator 2: Judgment Day is one of the best sequels of all times. Considering 90s cinematography technologies, James Cameron did an outstanding job. Every detail of this cult movie, from the plot to the music was awesome. In the first movie, the terminator was the bad guy. With a tremendous body like Greek gods and his robot-like accent, Arnold Schwarzenegger was a perfect fit to the Terminator character. He was sent back from future to kill Sarah Connor (Linda Hamilton), the mother of an unborn child who will become the leader of a resistance against the machines. We all know the story. But in T2, he came back to protect the son of Sarah Connor which I believe was a very good twist. Arnold did his part very well again as the cyborg of our dreams. What surprised me was the transformation of Linda Hamilton's character. I honestly didn't see that coming. Sarah Connor was a vulnerable young girl in the first movie. But she turned into a bad-ass woman who has lots and lots of guns. I was really impressed. I have watched this movie so many times over the years and it never gets old or boring. Just watch it.
7 years after the movie that we all call one of the best movies ever made James Camerons Terminator 2 - Judgement Day were released, i weren't born then so i don't know if people were extremely happy about it but i guess that everyone were extremely happy.After the events in the first movie Sarah Connor has been admitted to a mental hospital and her son John Connor has been placed in foster care. From the future sent two cyborgs a T-1000 with a mission to kill John and a reprogrammed T-800 Series models 101 to protect him. While they have to defend themselves, they must also find the man who is guilty of skynet declares war against humanity.The plot to this movie are a step better than the previous movie, and like the first movie the cast are very good, this movie are with no doubt one of the best sequels of all time. Everything is this movie are stunning, the sound, acting, directing and also the effects are incredibly impressing. With no doubt a epic masterpiece..


                
Terminator 2 is a worthy sequel to the first one. I think I like this film more than the original. With these films, James Cameron proved himself to be an adept director. He made the top two grossing films all time in America and three films that defined science fiction/action for ages to come.The Terminator returns this time not as a bad guy but as the good guy. His mission is to protect the son of Sarah Connor, John. Together they must rescue Sarah from the mental hospital and save the lives of three billion people.It's nice to see Arnold return. He knows how to kick butt. Robert Patrick is quite the villain. I hated his guts.Overall, this is one of the best movies from the 1990's. It also broke new ground visually. I rate this film 9/10. Hasta la Vista, Baby!
Imagine a sequel that is almost as good as the first original movie, or even better. That's not very easy to do. Most sequels are terrible, made only to bank on the original movie's ideas without introducing anything new.T2 Judgment Day is not an original movie because of its plot, or its idea but it is actually groundbreaking in terms of special effects. I do not like movies that rely on special effects alone for its appeal. There must be more to a movie than just special effects. And T2 delivers it.T2 is a special movie: This is, I believe, the first time CGI was used. Prior to T2, you could easily make out the image that was pasted to the film. The graphic image would stick out like a sore thumb, its contour easily traceable by naked eye.With T2, CGI (computer generated imagery) technique has evolved to such a level that creating any image and adding it to the film became possible. And this is done so well, there is really no way of telling it apart from the original film like you could do in movies prior to T2. Contour lines are no longer visible, they are much smoother and blend with the original film.As for the story, it is almost the repeat to the original movie and there are many parallel scenes. Again two characters fighting each other for the fate of Sarah O'Connor, wait, this time for John O'Connor (Sarah's son); that is one main difference. So we have a new character added to the story. We have a more sophisticated terminator, T1000, the indestructible liquid man - thanks to CGI effects. We get to see the character who is responsible for building the micro-processor that gave birth to SKYNET, the evil mainframe that declared war on humanity.One thing I would like to emphasize is the performance of Robert Patrick, the actor who portrays T1000. His acting is simply fascinating and, in my opinion, is the reason why this movie works so well. A lot of the people are impresses by the CGI, rightfully so, and forget to give credit where its due. Robert Patrick brought T1000 alive. Without his impeccable performance, the movie would fall flat, even CGI couldn't save the movie. His brute looks, his robotic but finely-tuned moves, his cunning ways were just what this movie needed.After T2, there were two more franchise movies, T3-The Rise of the Machines and Terminator Salvation.


                
This is one of the rare occasion where the sequel far surpassed the original. I would argue that a large part of that has to do with the drastic change in our media culture. For example, these days, if a commercial film is very successful, a studio will almost immediately green light and rush a sequel to the screen. In doing so, it is willing to sacrifice all quality just to take advantage of a hot item and to make money. The difference here was that because of a legal rights issue, the sequel did not come out until seven years after the original (1984, 1991). Also, James Cameron was behind it and it was his creation to begin with. He wasn't just a gun for hire. James Cameron would never attach his name to something that wasn't of the highest caliber and sense this movie has such extensive visual effects work (Cameron's strong point), the film far surpassed anyone's expectations. It's no wonder that the franchise has fallen apart ever sense he has departed and moved on to other works.


                
Starring Arnold Schwarzenagger, Linda Hamilton, Robert Patrick, Earl Boen, Joe Morton, Castulo Guerra, S. Epatha Merkerson, Danny Cooksey, Jennette Goldstein, Xander Berkeley, Michael Edwards, and introducing Edward Furlong.
In the year of 2029, John Connor has become a rebel. He has tried to protect humans from Skynet, a computer fighting human resistence. Skynet sends a terminator, different from T-800, out to kill a younger John Connor in the 90's. At that same time, John Connor sends a reprogrammed T-800 to protect him. After saving John from T-1000 in the 90's, John and the Terminator go to to free Sarah Connor, John's mother, from a state mental institution. Sarah has been held there for years because of the events of "The Terminator". When they free her, they go to see Miles Dyson, the leader of Cyberdyne, the same company as Skynet, who has no idea of what it is becoming. All of them go to Cyberdyne and try to destroy it before T-1000 gets ahold of them.
Filmed with amazing special effects and an interesting storyline, "Terminator 2: Judgement Day" scores a pretty high rating in my book. This feature ends up being pretty than the original. The acting was very good in this film. The acting from Arnold Schwarzenagger, Linda Hamilton, and Robert Patrick was all good, as for Edward Furlong, a fair performance. I didn't expect much from him, after all, this was his pre-"American History X" performance.
The special effects in the film are top-notch. They were very well done and even helped the movie win an Academy Award. "Terminator 2: Judgement Day" is one of my favorite Action movies ever made. The special edition DVD makes it even more fun to watch, with the picture and sound remastered. You won't be disappointed with the ending, the emotion between The Terminator and John cannot be missed. You cannot miss out on this movie, or "Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines", releasing this year.
John's Evaluation-3.5 out of 4. My IMDB Rating: 8.2/10.


                
If not the best Sci-Fi movie ever, then at least heads TOP 5. It is hard to describe awesomeness of this movie. Made back in 1991 it possesses all the elements of a modern Hollywood masterpiece, and still retains its originality reminds of that era in 1970s-80s when there were no rip offs and directors like Coppola and Scorsese were defining the meaning of MOVIE MASTERPIECE. James Cameron achieved the same thing in a totally opposite genre. In this movie he depicted such a vivid and deep vision of an apocalyptic turn of the events, a consequent doom of mankind as he saw it in a modern world where hastened evolution of technology implied a disaster so deterrent as a nuclear war. The screenplay keeps your attention to the very end, and visual effects were kind of revolutionary. A high level entertainment unveiling a much greater message than the plot itself. I'm a dedicated fan of T1, but the sequel is without a match.Without the vision, this movie would be nothing. The visual allegory of nuclear fire destroying playground and terminator skull emerging from flames as the utmost outcome... That's some good stuff. In moments like that can one discern the true quality of the movie. Sarah's dream sequence is one of the highlights of the movie, and again would be ridiculous without the(director's) vision The iconic intro and credits were composed brilliantly and the music theme couldn't be more fitting to the whole idea. Never before, nor after, have I heard a theme that describes the message of a movie so appropriately.The movie itself tried to maintain the touch with younger audience by implementing kitschy innovations but on the other hand directors like Spielberg maintain this as their freaking modus operandi.Schwarzenegger's blunt acting fits in this role perfectly, and T2 spawned some memorable one-liners. It really somewhat captured the 80's/early 90's cultural zeitgeist.There is a lot of appropriately implemented shooting and explosion scenes, and fight between the terminators. Still, I have to mention that this part perhaps did not intend to leave space for a sequel and I'm not a fan of T3, but I think it's nice to see other directors making their own versions of this cult franchise. 10/10.


                
AD 2017--The world is devastated and dominated by machines-with Skynet as its dictator. The human resistance fights back under the leadership of John Connor.However, the machines send a Terminator--a T - 1000--back to when Connor is 10 years old; the resistance sends an older model of terminators- T - 800--back in time to protect John...Present day--Sarah and the T800 now have to protect John from the T 1000--immensely powerful and relentless.The brilliance behind T2 is not just its action--its the story; characters are well-developed and the T 800 is "humanized" in the film, learning to appreciate life as the plot progresses.It plays on themes surrounding cloning and life; perhaps a large part of the story's aura comes from creating an alternate "what if" future which would have made Phllip K Dick proud.If you have enjoyed Blade Runner from the 1980s, T2's story is just as great and packed with more action !
Terminator 2 is not only a mind blowing movie with spectacular special effects and unbeleivable action, but cultural phenomenon akin to capturing lightening in a bottle.Never will such a perfect action/sci fi movie ever be made in the history of filmdom.The casting of Arnold is perfect beyond belief.  He was born only to play the role of The Terminator.  His minimal dialogue enhances the roles mechanical robotic qualities.James Cameron is certainly a dedicated filmaker who cares about his work and the expectations of the audience.  The only other film that comes close to T2 is Aliens, also directed by Cameron.  His use of computer effects to augment and supplment the storyline is rarely ever used in todays overblown blockbusters.  In fact the special effects in T2 are so good that today's effects PALE in comparison.Robert Patrick is perfect as the predatory T-1000, and will be forever be remebered as the guy who gave Arnold a run for his money, as he definately attempts to steal the movie in some scenes.I am appalled that a T3 has been made without James Cameron.  T3 may be a decent action flick, but it looks embarrasingly juvenille from the trailers and TV spots.  Whats with all the sunlight???  Arnold even stated a few years ago he would not do T3 without Cameron.  After Arnolds diasasters such as End of Days (not bad flick) he needed a hit and the only way was to bring the Terminator out of retirement, with or without Cameron.  Thats Loyalty for you.T2 is the best action movie ever made, and if you have not seen it yet, you have probably seen paradies, ripoffs, and copies of the movie.
But watching the original will give an appreciation as to how this movie shaped future action movies, as it is groundbreaking.I wished James Cameron had made T3, but I doubt he could have topped the perfection of T2, and that may be one of the reasons he decided to opt out of T3.


                
Even after fifteen years since the film came out, the special effects, and intensity still roar and excite to this day.Arnold Swartzenagger leads the cast in a brilliant tale of futuristic cyborgs, and robots sent from the future to terminate in the past.If you've seen the first film, then you'll be able to follow the sequel much better, but to be honest, you don't really need to see either the first or third to follow this one. And, quite frankly this is the best of the three. I'm not really much for science fiction, but this is one of the few that I really do enjoy. Robert Patrick gives a chilling performance as the 'bad' robot sent to destroy John Connor (Edward Furlong), and terminate T-1000 (Swarzenagger), who is ironically there to protect the son of the woman he was sent to kill in the last film.The whole film is almost non-stop intense, and there are times when you're heart will jump out of your chest, because it gets so nerve racking.Edward Furlong, in his debut role, gives an amazing performance as the son of Sarah Connor, and the leader of the future.I would give it a 10, however, there are times when the movie tends to slow down, for long periods of time and can get a bit boring. However, the rest of the time it's nothing but thrills and nerves at your doorstep, for an entertaining ride in the future, past and present. A great sci-fi film, that will never let you down.


                
Any Terminator fans who agree with me that it was a shame that some of the deleted scenes (which were shown in the special edition) were some of the best scenes as well? I mean, Sarah's dream, in which Kyle visits her... Linda Hamilton is simply gorgeous, but more important, the whole scene is just fabulous. The scene in which the T1000 is on the phone with Jonh (who thinks he's talking to his foster parents) and then finds out the dog's name is Max instead of Wolfie). Then there's the scene where she wants to destroy the terminator's chip. And the scene at the end where we see an adult John with his daughter and mother at the playground. Linda looks great as a grandmother, and IF James Cameron would have kept it at the end, probably no one would have made that horrible T3 movie... For those who don't have a clue 'bout what I'm talking about, buy the special edition DVD and find out. It's so much worth the money!!!


                
One of the best films ever made; the only thing that takes away from it is how annoying Edward Furlong as John Connor is. Arrgghhh!!..with all his screaming; that's the only thing preventing me from loving this movie EVERYTIME I watch it.  VERY excellent nevertheless.


                
In the iron foundry the Terminator gets his left arm ripped off in a cogwheel. He leaves it there. This means that it is NOT destroyed along with the laboratory arm and micro chip after the destruction of the T1000, and thus, when the Terminator is lowered into the molten iron, there is STILL a robot arm in existence. The arm is bound to be found by scientists like Dyson who will eventually replicate it. This just shows that you can't change the future by changing the past. World War III is bound to happen but hopefully only in the Terminator universe. I don't know if this has been commented on before but going through the goofs I couldn't find any comments relating to this.
"The future has not been set, there is no fate but what we make for ourselves". These are the words that set the way The Terminator moves forward. The same applies to Terminator 2: Judgement Day, which is one of the greatest sequels ever made in filming history.Like The Terminator, T2 has a Terminator and a protector sent back in time to change the future. But a couple of rules have changed in T2 that make it a different movie. For one, Sarah Conner is no longer the target of the Terminator, it's her now born son John Conner. The other changes is that instead of a Terminator and human soldier sent back, two Terminators are sent to find John Conner. The model sent to protect John is the same as the Terminator from the first movie, so Arnold is back but he's turned a new leaf. The model searching to kill John Conner is the more advanced Terminator, the T-1000, or Alloyman as I like to call him.T2 takes place about ten years after the first Terminator, and a bit has happened since then. One being that John Conner is born and living the life of a typical bad kid. The other and the more surprising being that Sarah Conner is now locked up in a mental institute, where unlike the first, she is now a tough and strict woman that does at times seem close to crazy. Since John of course can't live with his mother he's raised by adopted parents which he obviously loathes, being the computer hacking, bank-stealing kid he's become. The story of how Sarah and John got to where they are is told through the plot segments of the movie so the viewer doesn't feel completely lost.Like it's predecessor, T2 focuses on tense and suspenseful action sequences with plot segments in-between as its means to entertain. And like the first, this technique pays off thanks to some more exciting and memorable scenes. Such scenes that T2 is famous for include the first and last chase scenes in the movie and one of the best endings ever. The plot segments that go before and after the action scenes are more or less story-telling scenes that fill the viewer in on what they have missed between the first Terminator and this Terminator movies.Again, Arnie is back but he's changed. Instead of being a ferocious killing machine he's now a softer and less menacing character. The newer Terminator is played by Robert Patrick, who brings a charming yet obviously deadly personality to his Terminator role. Linda Hamilton returns to play Sarah Conner but she like Arnie has changed, but she's more like Arnold was in the last Terminator movie instead of the innocent hostage-like chick from the first. As for John, he's unprofessionally played by Edward Furlong, but at least he gets the job done as John, but just barely passing.Fans of the first Terminator movie might feel a bit betrayed by the changes in the characters but Cameron actually took a logical direction with the characters and it pays off surprisingly well. Most of the movie seems dedicated to allowing the viewer to establish an accurate with the new and old characters to the movie. This combined with some unforgettable action scenes help to make T2 one of the better movies to find a certain love for, one way or another. This works especially well in the perfect ending that many fans will say was the real ending to the Terminator movies despite the release of T3.Terminator 2 stands as a monumental accomplishment that shows the peak of James Cameron's directing talent. As Arnold said in the first Terminator "I'll be back" and he did come back and brought back a fresh supply of excellence. The great action is back, the excellent story-telling is back and the great acting, despite some obvious complaints in Furlong and perhaps Hamilton and Arnie's roles is also back nonetheless.


                
In my opinion, Terminator 2: Judgment Day is the best film of the entire franchise. Due to its involving and breath-taking story along with impressive performances. The plot even having some similarities with the first movie isn't remotely predictable or boring. The tension, the soundtrack and how the action scenes were shot provided a feeling of always look up your shoulder because something is after you. But the film is not only actions scenes, in the interval between the action scenes, the characters have their chance to be explored and developed making each one have a good and solid identity during the entire picture. One aspect which is new is the humour, the relationship between John Connor (Edward Furlong) and the Terminator (Arnold Schwarzenegger) is responsible for this to happen. Other point worth mentioning is the visual effects, specially the makeup used in the T-800 is so realistic, at times there is a certain discomfort because you know that action would hurt, but as he is a robot, that is nothing. Regarding the cast, their performance was incredible. Sarah Connor (Linda Hamilton) suffered a change both physically and mentally, she's no longer the naive and helpless woman from the first movie, now she is willing to do anything so John can survive. Arnold once again is great in the role, Edward Furlong plays a troubled and rebel John Connor. Throughout the film a bond is created between John and the T-800 and surely it's one of the highlights. It's so funny and amusing see the growth of the odd friendship, a man with a machine.


                
Good acting, spectacular effects, action, suspense, emotions, funny moments, and... haven't I said it yet?, there's a story. This is in my opinion the best film ever made by the perfectionist James Cameron, in his most genuine line. In the screenplay there's something I don't easily find in films of this kind: a good beginning and -what's even more difficult- a good ending. My rating is 8 out of 10.


                
My Rating : 9/10Watched it a few days ago and just here to say that it still holds up after 28 years, the special effects, action scenes, story, humour, you name it - everything is just PERFECT.An Absolute Must-See. James Cameron is a genius and giant of cinema.


                
Generally sequels never reach the cinematic heights of a good original film. But Terminator 2: Judgement Day is not only an excellent sequel but also establishes a landmark in blockbuster cinema-making. Despite belonging to different generation this movie was almost 10 times more entertaining to watch than today's Transformers like crap. The highlights of T2 are its ground-breaking visual effects and awesome sound effects, surprises me that this movie was released in 1991. I know that visual effects only is not a measure of the quality of a film, but one must respect the achievements of T2 for establishing such great use of CGI for the very first time. Keeping aside the effects, the movie is still an excellent sci-fi action with a heart-touching story and memorable characters. Also should not forget the first terminator film which inspired all these sequels, of which only T2 makes remarkable use.It is almost impossible to talk about the plot without giving away one of the biggest shocking moments of cinema history.I really did not see that twist coming. Thus, leave the plot as it is almost a rehash of the previous one. Two guys sent back from the future to finish off John Conner so that he doesn't become leader of the Resistance. Well last time target was John's mother, this time target young John himself. Despite having similar story-line what makes it interesting is the relationship between the characters and great performances especially by Linda Hamilton and also Arnold. Edward Furlong also was lovable as 10 year old John. The action sequences are much grander here than in first film and terminator much more deadlier. Also lot humor thrown in all of which makes it more likable in general. Still the movie has enough sci-fiction elements which make us think and emotional themes to make it heartfelt.Brad Fiedel's score with slightly improved effects was fantastic.All the Oscar's this film got for its effects were well deserved. Unlike the first film which was much more focused and incredibly original, T2 covers different grounds of humanity, love, emotions and relations that kind of dilutes out its dreadful elements of the Terminator which were the focus of first film. Also T2 is much longer than T1 but it has enough content packed. The climax felt a bit prolonged, yet the ending was emotionally satisfying. Cameron has done a outstanding job with another great sequel, it gets all the things a sequels must do spot on. A big thanks to him a creating such an excellent sci-fi world with these 2 films, which gets ruined by its unnecessary and disappointing third and fourth installment. Cameron said his vision ended with this film and he was damn right. Both the Terminator films and 'Aliens' are his best films till date.RATING: [4.5/5]


                
