Dennis (Glenn Howerton), Mac (Rob McElhenney), and Charlie (Charlie Day) are all the owners of an Irish bar in Philadelphia, and "Sunny" essentially follows their awkward lives - each episode revolving around some type of political or social issue such as gun control, abortion, steroids, underage drinking, health care, and the handicapped (just to touch on a few issues already addressed in the show).It begs comparison with "Arrested Development," "The Office," "Seinfeld" and "South Park" in its broad humor and wit, but it is completely original in its own right. The pilot was filmed on a low budget by a few friends and was picked up by FX after wards, so the show retains its low-budget feel - giving it a gritty, down-to-earth edge."Sunny" does border on the edge of bad taste sometimes (hell, what am I saying - it crosses the line every time) but it contains enough satire and wit to get away with it. For example: in one episode Mac and Dennis decide to pick up girls at an abortion rally. Mac pretends to be pro-life just so he can be around an attractive woman, whom he ends up sleeping with. Later, she tells him she's pregnant. "You need to get an abortion," he says. This type of irony runs throughout every episode.The banter between the characters in the show is what tends to be particularly funny. The actors - although novices - are all great. Charlie Day in particular has me laughing like crazy every episode. And his interaction with Danny DeVito (who's been brought in for season two) is hilarious. Season two is more polished so far in terms of the mechanics of the show - the characters have all been setup now and they know what they're doing - and in that regard it is seeming to get better and better with every episode.You do have to have a very sick sense of humor to like some of this - DeVito's character, Frank, is the father of Dennis and Dee, and his reason for being in the show is that he is getting a divorce and wants to relive his glory days as a youth. He tries to re-ignite a relationship with an old girlfriend of his from high school - but when he finds out she's a grandmother and not interested in doing anything wild, his attention instantly turns to the waitress and he tunes her out. It's cruel, sick and hilarious. DeVito is playing another ruthless character (same as in "Taxi" all those years ago) and it works splendidly.Overall this was a delightful blast of fresh air - after seeing so many stale sitcoms, this proved to me that FX really is becoming the new lead in character-driven comedy-dramas (such as the equally superb "Rescue Me" which isn't quite as funny, however).My only hope is that "Sunny" doesn't become so popular that it attracts controversy and sells out and dumbs down its humor. Right now it's on par with the early episodes of "South Park" and "SNL" in terms of how irreverent its humor is - and personally, in my opinion, its plots are better than most comedy films I've seen within the last few years.If you want to see something new, different, and funny, check this out. I have a feeling it could either become huge, like the next "Seinfeld," or - more realistically - it will become a cult phenomenon. Either way, I'll be watching.
Now that Arrested Development has been laid to rest (RIP), I have found the next best thing."It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia" is different and funny, in a crossing-moral-lines kind of way. Good for FX that they have the cojones to put this show on.How can you not laugh when story lines involve trying to take financial advantage of a religious miracle, or considering sleeping with your fiend's mom to get even, or tea-bagging (not the actual act, but, 'nuff said)?I can only hope this show stays on the air long enough to gain sufficient viewers to not get canceled.


                
While I am typically not a fan of television, I can't get enough of It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia. As a resident of Philadelphia and one who enjoys the more scenic and luxurious aspects of life here, 'Sunny' doesn't exactly shine a great light on the city, but it IS without a doubt one of the most brilliant works of ensemble comedy I have ever seen. It's irreverent, self-serving characters without a doubt suggest a bit of a naughty Seifeld. Yet dare I say it, it's more than that. The subtle interplay of class politics, ivy-league pomp, and south-philly street smarts go far beyond Seinfeld's tried-and-true model.


                
There are so few television comedies that generate as much humor with generally unlikable characters, and "Sunny" probably tops the list. "Strangers With Candy" and "Absolutely Fabulous" come closest to capturing the laugh-out loud comedy it generates. Part abstract theatre, part absurdist drama, "Sunny" not only skewers every hot-button issue imaginable, but barbecues and presents it as a scrumptuous entree. And the zingers ... "Which one of you fags is my dad?" and "You might as well call it Rape Bar" are killer. Plus being a Philly boy myself, the opening montage with images of The Linc and 30th Street Station are always good for a smile. With "Drawn Together" set for its impending exit, "It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia" is the reigning TV king of comedy.


                
There hasn't been a show in the world that makes me laugh as hard or as often than It's Always Sunny in its prime. Seasons 1 through 5 have some of the best, sharpest comedy writing in ages. Since then, the show hasn't been as consistently brilliant, but there are gems in every season. The premise is very simple. It's about the life of four Philly bar owners. At least until season 2 brings in the father of siblings Dennis and Dee, Frank Reynolds, played to perfection by Danny DeVito, where it becomes a fearless fivesome of hilarity. The thing is, these aren't your ordinary people. They're delusional, narcissistic, borderline-psychotic idiots. The show has been described as "Seinfeld on crack" and that's about as good a descriptor you can get. The gang are always coming up with ridiculous schemes and stupid ideas which consistently result in awkwardness and belly laughs. One of the best parts of the show is the characters themselves. They come across as shallow douchebags most of the time, because for the most part, they are, but they each have their own distinct personality that mesh so well with the others. Dennis Reynolds is about as close to an everyman that you can get from the gang, and he's a manipulative, insecure, raving sociopath. His sister Dee is almost as depraved but with more self-loathing and less psychopathy. Their father Frank is a rich businessman who traded that life away for living in the slums as a lascivious alcoholic. Specifically, he shares a bed with Charlie, the illiterate, idiot savant wild card of the group. Dennis' roommate Mac is an oblivious closeted homosexual that favors badassery above all else. To put it lightly, they get themselves into some interesting scenarios. Whether they're all together or broken into various group combinations, you can guarantee laughs are to be had.The chemistry between the actors really sells the whole thing. Rob McElhenney, Glenn Howerton, and Charlie Day are geniuses. Their writing, their acting, it's all so natural and infectious that you can't help but get immersed into any zany idea they come up with just to see how the gang comes out the other side. Kaitlin Olson and Danny DeVito are just as much necessary pieces to the cast. The humor ranges from uncomfortable to terribly politically incorrect, and that's the beauty of the show. It takes these "delicate" topics and shines a light on them that many people are afraid to address. The first season alone deals with racism, abortion, transsexuals, and child molestation. And no matter the topic, they find a way to make it hard-to-breathe hysterical.I can boast about this show for days, but the fact is you either enjoy the humor or you don't. There's a lot of yelling and plenty of curse words, and it may be grating for newcomers to dip their toes into something like this, especially if they don't know what they're getting into. But for those who do and appreciate clever unrestrained comedy, treat yourself to It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia.Great intro episodes: (#3.9) Sweet Dee Is Dating a Retarded Person - (#2.4) Mac Bangs Dennis' Mom - (#2.3) Dennis and Dee Go on Welfare - (#4.10) Sweet Dee Has a Heart Attack - (#4.12) The Gang Gets Extreme: Home Make Over Edition - (#6.3) The Gang Buys a Boat


                
It's Always Sunny In Philadelphia is one of the greatest shows on TV right now. It is daring and hilarious. It was created by three guys on a budget of less than $200, which I find very admirable because I am and aspiring actor/writer. Its raucous stories that run the gamut from cancer to abortion to Nazis to pedophilia are written by the cast. Their devotion to the show is very evident and I hope we will not lose this great show to politics of Hollywood. Heading into is second season I am excited to see what we are going to tackle this summer. I am ready to be shocked and amazed at the lengths these guys and a girl will go to to get over. And with Danny Devito joining the show we are really seeing how "sunny" it is in "Philadelphia"


                
Well TV sociopaths can indeed. In the same fashion as Seinfeld and Arrested development, this show deals with a group of unlikeable misfits while they engage in moronic adventures based in equally moronic impulses. The difference with those spiritual predecessors is that Sunny takes it a step further. As the tagline of the show indicates ("Seinfeld on a crack) the writers of this show not only embrace the selfishness of their characters but takes it a step further by completely severing their social awareness and empathy towards other human beings. The result, needless to say, is not only sometimes disturbing, but utterly hilarious. Here is a small introduction of each one of the characters:-Dennis Reynolds: A malignant narcissist in its truest form. Dennis believes he is the closest to physical perfection a human can achieve. A reputed ladies man, he is not above using alcohol, lies, emotional abuse and even the implication of danger (if they say no) to get girls in bed with him. He shows great amusement by watching how other people might get hurt by his actions, even if those people are his friends or his sister (who he constantly refers to as a bitch). -Mac: Dennis's best friend and roommate, he equally enjoys to be part of the gang's plans even if that means hurting or offending innocent people. He even benefits from Dennis's system to pick up and seduce girls, because Dennis let's Mac hit on them when he gets bored with them. Mac believes himself a skilled martial artist (Even if he has not taken one lesson in his whole life) and enjoys resolving problems with violence or vandalism.-Charlie: Although equally impulsive and alcoholic as the other's in the gang in many ways, he is the only one who has shown he has some empathy for his fellow human being. He spends his time drinking beer or huffing glue (yes, he huffs glue). Being the most naïve from the group he is easily manipulated by the others, although he has shown he isn't above manipulating them either. He is highly resentful and is prone to violent outbursts.-Deandra "Sweet Dee" Reynolds: Dee is as manipulative ad his brother and has been shown as only motivated by her own agenda. She is heavily picked on by the others on the gang because of their misogynistic views. Although as the other characters of the group, specially his brother, she shows no regard for how other people might be getting affected by her actions. She is highly vindictive and she goes to great lengths to make sure her schemes and her lies are being bought by the people involved.-Frank Reynolds: An impulsive, violent and eccentric ex-millionaire he is highly delusional and carries a gun all the time. His likes include prostitutes, drugs and ham (Yes, ham). He is highly irrational and is always looking to crazier and more idiotic ways to deal with the possible issues that might arise for the gang.This show appeals to your inner child in the way that this characters really have the mental development of a child, and you will find hilarious how they will impulsively engage in idiotic plans without showing any preoccupation of how the consequences could be for them, their friends or for the people unfortunate enough to get involved with them. Is a refreshing show because it is one of the first comedies that embraces the darkness of its characters and the comedic possibilities of having a group of alcoholic, impulsive, borderline criminal, but dim witted protagonists. These are highly unlikeable people, and their humor might offend you in one way or another, but mark my words: You will enjoy every minute of it.


                
Seriously, The true show that begs comparison to Seinfeld. Like the tag says its Seinfeld on crack, weirdest crazy situations that you can oddly relate to in some psychotic parallel universe.Awesome show i also like how its made by a few buddies and then FX picked it up and it took off.Try it, You'll LOVE ITAlso i love the group of friends in it their personalities reflect so funnily on each other which makes it seem like Seinfeld in such a likeness.Also begs comparison to friends but friends was never this funny.


                
Think South Park in South Philly. Danny Devito does just enough to anchor the cast but still allows the younger and lesser known co-stars to develop their characters around him. Often times, a more established actor with Devito's credentials will wash out the co-stars and smother the show. This is not the case with Sunny. Put simply, this show works. It may take another solid season for this show to cultivate a substantial core audience. But it seems FX is willing to stick with it long enough to find out. Even if FX decides to run this show up against the big boys (CBS' "Without a Trace") in the fall, Thursdays at 10pm is a perfect time slot. Sunny is gritty and dark at times, but in a harmless and smart kind of way. Kudos, FX...This show is a winner!


                
I can only only assume the negative reviews for this show comes from the people who find such programs as 'mike and molly' 'big bang theory' and '2 and a half men' funny and rely on canned laughter to tell them when something just funny has happened. I must admit i stumbled across this program whilst in bed in Vegas wishing i hadn't started drinking in the day and it made me vomit with laughing...i'm not usually a huge fan of US comedies as they are few and far between but when one comes along like this it baffles me that there is that much crap on US TV?!?! The characters are perfect together and whilst at 1st was dubious about DeVito's role i've grown to him and think he's perfect too. More like this America and you'll be forgiven for the amount of terrible alleged comedies you roll out and 'reality'....if you can call them reality rubbish.


                
My hat is off to these folks. This is by far the funniest sitcom I have seen. Obviously, humor is idiosyncratic; not everybody is tickled the same way. But this one works for me. I mean I love Larry David and Curb Your Enthusiasm, and I love Seinfeld, and MadTV, and loved Upright Citizen's Brigade, Monty Python, Second City, and others, but I have a special feeling for IASIP. I'm not going to go into details about the characters and what I like or don't like. Others here have done that well already and I agree with most. What I want to cite is the extraordinary attention to detail that actually goes into this show which often looks like impromptu mayhem: there is a video which shows how Rob went to pitch a request to Danny Devito to come on board, and Devito agreed------ but he could only schedule filming with the cast for 20 days. So they wrote every screenplay for the entire second season: every change of nuance of character, costuming, makeup, set, other characters in the scenes----ALL of it, some 450 pages of scripts for the entire second season's 10 shows----and filmed in that 20 days with Devito all of his scenes. They did this, and thanked him, and then had to go back and shoot every other continuous scene for each of the shows, all the costuming, and lighting, and character changes and retain consistency for dovetailing into Devito's scenes. It is amazing that they pulled this off so well! It is seamless. You would never suspect that they had pooled their energies so collaboratively, so faultlessly. It is remarkable too that the references to events in preceding shows are also consistently maintained throughout this season, so that the jokes feed off scenarios form earlier shows. They decided to change this format in the third season so that every show stands alone, maybe partly because of an unwillingness to exert as much effort as they had to that second season and to not re-experience that marathon of holding everything together... I don't know. It was a Herculean effort to do that second season.What I do know is that this show works so well! The cast complements one another. They all work as an unselfish ensemble. There is hope for TV humor after all. It is interesting that they went with FX----who offered them freer rein artistically than the other networks----and may not be able to work quite as blue as they could've on HBO. I can only imagine the number of times the F-bomb would be used!! They'd probably devote an entire show to it in which every other word in the dialog would be f_ _ _! Or the sex scenes which would put the ultimate 'X' back into 'sex.'They're that kind of group. They take their humor to a madcap level, misfit psychopaths out to destroy anything that interferes with personal ambitions, mutually colluding and abetting to tear down whenever any of them seems to be on the verge of success while the others aren't. Racist, sexist, misanthropic, misogynistic, narcissistic backstabbing at the highest level....! I love them!


                
These guys have made me a happier person for 6 years. I honestly can say no other TV show makes my day like "IASIP" for 6 years people have shunned this show and doubted the actors. Well, IMDb show that many people rate this show as a piece of art because that's what it is. People that don't find this show funny are just plain dull. That or they don't like todays comedy. All the other comedies on TV don't amount to this. Sure, maybe they do in awards but "IASIP" isn't built for the popularity contest, in the DVD's the actors come out and say they like the fans the fans are what moves them. That is the truth many, many, many people love this show. And they keep it moving currently 6 seasons going strong! Keep up the good work Mac, Dennis, Dee, Frank were watching.


                
Never have I ever seen a television show with such unlikeable main characters. Never have I ever seen a television show with such unlikeable characters that amused me beyond belief. This show is one of the best shows on TV right now, and it is all due to the superb writing and acting, and directing.The show follows the unbelievable but strangely everyday occurrences of "The Gang" in a what seems to be failing Philadelphia pub. What happens everyday are outrageously hilarious situations these characters get themselves into, for instance in one episode, two characters try become drug addicts just to be put on welfare. Every episode is extremely original, and it never seems to get old. There are many reasons to laugh at this show. One of them is the joke after joke formula, never trying to hard to be funny. The other thing that makes you laugh at this show is how you can tell this cast loves making this show, and how you can tell they have just as much fun making the show as how much fun the actual show is.If you haven't seen this show, I beg you to give it a shot. I guarantee you will not be disappointed if you enjoy purely funny TV.


                
It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia is a unique comedy. The show's humor can range from subtle and intelligent, as seen in shows like Arrested Development, to outrageously, raucous, and to some outright offensive.Much like Seinfeld, IASiP is a show that takes a normal situation, and, with it's hilarious characters, creates an insanely, original ending. Much to the show's own benefit, the actors,aside from Danny Devito, started as basically nobodies. In fact, the original four were friends before the show, and their chemistry shines through their performances( however this isn't to say that Devito doesn't mesh with the original four ). One of the show's few downsides, however, is that the character's need some getting used to in order to establish their places in the show and understand their sense of humor. On the other hand, this sacrificed time period will result in the best viewer to character connection a person can find in a comedy.I hear tons of people say that IASiP is "Seinfeld on crack", but, as accurate a statement as that is, I would much rather say it's what you would see if the brute, crudeness of the Chappelle's Show was juxtaposed with Arrested Development.


                
This is my first ever review on IMDb but I felt compelled to write a review on such a great TV series.It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia is comedy gold, with a great cast (Charlie Day often stealing the show) and always an interesting plot. What I think people love so much about this show is how the writing manages to incorporate extremely taboo themes (racism, paedophilia, etc) and miraculously turn them into hilarious episodes. There are a lot of laugh out loud moments in the show but what I believe the show excels in is the dry satirical comedy which not everyone can fully apprieciate. If you enjoy a good laugh and aren't easily offended then I can almost guarantee that this show will have your sides splitting.


                
The series follows "The Gang", a group of five depraved underachievers: twins Dennis and Deandra "Sweet Dee" Reynolds, their friends Charlie Kelly and Mac, and Frank Reynolds, Dennis and Dee's adoptive father, who runs Paddy's Pub, a run-down bar in South Philadelphia. They are dishonest, egotistical, lazy, manipulative and vengeful. Episodes usually find them hatching elaborate schemes, conspiring against one another and others for personal gain, vengeance, or simply for the entertainment of watching each other's downfall. Their tactics often rely on inflicting emotional and sometimes physical and psychological pain on individuals both deserving and undeserving. They regularly use blackmail and manipulate one another and others outside of the group.Much like in Seinfeld, the plots and schemes hatched by the Gang rarely result in lasting success; indeed, oftentimes, the plans backfire to adversely affect the group or at least, leave the Gang back at square one with little to no gain.This show is hilarious. Watch it now.


                
If you scour the lowest rated reviews for this show you'll only hear criticism in the form of 'it's not funny' with little or no justification.I think the reason for this is exactly the same reason behind similar criticism for 'The office' here in UK - which is that some people just don't get it.The boring out-dated premise for comedy is unrealistically happy young people getting into mishaps followed by feel good endings all round - e.g/ Scrubs, Friends, Big Bang Theory - Boring.The premise for It's always sunny is narcissistic and selfish characters on the upper edge of youth trying to make everything about themselves to their own detriment.In other words, we've gone in completely the opposite direction to the status quo, which comedy SHOULD. The addition of Danny DeVito who's synonymous with 'old school' is just the icing on the cake, well done Danny for 'getting it' and for contributing to something genuinely funny and original!


                
A cheap show, a crazy gang, a lot of guts to say whatever they want, what more can I ask for? I came across sunny the first time on IMDb and was really surprised with the rating it had. beforehand the title seemed a little too lame for me to care for, but man, if I'd known what I was missing out on...Sunny is interesting in a many ways, the production doesn't stand out as perfect especially for the first couple of episodes and it's almost like a bunch of good friends just talking nonsense for quite a long time, but then the comedy kicks in, the racial jokes, the waitress, Charlie's illiteracy, Mac's karate moves, Dennis' pride and Dee being ignored over and over again, they all seem to make sense after a while and God, are they funny! The beginnings have always been a favorite point for me when the gang starts talking about nothing and they start screaming and everything.And also let's not forget about Danny Devito and his sick twisted way of treatment of others.So don't miss out on this great little show!


                
OK, maybe Arrested Development but I just watched a basketball game on the show and after wiping the tears from my eyes I felt compelled to review the show only to help the rating grow.Easily the most consistently funny show I've ever seen in my life. I have laughed aloud every single episode.To all the people who gave this show a 9 or lower, what are you thinking? This show is completely original and hilariously funny. What more could I want in a comedy? Some people it compare it to Seinfeld which I find insulting. Curb Your Enthusiasm is the only thing that comes close.


                
As much as I hate lazy "its X on Drug" descriptions for shows, the FX tag line is probably the most accurate I've ever heard. Sunny is packed with brilliant jokes, witty lines, great set-ups and surprising twists, all anchored in a manically dark setting. In a real running time of 20 minutes, the average episode has more laugh out loud moments and darkly intelligent plotting than most sitcoms manage in a season.The whole show has an insane energy, with simple but unique characters dragging you along their genuinely bizarre trains of thought into very odd situations.Arguably the First Season is the weakest but only in comparison. I loved it and was impressed it seemed to get stronger and stronger as it progressed, with Danny DeVito's addition being a god send.This show is also refreshing in that it mainly avoids the fashion for a strong running plot that many modern comedies are using. This means a more old fashioned style of a 'wacky' adventure a week, with the occasional recurring support character. This in my opinion keeps it fresh, where a lot of other 'mature' sitcoms get dragged down by soap opera style baggage build up, Sunny can pick and choose. If proof be needed it has been optioned for a 10th Season despite its relative cult status.Best American Sitcom I've seen in some time, and there's plenty of strong contenders (Breaking Bad, Arrested Development, Community) so I don't say that lightly.


                
I'm a hardcore fan of this show..I guess you could call me one of those cult guys that helped get it started. Thank you, thank you. This show consists of every single thing you ever wanted to see on TV. Its harsh, its brash, its offensive. This show is a testimony to anybody who hates the FCC. The cast of this show is brilliant and they don't care who they offend. I love it. The characters are flawless. You will never get to see Danny Devito act like this again so I suggest you watch it and enjoy. Dennis, Mac, Charlie, and Deee are the new generations version of Jerry, George, Kramer, and Elaine yet much much more funny. This is definitely Seinfeld on crack. I have never laughed so hard at a show. They get it right on every episode. This show is not for anybody who is a tighta$$ or a pricK or you will not like it. Its about a bunch of assholes that run a bar and take advantage of each other at every given opportunity. It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia is a tribute to America. Freedom of Speech. Watch it. I'm tellin you, you will laugh you ass off! Hip Hip Hooray! Props to FX for picking up this priceless piece of brilliance! I will be a fan forever!


                
This show is a mind-blow with each new episode... And it's one of those show that gets better with every season, so if You like the first season, stick with it, the show will knock You down laughing so hard, that You'll have a six pack before being done with season 3 :D One of the funniest shows ever! If You have a developed sense of humor, and i am not talking about one of those laugh-track scum that can be found out there...P.S. - I wonder what is going on in their minds when they are writing scripts for the show, if the show has one, because it all seems so naturally improvised.


                
There are a lot of sitcoms that have their hilarious moments or their good episodes. It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia has nothing but that. I have never seen a show that is as funny (if not funnier) the 5th or 6th time you see each episode. You'll find yourself noticing the subtle genius of this show with every viewing. Every character fills their role perfectly, never fighting for the attention. If you haven't seen this show, watch it now, you can jump in at any time. I watch the dvds every night and still find every episode absolutely hilarious. I promise you, once you start, you will be hooked on It's Always Sunny (just skip the episode "The Gang Cracks the Liberty Bell". We'll pretend that episode didn't happen :)
Yea yes yea yes yea yes yea yes yea yes
Yea yes yea yes yea yes yea yes yea yes yea yes yea yes yea yes
I came across i'ts always sunny 2 maybe 3 years ago when i was in desperate need of a comedy show . I have searched and watched many others but none came close to the satisfaction and laughter i got from this one. Sure it starts a little slow in the beginning but it builds up from season 3 and later on making more grotesque and intriguing the stories 'the gang' comes across. With it's dark sense of humor and making fun of "forbidden" issues it reminded me of south park's long running race against hypocrisy , something that was missing from any other comedy show i have ever seen. All the cast does a magnificent job in bringing their characters to life and i really believe that is a really hard thing to achieve.~A.


                
