This is a genuinely funny show, well worth watching, and deserving of it's high ratings on this site. It's compared to South Park for a number of reasons, most notably the enthusiasm with which it tackles socially sensitive issues and assaults them with the most extremist brands of political incorrectness --- but whereas South Park always tries to tidy up it's mess and make sure the audience knows the distinction between right and wrong, this show revels in the depravity and insanity of it's sociopathy. And it works amazingly well.Since it's a situational comedy, there's not much to say about it without giving away the goods, but the actors all work better than any cast I've seen in a long time. It really seems like half the show is improvised and that the cast is talented enough to make it work without a hitch. The first few episodes are definitely the weakest, but still stronger than just about any comedy out there.Highly recommended.


                
Over the years on FX I would tune in and catch an episode of "It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia" from time to time. Only eventually it would be just like getting hooked on something as now I'm a faithful viewer of the series it's just like a religion. And who wouldn't be hooked the series it pushes the envelope it's far out funny and crude and rude as it just doesn't give a hoot and all of the characters are risk takers and speak it like it is about the world as I agree with them it's time we come down on this society more as it's became to much of a yes man and politically correct one. And the chemistry between the actors and guest is top notch. As it's a watch for the legendary Danny Devito who shines here as he proves he's not to good to do a cable comedy sitcom after being in many big screen movies it doesn't affect his legendary status.Anyhow it was created by Rob McElhenney(who plays Mac)and many episodes were directed by Fred Savage("The Wonder Years")as it's set in the city of brotherly love Philadelphia, PA. And always the opening sequences get you into the mood well by showing city landmarks from Market Street, the Rocky statue, and Lincoln Financial Field. So you feel that Philly freedom! The plot and storyline aside from just four grown friends having a ball of fun, is centered around Danny Devito who as Frank Reynolds is still in Philadelphia with his two grown kids Dennis(Glenn Howerton)and Dee(Kaitlin Olson)and they hang out with Charlie(Charlie Day)and Mac(Rob McElhenney)who are two grown slacker men who've been friends since childhood. And all four of the grown adults gets their kicks and meetings together at the Irish pub bar they run called "Paddy's".And thru the years the series has provided some funny and crazy moments of themes that center around road trips, medical problems, relationship problems, alcohol contests with rival bars, stalking, protest, crazy inventions, illegal immigration, and just down right good old funny fashioned fun with the gang pushing the limits and rules of not only just the law but society also. Overall this series is never boring or dull with it's wacky and crazy far out themes that's what makes it so watchable and likable is that it's different! Really a wonderful series one of the best on TV as it proves with it's comedy and raunchy fun that it's okay to be crude, rude, and outspoken in a crazy and envelope pushing way! Glad to see a show that speaks to society in a blunt and feel good fashion proving not to take life serious as it's okay to have fun your way. So be ready and remember "It's Always Sunny in Philadlephia" as it's good and nice to look at the cool and crummy side of life!


                
I love it. I absolutely love it. Any time I watch one episode I say, "OK, just one more," and three episodes later I'm saying "one more." All the characters are very well played by each actor, especially Frank who is played by Danny Devito and Charlie who is played by Charlie Day.The show is consistently funny and very smart. Every episode is a good episode and provide, at least, about 2 laugh out load moments and it's trickled with titters and "that was cool," moments.I thoroughly enjoy it and is my favorite comedy TV show in a long time and is probably the funniest viewing pleasure I've had in terms of TV shows AND movies. I'd highly recommend it, although Season 7 is very, very comedy of the black nature and you'll cringe. Although I prefer Season 7 to all the rest of them.


                
My god this show is brilliant. Despite its long run on TV, it did not get as much buzz as "how I met you mother" or " The big bang theory". I must admit that in a first look, this show is missing some kind Hollywood shine - as most of other comedy shows, but once you start to watch it, you get really addicted to this a bit perverted, black comedy. The best example of it is episode 4 from season 2, where they all trying to screw each others mind by using all means necessary. I like it how the show covers this black humor with day to day life. The cast is brilliant and suits perfectly to characters. Mac - semi psychopath with innocent face, Dennis - a bit snobby gang leader, Charlie - the idiot loser capable to the most elaborate schemes, D who tries to be better than the rest of the gang, yet still sinks to their level ever time. Let us not forget Frank , the father of D and Dennis. Despite the Danny DeVito's more conservative approach to comedy, his presence does adds up to the show, With his appearance, the show got much much better. In conclusion - watch it, love it, enjoy it because it's great!


                
'It's Always Sunny''s success comes from it's uniquely edgy and different style of comedy. It achieves this through the brilliantly created group dynamic; a group of shockingly self-serving and callous people- to the point of murder of one another is casually dropped into conversation- manage to create brilliant comedy, due to this fact. Each character is developed so that they have their own unique comic selling point (Charlie's uncomprehendingly disturbed psyche or Dennis' psychotic vanity and obsessive need for control or manipulation, for example). Yet as a group the comic value is furthered as it is although, together, they are horrendously dysfunctional but also darkly harmonic at the same time.Although saying all of this, I think the show does begin to show cracks in it's original and edgy surface around season 8 and these cracks definitely become more noticeable throughout season 9. I think the show's commercial success has negative consequences for it's style. This is because I think the show's selling point or reason for success might have been it's fringe edginess which is achieved through the use of a low budget and focus on characterisation and natural dynamic and atmosphere. I think with the extra resources and money the writers may have steered in the wrong direction, which subsequently meant the comedy seemed more forced and the natural dynamic of the group less prevalent.Although, nonetheless, a brilliant comedy well worth a watch. Don't write it off right away though, once accustomed to the characters, the style of comedy hits home.


                
Upon first viewing the pilot episode of It's always sunny, I was unsure of what to think. As I watched more, it grew on me. This enforces the point of the show truly being an original show. This show was uniquely created, straying far from the path of generic and repetitive comedies that are being aired, and aired again on various standard networking channels. As I stated, it took time to get me hooked, only because it was unlike anything I have seen on television, thus I needed more time to adapt to the humor. It's always sunny has great characters that really engulf you in their charismatic, oddly charming, and awkward ways. The humor itself ranges from awkward silly humor, and all the way to dry situational comedic antics. Needless to say, it has a vast supply of fresh material, suiting many comedic influences.The characters are a remarkable sight, the outgoing nature and chemistry between the cast allow for a more authentic situation feel. Although the situations may be extravagant, or off the wall, it still feels like one can relate to the emotions and actions of the characters. The premise of the show itself isn't necessary brand spanking new, but once again, the antics of the characters are so unique it will leave you laughing at the sincerity of the actors expressions and actions.All the characters have their strengths, and I must say again, the sincerity and depth of the situations that the characters are put through are very humorous. Charlie (Charlie Day) being one of the most unique characters, brings a lot to the table. His crazy endeavors, which he frequently pulls the rest of the cast into, are far from normal. He seems like the genuinely misunderstood character because of the incredibly awkward and strange situations he is in. (eg. Rat Bashing, climbing in sewers, crazy ideas, inventions, etc) Dennis and Mac are great characters as well, along with Dee and frank, they all have great chemistry. It is honestly a great, fresh show, and you will have no idea what will happen to 'the gang' in upcoming episodes. The episodes are like a 'free-for-all', as I said, anything can happen to the gang. You can rely on the fact that things will get of hand, and the 'things/situations' will be dealt with in a off-colour way. It really is a fabulous show, and is definitely recommended as a somewhat 'light-hearted comedy'. By this I mean it is the kind of show that really gives you the warming laughter, sometimes hysterical laughter, that you could just click on at any moment, and just have a good time.


                
It is one of the funniest shows on TV. The only problem with this show and why I only gave it a 9 is because it's PREDICTABLE. Yes, it is one hilarious show, but you see the humor of the next part before it'll even show. There is no perfect show, but the predictability for this show makes this show perfect for itself. Still, I don't reward a show for being predictable, despite whether it makes it funnier that you'll know what's going to happen or not. The two funniest characters on this show are Charlie and Frank without a doubt. Charlie is such an idiot with everything, and Frank just says the wrongest stuff to where you're enjoying the show more than you really should. If those two characters weren't in this show then it just wouldn't even be sunny, it would've been called "This show sucks!"


                
Who needs a script? It don't get more funny than "Sunny". Charlie, Dennis and Mac are three characters in search of a clue, and the interplay is consistently fast and hilarious. Kaitlin Olsen as Dee, like Jaime Pressly on "My Name Is Earl" has raised the art of portraying white trash into the realm of the sublime. As a walking advertisement for substance abuse, she could make heroin chic fashionable again. Danny De Vito may be even more effective here than in "Taxi", and that's saying something.Scams, liquor and various and sundry degrading sexual perversions. What's not to love? It's like Shakespeare, only different.


                
While being one of the funniest shows on television, It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia is not afraid to address complicated social issues in enlightening ways. From addressing racial discrimination to poverty, the gang always find some strange way to explore difficult situations in a hilarious way. Season 12 saw the gang actually try to tend bar at the behest of Dennis (Glenn Howerton) and Mac (Rob McElhenney) finally come out of the closet just to receive the winnings of a lottery ticket after a long litigation that cost the price of the ticket. Charlie (Charlie Day) got jealous of a tapeworm and finally impregnated the waitress (Mary Elizabeth Ellis). Frank (Danny DeVito) had trouble with his fluid business and Dee (Kaitlin Olson) became obsessed with destroying the life of a male stripper.The gang never fail to go over the top with their outlandish and idiotic schemes that from filming Mac and Charlie's parents and turning it into a sitcom to trying their hand at public relations. Cricket (David Hornsby) got an episode where his father tries to pull out of poverty, though his descent due to Dee is too far to ever come back from. Dee enacted the same sort of vengeance on a stripper even though her attempt to prove that she wasn't his lowest point lead to a disturbing encounter. Dee is continuously bullied by the gang and ignored.Check out more of this review and others at swiliky.com
My most recent favorite show! When I first saw it's always Sunny in Philadelphia I found it funny but also really dumb. I feel like the characters in the movie is just unbelievably stupid . But as I continued to watch the show I realized that they are not that stupid, in fact they are actually somehow smart. They are always caught up in some messed up issue that is actually very relate-able to the world issues today such as abortion, alcohol and drugs. And the things they do to get out of their mess and the things they say or the ideas they express is brilliant. I don't mean brilliant as in very smart and logical though.They make comments and they do things that make us think wow, people in general are stupid and we do ugly things and that it should stop. The movie is not suitable for viewers below 17 though. The jokes are rude and offensive. There are many disturbing scenes, but still extremely funny. 9/10


                
This is the only sitcom that's ever been in the same league as "Seinfeld," but they are much more hit-and-miss/erratic (even in their best seasons) than "Seinfeld" in its prime. Even after Larry David left, "Seinfeld" maintained a consistent standard of (cartoonish) quality. Later seasons of "It's Always Sunny" have notably declined a bit, though the show is still worth watching, and it may rebound, sheerly depending on the writing. It's just the old "be more genius" problem. Like "Seinfeld," the best episodes of "Sunny" fully embraced cartoonishness after briefly flirting with pseudo-realism. Content is much more depraved, "South Park"-esque and sociopathy-based, as well as "alcoholic," if that could inform a comedy genre (it does here.) A recurring theme is two characters being so disgusting that they collect and root in filth and garbage, to the point of stuffing open wounds with stray "trash" as first aid. And habitually wondering the sewers naked. The writers seemed determined to take the "vaguely unlikeable/selfish" characterizations of "Fawlty Towers," "The Office," "Curb Your Enthusiasm" and "Seinfeld" to the extreme. These are the most repulsive, vain, immoral, unlikable characters ever depicted in a sitcom, and most of the best plots draw on very strong characterizations along those lines. Like John Cleese said, "they make you laugh, so you think that you like them." Kaitlin Olson certainly portrays the best comic female character since "Elaine." Her selfish efforts to have a surrogate for "easy money," or make her pathetic life into "Sex in the City" draw on a petty, braindead femaleness that most dumb sitcoms don't touch. Even "Sunny" was going to make her into a scold, at first, until the writers realized how funny and fresh a morally-depraved woman character pursuing her feeble dreams could be. My favorite episodes include "The Gang Gives Frank an Intervention," "The Gang Solves the Mortgage Crisis," "The Gang Gets Invincible" and "Mac and Dennis: Manhunters," but your mileage may vary.


                
Absolutely amazing show, but Season 13 was a complete bummer because it was like they were just tired and couldn't think of any new material. Maybe it was their way of saying they are starting to come to a end to the series.


                
First of all, I feel the need to say that I am from Philadelphia. I remember seeing an ad for this show a few months ago while watching something on FX, and I thought, "Oh great, here we go again with another show which is going to trash this city and make all of the people here look like morons ( a la ABC's Philly)." I couldn't have been more wrong.This show is spectacular; the well-scripted, off-collar dialogue drives the hilarious story of four true-to-life characters. Sure, the jokes are funny, but what really propels this show is the believability of the characters. It is hard not to relate them to people that you know.I do, however, feel the need to give a brief warning here. If you are not very well receiving of sarcastic or cynical humor, stay away; if you don't like politically incorrect humor, stay away. This show talks about real issues including sexuality, religion, and cancer and makes light of them. Is it amoral? Absolutely! That's why it is so damn hysterical.


                
I'm always weary about watching new TV shows that are suggested by certain friends of mine (they tend to have awful taste), which is why I waited until now to check this show out.I was really surprised to find that this show is not only hilarious, but also smart. It's got that weirdness and hilarity that makes good TV shows great TV shows that are remembered for years to come. Few shows have this type of smart writing - but this show DOES have it.I would recommend this show to anyone who was or is a fan of Arrested Development, Friends, Seinfeld, Curb Your Enthusiasm, etc.I hate the fact that it's on FX - it should really be on HBO - but eh. It's still a damn good show.


                
You either LOVE this show, like I do, or you are allergic, like my mom is. I think the show is fun, easy to watch, stands on its own in a time where most shows have become way too similar.My mother thought it was stupid, painful to watch, she didn't like that the characters were morally depraved, sociopaths...Sunny has EVERYTHING! as the gang stays the same, the recurring characters develop and progress. In most cases, they seem to circle the drain as a result of the gang's impacts on their lives.As the title suggests, though others may have a different perspective, since the gang seems oblivious/ uninterested, "It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia."Side affects may include pestering your friends to watch.


                
In a t.v. era filled with nothing but celeb-reality crap and cookie cutter sitcoms, this show is an outstanding example of solid comedic sitcom genius. I have to admit that I didn't start watching until I got caught up in all of the Danny DeVito publicity - although as good as he is, the show doesn't really need him. The show centers around four friends who run a bar in Philly alongside two of thems father (Danny)who is trying to re-live younger years after his separation from his wife by hanging out with his kids. Hijinks and hilarity ensue when the kids get into situations like applying for welfare, sleeping (or not) with each others mothers, and pretending to be 'jihad'. Laugh out loud comedic situations will absolutely keep you coming back for more! Hopefully though, Danny's presence will bring new audiences and this awesome show won't see the same fate that other recent (Fox's Arrested Development) great shows have seen.


                
This show is as funny as "The Larry Sanders Show", "The Office" (BBC version), and "Scrubs". This show better be on the air for at least 3 more seasons. It seems all the good shows only last so long because most of society is stupid and just doesn't get it. Most people need a laugh track to tell them when to laugh. People with some sense of intelligence, know when to laugh. The best shows of all time, all have this in common. I have nothing else to say but I have to have 10 lines to have this accepted. Just one more line to go after this one and I can quit typing. Who comes up with these rules? We should go Jihad on their asses! (From the show)


                
This show is undoubtedly one of the most brilliant pieces on television. It's simple, it's distasteful, it's crude, and it's insatiably delicious. As a fan from the start, I began to get nervous as a fourth season seemed to be fading into wishes. But with word from the secondary Fox flagship station that the show now has a return date, is to say the least...orgasmic. If you enjoy television, laughing, and joy (often at others expense) than this show is for you. Glenn Howerton, Charlie Day, and Rob McElhenney are exuberant writers as well as actors. Howerton is a fearless comedian who will stop at nothing to make his character simply, the most preposterous on television, with Charlie close on his coat tails (see Serpico episode). Something must be said for Devito's performances. They are truly comic genius. I often wonder if Danny Devito is just that crazy, because he is absolutely brilliant. Curb Your Enthusiasm, Seinfeld, and the immaturity that only 18-30 year old men can muster have all been blissfully blended to create a superb piece of television. If you haven't seen it, and you are reading this. STOP. right now. And go pick it up on DVD. All of the seasons. Immediately. I hope to see this show last for a few more seasons, and then the guys to team up again and again, in television and film, and show Judd Apatow's crew what comedy can be (smart).


                
You know exactly what to expect from It's Always Sunny just from reading the episode titles which range from "The Gang Gets Racist" to "Charlie has Cancer" and to my personal favourite "Pop-Pop: The Final Solution". The humour is unapologetically vulgar and is delivered well by its lead characters which are played enthusiastically by their actors. Danny De Vito as Frank Reynolds will be forever remembered by TV lovers for years to come. He manages to play a man who tries to keep order in the group but at the same time is unstable just like the others.The situations that the group find themselves in never feel too exaggerated and are well grounded in reality. The political and social satire is some episodes are hilarious and really show the skill and the genius of the shows writers. It is hard to talk about It's Always Sunny as it is a show that needs to be seen in order to understand the creative and fun aspects that make the show so great.


                
This is so much like "Arrested Development" only dirtier in that good way. When I watched the first few eps. I felt the same way about it as I did when I first tried out Arrested Dev. This show grows on you & has some wicked dialog which takes you a few times to catch it all. Why the people involved in this show aren't big stars is beyond me. What this group reminds me of is a lot like how Ben Stiller got his start. He had his own show which no one watched but it showcased his talent. I can recommend this to everyone except for those old fogies that don't get it. I would even say that most of this will go over anyone younger than 25 as well, but in that good way. This show grows on you more and more & everyone involved is brilliant & some of the best eps are the ones directed by Fred Savage. I could go on and on but go watch these while they're still free on Hulu. This is one of those shows I will buy when they are all done, because these can be watched just like you watch the older "South Park", eps. too.


                
I've been watching this on and off since ~ 2011. Smart TV's have come and gone (Thanks Ed!) as have subscriptions to Netflix. The attraction for me is this is a truly unique and original comedy series and one that reflects it's US roots.The laughter veres between madcap, slapstick, surreal, sarcastic and dark (and light) comedy. Moreover, it's charm and longevity (13 series and counting) owes much to great writing and acting. The familiarity of the dysfunctional group of friends and their relationships (OK not that familiar!) and conversely the unfamiliar environs of a bar in Philadelphia make this attractive to me. I've always been intrigued by the US, it's people and our commonalities and differences (I'm UK based). I love this series for that - it often provides an (albeit exaggerated) bird's eye view (via the comedy) of what is acceptable / unacceptable to a US audience and then plums the depths further by pushing the boundaries so that no member of the human race could fail to be revolted / disgusted / saddened (delete as applicable) by the gangs antics! The closest I can get to this in respect of a UK sitcom would be 'Bottom' for the crudity, 'Peep Show' for the cringiness and sometimes the 'League of gentleman' for the characterisation. However, none of those UK based shows do this justice, it just is a must -watch!


                
If I watch the entire series, that automatically means I love the show. I just finished the eleven seasons that were on Netflix and cannot wait for the twelfth season to be on Netflix! The show has a lot of dark, offensive humor that makes the show so great. There are many hidden facts and Easter eggs throughout the series. I love that the cast members are able to make fun of themselves in their show to such a high degree, and I respect that. This is a great show and if you do not mind the excessive swearing, I would definitely recommend this show!


                
I never really got It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia. Having been around people watching it I had seen many random episodes and was not particularly impressed. The absolute depravity really bothered and disturbed me at first, but I eventfully grew to love how this assortment of broken humans have found a family in each other.There is something about how they can find meaning and acceptance together, despite all the blows society has dealt them. How they remain an unshakable family despite their extreme nihilism and egotism. They may still be despicable human beings, but their constructed family makes them better people than they would be otherwise.It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia has many similarities to previous classical sitcoms like Friends and Seinfeld. But where Friends and Seinfeld glorifies the modern city life of singles, It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia lays bare the deformity of their value system. The show clearly makes fun of nihilistic and egotistical culture; It shows the results of greed, a man who has everything but lives in squalor eating cat food and huffing paint. It shows how the self love of a young man and woman makes it impossible for them to ever find anyone else to love them. It shows how a brave single mother was unable to supply a environment conductive to raising a child. It shows how bare and meaningless a life filled with with nothing but meanness self-fulfillment is. It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia is not The Walton's or Road to Avonlea, but at its core is the family. Charlie, Dennis, Mac, Dee, and Frank are hopelessly broken people without any chance of redemption, but they survive because of the stability of their impromptu family.


                
In a market saturated with weak re-treads and trope filled grabage playing it safe for the masses, this show dares to challenge its audience.Daring, controversial,crass and often offensive this show is also smart, topical and above all else, really funny!


                
Stick with it. It just keeps getting better and better.


                
