Whether you are a professional or an amateur it is always wise to avoid superlatives with regard to a movie critique ... but I cannot. 'Cinema Paradiso' is simply the finest movie I have ever seen. Like many who have posted at this site before me I have seen it many many times. It reaches within me to places other movies have never reached and I have often wondered why. Perhaps it is because of it's simplicity. It contains no expensive special effects, it has no gratuitous sex or violence, it has no "multi-millon dollar per performance" actors that I know of, it is arguable whether it even has a story line, and yet it soars far above the nonsense that film makers are producing these days. It's characters are portrayed by each and every actor in award winning style and the music is not only beautiful but absolutely perfect for this film.It is quite simply the story of a human life and it's tragedies and triumphs within the context of a vocation. A young boy matures and gradually learns the lessons of life, cultivates his passion for the cinema, and is rewarded with professional success; however, he remains unfulfilled for true love has escaped him only to return in the form of a gift of love which transcends time, space, and death to reveal at the closing of the film Toto's one true mistress.A staggering triumph of both the cinematic art and of story telling and yet there may be found people who do not like this movie .... I tend to keep such people at arms length and  maintain a wary eye fixed upon them at all times.


                
I seldom watch Italian movies, (i saw it today for the first time) being Italian maybe i'm biased, but this one really stands out. A real masterpiece; i can't remember another movie so moving like this one, maybe Schindler's list; it makes you laugh and it makes you cry, yet it is so simple and straightforward. Maybe there lies its magic: no Hollywood superstars, no special effects, just pure emotions and feelings, love, fear, grief and regret, nostalgia for childhood and youth, memories of places and times that will not come back, memories of the loved ones. Some movies are there to entertain, some to scare, some to question. This movie is there to affect your feelings. Definitely to be seen.


                
Movies can wield a strange power over those who sit in the darkened seats of a theatre.  The truly great ones manipulate your perception of reality, suspend your disbelief, and ultimately either alter or affirm your view on life.  NUOVO CINEMA PARADISO is just such a movie.  It is the near-perfect melding of direction, acting, script, sound track, and cinematography. Phillipe Noiret and Salvatore Cascio give the kind of performances usually associated with much more recognizable actors.  The supporting cast looks like they could all be full-blooded Sicilians.  The location shots add depth and realism to the entire production.  Ennio Morricone's music is simply the most appropriate and emotive I have ever had the pleasure to hear in a theatre.  Tornatore's script and direction are a joy, a breath of fresh air.I will not spoil this story by repeating it, nor will I give away the ending, although it matters not a whit.  I could disclose fully everything in this movie, and in seeing it, all my words would evaporate.  There is nothing like the experience of sitting through it, becoming engulfed by it, and in the end, being changed.


                
Cinema Paradiso is a profoundly important movie because it deals with identifiable emotions/issues that could be considered universal on so many levels. The entire story is retrospective similar to Fellini's style as well as a love story that pulls in the viewer on an emotional level. The film also attempts to expose an inkling of Sicilian life, language,(different from Italian) and how "history" has intruded upon and shaped the mentality of the Sicilian people; to also show that traditional concepts of what is "moral" or right is not to be taken for granted because of the people and their particular history. For those who do not fancy history or non-fiction, the film attempts to educate the "outsider" not familiar with Sicilian history as it pertains to the WWII era. I watch it again and again and see more and more details that pertain to the story. I did see it on the big screen at a local theater back in 1991 and it was a hit with the audience. I have several scenerio that I think could make it more interesting and am very curious about the uncut version and what is different about it. Finally, the movie does make me cry because it is after all a love story and it is clear at the end that Toto (aka Salvatore)is still in love with Elena and that is why he never married or settled down "..to love one person. . . " as his mother says to him after his 30 year absence from home. The final scene of the credits also shows him looking at Elena again and the look on his face is telling. This film has many little "hints" that serve to inform the viewer and give just a little more info. about the story. Truly, one of the best films I have ever seen !!! These characters come alive and we feel like we know them--personally. Viva Giuseppe Tornatore for his masterpiece!
This 1988 Italian film (released in the US in 1990), is back with a full 51 minutes added on. This seemed like a stupid idea...there was nothing wrong with the original. The directors cut (which was 1/2 hour longer) was considered a mess. Also, for this release, an extra 1/2 hour was added! I expected the worse. Well, I was pleasantly surprised that this 3 hour version is better than the 2 hour one.This story follows the life of Salvatore. He's born in a tiny Italian village and we see him as a little boy in the 1930s, an adolescent in the 40s-50s and an adult in the 80s. It basically is about his love of movies and the one true love of his life--Elena. They are in love but she comes from a rich family and he lives in poverty. How can they be together?POSSIBLE MINOR SPOILER IN NEXT PARAGRAPH!!!!The cut movie in the US excised a lot of the Elena subplot and concentrated on Salvatore's love of movies. There's nothing wrong with that, but Elena disappears quite suddenly. This full version explains what happened between them and fleshes out the characters more. It also reveals a crucial surprise at the end.The performances are all fantastic--especially by the gorgeous young actor playing Salvatore as a teenager. Elena is also stunning. The film has beautiful cinematography and a haunting music score. The 3 hours flew by for me. I didn't want it to end! So...beautiful music, attractive stars, good acting, compelling story and some incredible romantic sequences. A must-see!!!!Bring plenty of Kleenex though--I cried a least 5 times!


                
Giuseppe Tornatore's Nuovo cinema Paradiso (Cinema Paradiso) is everything good about the movies. It is a story about love. The love between a Father and Son, an Individual and his home, and the love for the movies. Even if this is not your favorite film, if you are a filmmaker, you have no choice but to say this is your all time favorite film (if not one of the greatest films ever made). If only for the movie's ending, this is a great film. The ending answers all of your questions and completes the story. The missing love from a Man's life. The missing pieces to all the stories (movies) found and made into a whole. The final message from beyond the grave, the ending is perfect. If the musical score doesn't put you in tears, the amazing visuals will push you over the edge. This is what all movies should be about. Terrific.


                
This movie definitely is one of my all time best movies. Director Giuseppe Tornatore placed himself in the list of the best directors. The usage of an excellent background score is a trademark of his movies and this movie is not at all a different case.He is also a master in getting best performances out of children and adolescents. Marco Leonardi was the pick of the whole cast. Also watch Melena for those trademarks of Tornatore.The character of Alfredo is one of the most unforgettable characters. The way emotions captured in a camera is way beyond naturality.Overall, this is a great movie with ultimate teamwork with everyone contributing. I just loved the movie very much.


                
I just saw the director's cut after an hiatus of about 10 years since the last time I saw the shorter version of the Cinema Paraiso. The difference between the two versions does not take away from the immeasurable quality and sublime way of telling a story of either film. The director's cut does change the focus from the prominence of the love of Alfredo for Toto (Salvatore) in the shorter version to the love between Salvatore and Elena in the longer version. The shorter and longer versions are like watching two movies for the price of one.The subtle change of extended story line between the two versions should be studied by all film students who want to take up editing as a career. It is amazing how the absence of some material and the addition of others can develop to such equally impressive but different conclusions. In the first film the closure of Elena's role turns out to be final. In the second and longer version the doors are reopened slightly and maybe, just maybe, they may reunite and dispel some of Salvatore's lonely existence later on in his life. The shorter version is certainly more of a devised film (in a very good way). Gaps are left for us to fill in with our own interpretations of what could or could not have been. This is true of all art where the author of the work leaves us some space to imagine our own input or contribution to the film. The second film is more cathartic than the first, or more expositional <U+0096> letting us identify more with the elements of the story than invent them where we seek explanations. Case in point, again, the relationship with Elena: we imagine that she disappears and marries, under her father's orders, to some miserable "banking" husband and is lost to the bliss she could have had with Salvatore (at least, that is my invention of what could have happened to her). In the second version she seeks Salvatore so much she marries the next best thing she can find: Boccia <U+0096> the closest person she can get that approximates him, especially after he has disappeared to Rome.Phew<U+0085>, that the two versions can become two different movies at the same time and still leave me weeping<U+0085>. Wow! I don't even want to start on the excellent photography, the music score, the subtlety of the story telling and the tremendously gifted cast. I kneel and then prostrate humbly before the makers of this most exquisite work of art.
Spoiler warning for anyone who hasn't seen this classic yet...ok? Don't read this review if you haven't seen at least one version of Cinema Paradiso.First of all, I was born in Italy, so I was extremely proud when Cinema Paradiso won the Oscar for best foreign film as well as the hearts of all movie goers when it was released. Also, I am a hopeless romantic who absolutely adores movies! So this movie was right up my alley on many levels!I saw the shorter version as most of us did when it came out in the US, and only recently saw the full uncut Director's version.  It is one of my all-time favorite movies ever--and still is--but I must admit that I did not experience near the same magic or euphoria that the shorter original version gave me many moons ago! Don't get me wrong, I enjoyed the extra 51 minutes because I wanted MORE of a great thing, but as the old saying goes, sometimes less is more! Nothing, I repeat, nothing can match the power of the imagination and thus there in lies the magic and the power of the shorter version! By cutting out the extra scenes, we, the audience, were all left up to our own devices and forced to fill in the blanks ourselves with our imagination and our heart! By seeing everything the way we do in the full blown version, well, despite how sweet it was, it left something to be desired. I enjoyed the reunion (al though the whole flashing light effect grew VERY tiresome after awhile) but I could have done without it.Also, the thing that has been eating away at me is the whole question about why in the world Alfredo would (or could!) interfere with his supposed adopted son's first true love! Sure, I've been trying to come up with angles and reasons for his insanely cruel action, but nothing will convince me that the writer/director simply screwed up and should not have made the character do such a dastardly deed! Period! I loved the whole notion that he loved his "son" so much that he forced him to leave town and made him promise never to come back again...because we all knew that Alfredo was right...the only way Toto was going to achieve his dream was by leaving their small town and son of a gun if Fredo wasn't right! However....for him to be the main reason for the breakup of Toto's great love spoils the whole story. I will never watch this version again. I bought the DVD and pray that the original shorter verson that I saw and fell in love with is on the DVD!!!P.S. Some of my all-time favorite scenes come from this movie: The kiss in the rain (which is the cover on the DVD!) The dialogue where Alfredo tells Toto "I don't want to hear you talk anymore. I want to hear people talking about you!" The montague at the end of all the kisses and censored scenes. The haunting images of Elena on Toto's little movie projector...
This film is a beautiful cinematic poem.I´ll never understand why this movie in the States is considered an Art House movie. Almost for intellectuals. Why ? Because it is not in English? This couldn´t have been a more comercial normal movie if it really tried to be one in the first place. People who say this is an ART movie, definitely never watched one in their lives. Because they can be awful to watch sometimes. But there are good things too. Anyway...Unfortunely, I bet many people didn´t went to see it because of this classification. You don´t know what you´re missing !CINEMA PARADISO, is, ( along with THE BIG BLUE ), my all time favorite movie ever, ( I can never choose between them ). It has the most beautiful story I´ve seen in a movie so far.
Many people don´t like it, but I can bet those people don´t truly love cinema. They´re just ordinary movie goers who consume movies as fast food. Anyone who loves Cinema has to love CINEMA PARADISO !I used to think that italian movies were only those junk crapPseudo-erotic " PORKYS " style comedies or else those Art Films that the very intelligent Elite of film critics pretend to like, and so I only went to see CINEMA PARADISO, a few months after his release, because I was thinking that this would be one more of those.I was wrong. This is the most beautifuly filmed love story ever, on par only with CASABLANCA although in a very diferent style. It´s amazing how this movie by telling a love story and a life of a character in fact tells about the history of cinema itself. The use of the theater location as a conection between characters through out the years is magnificently done.And it has probably the most beautiful soundtrack ever !Very emotive and capturing perfectly the story in all its moments.And it has the most beautiful and moving ending ever filmed! No matter how many times we see this film. I bet everybody drops a tear at the end. And more than a tear, I´m sure. I do.This is one of those rare moments in modern cinema that can´t be described. It has to be felt.This movie is a true MASTERPIECE ! Please go and see it. It realy deserves not to be ignored.Do yourselves a favor and go see it.You´ll never forget it. Believe me. It´s that good.


                
Don't approach the movie with your logic part of the brain switched on.Yes, as someone said there are some flaws relative to how realistic it can be, but that doesn't matter because you'd be missing the point.Just let yourself go and enjoy this celebration of cinema, dream and emotions and this piece of art will bring you on a lovely spiritual trip.I loved it.P.S.: Sorry IMDb, but I was able to say everything I wanted to say without the mandatory 10 lines of text. I really love your website but you should pass this message to the management: quantity doesn't make quality.


                
This film is exquisitely poignant. Giuseppe Tornatore expresses his overpowering love of movies by giving his viewers a genuinely magnificent movie to love and treasure. The final scene is a perfect blend of film editing and soundtrack music. Anyone whose eyes are still dry half way into that glorious scene needs to see a cardiologist ASAP. Cudos to the great Ennio Morricone & son Andrea. Many reviewers insist that the shorter, theatrical-release version is superior to the director's cut. The full-length version makes a central character morally ambiguous, in contrast to the uniformly benevolent father figure depicted in the shorter version. In the long version this character commits an act similar to but far crueler than the behavior of another character who is ridiculed early on. Most new viewers will watch the full-length film. The shorter version is more satisfying for those who secretly prefer fairy tales in which the good guys & bad guys are consistently good guys & bad guys. Viewers who can handle a realistic dose of moral ambiguity owe it to themselves to see the real reel.
I am going to start this by warning anyone who has yet to see the director's cut of Cinema Paradiso: DO NOT WATCH THE DIRECTOR'S CUT!!!  I know everyone is entitled to their own opinions, but I am saying this because I viewed both versions of Cinema Paradiso in my film class (123 min. version first, followed by the 170 min. director's cut), and with the exception of one person, everyone in the class wished that they had not seen it.  At the very least, if you must watch the director's cut, I urge you, no, I implore you, to make sure you watch the 123 min version first.  If you watch the 170 min version first, you are robbing yourself of a great experience you will never be able to reclaim; watching the 170 min version first WILL ruin the 123 min version.After we first viewed the 123 min version, there wasn't a single person in my class that wasn't amazed by what they had just seen.  It is an amazing story of the magic of film and the cinema, highlighted by great performances and some of the most beautiful cinematography I have ever seen.  There are very few films that I consider to be near-perfect, but the 123 min version of Cinema Paradiso has made that list.  Some people complain that the 123 min version leaves a lot unanswered, but the beauty of it is that it doesn't matter.  Though love and Toto's relationship with Elena are involved, they aren't the focus of the 123 min version.  The focus of that version is on the relationship between Alfredo and Toto, and their shared love and enchantment with the cinema and film.It is a powerfully emotional film, but, sadly, this level of emotion is lost in the director's cut.  In attempting to clean up any loose ends or unanswered questions, the film is considerably bogged down by details and the magic and emotion of the 123 min version is lost.  The focus of the entire story is shifted, and rather than solely being the story of the relationship between Toto and Alfredo, the film takes on the extra task of juggling the story of the relationship between Toto and Elena as well.  In doing so, both storylines suffer, and the power the 123 min version holds is greatly reduced.  The result is a complicated mess of answers (many of which only raise more questions), that after seeing leave you wishing you hadn't. In the end you crave for that initial sense of magic and emotion the 123 min version provided to come back, but for some it is all too late.  I know it's tempting to watch the director's cut, but this is one occasion where you shouldn't indulge your curiosity.  Sadly, the 170 min director's cut version taints the beauty and magic of the 123 min version of Cinema Paradiso, and that is one treasure that should never be lost.


                
I've never been a huge fan of Italian movie industry (Spaghetti western simply killed my mind), especially I have to biased approach towards the Italian-French crossover movies, having the belief that all they are about are the strong mature romantic scenes (well, the last scene made kind of reaffirm this belief:) ).But! This movie is everything for million reasons: great humor, realisticly kind, touchy yet not in a cliche melodrama way, super dynamic AND gives you RIGHT lessons about true friendship. In contrary to "Good Will Hunting", where an older friend of a father-less boy gives him a "follow your dreams and forget about your talent" kind of mainstream advice (IMHO. sorry, if it's your favorite movie tho), in Nuovo Cinema Paradiso the old friend truly cares about the boy, shows him the true face of love and life before he is left heartbroken, directs him for a better life and higher standards. Alfredo shows Toto that nostalgia is the feeling that keeps us where we are and at the end of the day we realize that we belong to nowhere. Moreover, aren't most of his word simply quote worthy (and I am not even talking about real old Hollywood quotes he used)?Well, I was left with two questions at the end: I did not completely get the very last scene of the movie, but it must be a tribute to the old Hollywood. And was Toto actually happy with the life he get? His mother said a wise thing at the end: we pay for our goals and dreams by loneliness. Is it always true or is it possible to balance? Was it possible for Toto to find the true love after all this time, or did he stick to Elena's memories just to have that nostalgic little shelf in his heart against the whole beautiful, dirty and rich life he ended up in? That's some good food for thought, and all the great directors leave us with similar questions, so that we will not forget the movie in the nearest future.Will definitely watch it with my kids one day!
I first saw this movie back in 1988 in Italy, when it came out there. Back here in the States, I must have seen it several dozen times, in theaters and on VHS tape. It is not a "feel good movie" - thank God - but it always overwhelmed me emotionally.I saw it again tonight on TCM, for the first time in 20-some years, and found that I still remembered many of the lines. I almost always knew what was coming next, what would be said next.And I found that I still find it profoundly moving. It is the story of a man who grows up in love with two people, the projectionist at the movie theater in his small Sicilian town, and later, a beautiful young woman who arrives for a few years in his town and then leaves. Both, in different ways, leave him searching for love in a very idealized form, a form that he cannot, for obvious reasons, find in his adult life. And so he goes from one empty relationship to another, all the while making what are evidently very successful movies, though we never find out what they are about. When he comes back to his small town, after having been away many years, he sees how small-town life in rural Italy has changed. But he does not really seem to learn how his fascination with romantic movies has impeded his own emotional development.That sounds very dour, which this movie is not. It is, in fact, a warm-hearted and wonderful film about life in small-town Italy after World War II. I cannot recommend it too highly. It is one of the most profoundly moving films I have ever had the pleasure of seeing.A note: the 124-minute version shown on TCM tonight, which is the version I saw many times here in the States in theaters and on VHS, is substantially shorter than the original Italian version, which was at one point released in this country as the "director's cut." I haven't seen that in years, but as I recall, it made certain scenes in the movie more understandable. It's worth searching out, as I recall, but I will admit that I found parts of it too slow.


                
Philippe Noiret's death yesterday brings to mind all his movies, including "Nuovo cinema Paradiso". The first time that I saw this was right after I had seen "The Postman", and I recognized him as the man who had played Pablo Neruda. Here, he plays an equally great role, of the operator of a camera in a movie theater in an Italian village in years past. His friendship with and advice to young Salvatore proves to be more than the boy could have ever dreamed about. In a sense, the movie seems to be a look not only at what Italy was, but also what going to the movies was. It's definitely a masterpiece that I recommend. There may be the issue of whether or not we should make Italy's past look so idealistic, given that Mussolini was in power at the time. But I would assert that this movie shows that even in times of oppression, people can find ways to escape it. A really good movie.


                
I just saw the new Cinema Paradiso this weekend, which also marks the first time I ever saw it. It's a long film but you don't notice the time passing as you watch, since it speaks on many different levels of terms of life, memory and experience.The film has several storylines, reflecting different comments. A film about a first love, about a mentor and a student, about films or about not being able to go home again. However, to select a single one of these as the main story would miss the overall experience, since they are parts of an overall tapestry about the tough choices life presents.The standard hollywood treatment would made a completely happy ending, our hero gets together with the girl (now woman) of his heart; continues his successful movie career; his mentor remains flawless, and somehow restores the old town's spiritual heart. This doesn't happen, for as his mentor states "life is much harder than in the movies".Not to say that this a sad film, it's an extremely happy one, and by being tough and presenting a more truthful aspect of experience, its exquisite moments are that much more joyous.


                
I knew the film was held in high regard, and I went in with very high expectations.This is an incredible piece of cinema.The score/theme-music is perhaps Ennio Morricone's(Untouchables Etc) best, and that's saying something. It's only one of many fantastic characteristics that tie this whole thing together."Cinema Paradiso" seems like such a simple story, but nothing about the questions it asks about fate, love and friendship are simple.And that's what I really love about this story. It's realistic, heartbreaking, and uplifting all at the same time. The audience mimics the characters here. There are many things that you would like to change. How many times have you asked yourself if you would do it differently if you had it all over to do again? Could you? No. It's the way it happened. It's life. You can only piece together the moments of joy and happiness and reflect... hope.what a fantastic film!You'll like this if you liked: A Very Long Engagement(not quite as excellent), Hugo(a clear notch below and it borrowed a ton from this), or Cast Away(not as good, very similar themes in both films' last 30 min).this review is of the 3hr director's cut, not the theatrical release... I couldn't imagine it any other way. Will view it though.Late Edit(after viewing the shorter, original theatrical version): IMO.. the extended cut is far more powerful. The love story and the journey of the lead character is more complete, and ultimately, I find the extended cut to be much better. That's the version I would recommend to the first time viewer - although I seem to be in the minority on this subject.


                
Cinema Paradiso perfectly captures the obsessive and domineering power cinema has over its dedicated fans and their lives. Just like how our main child protagonist Toto becomes enchanted and engulfed by the movies, Cinema Paradiso is a movie which succeeds in doing just that. Cinema Paradiso takes the viewer back to a time when the movie theatre was at the heart of the community (where people would even jerk it and have sex in the middle of a crowded theater?! - Must be a European thing). Cinema Paradiso is my favourite foreign language film and what a rich experience it is. The music, scenery and vibrant architecture of Sicily immediately draw me in (man, Italians are so over the top) - I simply enjoy the essence of being there and I'd happily watch the movie without the subtitles on.The movie follows the relationship between Toto and his Freudian father figure Alfredo, a projectionist at the local cinema. Alfredo himself is very much a mythical character; he has no back-story or even a surname, yet he succeeds in being one of the most unforgettable characters in film history. He is a man who appears to have never made much for himself in life; ultimately a bit of a loser. This is one aspect of the story which really punches me in the gut; Alfredo prevents Toto from going down the same road as he did but as the cost of never having to see him again. It works and especially in the director's cut in which we learn Toto has become a famous filmmaker - wouldn't we all want an Alfredo in our lives?Did I mention Cinema Paradiso is the saddest movie of all time - fact. I recommend wearing a life jacket while watching this movie or you will drown in your own tears. This is one few films that give me teary-eyed goosebumps even thinking about it, or by listening to Ennio Morricone's score on (one of few scores I can listen to fully on repeat). I hate to imagine how much of a nihilist one would have to be not moved by the scene in which Alfredo makes a projected image travel along the walls and into the town square to the booming music.For the original Italian release or director's cut, the film had a run time of 173 minutes, for the international release it was cut to 124 minutes. I have to say however I greatly prefer the cut version. The director's cut examines the romantic relationship between characters Toto and Elena in much more detail, turning what is a subplot in cut version into a main focus of the story and while interesting to see the loose ends and the explained justification for Alfredo's actions, it does cause the movie to drag and in turn creating a version of the film with less emotional impact, whereas the cut version is a perfectly paced film. It also takes away some of the mystery posed by the shorter version, showing that some stories are best left untold and not everything has to be explained. I still feel the longer version is worth watching but it has made me dubious of director's cuts.Anyone passionate about cinema can't afford to miss Cinema Paradiso (that being unless you're a hardcore cynic, then this film will send you into a fit of rage) but aside from being a tribute to cinema, the film is full of emotions for nostalgia of childhood and youth, love and the losses we have to deal with during our lives. Like the stamp of any truly great film, Cinema Paradiso is a movie which you don't want to end. The cut version of Cinema Paradiso is Cinema Perfecto.International Cut - 10/10
Director's Cut - 7/10
As a big lover of film, I am still kicking myself for not seeing this masterpiece any sooner. To me, Cinema Paadiso is one of the best films of the 80s and also the most moving, particularly in the final hour.I have seen many visually stunning films, and Cinema Paradiso is up there as one of the most visually ravishing films I've seen. The cinematography and editing are outstanding, and the scenery still looks gorgeous with an epic feel to it. Cinema Paradiso, alongside The Good, The Bad and the Ugly and Once Upon a Time in the West, also contains one of Ennio Morricone's most haunting scores and it is also one of my favourites of his.Cinema Paradiso is immaculately directed, has an touching, beautifully-written and honest script and a rich, compelling story that while it has an elegiac feel moves swiftly by draws you right in until the ending, which breaks my heart still after 5 times of seeing it.The characters are very well defined, particularly Alfredo, and the acting is outstanding with Salvatore Cascio, Enzo Cannavale, Marco Leonardi and especially Phillippe Noiret particularly impressive. All in all, a masterpiece. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
Five minutes after I have watched this movie,slowly calming down,I am now writing my feelings down and you must know how much I want to share it with everyone who loves this movie!The movie "Nuovo Cinema Paradiso" moved me greatly and the feelings are so strong that I can't even describe it.As they say,Beauty in terms of human words is meaningless.It is a movie about movie,a story about love and friendship and everything that a living human being can feel.A lovely and smart child ,living with a desperate mother waiting for her beloved husband at war,grew up with movies and finally became a famous director.He once loved a beautiful woman and the woman loved him too.However,as we all know,love is fragile.Love immediately comes to an end the moment it meets with marriage.So,is there a way that makes love eternal,always smiling at you when you open your eyes in the morning? I had guessed the beginning but I didn't get the "fine".That's why it's such a great movie. "The soldier stop waiting and go away at the very 99th day,when a day after he would probably have the princess' heart." Maybe sometimes the best thing to do is to walk away,leaving the memory lasting forever.The last fifty minutes of the movie,particularly I think, is the best part.The climax comes when the man and the woman meet each other again thirty years after their inevitable miss.I cant help burst into tears cause I can't hold it anymore after 2 hours' living together with the excellent characters.It's not until this day,by this movie that I am successfully convinced A man can really hold his love for as much as 30 years!Life is like a movie,but it's harder.


                
A love story, pure and simple. Not, as one might suppose, the doomed young love between Salvatore and Elena (a love he fails to recapture), but the pure father/son love between the local cinema projectionist, Alfredo and the fatherless Salvatore. The essential beauty of this film-long relationship is brought home in the greatest final scene any film in history ever had (IMHO). This has the hairs on the back of my neck stand to attention every single time I've seen it.With the themes this film addresses, it could so easily have been a gloop of mawkishness sentimentality. Sure, it has sentiments but there is a difference. The first time I saw this film I couldn't think or speak for over an hour afterwards (still a record).The Theatrical version is the one to see, for me, because the director's cut, whilst it adds information, does not add anything artistically at the cost of 50 extra minutes. In either version, the final scene is still the pay-off of sublime beauty.
Not many movies make me cry- but this non-formulaic story works. The last 5 minutes are not to be missed by any classic movie fan.Lessons to be learned about the different ways movies and movie theatres and their denizens have been enjoyed throughout the decades. And the practice of censorship in a small Italian town. A homecoming, a funeral, and a heartwarming gift, and a terrible disaster. A story about a young boy striving for work in the glamorous movie theatre. Don't miss it.The Italian version with subtitles is excellent, and the soundtrack is amazing.


                
Those of us whose lives have been enriched by those magic moments we have spent in a theater can delight in this beautiful story of a man and a boy that loved movies. The fantasy medium that allows to escape into other places, other cultures, is the subject of this wonderful picture from Italy. Nuovo cinema Paradiso" takes a view at two people so different, yet so alike, because their love for this type of entertainment.The story of Toto, a young boy who loves to escape to the local movie palace and his relationship with Alfredo, his friend, and mentor, is one of the most beautiful films that have come from Italy in recent memory. We watched the film when it first opened in New York, and were lucky enough to renew our joyous experience not long ago when a friend lent us a copy on DVD format.Giuseppe Tornatore, the director, created a film that will never die as long as there are fans for pictures such as this one. The story about the golden days, not only of Hollywood, but the Italian cinema after WWII is captured in vivid detail. The casting proved also to be a lucky break for the director. Phillipe Noiret, one of the best actors of his generation makes a wonderful Alfredo. Salvatore Cascio steals the heart of the viewer just by being himself. The legendary Leopoldo Trieste appears as the priest who censures any picture that will show at the Paradiso. It was a joy to revisit an old friend!
A wonderful gift for all movie lovers around the world, Giuseppe Tarnatore's deserving Oscar Winner for Best Foreign Language Film has been (and I believe will be) loved and admired by the viewers regardless their age, gender, native language, and the country they grew up and saw their first movie in the theater, be it a huge multiplex or the modest cinema in a small village."Cinema Paradiso" takes place in a postwar Sicilian village and tells about a friendship between a projectionist in the local cinema of the title, Alfredo (Philippe Noiret, one of the best French character actors whose career spanned more than half a century and who was equally good in the surreal satire, light comedies, moving dramas or revenge war movies) and the little boy Salvatore or Toto whose father had died during the war. Since his childhood, Toto was fascinated by the movies and spent countless hours in the projection booth with Alfredo who had become the boy's friend and the mentor. After a fire blinds Alfredo, Toto becomes the projectionist, and the Cinema Paradiso continues to attract all villagers and to bring them together on Friday night to experience again and again the miracle of film. The boy's obsession with film becomes a lifelong love affair which will make him eventually a famous and successful filmmaker.Deceivingly simple and straightforward, the film is always moving, tender, touching, full of humor, love and compassion to its eccentric characters but what makes is special and unique, is the fact that we the viewers, all of us can and do relate to the story because we relive our own childhood movie experiences while watching the film. My memory took me many years and thousands miles back to the time when I was 5 and my grandmother took me to the theater for the first time. She later told me that she had been afraid that I would've became bored, restless, and started to cry - it never happened. I was so charmed and fascinated by what was happening on the huge screen that I sat not even moving, mesmerized and not uttering the single sound. Since that very moment, I have been always ready for the miracle to happen again. I expect every new movie to be great; I want to love, to cherish and to adore it. When it happens and the movie becomes mine, I am the happiest person in the Universe. It did happen tonight when I was watching Giuseppe Tarnatore's "Cinema Paradiso", one of the best films about the power, beauty, and magic of FILM ever made.


                
