I really don't understand how this film got to be so famous and widely recommended. Two hours of clumsy sentimentality, in which nothing happens; a coming-of-age tale which tackles none of the problems of adolescence; characters who spend most of their time simpering over each other, yet they never bother trying to make them connect with the viewer; child acting so dreadful a wooden puppet with its strings cut would have been a better replacement...I resent the laziness of the film, they thought they could rely on its magic formula of nostalgia, saccharine and being foreign so they thought "we don't need to bother building up any genuine feeling for these characters". The story starts with an incorrigible young tyke (who i found extremely irritating) befriending the local projectionist. That's about all you need to know, what there is of a plot that develops from there doesn't really matter - it doesn't offer any interest, it doesn't put any of the characters in a dilemma, it all just dissolves into the steady flow of sap. With a plot development occurring every twenty minutes or so, thank God that we're anchored to the motif of the cinema by lengthy footage of people sitting around in it, making entertaining comments which make us just resonate with the warmth of the Italian people. More sugar anyone? Perhaps if I had a very fragile and elderly relative - I mean several centuries old - for whom trying to follow a plot that wasn't totally linear might get their blood up, who was too mentally impaired to take a character at anything but face value, for whom nuanced was just a seven letter word they weren't sure how to spell, then I might recommend to them Cinema Paradiso. Although the possibility that their heart might stop mid-way through, making me culpable for their death, would make me think twice. In fact I think I've got it, Cinema Paradiso might be a very good film to die to. Especially if you've been incapacitated waiting to die for a very long time, and would like to assure yourself that other people have been subjected to something of what you're going through.The Spirit of the Beehive (La Espíritu de la Colmena) is sometimes presented as Cinema Paradiso gone right, again centred on a cinema in a small town and a child's reaction to it. Sure it's slow, and makes no concessions to commercialism, but it is beautifully directed and in an understated way develops the viewer's empathy for the characters. Exactly the opposite of the crass tedium of the film I've just had the misfortune to see.


                
This comment contains spoilers.  I really like foreign films.  For a long while in my movie watching career, I thought just the "good ones" made it over to the U.S.  Cinema Paradiso has thrown a monkey wrench into my theory.  This is a terrible movie with bizarre events that make no sense, even in an artsy way.  Part of it might be my hatred for "the life of" movies, where some terrible child actor plays the first 1/3, another actor plays the adult, and another actor plays the "old man" at the end.  As a side note, I have an extreme hatred for the "old man makeup" trick (Like in "A Beautiful Mind"), which is ALWAYS distracting - much more distracting than the changing actors trick.  Part of it might be the fact there are too many moviehouse scenes.  Part of it was the bizarre contrived sentimentality the filmakers tried to force into the movie with the old projectionist character, especially towards the end.I really wanted to be pretentious and like yet another foreign film, but I couldn't even pretend on this one.  There was one very very cool scene that was so out of place, it felt like I was watching a different movie (the scene with the mirror and the projector).  Oddly enough, about a week after seeing this one, I saw a similar film that was far superior to this one:  "La Lengua de las Mariposas".  Search for it on IMDB.com, watch it, and compare.  The acting done by the child is the best I have ever seen, especially at the end.  It has the unforced dynamic the filmakers in "Cinema Paradiso" were trying for.  "Cinema Paradiso" has taught me one important thing: bad movies don't just come from Hollywood.
