Colorful and moving flick dealing with a wonderful friendship between a little boy and a solitary projectionist . However , being overly nostalgic , too sentimental and overwhelmingly sweet . Attractive and sensitive picture with stirring drama , ravishing cinematography and enjoyable musical score . A filmmaker (Jacques Perrin , he subsequently became a notorious director) recalls his childhood (Salvatore Cascio , Toto , who celebrated his eighth birthday during filming) , when he fell in love with the movies at his village's theater and formed a deep friendship with the theater's projectionist (Philippe Noiret who said all his lines in French) at Cinema Paradise . The director goes back home to his Sicilian village for the first time after almost 30 years and is reminded of his first love (Antonella Attili) . It is an interesting celebration of youth, friendship, and the everlasting magic of the films . Nostalgic and sensitive picture with thought-provoking drama , ravishing cinematography and moving musical score . The picture contains drama and nostalgia completely wrapped in an agreeable story between a lone man and a boy . The flick relies heavily on the relationship between an older man and a kid , subsequently teenager , but this does not get bored or spoils the tale . Slightly overrated but excellent all the same time , the picture is enjoyable and entertaining , but overlong . The story is narrated with great sense and sensibility , the intelligent screenplay was written by the same Giuseppe Tornatore . Giuseppe's intention was that this movie should serve as an obituary for traditional movie theatres and the movie industry in general , after the movie's success he never mentioned this again. This excellent and enthralling picture ¨Cinema Paradise¨ was starred by extraordinary actors such as Philippe Noiret , Jacques Perrin and Marco Leonardi . Good acting from remaining cast , just like Antonella Attili , Enzo Cannavale , Leopoldo Triestre , Agnese Nano , Pupella Maggio, among others . Glowing cinematography with scenarios colorfully and stunningly photographed by Blasco Giurato who reflects splendidly the cinema , streets , square , village and many other things . Rousing as well as insistent score musical , including a continuous leitmotif from the beginning to the end ; being efficiently composed by the veteran master and prolific Ennio Morricone . The film won several nominations and awards , Oscar included .This weeper picture was very well directed by Giuseppe Tornatore . He is a writer and director, known for making similar nostalgic films including good actors , such as ¨Malena¨ with Monica Belucci , ¨ The star maker¨ with Sergio Castellito , ¨Baaria¨ with Raoul Bova ; and ¨La Leggenda del Pianista Sull'Oceano" (original title) or "The Legend of 1900" or "The Legend of the Pianist on the Ocean with Tim Roth . Being his English-language debut feature titled ¨The professor¨ with Ben Gazzara . Cinema Paradise Rating : Better than average, well worth watching for exceptional cinematography , first-rate acting and marvelous score .


                
This Italian motion picture achieved notorious fame, comparable to the equally famous and more recent Italian movie 'La Vita è Bella'.Like that one, this one is also very good in its first half, but after that it becomes a movie of bad taste. That's really too bad, because this movie (and 'La Vita à Bella') had potential to be something big.'Nuovo Cinema Paradiso' can be considered a homage both to cinema and films. It shows us the pinnacle of the cinema as an industry of entertainment and as an escape for those who go there to watch the movies, making them forget the hard reality of poverty and war. Besides the cinema's success, it also shows its progress, its bankrupt, its decadence and its sad ending.This is a very simple film. However, simplicity doesn't necessary mean something bad. Plus, the brilliant and memorable soundtrack by Ennio Morricone adds lots of emotion to the film, particularly in its first half, which is without a doubt the best part of the movie.One of the biggest charms of this movie is the fascination and enthusiasm of Salvatore (whose nickname is "Toto") on the cinema and the projectionist job. He wins the friendship of the local projectionist, Alfredo, who also teaches him all about that job. As you can tell, "Toto" is a very intelligent kid and a very quick learner. Plus, he is mischievous, cute and hilarious.Of course, even the first half has its minor faults, such as the pranks of bad taste - for example, that pig who spits to the audience and the prank with a bug on the sleepy guy. Pranks aside, I also don't like at times the behavior of Salvatore's mother: she slaps him a number of times.As for the good of the first half, well, just about most of it. And this without forgetting Salvatore's dumb classmate. He's a poor dumb kid who doesn't know what 5x5 is. Whenever he answers that question is hilarious, as each answer is dumber than the previous one. In the 3rd time, he goes as far as replying «Natale!» (which is "Christmas" in Italian) - when he said that, I practically died of laughter!As for the 2nd half of the movie, most of it is wrong and seems quite rushed and forced. Salvatore is no longer charming as a grown up. The love story between Salvatore and the girl of his dreams is frustrating in all ways, not to mention that it's ridiculous that Salvatore spends entire months waiting for her to open the window as a sign that she fell in love for him. There is no comedy or charm as in the 1st half. An animal is stabbed. Salvatore joins the army. And Alfredo's attitude later is puzzling: forcing Salvatore to leave that town forever, never look back, never return (not even to visit, going as far as saying that if he returns he won't receive him in his house), never let nostalgia hit him and never to even write or think about them.I clearly prefer "Toto" as a child than as a teen or as an adult. "Toto" is far more charming as a child. In fact, the moment he grows up, for some reason the movie looses its initial greatness.Phillipe Noiret gives a great performance as Alfredo, but little Salvatore Cascio steals the show as little "Toto".I never saw the Director's Cut version. And frankly, I've got no interest in watching it. It's about 30 minutes longer, making it a too long movie and it certainly makes one view the film differently, as many of the mysteries are revealed (which might not be a very good idea). I saw the shorter version which isn't even that short, as it is nearly 2 hours long. But I can handle a movie of 2 hours.


                
I heard great things about this film and never would have watched it, but it came highly recommended. I did enjoy the film, but I watched the directors cut which was close to pushing 3 hours. I am not sure what got added, but I think a lot of the films power was lost with additional scenes that slowed the pace down. I loved the idea and I got the message, but I just did not feel it at the end. There were scenes that I loved and they made me smile and there are some great lines, but in the end I did not feel that it was terribly inventive and did not create that sense of awe and love that I have for cinema. I loved the scene when Elena comes back during the showing of the movie in the outdoor cinema and it starts raining. It was cliché, but it worked and was perfect for the movie. It has always been hard for me to enjoy movies about the love of movies because I feels as if few of them can capture the emotion that we as viewers derive from movies. I think part of the reason I missed some of the movie was it was only recently that I really started enjoying movies. Growing up I did not really look forward to watching them and they were nothing special. The love story aspect of the movie was weak in my opinion and did not need to be fleshed out as much as it was. I would have liked to have imagined that they just missed each other and not it told me exactly how it happened. I also guess I did not agree with Alfredo's idea that he could never return and that Toto was bound for greatness and that could only be achieved with a complete separation from his roots. Going back and revisiting the past at an early point of his life might have brought Toto more closure, I know it did for me. I know this movie is rated really high in the all time list and I am not sure if I agree with it, but I don't think I saw the version that most people voted for. Also I think I was lost on the fact that I did not know any of the movies that were shown in the theater at any point, which is in a way sad to me.
A filmmaker recalls his childhood, when he fell in love with the movies at his village's theater and formed a deep friendship with the theater's projectionist.In many ways, this film anticipates "The Long Day Closes" and "Hugo". While "Cinema Paradiso" is probably not the first movie about enjoying movies, it is easily the most successful and critically acclaimed. Terence Davies was likely influenced, and there is no doubt that Martin Scorsese was."Cinema Paradiso" was shot in director Tornatore's hometown of Bagheria, Sicily, as well as Cefalù on the Tyrrhenian Sea. This makes the film somewhat more interesting for Sicilians in Wisconsin, as they largely trace their roots to Bagheria. Myself, though not Sicilian, have extensively studied the Italians of Milwaukee and find this connection fascinating. (The Sicilian roots are explored a bit more on the Blu-ray in "A Dream of Sicily", which looks into the life of director Giuseppe Tornatore.)The themes of the film are many, and go beyond the simple love of film or seeing film as a background of our lives (which is a feeling many cinephiles share). We have the role of religion, with some excessive priestly censorship of the films within the film, even cutting out a "chaste kiss". There is the theme of the Mafia, which is unfortunately an ever-present aspect of the Sicilian way of life. We see that mob boss "Don Vincenzo" has complete control of employment (and an unusual rapport with Edward G. Robinson). Although he is not a major character, he plays an interesting role for being opposed by the village priest, and the way the populace accepts him is striking."Cinema Paradiso" has countless nods to Fellini, quite possibly the biggest influence on Tornatore (and many other Italians). Interestingly, Fellini was going for "realism" (or neo-realism) in his work, and much of this film covers similar themes but plays them for laughs (at least in the first half). This is homage in its purest form -- taking a source and inverting, subverting it.The film was rightly honored by many, not least of which was at the Academy Awards. What is most surprising is that the Criterion Collection did not scoop this title up years ago. But luckily for us, Arrow Academy is giving Criterion a run for their money and offers an impressive set for "Paradiso" fans. Both the theatrical cut and director's cut are in the set, providing an additional 50 minutes of footage, including a crucial romantic scene that is entirely excised in the shorter version.The Arrow set also has "A Dream of Sicily", a 52-minute reflection on Tornatore's career, interviews with the key actors, a breakdown of the kissing montage, and more. Yale professor Millicent Marcus, who has authored many books on Italian cinema including "Italian Film in the Shadow of Auschwitz", provides a very insightful commentary (in English!), not only elucidating the finer points of the film, but pointing out connections to other, lesser-known works of Italian cinema.


                
This review concerns mainly the length of this movie.You should check run time before watching. The normal run time is 155 minutes but there is an international version mainly for Americans. They felt an American could not sit longer than 2 for a movie that didn't contain gunfire, car chases or tits. So they made an edited version for us that runs 121-124 minutes. I won't tell you exactly what is missing from the 2 hour version versus the 155 minute one, but just imagine watching Starwars and never learning Darth Vader was Luke's father. I just saying, if you're going to sit down and watch this movie, don't waste your time watching the 121 version.


                
Cinema Paradiso had been on my list of "must watch movies" for years. I did enjoy it but think it does not deserve the very high ranking it gets in many greatest ever movie lists.The movie deals with how our experiences in our youth can have an indelible affect on the rest of our lives.I won't go into the story in depth but it begins as the young Toto, living in a Sicilian village, befriends Alfredo, who loads the film reels in the local cinema. We then follow Toto as he grows up and there are plenty of funny and touching incidents involving the people of the village. The film is unashamedly sentimental and at times perhaps even melodramatic.I watched the "Directors Cut". It is nearly three hours long but I cheated by watching in three sittings so I can't comment on whether this version is too long or not.The closing scene is one of the best in the movie as the director leaves it up to the audience to decide whether personal happiness or the creation of great art is more important.
Cinema Paradiso is a very simple movie with one particular theme that makes it special: The magic of the movies. The storyline follows the path of a famous Italian director and traces his career back to his early childhood days, when he spent countless hours with his adult friend Alfredo in the projection room of the little cinema in their village. The two of them grow quite close, and it is fair to say that Alfredo becomes a kind of real father for little Toto, whose natural father died in World War II. After a horrible incident that leaves Alfredo blind, Toto himself becomes the projectionist, a job he performs for many years.The movie further extensively elaborates on Toto's first love and on many subtle themes, such as Alfredo fatherly guidance and Toto's time in the army. Throughout the proceedings of the story, the magic of movies plays an important part. The inspiration and impact on ordinary people in those early days of the cinema, the way people were emotionally stirred and how they participated actively with cheers, laughters and even tears, all these aspects are transformed into the movie in a way that is maybe a bit over-subscribed and occasionally a bit corny, but very authentic and with a marked nostalgic edge.Cinema Paradiso is a very subtle and slow movie. It is a typical Italian movie in terms of pace and camera work. I was occasionally reminded of Once Upon A Time in America and Martin Scorsese's narrative style. It is a very nostalgic movie with lots of sad moments that make you aware of the passing of time. At the same it is the story of Toto and his relationship with Alfredo, who was more a father than a friend to him. It is maybe a bit two long, and some moments could have been made more interesting and more helpful for a quicker proceeding of storyline developments. 8/10.
Cinema Paradiso is a movie about a little boy who works in a theater with an old man, to put it in a short summary. There are several positive aspects of this movie, but also a few negatives.Cinema Paradiso is very simplistic. It isn't overly complicated, so it is relaxing to watch. It didn't try to be more than it was. The acting by the older man and the young boy Toto (and teenager when he is older) is well done. The ending scene could not have been more perfect to close the film. The main problem I had with this film was the actor who played the adult version of Toto. He looked nothing like the child or teenage version of Toto, so it threw me off a bit. Also, some parts of the film were much too slow or pointless and could have been cut out. The overall running time was a tad too long to keep the movie interesting.Cinema Paradiso is a nice, if somewhat forgettable, film that I think most would enjoy watching. It is far from any sort of masterpiece, but its innocence and view on life are to be admired.


                
Passion inspires great art in a young Toto, but as his age shifts, so does his perspective on his life machinations in a small Sicilian community. With the help of the local theatre projectionist, Alfredo, he is able to recognize his potential and move out into a wider world. But what keeps this film from simply being a sentimental ode to Italian cinema, is the reflection of a much older Toro coming to terms with the sacrifices he has made to become the man he is. Were they mistakes? Or are his past regrets still threatening to cloak his accomplishments as an individual?Despite a somewhat obtrusive score by Ennio Morriconne, this film sends a strong message about life reevaluation, and how past decisions can segue into the present, in often unexpected, but beautiful ways. A small gem of a film.


                
To those of us who live in places less beautiful than Sicily, and which have lost connection with their peasant heritage much longer ago, there's a natural appeal to stories from that island. 'Cinema Paradiso' provides a nostalgic look at post-war Sicily, and also of Italian cinema during that era; in the story of how progress led to television, the death of the cinema as a social institution and the individualisation of people's lives, it recalls 'The Last Picture Show'. There's similarity as well in the conflict between attachment to one's community and the desire to escape, although it lacks Peter Bogdanovich's film's sense of overwhelming claustrophobia. Indeed, the emotional temperature of the film is actually quite muted, in spite of the surface colour and vigour. I enjoyed it, but (especially in a setting with such a complex historical and political backdrop) it could have benefited from a shade more intensity.


                
This is a well crafted, powerful film which evokes a variety of emotions, leaving the viewer with a sort of satisfied exhaustion, like after a good session of yard work. Its focus is the power of love to shape our lives over the long term. The protagonist's passion for the cinema and his youthful immersion in "first love" are intertwined, and become mutual symbols each for the other. What constitutes success and what failure? What is or must be sacrificed to achieve our goals, and how are we to know in advance which life goals will prove worthy and enduring? All these dilemmas move beneath the surface of an engaging tale, but without detracting from its drama. Let me point out too an important word of warning that may be missed: When an adult's help and guidance of a young person, no matter how lovingly offered, crosses the line to making decisions for them without their knowledge or consent, the consequence often may be suffering for which no one would have wished.
Cinema Paradiso, is an Italian film but I was able to see a dubbed copy of it in English whereas it is originally in Italian. The film is set in Italy in the early years of cinema. It is about a young boy named Salvatore (who is nicknamed Toto) who daily goes to the theaters to watch movies. He becomes friends with the projectionist named Alfredo. The two of them bond and Alfredo teaches Salvatore about film and how to use the projector and the film shows their friendship and Salvatore's life and how he grows up and the impact film and Alfredo has had on him. Winner of the Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film at The Academy Awards; The BAFTA Award for Best Actor (Philippe Noiret, who plays Alfredo), Best Actor In A Supporting Role (Salvatore Cascio, who plays Salvatore as a child), Best Film Not In The English Language, Best Original Film Score and Best Original Screenplay at The BAFTA Awards; The Grand Prize Of The Jury for the film's director Giuseppe Tornatore at the Cannes Film Festival; The Best Film Award at The Cleveland International Film Festival; The Cesar Award for Best Poster at The Cesar Awards; The David Award for Best Music at The David di Donatello Awards; The European Film Award for Best Actor (Philippe Noiret) and The Special Prize Of The Jury for Giuseppe Tornatore at The European Film Awards; The Golden Globe Award for Best Foreign Language Film at The Golden Globe Awards; The ALFS Award for Actor Of The Year and Best Foreign Language Film Of The Year at The London Critics Circle Film Awards; The Mainichi Film Concours Award for Best Foreign Language Film at The Mainichi Film Concours; The Robert Award for Best Foreign Film at The Robert Festival and The Special Award for Best Young Actor Under Nine Appearing In A Foreign Film (Salvatore Cascio) at The Young Artist Awards. Before I start my review let me say that the version I saw of the film was the original version running at 121 minutes. A year or two ago a new version was released with extra footage that runs about 174 minutes. One of the reasons I saw Cinema Paradiso was because I always read good things about it and it is often talked and praised about on different movie sites and message boards. Another reason that I saw this film was when I was in a small independent video store once that carried a lot of foreign, independent and offbeat films. I saw this film on the shelf and on the corner there was a note from one of the workers of the store that said something like "This is the reason I opened this store". After reading many good reviews and after reading this note I decided to see the film. Cinema Paradiso has good direction, a good script, good performances from the two main actors and a good supporting cast, good original music, good cinematography, good film editing and good production design. The film is a good looking film and it is sweet and touching. The film has a nice story and nice characters that you begin to care about and you want to see how the film progresses and what happens to them. This is a film that I think people young and old will enjoy because it is a coming of age story and it will appeal to many. The film is well made and is just generally a well done feel good movie that hits all the right notes.


                
If you like a story without action or bum-bum and love nostalgic/romantic movies this is one for you. There are lot of emotional scenes with lot of humor and a little love story. The music was so fine that takes your breath away and it is well tuned to each scene. Director Giuseppe Tornatore created a nice Italian and original story about a typical cinema in the 40/50ies that was located in South Italy. The little boy and Philippe Noiret did a great job here but every actor made a solid casting. Sometimes I had some nostalgic thoughts about my own country. The rating on IMDb with actually 8.3 is okay and not overrated. There was no doubt that it won the Oscar for the best foreign movie and also for many other international awards. My vote with my wife is 7/10. Go and see it.


                
