I continue to be moved and deeply touched by this beautiful film from Italy, and I never tire of watching it. I share the lives of Toto and Alfredo, the small Sicilian boy, who loses his father in the second world war, and the older man who runs the projector at the local cinema. Toto lives in a world of make believe, movies, adventure. His dreams take him away from the small Sicilian village where he lives with his mother and sister. Alfredo becomes for him a surrogate father, and the movies, his paralell existence. It is a deceptively simple film, which sweeps you up and carries you along. You never want it to end. And, when it does end, it is with such heartbreaking simplicity, I cannot help being moved to tears. Young Salvatore Cascio is a marvel as the small Toto, a mischievous, impish, adorable child. Phillipe Noiret is unforgettable as the sly and heart-warming Alfredo. You grow up with Toto, until he becomes a famous film director in Rome, and returns to the small village after many years for Alfredo's funeral. It is the story of life, lost love, devotion, friendship, and family. It is unforgettable.


                
"Cinema Paradiso" has got to be one of the most beautiful and heartfelt films I've ever seen. The story, which is packed with raw emotion, and a beautiful bond between two characters make this film a real joy to watch and will keep you moved throughout the whole 155 minutes in which it runs for.This film follows young Salvatore (Toto), who lives in a small Italian village during the Second World War. Fatherless, he begins to form a bond with the projectionist at the local cinema, Alfredo (Philippe Noiret), a friendship in which the film revolves around.The acting in this is quite good; Philippe Noiret gives a great performance as Alfredo as do all three actors who play Salvatore. But it is not these performances that stand out, but the direction of writer-director Giuseppe Tornatore. Only 32 years of age at the date of its release, Tornatore is able to add beautiful and heartfelt emotion in every single friendship in this film, whether it be between friends, family or lovers. Alfredo and Salvatore's bond is given so much depth and sentiment, that when the smallest things happened to one of them, your heart started racing. The screenplay is able to stay true to the way this film is directed, as it equally as charming as the product which adapted it. Without Tornatore's talent and incentive, this film wouldn't have even been merely what it is.A beautifully sentimental film that brings out the best in friendship, all spearheaded by the masterclass of a ridiculously talented Giuseppe Tornatore, "Cinema Paradiso" has got to be the greatest tale of friendship ever shown on the big screen.Rating: 9.6/10Grade: A+


                
*** MINOR SPOILERS AHEAD ***This movie is about a very touching friendship between a young boy and an old man, who are both in love with "the cinema". But further the movie shows interesting insights into the "culture of "movie-watching":All the people of the village who watch the movies in their "cinema paradiso" are really moved by the films and express their feelings overtly and loud - not like today, where there has to be a very intellectual silence in the theater audience. The cinema is really part of their lives and it has a direct meaning to them - every film is a new event. Think of the priest, who calls the kissing scenes "pornography"! At first this hysterical man seems very ridiculous, but if you think of the existential meaning the moving images give to their audience, then it seems like he wants to try to defend "his" church from being occupied by a new technical god. But the film shows also, that movies have got no objective meaning unless they've got a special and unique meaning FOR YOU."Cinema Paradiso" is simply brilliant, the characters are very well portrayed and the setting is perfect. The thousands of short references to old french, italian and Hollywood movies are fun for every movie buff.
If you like movies, which know how to TELL A STORY - go and see this one, you won't be disappointed.9/10
Before watching this on DVD just now, I had not seen director/screenwriter Giuseppe Tornatore's internationally renowned hit movie - at least the 123-minute version - since its initial 1990 release in the U.S., but I remember having mixed feelings that ran the gamut between being moved by its genuine poignancy and being resentful about what I felt at the time was its shameless heartstring tugging. Nearly two decades later, as I have gotten older and closer to the adult Salvatore's age, I have softened considerably in my opinion of the film, an open-hearted tribute to cinema and its transcendent impact on people's lives. Granted it is awash in sentimentality, but with its unique combination of storytelling elements inspired in equal parts by Chaplin and Fellini, there is a burnished, nostalgic glow to the whole venture as most of it is designed as a flashback.The plot begins with Salvatore ensconced in middle age as a successful film director based in Rome. Unexpectedly, he makes plans to return to his hometown in Sicily for the first time in almost thirty years. The reason is two-fold: the funeral of Alfredo, the projectionist who first introduced Salvatore to films, and the demolition of the Cinema Paradiso theater where they showed films to the enthusiastic denizens every Saturday night. This triggers memories of Salvatore's childhood at the old theater with Alfredo and then his adolescence and young adulthood when he falls in love with a beautiful local girl named Elena. In true Romeo and Juliet fashion, he is separated from his one true love by her disapproving father, a wealthy banker, and I have to admit this is the part of the film I still find a bit predictable with Tornatore's Baroque sense of romanticism in high gear. The scenes that really have enduring impact are those between the young, energetic Salvatore, nicknamed "Toto", and the surly but lovable Alfredo. Tornatore captures the magical bond between the two, including a tragic episode that forces them to reverse their roles in the projection room.Interestingly, the 174-minute version presented on the second disc of the 2006 two-DVD set fills in the blanks about Elena's fate. The older Salvatore is reunited with Elena and finds out the truth behind their separation. While I enjoyed and appreciated the longer director's cut, I feel overall the additional scenes don't add as much dimension to the story as the nearly three-hour running time warrants. I think my preference for the heartwarming Alfredo-Toto scenes gravitate me more toward the 123-minute version presented on the first disc. The central performances are memorable with the obvious standouts being Phillipe Noiret (Il Postino) as Alfredo and cherubic Salvatore Cascio as Toto. Looking like a Neapolitan Josh Hartnett, Marco Leonardi (Like Water for Chocolate) takes over as Toto and brings youthful, hormonally-driven fervor to the role, and Agnese Nano brings the requisite dreamy quality to Elena.As the older Salvatore, Jacques Perrin (Z, The Young Girls of Rochefort) bears so little resemblance to his younger counterparts that his performance feels somewhat removed. In the longer version, his performance resonates more, especially as he shares the screen with Brigitte Fossey (Forbidden Games) as the older Elena. The famous screening room ending is in both versions - the showing of Alfredo's gift to Salvatore, a reel of film clips highlighting kissing scenes excised by the local priest - though I find just as touching the theater demolition scene with the now-aged villagers looking on in a most resigned manner. Blasco Giurato's cinematography is stunning throughout, and enough cannot be said of Ennio Morricone's memorable music score, one of cinema's most beautiful in evoking the movies aura of romantic nostalgia.Beyond the director's cut of the movie, the 2006 Limited Collector's Edition DVD has several extras of note, the best being an informative, somewhat academic commentary track from Italian film historian Millicent Marcus interspersed with periodic personal recollections from Tornatore, as well as a fifteen-minute retrospective featurette, "Exploring a Timeless Classic". Of more anecdotal interest are a four-minute short on how Baltimore's Little Italy neighborhood has embraced the film with an annual outdoor showing encouraging more than a few romances; two theatrical trailers - the original and the director's cut released in 2002; and most inconsequentially, a Food Network show with Napa chef Michael Chiarello with recipes inspired by the movie.


                
One of the greatest I've ever seen, Tornatore pulls off masterfully a movie which is technically brilliant and at the same time pulls at the viewers heartstrings! Viva La Tornatore! Grande! Later Tornatore directed MALENA, it is also a great movie, but it never reaches the greatness achieved by CINEMA PARADISO. The movie shows the diverse nature of the crowd present at a movie theater, people in all kinds of moods, as Roger Ebert said,"Romances are launched in the darkness of the theater, friendships are sealed, wine is drunk, cigarettes smoked, babies nursed, feet stomped, victories cheered, sissies whistled at..."! The movie sometimes reminds us of Fellini, especially when in the long shots someone suddenly appears in close up. Like Truffuat, Tornatore gives a special place to posters in this movie. 'This film captures the essence of a man's life, gently bringing us from childhood to middle age believably and beautifully.' There is a presence of warmth and humor in the movie, from the fainting lottery winner to the zealous censorious priest, and the madman who goes on saying, "This square is mine"! It is sometimes sad, sometimes funny, sometimes poignant but it's always warm, wonderful, and satisfying. It is one of a kind. Salvatore is present in all of us. And when Alfredo says, "Living here day by day, you think it's the center of the world. You believe nothing will ever change. Then you leave: a year, two years. When you come back, everything's changed. The thread's broken. What you came to find isn't there. What was yours is gone. You have to go away for a long time... many years... before you can come back and find your people. The land where you were born. But now, no. It's not possible. Right now you're blinder than I am." --- it applies to all of us on a universal level. And the music? It is brilliant, romantic and never fails to touch the heart, kudos to Ennio Morricone. The movie is perfect, beautiful and to describe in one word: BELLISSIMA!


                
Wonderful, emotional movie.The story of growing up, discovering what you love (with a bit of help along the way)...and not looking back. Simple yet powerful story, well told.Not perfect - a bit uneven at times. Some events are overdramatised and some scenes are less consequential than the attention given to them. Plus, the apparent moral of the story (Alfredo's philosophy) is possibly not such a great philosophy.However, you will easily forget the flaws once the movie is over. The final few scenes are incredibly moving. Filled with nostalgia and genuine sentimentality.One of the greatest movies of Italian cinema.


                
This is a lovely, sensitive film which evokes a variety of emotions, leaving the viewer with a sort of satisfied exhaustion, like after a good session of yard work. Its focus is the power of love to shape our lives over the long term. The protagonist's passion for the cinema and his youthful immersion in "first love" are intertwined, and become mutual symbols each for the other. What constitutes success and what failure? What is or must be sacrificed to achieve our goals, and how are we to know in advance which life goals will prove worthy and enduring? All these dilemmas move beneath the surface of an engaging tale, but without detracting from its drama. Let me point out too an important word of warning that may be missed: When an adult's help and guidance of a young person, no matter how lovingly offered, crosses the line to making decisions for them without their knowledge or consent, the consequence often may be suffering for which no one would have wished.


                
Pure magnifico-Bring yourself a glass of vino and small plate of antipasto while you watch this classic cine experience. You can smell the must and plaster on the italian walls of the old theater. The film is ingrained in life and laughter. The irony of life pushed onto the screen. Adolescent love of youth and the passion of the movie house to which little Salvatore adores. A must see for anyone with a passion for life and a wonderful story. 4 Kleenexes though out of 5. Ciao/


                
This movie is very passionate. its about life and how people can effect each other its very warm and joyful . in addition the soundtrack is very good


                
When I saw this film in its original release I fell completely and totally in love with it. Almost 30 years later I revisited Cinema Paradiso (I also saw the released director's cut version somewhere in between) and experienced a slightly different response to a film that I originally enjoyed unconditionally. I still enjoyed it immensely and continued to be touched by its expressions of love for the art of film, the love of love itself, community, family, and tradition. Ennio Moriccone's score still hit my ears as beautifully lyrical and melancholy as ever, only this time I noticed its indulgent overuse. I noticed many of the Italian film cliches that I somehow either didn't notice or instantly forgave in my youth. Despite noticing Tornatore's many indulgences I remain a fan of Cinema Paradiso and yes, I too find the ending scene very moving. I would like to add that I did not enjoy the longer director's version and if you're only going to see one or the other that you stick with the original US release version.


                
"Out of the fire of love come ashes." Even the greatest love eventually fizzles out. "
~ Alfredo ~
Nuovo Cinema Paradiso is the aesthetic of someone's love of Film, family, hometown and true love.So much beautiness that can not be explained only through a simple writing that contains a review, the sweetest compliment. You have to feel it yourself, an experience about following the story of a movie-loving boy from small, teenage and adult.Centered at the life of Salvatore 'Toto' Di Vita in a small village in Sicily, Italy filled with stories, ambitions, love, life struggles and self-discovery.
meaningful and for some people full of tears.
'Toto' who has no father since his father was avowed lost in the war, befriends with Alfredo the film watcher.. a person whose in charge in the screening of a movie in theaters.
Toto's ambition and love of film is what attaching this like-father-child relationship.
various events full of joys and sorrows, life lessons 'the Dad's' taught, and advices whenever 'Toto' is having a trouble makes this movie just like a family drama about Toto and Alfredo's closeness.
but not only the story about the 'Father-child' relationships, this masterpiece also includes Toto's love story to the woman who would later become his "one and only", in it. she is Elena Mendola, the 'lucky' woman.convincing act (especially from the boy who played little Toto), elegant storyline, the near perfect directing and the unrelentingly scoring accompanied my journey for 2 hours 35 minutes long without sensing any loss of a moments.This Academy Award's winner for Best Foreign Film 1990 is a special menu that should be tried at least once by a movie fans, especially by a romance drama fans.This is a beautiful film about the love of movies and life.


                
Giuseppe Tornatore's "Cinema Paradiso" is one of those perfectly carved cinematic gems, at least in terms of structure and moving storytelling. The fact that it is perhaps the best film about nostalgia doesn't hurt either.In many ways, "Cinema Paradiso" is the unpretentious cousin once removed from Federico Fellini's "8 1/2" in that a filmmaker looks back on his childhood. Only Salvatore (Jacques Perrin) isn't a man of questionable integrity trying to make "true art," but a man reuniting with the childhood he abandoned and rediscovering everything that shaped who he became.Tornatore crafts a vibrant post-war Italian village with a piazza full of an assortment of characters, at the center of which is a movie theater where young Salvatore, or "Toto" (Salvatore Cascio) fell in love with movies. The combination of authenticity and outright comedy result in an aesthetic that evokes childhood in the most universal sense, not just a childhood that those who grew up in Italy in the '40s and '50s will respond to. The characters and scenes are written like wistful memories that lock in to the nostalgia zone of our brains.The loving mentor relationship between Salvatore and Alfredo (Philippe Noiret), the movie theater projectionist, is the film's heartbeat, and it's fueled by the love of movies that Tornatore nurtures early and often. In one scene, we witness both the apex of that magic that speaks to why movies and movie theaters are so special, and also total heartache. It happens early in the film, but at that point, Tornatore has you like putty in his hands. The teenage Salvatore (Marco Leonardi) chapters get a little too caught up in a straightforward courtship narrative with town newcomer Elena (Agnese Nano), but the fairytale elements of this young love are meant to play as larger than life given the heavy nostalgia factor. It's not the most compelling element of the film, but there's such a lovable aura around "Cinema Paradiso" that the clichés go a much longer way than they would otherwise.By the time the film bounces back to adult Salvatore returning home, the fact that we know so little about Salvatore's life as an adult and filmmaker is irrelevant. We can so easily identify with "going back home" and certain feelings resurfacing that we don't even realize how invested we are in Salvatore seeing old places and people again. Tornatore then brilliantly slips in that Salvatore is a filmmaking — and a successful one at that — and it takes the couple hours that came before to a whole new level."Cinema Paradiso" is built on a foolproof storytelling model that has a timeless appeal. Tornatore demonstrates an understanding of not just personal nostalgia, but collective nostalgia, and he wields this knowledge — one of cinema's most powerful tools — as finely as any filmmaker has. As niche as a 1980's Italian film about growing up in Italy post-World War II may seem, it's this skill that makes Tornatore's person's experience seem as though it could have been any of ours. ~Steven CThanks for reading! Visit Movie Muse Reviews for more


                
I have seen this movie three times, and again tonight for the fourth. The last time I watched was at least ten years ago. I have no idea how, but it got sweeter, more poignant, and endearing since my time away. Amazing cast, coupled with direction that includes only necessary interactions, this is a keeper. This is a film for all, at any stage of life.It fully captures every part of life in a small Italian town, and shows an appreciation for every element. Thanks again for this experience. Brava Cinema Paradiso.


                
It isn't often, we as the audience are able to accompany someone in a films which not only entertains us, but often allow us to share their lives through their entire progression. This is our reward as we view a very young boy named 'ToTo' (Salvatove Di Vitoe). As he becomes enamored with early films shown in his tiny Italian Village. The Projectist is an old man who tolerates his visits. Day after day the boy not only becomes a help to the old man, but soon develops a love for films, but learns to appreciates them throughout his life. His own life is filled with love with a young beauty and events which effect his town and it's people. As these events parade through his life and his family, he never loses his life for movies. Through each event his own life takes it's toll as we see him age, while he learns the value of love and friendship, plus the price each has on him. 'Alfredo,' The old man (Philipp Noriret) Gives the boy some advice which doesn't always pan out. Still the film garners many awards from around the world. Interesting enough it is rated R and after seeing the film twice I can't see why. There is nothing in the film which promotes all the objections such as overt nudity, sex or violence. And yet, the village priest see's to it that not even Kissing is allowed to be viewed by the audience. Never the less, it wins many awards and is worth keeping as a movie. The actors have given us a view of their lives and we can't see an reason why the family shouldn't see it as well. ***


                
Cinema paradise was one of the best movies I have ever seen because in Toto I saw my self and secondly was a very touching movie that made me look back and think different things about my life.Tornatore combined humorous elements with the nostalgia for the past. The one thing that I want to complain is the character of Elena was poor acted. She is a daughter of a rich father who removed in the small town of Toto because of her father's job. I wanted to see her not only refusing Toto's love but she should act like she is ''detesting'' him . We mustn't forget that is a postwar period and then riches and poors were 2 different worlds which it was unacceptable to mix them . Elena's father didn't show the anger because her daughter fell in love with Toto.Also Tornatore didn't show how the relation between Toto and his sister and mother grows. Did Toto feel some anger for the cruel behavior of his mother? I saw only his sister at the beginning of the movie saying that he won't come again to see them even if Alfredo has died. Also I believe that Alfredo reminds the director a person who had a close contact with him and he might affect his whole career by showing the way and the choices that he should do. Alfredo was like that father that Toto wanted to have.After seeing this movie I had to asked my father if the situation was like that in my country Greece. He said me yes. Just like Spain people centering to see a movie with a humorous and relaxing mode . After their work they knew that going to cinema will have some rest there by laughing, sleepping and more. Each one of them he is trying to rest as he wants that makes tragicomic states because the children of the small town are making fun of them.Cinema paradise was a movie that responds in the requirements of reality and this makes it much better because Tornatore showing the simple things of life ( love , poorness ) created a masterpiece without displaying something excessive and extreme.


                
Certain films transcend the pages of the script and the screen and become something greater. Certain films become something that turns your eyes from just watching it play out, to experiencing the film through your entire emotional state. I guess what I mean is that Cinema Paradiso to me meant more than just another film. It made me feel unlike I ever had before. It's one of the best films for pure film buffs. Not only is it a deeply emotional experience but it's also a joy to watch.It tells the story of Toto, a famous filmmaker who looks back on his time growing up at a local movie theater and his deep bond with the theaters projectionist, Alfredo. There are plenty of great unlikely relationships in movies but none really moved me as much as Toto and Alfredo's. Even with the actor who played Alfredo having to develop chemistry with three different actors who portrayed Toto, it works. There's something to be said about that person in your life, family or not, who inspires you to become who you are and teaches you the do's and don'ts of life. Alfredo was that to Toto. As much as I loved that aspect of the movie, I was surprised to see just how well they were able to tell the history of film as well. Whether it was the film that burned, the excessive censorship, or all of the famous movie plus and references throughout, it was a masterful directing job.The film is also complimented by an all time great score and main theme. Most notably as Toto goes through his memories back at the Paradiso. A subtle romance story with Toto and Elena is also worth mentioning. It's just one of those movies that impacts you more than you think. I don't why it took me so long to actually watch the film. It's a great bittersweet story.+Father-son bond +Perfect for die-hard movie lovers +Score +Balances everything really well 9.6/10


                
A true celebration of youth and nostalgia. Aesthetically beautiful and flawless writing. Definitely not a flick for those who enjoy a fast paced storyline. The film nails every aspect of ones love for motion pictures, right down to the classic, melodramatic soundtrack. Over the course of the film, you slowly recognize that it's a coming-of-age film, wrapped in a romance that is wrapped in a complex, but stunning drama. It covers issues such as censorship, WWII, young love, following your dreams and so much more. If you're a patient film enthusiast, this film IS for you! Also, make sure you have your Kleenex somewhere nearby if you decide to stick around for the entire film!
Films like Cinema Paradiso (also known as Nuovo Cinema Paradiso) perfectly exemplify why so many of us cinephiles devour films as if it's an integral & essential part of our lives and covers the fascination, excitement & joy we experience when a fictional story unfolds itself for the next few hours in front of our eyes. And this gem from Italy is simply as nostalgic to every ardent film lover as it is to cinema itself.Paying tribute to the evolution of movies as well as movie theaters over time & parodying the existence of censorship that restricts its viewers from experiencing a movie the way it is meant to be, Cinema Paradiso is a beautifully crafted tale about love, loss, friendship & movies and recounts the childhood of a filmmaker when he fell in love with movies at his village's theater & formed a deep friendship with the theater's projectionist.Evoking genuine emotions with its heartfelt narration, directed by a passionate film lover who infused a part of his own life into its story, aided by brilliant performances from its entire cast, exquisitely photographed, elegantly edited and featuring a wonderful, soul-stirring & truly heartwarming score from legendary composer, Ennio Morricone, Cinema Paradiso is a remarkable work of pure craftsmanship from start to finish that hasn't aged a day.An absolute delight for all film lovers around the world, this cinema about cinema is a splendid reflection of how movies have & will continue to play its subtle role in influencing the smallest decision of our lives and with its expertly balanced story that promises loads of smiles with few tears along the road, viewers are sure to rediscover why they love cinema so much in the first place. A timeless masterpiece. Delightfully recommended.


                
Many of the films listed in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die have interesting and good sounding titles, including the foreign language ones, and this Italian one I was very intrigued by because it sounded like something I would love, and it was rated well by the critics. Basically, in 1980s Rome, Salvatore 'Toto' Di Vita (Jacques Perrin) is a famous and successful Italian film director. Returning home late one night, his sleepy girlfriend tells him that his mother telephoned to tell him that someone called Alfredo has died. It is obvious he has shied away from committed relationships and his family in Giancaldo, Sicily, the story flashes back thirty years to see who Alfredo was. After the Second World War, highly intelligent and mischievous six-year-old Salvatore 'Toto' Di Vita (BAFTA winning Salvatore Cascio) has a love for films. He spends most of his time going to the local movie house, Cinema Paradiso, and gets to know the projectionist Alfredo (BAFTA winning Philippe Noiret), who for a while finds his presence annoying and he gets frustrated. Slowly though Alfredo takes a shine to Toto and they form a close friendship, as the projectionist allows him to watch movies from the projection booth, and he teaches him how to load and operate the film projector because of his fascination with his work. They often hear the audience boo when sections of films are missing, especially those where characters in the movies are embracing romance with kissing. The film jumps these moments, as the scenes have been cut out, under the orders of local priest Father Adelfio (Leopoldo Trieste) who wants the films "censored", all of the scenes are piled on the projection room floor. One night one of the movies, made of the routine highly flammable Nitrate film, catches fire and causes some of the movie house to burn, Toto notices this and manages to save Alfredo's life, but consequently an explosion burned Alfredo's face and permanently blinds him. Eventually Cinema Paradiso is rebuilt by town citizen Ciccio who invests his football winnings, as the only capable hand, Toto is made projectionist. A decade passes, adolescent Salvatore 'Toto' Di Vita (Marco Leonardi) is now in high school and still a projectionist at the "Nuevo Cinema Paradiso". He still has a strong relationship with blind Alfredo, he often takes his advice about his personal life, such as being in love, and this advice is given with him quoting classic movies. Toto has started experimenting in his own filmmaking using his home movie camera, while doing this he sees and is attracted to wealthy banker's daughter Elena Mendola (Agnese Nano). He wins her heart with his charm, but her father does not approve and forces them apart, and when her family is moving away at the same time it is compulsory that Toto serves in military service. While there he tries to communicate with Elena with letters, but they are returned undeliverable, when he eventually returns Alfredo is urging him to leave Giancaldo permanently with no explanation. He says he wants him to achieve his dreams for filmmaking, the town is not big enough, and if he does pursue his ambition he should go and never return, and never write. Back in the present, Salvatore is desperate to return to Giancaldo for the funeral of his friend, he finds that the town has changed a lot, and he finds out why he was told to leave. Salvatore is told by Alfredo's widow that he followed his film directing career with high interest and pride, his dying gifts to his friend are an unlabelled reel of film and the stool that he operated the projector on. The sad news is that the Cinema Paradiso is being demolished to make way for parking spaces, many of the people in the village gather to watch as the building comes down, many of whom Toto recognises. The end of the film sees Salvatore return home to Rome, he takes the reel of film he was given by Alfredo to a cinema, as it plays he discovers it is every romantic scene cut (including The Gold Rush and His Girl Friday) by the priest, put together in a special montage, in floods of happy tears Salvatore has made peace with his past. Also starring Pupella Maggio as old Maria Di Vita, Antonella Attili as young Maria Di Vita, Isa Danieli as Anna, Enzo Cannavale as Spaccafico, Nicola Di Pinto as Village Idiot, Roberta Lena as Lia and Nino Terzo as Peppino's Father. Noiret gives a really nice performance as the initially grumpy but then absolutely lovable projectionist who is an inspiration to his young friend, and the supporting cast members all do their parts well also, especially Cascio as the child filmmaker that grows up to achieve this ambition. The story is easy to follow, the characters are lovable, the plot lines inside and outside the cinema are interesting and fun, if you are a big fan of watching films, this picture really expresses the magic of escaping the everyday world and entering the spirit of movie going, it is a most enjoyable drama. It won the Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film, it won the BAFTA for Best Film not in the English Language, Best Original Film Score for Ennio Morricone and Andrea Morricone and Best Original Screenplay, and it was nominated for Best Cinematography, Best Costume Design, Best Direction for Giuseppe Tornatore, Best Editing, Best Make Up Artist and Best Production Design, and it won the Golden Globe for Best Foreign Language Film. Very good!
some movies leave you speechless. others leave you paralyzed with their stunning brilliance, originality, sensitivity, depth of characterization, the story. this is one of the latter few. what an experience. got even better in my second viewing. Tornatore is in the form of his life here as he tells the deeply moving tale of a movie obsessed kid and his relationship with the projectionist of the local theater. the quirks of the characters are captured perfectly. nothing more can be said about this except this that it is as close to perfection that a movie can get. 4.5 out of 5 for this enduring classic.


                
I first saw Cinema Paradiso in about 1995. I loved it. It was beautiful. The story, visuals, and score were like poetry on film. I watched it several times after and have always enjoyed the humor and the wonderfully scripted characters. Unfortunately, I recently had to view the Director's cut. If you have never seen this beautiful film, avoid the Director's cut at all costs. If you have seen this movie and loved it, do not ruin the experience by watching the bloated Director's cut version with, not only unnecessary story elements, but whole new story lines that ruin the appeal of the original and make the main character less sympathetic.


                
I have heard of "Cinema Paradiso" for so long, but ironically I have not seen it yet. I am glad I finally got a chance to watch this Giuseppe Tornatore masterpiece on DVD.The story starts in the present time with Salvatore "Toto" Di Vita, an acclaimed film director, receiving news that a certain Alfredo has passed away. From there, the movie goes into flashback mode, and recounts Salvatore's life as a child and a teenager, and the lasting influence his surrogate father Alfredo had in his life.The first part of the flashback takes us back to Giancaldo in Sicily, and recounts how young Toto was so entranced with the movies being shown in the local movie house, the Cinema Paradiso. He constantly hung around Alfredo's (played by Phillip Noiret) projection room. Eventually, when Alfredo gets disabled in an accident, the child Toto took over the projectionist job.The second part of the flashback recounts the teenage Salvatore (played by Marco Leonardi) still doing his film projectionist job, while beginning his fledgling career as a movie maker. A lengthy part was devoted to his ill-fated obsession with the beautiful Elena. This unsuccessful love affair makes Salvatore take Alfredo's advice to leave Giancaldo and make something out of his life.In this Director's Cut DVD that I watched, another subplot was restored, which was cut out in the international release that won the Oscar Best Foreign Film back in 1988. This involved the older Salvatore (Jacques Perrin) going back to Giancaldo for Alfredo's funeral, and getting the chance to reunite the older Elena. This afforded a further revelation that gives another bittersweet dimension to the influence of Alfredo in Salvatore's life.Despite the 170-minute running time of the Director's Cut and the subtitles, Cinema Paradiso is indeed a modern classic that must be seem by everyone who loves the movies. The cinematography is lush and breathtaking. The Ennio Morricone score is very romantic, haunting and memorable. And the ending that shares with us the gift bequeathed by Alfredo to Salvatore after his death is very touching yet glorious at the same time.
i love this movie.. i seem to blubber each time i watch it. i used to watch it with my grandfather as a kid and many times with him growing up. i never really understood the meaning of it but as I grew older things began to make sense slowly. my grandpa passed away 3 years ago so when i see it now, it hits home. at 21, i guess i now seem to understand the irony and metaphors of the movie. what Alfredo said about leaving home and going back, nothing ever stays the same. people leave, grow, and overall things change. and its so true. we loose our innocence as a child and encounter so many trials as an adult. we don't see things as simple or gracious as we used to. time waits for no one yet all you want to do is pause these moments and take a step back to appreciate them. life is hard and it seems to get harder


                
I'm happy to know this one has made it into the top 100 or so of the IMDb list.When it was first released, I hesitated to see it in the cinema. (Too much buzz, as they say now.)  Then, when I did, I was moved left and right all the way through. At the end, I recognized 'Platinum Blonde' and I couldn't believe it!This film is what cinema is all about: our own memory connecting to the memory of a filmmaker - but this film takes this idea one step further.  I own the VHS version and I have watched the last clip many times with such joy. (I haven't seen the new version.  Maybe I will, but I suspect I'll still feel the same.)


                
I think this movie could truly touch any movie-lover. It is a story of a film director reminiscing on his years growing up, his involvement with movies, the theater, and one particular mentor and friend. Even if it isn't in your native language, the story was sentimental and holds something that everyone can directly relate to, whether you are from a different time period, background, culture, or country. It covers events like the changing of the times, first love, family hardships, friendships, and moving on with your life to bigger and better things. I think this is one of the most well made movies I have ever seen. The acting was incredible (especially the youngest version of our main character), the story charming, the music complementary, and the homage to the world of cinema was astounding. This is simply a wonderfully-made moving story.


                
