This must be my favorite movie of all times. Having seen it for the first time,in I guess 1987,a BBC Christmas broadcast,I was captivated by this brilliant piece of work. In the years after,I probably have seen it a "million" times,owning it on VHS and DVD,and still watching,whenever it is broadcast,in the original language. Why is it so great? This is a movie that keeps you locked to the screen,because it has everything a great movie should have. A great story,a good length,tension,it is a WW2 movie and the actors give top performances.Not just Steve McQueen,although his performance is brilliant,but also James Garner,James Coburn,Richard Attenborough,Charles Bronson and in this film,one of the greatest roles Donald Pleasance,playing the forger. It isn't historically accurate,please read the book by Paul Brickhill,but that doesn't matter a bit. This film gives you an image of POW camp,the prisoners and their guards,the Germans are also played brilliantly by German actors. I will not repeat the story here,but I can tell you,this film will capture you,all the characters are portrayed brilliantly by the actors. There is excitement,humor,tension,drama and emotion. See it,you will not regret it.


                
The Great Escape is a classic war movie with plenty happening in it. It just so happens that it is my all time favourite having seen it 60 times since it first was released. Steve McQueen , as Hilts, was the driving force behind this movie. He seemed to tie everything together between the American and British prisoners especially in the scene where they were celebrating the 4th of July with the drums and good ole fashioned American moonshine. The Great Escape contains one of the most famous movie scenes of all times when McQueen has half of the German army chasing after him while riding his motorcycle trying to jump the barb wire fence to get to Switzerland. All in all, The Great Escape had a cast of actors that was so strong that it was a wonder they got this movie made in the first place with all of the egos involved. James Garner, Charles Bronson, Angus Lennie, James Coburn, etc.were absolutely awesome.


                
The Great Escape tells the amazing story of a whole bunch of allied prisoners who accomplish a mass breakout during World War II, some of whom actually did make it to freedom and the allied armed forces once again. The film is so good that you do not mind the fact that some American players were tossed into the story as the real story was one accomplished by the British.To insure that the American movie public would be buying tickets, several American players got into The Great Escape. Charles Bronson, James Coburn, and a pair of American TV cowboys just breaking into big screen star status, James Garner and Steve McQueen were put in the film. Director John Sturges had worked with McQueen, Coburn, and Bronson in his last film The Magnificent Seven. Sturges does a grand job in never letting his audiences attention flag for one minute in this almost three hour length film.What the Nazis have done in this film is to build a brand new prison camp and have put all the perennial escape artists in this one. Of course by doing so a whole lot of talented escape artists in one place.And the organized effort is led by Richard Attenborough. Without going overboard into a whole lot of flag waving, Sturges and Attenborough give us the portrayal of a deeply patriotic man who if he can't back into the fight himself, is going to do what he can from a POW camp to bedevil the people making war on his country. He leads the mass escape attempt with an almost corporate efficiency.The opposite of course is Steve McQueen. I've always thought of Captain Virgil Hills as the ultimate Steve McQueen role of individualism. He and flight officer Angus Lennie are going to get out, no matter what, on their own or with the group. Angus Lennie is the former jockey now RAF flight officer and his death amidst a Fourth of July party that McQueen, Garner, and Jud Taylor have is one of the most moving scenes ever put on film. McQueen decides to play for the team after that.The Great Escape allowed McQueen to indulge in one of his hobbies of motorcycling. His race through the German country side on a stolen Nazi uniform and motorcycle is a spectacular one, aided and abetted by Elmer Bernstein's magnificent film score.James Garner bonds with Donald Pleasance in the film. Garner is an American in the RAF Eagle Squadron, Americans who couldn't wait for their own country to get into the war who enlisted in the RAF. A lot of Garner's TV character of Bret Maverick is in his role as Hendley the scrounger/con artist. Pleasance is his room mate, the shy bird watcher who does the work of forging documents for the escaping prisoners. He's going blind as it turns out, my guess would be from untreated glaucoma. It's nice to see Donald Pleasance for once as a nice guy on the screen. His death due in part to his incipient blindness is also a moving one.Charles Bronson is also another foreign volunteer for the RAF, from Poland as befitting Bronson who is of Polish origin. He's the tunnel digger who suffers from claustrophobia and his scenes are primarily with British teen idol John Leyton. This was another of a long series of great character roles for Bronson on his way to stardom.James Coburn shows that like Robert Mitchum, he too had a good ear for accents. His Aussie speech pattern is as good as Mitchum's was in The Sundowners.The Germans here are also portrayed three dimensionally. Robert Graf is the not too bright corporal who isn't exactly happy to be at war, but is grateful he ain't serving in Russia. He gets unmercifully conned by Garner. Hannes Messemer is the commandant of the POW camp, an officer in the Luftwaffe. The prisoners are nearly all RAF officers and enlisted men and the Luftwaffe is in charge of the camp. Messemer is as fearful of the S.S. and the Gestapo as his prisoners are. He's also as very conscious of the atrocities those worthy organizations are capable of and my favorite scene in the film is him having to tell of one to the Senior British officer in the camp, James Donald. Messemer is conscious also of his failure to watch the basket of rotten eggs put in his charge very closely.The Great Escape does the one essential thing for a movie to do, it moves. Even in just the scenes of planning and preparation you are aware of movement. I mentioned Elmer Bernstein's film score. It's one of Bernstein's best, maybe one of the best known of any film in cinema history. The Great Escape is one of those films you can watch dozens of times and never tire of. It's a wonderful film, a real tribute to the best in mankind under some of the worst circumstances.
The Great Escape is THE prison escape movie. The film is rich with characters and the direction by John Sturges is great. Steve McQueen is the man and the rest of the cast are terrific. This movie is heroic and shows the bravery of men in the second world war. I escape into this movie whenever I feel really down, it's a great spirit lifter and one of the greatest films of all time.


                
"Wait a minute, you aren't seriously suggesting that if I get thru the wire and case everything out there, and don't get picked up, to turn myself in and get thrown in the cooler for a couple of months so you can get the information you need"Smart, witty and directed with adroit hands by John Sturges, The Great Escape is standing the test of time as a joyous multi cast family favourite. Based on the real accounts of allied soldiers escaping en mass from a German POW camp back in 1942, the film is involving from start to finish, due in the main to the wonderful array of characters on show. We follow them from the moment they arrive at the camp right thru to the stunning climax, and it is with great joy I say that none of the cast lets the side down, they all do great work for the astute and undervalued Sturges. A number of great set pieces allied with Elmer Bernstein's fabulous score never lets the blood settle, and in amongst the cute slices of humour is palpable tension to make this simply one of the best films of it's type, in fact one of the best films ever.Sturges and his writers, James Clavell & W.R. Burnett, adapt from the book written by Paul Brickhill, someone who speaks from experience having been one of the prisoners of super POW camp Stalag Luft III, which of course is what The Great Escape is born from. Sturges was fascinated by the story and after trying without fail for over a decade to get it onto the screen, he finally succeeded. The success three years earlier of his star ensemble Western, The Magnificent Seven, enabled Sturges to realise his vision, the result of which is still enthralling new generations with each passing year.The cast is made up of notable thespians and iconic heroes. Steve McQueen (enticing the American audience in one feels), Richard Attenborough, Charles Bronson, James Donald, Donald Pleasance, James Coburn, James Garner, David McCallum, John Leyton and Gordon Jackson. Which of course is a pretty tidy roll call, but it shouldn't be understated the input of Hannes Messemer as the Camp Commandant, Colonel Von Luger. His scenes have a humanistic quality that shows a softer side of Germany to the one ruled by a certain despot (the finale here offering up the counter opposite of the war), the writers smartly, and rightly, not tarring a nation with the same old brush.A wonderful involving movie that puts characteristic heart in bed with its action and suspense laden plot. 10/10


                
I saw this movie for the first time as a nine year old boy on a big screen in the Bronx.  I'm now in my 40's.  I have seen it many times since but not on the big screen. It was meant for the big screen!  It's on my top five list along with The Sand Pebbles. It's a great movie about hope and freedom and man's responsibility to his fellow man.  These men are all near saints; James Garner insisting on Donald Plesence making the escape, Charles Bronson fighting his claustrophobia. Steve McQueen is the star among the stars, not merely because of his motorcycle skills but for  his attempt to save a life and for bringing  the game of "off the wall" to the masses.  :-)


                
The Great Escape should be a movie every one has seen.  It's the definitive P.O.W. movie -- and all other films in the genre fail to compare.  It should be noted that this isn't just a Steve McQueen movie (although he is bound to be everyone's favorite character), but this is an ensemble piece with great performances by Richard Attenborough, James Garner, James Coburn, Donald Pleasence, and Charles Bronson.  Wonderful build-up, great middle, and a terrific ending.  This film is classic.  One of the best scores of all time.


                
POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!Exciting, funny, tragic, with a massive cast who all perform brilliantly, providing many memorable moments, The Great Escape as everyone knows tells the story of the attempted escape of allied troops from German imprisonment. The characters are all well drawn, both Allies and Nazis, and each has a distinct personality, though McQueen's stands out. Even though only a few escape this is still a story of hope to rival The Shawshank Redemption. Memorable scenes are obvious: Steve's biking, Pleasance's tragic end, the celebrations which end in death, the 'get out and stretch your legs' scene, and the train station scene. With beautiful cinematography and a rousing score, this is a favourite for many people-it's shown here every Christmas. Interesting in that this is one of the few films i can think of which has no female character of note. 9 out of 10
I imagine it was the lengthy running time that kept me for so many years from seeing The Great Escape, although that doesn't explain why I haven't seen hordes of other movies. But I've been going back and watching all the old classics and The Great Escape is one of the best ones I've seen so far. The movie is not only wildly entertaining throughout it's nearly three hour duration, but shows some actors who went on to become famous for other roles in decades and generations to come. Granted, I am speaking from the perspective of a different generation of moviegoers, which is why I know Charles Bronson more from Death Wish than this film, or James Coburn from films like Payback and Affliction, Donald Pleasance as Dr. Sam Loomis and Richard Attenborough as John Hammond from the Jurassic Park films.I think the thing I loved the most about the movie was how open everyone was about their plans to escape. Not that they tried to escape out in the open, but they made no effort to hide the fact that they were analyzing their surroundings, trying to find a way to get out. As we soon learn, it is their sworn duty as captured officers to consistently try to escape and, failing that, to make life as confusing and frustrating as humanly possible for their captors. The story involves a lot of British officers being held captive by the Germans, at a prison where all of the most consistent escapers have been compiled for special supervision. When the prisoners arrive at the beginning of the movie, many of them, including Virgil Hilts (Steve McQueen) walk into the gates and then immediately walk to the fences around the outsides of the compound, looking up and down the length of the fences, studying where the guard towers are, looking in broad daylight for ways to escape.What follows is a brilliant competition between the proud British officers being held captive and the Germans guarding them, as the British make every attempt to escape and receive minimal punishment when they're caught. 20 days in the cooler for a failed escape attempt (doubled from only 10 for mouthing off) is pretty light compared to what I would have expected POWs to have suffered at the hands of the Nazis in World War II.Because the escapes are only hidden during their preparations, there are portions of The Great Escape that play almost like a sports movie more than a war film, because of the atmosphere of competition and, among other things, there is so much comic relief, One of my favorite scenes is the one where they first begin digging under the floor in their bunker. Danny Velinski (Bronson) is under the floor digging away when the Germans march in for a surprise inspection, and he jumps out, they put the cover back on the hole and smear clay around it and then pour water into it, one guy starts mopping the floor, everyone else goes back to playing cards or milling about, and Velinski hops in the shower, and the suspicious officers come in and demand to know what they're each doing. The guy mopping explains that he's mopping, Velinski says he needed a wash, and Louis Sedgwick (Coburn), says about Velinski, "I'm watching him. I'm a lifeguard!"It's also a great scene when Hilts (McQueen) tells Bartlett (Attenborough) and the other officer his plan for escape. Steve McQueen is the star of the movie but spends most of it pretty much out of the loop. He was in the cooler when the plans for the great escape were first hatched, so when he finally got out most of the camp was involved in planning this epic breakout, and Hilts comes up to Bartlett and one other officer and gleefully tells them about his and Ives' nutty plan to burrow three feet down and dig straight out, sticking metal tubes through the ground to the surface so they can breathe. Bartlett and the other officer leave both of them out of the plans for the time being, for reasons that are explained later in the film.The movie is expertly written, with outstanding dialogue and even better performances and direction that I like to think is still inspiring filmmakers throughout the world. I learned from another reviewer on the IMDb that the music is almost competing within itself, with different instruments representing the British and the Germans, so I was watching for it when I watched the movie. Not only is the different music representative of the two opposing sides, but it does it within scenes and even within individual shots. Consider, for example, the scene where Hilts and Ives are first brought into the cooler. The music is almost reacting to what is going on on screen, like it's trying to describe where each character is within the frame. That is true film-making brilliance. The movie ends with a massive setback, a tremendous downturn in tone, but does so without turning into a tragedy or overshadowing everything else that has gone on before that and, most importantly, while remaining true to the real life story. It displays the pride and determination of British military as well as was done in The Bridge on the River Kwai, and that is a major accomplishment. Bravo.
The Germans open their new POW camp and send the invites to every British and American escape artist out there. So while waiting for their garden to reap a harvest, they all decide to tunnel out of the place. The tunnel is discovered, but they still have two other ones they're working on so they continue on, even though there are the problems of the forger losing his sight, and one of the tunnel diggers being claustrophobic. They dig out but find themselves 30 feet short of the forest they were going to escape into and the Germans pick up their trail. 3 POW's make it out, 23 are captured and returned to the camp and the remaining 50 are executed. Based on a true story ( with some factual errors, and influenced by Jean Renoir's 1937 film, Grand Illusion ), this film moves very quickly with an adventureous pace and well acted roles, particularly Steve McQueen as the American motorcycling hotshot, Richard Attenbourough as the escape team head, and James Garner as the scrounger. Rating 10 out of 10.
I checked this out from the library video stacks. It had Steve McQueen in it, so I figured what the heck? To my surprise this is a great movie. What a cast! Richard Attenborough, Donald Pleasence, Steve McQueen,James Coburn,James Garner, Charles Brosan and David Mccallum. Most of these guys before they got famous as well. One could spent hours creating spy and western connections between the cast. The movie builds up suspense well. You really want them to escape from that camp. Unlike most war movies, this movie actually injects some humor into it.(the moonshine scene a good example)The European scenery is beautiful. It's quite heart wrenching with the escapees get killed or sent back to camp. I'm really glad Hollywood didn't sugar coat it with a happy ending. It would have destroyed the drama. But there's two things that bother me about this movie.1. James Coburn's aussie accent. Auuggghhhh!2. They make the POW camp seem almost like summer camp.They even study birds for pete's sake. At girl scout camp we had cabins that looked almost identical to the ones in the film. In fact some of the camps I went to looked amazingly like the POW camp in this movie. Hmmmmm I wonder. Anyway they make it seem like a POW camp isn't really that horrible a place to be.Overall a few flaws, but a movie that is deserving of 'classic' status.
This movie could easily make my top 15 of all time.  From what I have read, it was QUITE realistic.  Several of the British officers that were actually there went to the site in Germany when it was filmed.  When something was wrong, they spoke up and got it fixed. (This has been on the History Channel several times.) There were almost no Americans, if any, at the time of escape.  They had been moved to another camp only a couple of weeks prior to the escape. Many of the prime characters were based on actual people, most notably Attenborough. I also read the book (about 30 years ago) in high school pm which the movie was based.  They had photos the Germans took of the tunnels. The movie was incredibly accurate. The tracks, the air pumps, lights, etc. It isn't the movie that was amazing, it was what the prisoners did. As far as how the prisoners were treated, for the most part, relatively well.  The death rate in a German POW camp was about 1-2%.  In a Japanese prison camp, about 35% of the Allied prisoners died, due to murder, torture, disease, starvation, etc.  The Luftwaffe, headed by Fatso Goering, guarded Allied airman because Goering had a weird sense of camaraderie with fellow flyers.  The Gestapo or SS are the ones who shot the 50 prisoners.  These war criminals were later faced war crimes trials. This is one hell of a movie. But find the book yourself.


                
This is, in my opinion, the greatest film ever made! Made in 1963, this true story begins with the arrival of Allied P.O.W.'s to Stalag Luft III. They are told that there will be no escapes from this camp by the German officers, but they have made one mistake. They have literally, put all known escapees together 'in one basket' and they set about to do what they do best - ESCAPE! The scenes throughout the film are thrilling, especially the chase scene with Steve McQueen at the end of the film.Miss it at your peril.


                
Most people have never watched or even heard of this movie, but for those of you that have, lets all just sit back in silence for a few moments on how great it was.Alright now that thats done, I can review this. I only watched this very recently but even still after 55 years, it still holds up with its story and acting. The acting in this movie is fantastic. For the most part, the actors put as much emotion into the characters as possible, and it shows evident in how this film turned out. Even though it is based on real life events, it still is a masterpiece of cinema all the same. Steve McQueen's character is cocky and likable, while Richard Attenborough's character is stern and smart. Overall, this is a lovable classic of traditional storytelling.


                
Based on veracious events, the movie has all elements of being a masterpiece. This could not be called to be a tedious artwork despite a gargantuan running time of almost 3 hours. Instead, the movie captures the imagination of the viewers, perhaps due to the ingenuity being shown by the director in the making of it.


                
Back in 1963, a war film arrived on the silver screen which set the standard for all dramas which followed. True there were other great war films such as The War Lover and Twelve O'Clock High, but none of them became the launching point for so many of Hollywood's great screen stars. Paul Brickhill wrote the original true story upon which this film is based on. Furthermore, with Elmer Berstein's rousing musical score, this movie then becomes nothing short of genuine classic. The saga of "The Great Escape" is wound around the actual war time experiences of American and British Airmen, who'd been captured and sent to what the German High Command called 'An Escape proof' prisoner of War Camp. Upon seeing the assortment of Hollywood elite, one can not expect anything but great drama and action adventure from the entire cast. Steve McQueen, who plays Capt. Virgil Hilts, "The Cooler King" leads an all star line up which consists of James Garner as Hendley "The Scrounger", Richard Attenborough as Squadron Leader Roger Bartlett, James Donald as Group Capt. Ramsey "The Senior British Officer", Charles Bronson is memorable as Danny Velinski "The Tunnel King", Donald Pleasence as Blythe, James Coburn as Louis Sedgwick, David McCallum as Ashley-Pitt and Gordon Jackson as MacDonald. They are imprisoned and guarded by Germany's elite guards, commanded by Col. Von Luger (Hannes Messemer) who has been personally selected for the task. Since it's inception, this film has garnered a commanding cult following. It's status is notable as the vehicle which literally propels McQueen up into his stardom. *****


                
One of the all-time great films, "The Great Escape" is simply flawless and unforgettable. A legendary cast -- Steve McQueen, Charles Bronson, James Garner and Richard Attenborough among them -- stars as a stubborn group of Second World War POWs who aren't content to wait out the end of battle. So they secretly dig a tunnel to take them beyond their prison camp's borders. Yet that's only one component of the escape plan, which also requires forged documents, civilian clothing, and tons of luck -- all of which they managed to scrounge up against incredible odds.A brilliant blend of character study, suspense and humor, "The Great Escape" is more than a film; it's an experience. It will have you rooting on the heroes and holding your breath. It will captivate and move you. "The Great Escape" represents everything that's magnificent about motion pictures. It doesn't skip a beat more than four decades after its release, and it's suitable for all ages.


                
Who hasn't been caught whistling the theme song from The Great Escape? I know I have. It's one of the many great qualities to the movie. Along with the catchy song, there is a gripping plot, a great cast, and everything put together makes for one memorable movie.Our story starts as new POW's, American and British, enter a new Nazi POW camp. The new "campers" include Roger Bartlett (Sir Richard Attenborough) or the "Big X", Bob Hendley (James Garner) "The Scrounger", and of course Virgil Hilts (Steve McQueen) "The Cooler". Along with others like Charles Bronson, James Coburn, and Donald Pleasance, a group of about 250 men are determined to escape this Nazi hell hole.An intricate system of signals and distractions keep the goons off of their backs. The plan is to tunnel out of the camp into the nearby wooded area. From their they will disguise themselves are German citizens and make their way back to their respective countries. This will require clothing, paperwork, acting, and other supplies needed to blend in and look normal to a German Officer outside of the camp.This true story of how soldier's tried to outsmart the German's is one that is fascinating and amusing. The little things like hiding supplies, the tunnels, and the immense amount of dirt is incredible and quite ingenious. Imagine trying to tunnel deep enough underground so no one knows what you're doing and keeping it undercover. Not to mention sneaking 250 people out at once. It's quite a challenge.This war drama is one of the best of it's era and genre of all time. What sets this movie apart from the rest is a riveting story added with some Hollywood magic to bring it back to life. Although some parts of the movie are stretched from the truth, it still tells a true story in an entertaining fashion.Director John Sturges does the story of the "Great Escape" a lot of justice, showing it to a wide variety of people. The Great Escape is timeless!


                
The Great Escape is the best movie ever made. It's been so well put together, and i've heard that it's so close to the truth- that any closer and it would be classed as a documentary. The line up of actors who star in this movie are amazing. Firstly, Steve McQueen, who is in my opinion the finest actor to have ever walked the earth. (Just remember, any movie that stars Steve McQueen is a must see.) Although the entire cast were outstanding, Steve made the movie for me. He took a leaf out of his own past and brought it into the character (Captain Hilts), making the audience automatically feel a connection with Hilts. Richard Attenborough, James Garner, James Donald, Charles Bronson, James Coburn, Donald Pleasence, to name a few made the movie what it is-an unforgettable classic. For anybody who has not yet seen this movie- where have you been all these years. I'm only 18, the movie was made years before i was born and yet (living the world we have now) i find this 60s classic at the top of my list. Watch it, pay attention, it's amazing!


                
Apart from the fact that it was a unique and great adventure epic, The Great Escape made important contributions to the career of a number of American and British male stars and would-be stars.   This was due in part to director/producer John Sturges' particular intuition for the choice of actors and to effective, well-balanced characterizations which served as vehicles to several their players.  Interestingly, none of the film's performers were big stars at the time and only McQueen, Garner and Attenbourough were well-known leading men.  Primarily, the movie of course launched Steve McQueen to major stardom, only a few years after Sturges' The Magnificent Seven established the actor's lone hero persona on the big screen.  McQueen stands out as a daring and cynical individualist, who appears unmoved and downright impertinent when being thrown in and out of the prison camp's cooler, and culminates in a classic motorcycle chase. But in a somewhat less glamorous manner, James Garner arguably gives a superior performance as the "scrounger", the prisoner gathering most of the essential materials of the escape through his wit, relaxed charm and resourcefulness. McQueen's admittedly impressive characterization sometimes comes a bit too close to parody and spectacular heroics, in the end lacking some credibility.  Garner, on the other hand, manages a more subtle, understated humour, not distracting from the seriousness of his work and the stakes involved in the escape.  Meanwhile, Richard Attenborough is also excellent as the mastermind of the escape, forcefully portraying a man convinced of his mission and ready to make sacrifices and ruthless decisions to achieve it.  From the rest of the cast, Charles Bronson probably stands out most, projecting strength and determination as the head of the tunnel diggers, while towards the end, effectively conveying a vulnerable, tortured side of his character (even though the fact that the "Tunnel King" turns out to be a closet claustrophobic stretches credibility somewhat).  Donald Pleasance gives some outstanding pieces of acting when his character gradually turns blind before the escape.  The evolution of his friendship with Garner provides an interesting plot and character development, as Pleasance's traditional British ways and habits contrasts amusingly with Garner's easy-going and open American style.  James Donald also does very well as the senior British officer, providing thoughtful, sensitive and self-effacing leadership.  The other protagonists do not have sufficient screen time to make their characters more than moderately interesting, but  James Coburn shines as a brash Australian who ends up escaping on a stolen bicycle, David McCallum has some brief but noticeable moments, particularly when disguised as a German civilian during his escape, and Gordon Jackson gives some bright support to Attenbourough, providing a human touch to balance the excessive seriousness of the latter's character.  The attention spent to the fate and personality traits of all these characters, enliven by the engaging and usually flawless acting of the players, had much to do in creating and maintaining the interest of The Great Escape, making it a lot more than a big and exciting action film.  For McQueen, Garner, Attenborough, Bronson, Coburn, Pleasance and McCallum, The Great Escape represents some of the finest moments in their long illustrious careers.


                
THE GREAT ESCAPE is the type of movie that I wud say is timeless because its subject matter is just something thats never going to die or get old. Its a golden classic. I saw this movie so many times n still doesn't get burn out. The acting and character development is outstanding and is something that is hardly seen today. The direction is top notch. Each character is extremely well-developed. The director takes extra care to make sure we understand each of their roles and motivation. One of the best ensemble casts I've ever seen. James Coburn, Charles Bronson, Steve McQueen, James Garner, James Donald, Donald Pleasence, Richard Attenborough, David McCallum, John Leyton, Gordon Jackson.... and the list goes on.  Almost 3 hours long n you can barely find a dull moment, which is fantastic, the movie is pretty fast paced all the way through. It is a well written story that holds your interest all the way through. The music score by Elmer Bernstein is among one of the greatest and most recognizable that you are ever going to hear and the cinematography from Daniel L. Fapp is equally impressive. The editing is done by Ferris Webster. The actual escape is filled with suspense, and the last hour of the movie we see them on the run, by plane, train, on foot, and in McQueens case, by motorcycle. By this time, we are rooting for each character as they all try to make it out of Germany. With Richard Attenborough as the leader and Steve McQueen as the unforgettable Cooler King. Its directed by John Sturges ( Bad Day at Black Rock, The Magnificent Seven, Joe Kidd).
This movie has everything.  Action, adventure, comedy, drama...  Okay, maybe not everything:  there are no women, so romance is out. I could never get tired of this film.  It's one of those movies where you don't even notice the 3 hour running time, you are so wrapped up in the adventure.


                
I gave this film a 9 out of 10. The only reason I didn't give it a 10 is because it tells one lie. No Americans actually participated in the escape.It is a historical fact that the escape was originally to be made by the Americans, but their tunnel, Tom, was discovered by German camp guards just a few days before the scheduled break. The movie shows how Tom was busted, but unfortunately does not reveal that it was the American tunnel. The second tunnel, Dick, was used instead, but that particular tunnel originated in a British barracks; therefore all the escapees were in fact British soldiers.Other than that, the rest of the details were unusually accurate, given the fact that Hollywood is not well known for sticking with facts. The Great Escape is an excellent chronology of a group of brave men attempting a nearly-impossible task with an amazing degree of success.The actual escape belongs on the list of greatest human efforts in history, and the movie belongs on the list of greatest films ever made.


                
This is one of the greatest movies of all time! Based on true story of real events by Paul Brickhill, with a great cast. This particular movie is a family favorite which brings my teenage daughter out from her room and may inspire and stir you too.The story of allied POWs with a knack and desire to escape - these escape artists have all been placed in one basket, Stalag Luft 3 - so the Germans can watch that one basket closely. The Stalag commander does not see the soldiers attempts to escape as "a matter of levity." Steve McQueen, James Garner, James Coburn, Charles Bronson, and Richard Attenborough are part of an all-star cast which tell the story of captured allied soldiers. Along with the all-star cast, great directing, a fantastic musical score, and great writing combine to make this a favorite for many. The editing in The Great Escape is excellent, smooth, natural and unobtrusive. One of the major scenes which communicates this excellently is the motorcycle chase scene where Steve McQueen appears to jump the barbed wire barricades. McQueen did complete many of the motorcycle scenes, riding through the hills of Germany, he even did many of shots where he dressed in a German uniform and appeared to be the soldiers. McQueen was actually an avid motorcyclist, appearing in the documentary On Any Sunday and would race in local races under the name Harvey Mushman.Sound has frequent rich wood, leather, and wool, and tin metal sound effects added during movements that give a sense of being surrounded by dirty wood floors and cheap metal. The music score transitions, coupled with wise-cracking personalities, add to the character development and sense of understanding what's happening and about to happen. This movie is even parodied by the animated movie "Chicken Run," where chickens try to escape by digging a tunnel away from their chicken farm and Germany has a similar story based on true events that are told in the film "The One That Got Away," by Roy Baker about a German pilot shot down in England. Stories about intestinal fortitude and insurmountable odds never get old. This is a film I can watch every year and never get tired of watching - this is not movie propaganda! You read it.
I think this is the movie I've seen more than 20 times in my life and I'm not tired because I want to see it again and again.
The first time was when I was a kid and my father told me you have to see it and I thanks him for that.
It is based on a true story wich makes it more emotional and sensitive.
I definitely, recomend this movie to everyone. In my opinion, one of the best of the history.


                
