Spoilers herein.Films are like people in the respect that some are leaders but most followers. That's because most movies are not about life, but about previous movies. This film established not only a genre (I chose to resee it after `Chicken Run') but played a role in inventing a society. I'm of the belief that culture invents some art that in turn reinvents the culture. More about that in a minute.What's so special about this is that it places the American rebel (with his motorcycle) in mainstream American society. Before, the beatnik or `bohemian' was unamerican, nonmainstream. This film invents memories of the war for the generation after the war -- it takes an essentially British story and uses it as background to establish a new vision of the American rebel. This rebel is centrally American, heroic even. Independent of sex.There are four forces in this film. The evil Gestapo (with the majority of Germans, but the film glosses that); the two forces of the British and German Air Force stuck in a duel of gallantry from a prior generation; and then the McQueen force. All at once, we have the cockiness and independence of Brando and Dean transformed into a patriotic center, into something directed, seemingly casually, against intrinsic evil.I saw an advance screening of this in most peculiar circumstances. I was a cadet in a midwestern military academy whose commandant was the senior American officer at the POW camp during the planning of the escape. (Americans were moved shortly before, and the reason is an interesting story in itself.) We 850 mostly sons of republicans mostly hawks, all white were given a vision of necessary disturbance, of a strange patriot that we couldn't internalize. Only a couple months later JFK was murdered. The Cooler King was one key image we used with our brethren nationwide to reinvent ourselves. Check it out. This contributed to a national identity that actually lived for a while. Never plan to win, just make your own statement.Attenborough knows something about manipulating the British image for American consumption. His `Ghandi' is a masterpiece of posture. Talent. Sturges' camera is quiet, still, non-modern, so that you lose awareness that this is a film. This stance is dated -- wouldn't work today, and makes things feel as of a different era. Attenborough's camera sweeps (see his short episode -- the Indian sequence -- in `Close Encounters.') Attenborough's acting style here (indeed his role too) mirrors that. It is a fulcrum of everything, a subliminal sweep under Sturges' stillness.Check out the score by Bernstein. If you take out just a little of the march tempo, you have Williams' copy for Indiana Jones. Indy echoed the tone for a by that time narcissistic notion of rebellion: mystical forces of evil accommodated by selfish acquisition and pathetic self-deprecation -- the Reagan American. Williams intended to quote Bernstein  to make this point, I think.If you haven't seen it yet, look for the Cooler guard. His hesitation at the end is priceless, indicating that every soul is malleable. It is why the film wasn't made for eight years, bombed when it came out, but is now in the IMDB top 100.
Although I still like this film - and proudly own it on disc - I have to admit it was a disappointment seeing it after a long period of time had elapsed between viewings. When I saw this in the theater in 1963, I thought it was spectacular. Later, when it came out on VHS, I thought thought it was good but the longer the years go by, the slower this film gets and it doesn't have the hold on me it once did. Part of that is that movies are faster- moving nowadays.It just takes too long (two hours!) before the "great escape" finally takes place! I loved the last 50 minutes. That, still, was fascinating as much as it ever was, even though it's never been a happy one. It's still good stuff.The first two hours of this 172-minute movie turn out to be more of characterizations that anything else, although it details what went into making the escape from this German prison camp possible. Some of that is interesting, such as Chales Bronson's claustrophobia and Donald Pleasance's eyesight deterioration, etc.With stars like Steve McQueen, James Garner, James Coburn, Richard Attenborough, Bronson, Pleasance and James Donald you will get some characters you'll remember for a long time: especially, I found, McQueen's and Bronson's.Now that it is out on a special two-disc DVD which gives it a decent picture (there was an earlier DVD that wasn't much better than the VHS) and some features, it should climb back up the ladder on my rating of it. Regardless, this will always be considered on the best of the World War II movies.


                
This is a splendid film about a daring breakout from inescapable Nazi concentration camp , Stalag Luft North , with all star cast and magnificently realized by John Sturges . It's partially based on facts adapted by James Clavell and W.R. Burnett from a bestselling written by Paul Brickhill . The continuous escapes have caused the Nazi staff ordered 'putting all the rotten eggs in one basket' as the prisoners are reunited into a special concentration camp . It deals with hard preparatives of a diverse group formed by rebel air officers and soldiers mounting a dangerous getaway from a barbed-wired and strongly controlled camp . The most part of the film concerns on the elaborated process of secretly digging an underground tunnel and the last one deals with spectacular breakout and effort the approx. 70 escaped prisoners throughout Germany trying to make their bid to freedom , including an impressive motorcycle pursuit in charge of iconic Steve McQueen for one of the best action sequences in years .This exciting story contains thrills, intrigue, tension, excitement galore, entertainment and lots of fun . Suspenseful WWII epic packs exceptional plethora of prestigious actors incarnating the motley group of POWs , giving good acting and support , as a sensational Steve McQueen whose character , ¨The Cooler King¨ , remains today as attractive iconography ; Charles Bronson as digging expert but suffering claustrophobia ; Donald Pleasance as professional on forge documents but blind , James Coburn as roguish Australian and of course Richard Attenborough as Air Force Squadron leader who plans the massive breakout , furthermore , James Garner as American officer , the British Gordon Jackson and David McCallum, among others . Colorful, atmospheric cinematography shot in Bavaria,Germany, by Daniel Fapp and perfectly remastered . Excellent production design and art direction with evocative sets by Fernando Carrere. Rousing and lively soundtrack , nowadays a classic score, by Elmer Bernstein . This blockbuster is followed by inferior TV sequel with Christopher Reeve, Judd Hirsch , Ian McShane and directed Jud Taylor who played to Goff in the original version . The motion picture is magnificently directed By John Sturges , author of various classic Western as ¨Escape from Fort Bravo, Gunfight at the OK Corral, The law and Jake Wade, Magnificent seven¨ and also realized another nice wartime film as ¨ The eagle has landed ¨ . Rating : Two thumbs up , essential and indispensable watching , a real must see.


                
The Great EscapeSturges's nail biting escape from the war, is a symphony that soars among all the best outcome that the genre has given us. Sturges means business in here, from the first frame till the curtain drops. He doesn't have any time to go waste by, he cares for the quality offered to the viewers. And the standard is kept persistent. The story called for your usual supporting characters with allotted characteristics that keeps the viewers tangled onto them. But this is no fiction, each characters might be given a signature name, but they are more to what they seem and Sturges proves that in nearly three hours that feels like seconds passing by.The primary strength of the feature is how the makers fiddle with the geography, environment and the set pieces that every now and then elevates the momentum as the gripping screenplay enfolds onto the screen. The narration is gripping and adoptive with a fascinating structure that builds up the base with equal sincerity and mannerism. It relies a lot upon the physical sequences and yet it never grows dull for it is brimmed with tiny notions and tactics that are pure delights. McQueen stands out from the first act and still he remains of the similar palpable tone like the rest of his cast.Garner gets a much stronger parallel role but Bronson's few compelling sequences steals the show. The cunning ways to cheat their way out and the surveillance team still figuring out their tricks, these sew saw are the best bits of the feature and they are in plethora of it; it is thoroughly entertaining. Armed with such a sharp adaptation, Sturges's execution is plausible and is worth every drop of the sweat that went into it. The Great Escape confronts the reality with a language that was clearly ahead of its time.


                
More or less guaranteed to be shown during holiday afternoons this is based on a true story. During WW2 the germans create a prison where they house all the most notorious escapees. It's a plan that is either ingenious, if they can keep everyone in, or stupid, if everyone escapes. As we all know from the movie it turns out to be an idea of the stupid variety.It's very interesting to watch the documentaries on the escape and discussions on whether it was worth it. The german officer that killed the escapees was following orders and was eventually executed himself after the war which is also a very interesting moral question. Should he have disobeyed the orders and been shot and did he deserve to die for obeying the orders.Anyway back to the film and it seems hard to believe that anybody could have not seen this. The Steve McQueen bike ride has gone into cinema folklore. The main purpose of the escape is to cause as much trouble as possible to the germans and thereby aide the allies. A great film, but also a sad story.


                
SPOILERS In Britain today, there are films in the mainstream which are considered iconic. Often due to a sense of pride (Michael Caine in "The Italian Job" for example), these films remind us of our heritage. One such film is "The Great Escape". Containing some of the finest American and British actors of their generation, this film captured the spirit of patriotism from the Second World War and would adorn the walls of teenagers for years.In a German Prisoner Of War Camp, escape is in the minds of all the captives. Led by Squadron Leader Roger Bartlett (Sir Richard Attenborough), plans are underway to dig a tunnel through to the outside. Now the likes of Attenborough, James Garner, Charles Bronson, James Coburn and Steve McQueen will dig for their freedom.Led by McQueen and Attenborough, the cast of this film smacks of talent. There is no way to get past how good some of the performances are. Sir Attenborough in particular plays the role to perfection as a man with a mission and the lives of so many men in his hands.This film also contains one of the most famous soundtracks ever known. A tune which would be used by England Football Fans years later, it inspires patriotism the instant it begins.It's very difficult to explain what makes "The Great Escape" so good. Whilst overlong towards the end, it never ceases to entertain and it remains satisfying and enjoyable throughout. Despite the fact that Steve McQueen somehow manages to possess a leading headline, the film remains predominantly British, and it remains a joy to watch.
This is as entertaining as a POW film can be. It is primary a lighthearted film, though it does have its serious moments. The characters are all very colorful. They are not overly stereotyped since this film helped to created the stereotypes. I enjoy that facts the prisoners get to work on escape before their feet hit ground. It is the thing that prisoners must do. The actors are all very good. Steve McQueen is my favorite--not because he is the best actor, but because he is so cool. Nobody makes riding a bike into a barbed wire fence more imitable than he. James Garner is perfect as the "Scrounger". I like the scenes where he is working on the German soldier. I really enjoy all the scenes where we get to see the soldiers working, and all the creative ways in which they get the job done. Though this doesn't have the psychological complexity of "Bridge on the River Kwai", it is one of my favorite war movies.
'The Great Escape' is a film based on a true story about Allied prisoners of war at a German camp who have a plan to tunnel an escape. Filled with great characters who each play a part in the scheme, great music, and plenty of adventure, this film gets the adrenaline rising. It's a thoroughly good film, and I highly recommend that everyone see it at least once in their life. (With each viewing, I think it is appreciated more.) It's easy to get caught up in the action and to see where the plot takes the characters, and this film is a legend of prisoner of war films. You see references to it everywhere. I highly recommend 'The Great Escape'.


                
The Great Escape is definitely one of my favorite movies. I remember seeing it at the drive-in when I was about 6. My parents always brought me a blanket so I could sleep in the back seat, but I stayed up for this one. The cast is excellent, with many memorable characters. Steve McQueen is at his peak, along with James Garner and Richard Attenborough. Based on a true story, a group of POWs from many allied nations plan a daring tunnel escape from a German camp. We see them plan, prepare, and dig the tunnels (3) as they elude detection from their captors. I have only one issue; the conditions of the camp are presented as a little too pristine, not dirty or squalid as in other POW movies like Stalag 17 or Von Ryan's Express. The prisoners here are always well fed and well groomed, with cleaned and pressed uniforms. But that can be overlooked because overall, the movie is excellent. The actual escape is filled with suspense, and the last hour of the movie we see them on the run, by plane, train, on foot, and in McQueen's case, by motorcycle. By this time, we are rooting for each character as they all try to make it out of Germany. All in all, a WW2 epic.


                
This is an interesting and true story and like so many of the epics in the early 60's, has a great cast.  Probably Steve McQueen's best film work. Most viewer's will find it worth the 2 hours and 50 plus minutes you spend with the flick.  Recommended for all, I rated this an 8.


                
Always got a kick out of McQueen leading the escapees from the tunnel while trying to stay inconspicuous in those khakis! But then, as his character says, the escape hole was opened short of the woods.
Oh, whatever. This is great 'they don't make them like that anymore' film. What a cast!
What a soundtrack! I still get goosebumps watching McQueen on that motorcycle fleeing the Germans- and the music that accompanies
that whole scene.
Still enjoying a true classic in 2018!


                
The great escape
Six-hundred American and English officers worked together for a year to plan and execute the escape of a nazi prisoners'camp in 1944, the biggest ever attempted in militar history. This great picture tells that real history with a great cast of actors as the instigators of the escape: the main British organizer is Richard Attenborough; the expert on tinnels is Charles Bronson; the role of especialist in forging documents belongs to Donald Pleasence; the one in charge of the supplies is played by James Garner and finally, the guy who comes up with the brilliant ideas is for Steve Mcqueen. Bases on a real story, The Great Escape is a masterwork by director John Sturges (The magnificient seven), the scripwriters James Clavell and W.R. Burnett, and the composer, Elmer Bernstein, whose score adjusts like a glove to the film's ever increasing tension.So much for the summary of the movie. Let's get stuck into it, shall we?. It's one of those adventures films like Master and Comander and The Treasure Island that somehow take place inside a concentration camp in Germany. Steve Mcqueen stands out above the rest of the characters because of his almost poetic determination to get out as well as his heroe-like attitude. His stunts (I'd like to believe he did them himself) with the motorcycle towards the end of the picture blew my mind away, making me to jump off my seat and shout out loud: you're gonna make it! Eventually he doesn't. That's not the point though: the point is he managed to prove, to keep up hope when there was none!
I'm not a fan of watching old movies but the first time I saw this, I only caught the last 20 mins. It looked interesting enough and the next time it was on, I made a point of watching the entire thing and what a great movie this was. They don't make them like this anymore. This is a great story of survival. A group of POW's try to escape from a camp in Germany by building an underground tunnel opening just outside of the wooded area on the other side of the fence.As if the story wasn't good enough, this is one of the best ensemble casts I've ever seen. James Coburn, Charles Bronson, Steve McQueen, James Garner...and the list goes on. Not just a great ensemble cast but one full of actors that can really act. Interesting in the story is the respect shared by the German general and guards and the POW's.This is a great classic and a must watch for movie fans, even for those of us who weren't conceived when this was made.8/10


                
Considering that i am quite young (born 1985) i usually dislike these older movies even though they have great rating and comments etc, but somehow this has changed my opinion, actually i think it was quite good, well, actually very good and very enjoyable, i think this may be because it is not dependant on special effects at all, it's a straight out movie without any computer reliable stuff, which makes for a movie where i dont fint myself thinking "Damn that doesnt look to cool", which is nice.The movie itself is very entertaining, throughout almost 3 hours you can barely find a dull moment, which is fantastic, the movie is pretty fast paced all the way through, and it's enjoyable to see each character develop their personality and together as they work towards their goal. It is a well written story that holds your interest all the way through, and the acting is pretty nice too, something i usually dislike about older movies as well, but it works well here.Now one thing i can put thumps up to is the slightly untraditional ending, after they escaped rather early in the movie i had myself thinking how they would waste the final hour now, but they actually manage to throw in a few surprise, now without giving up the ending i must admit i think it was good that it didn't follow the typical happy ending where all slips away and lives happily ever after, the loss of some important characters combined with the survival of others makes for a nearly perfect ending, that is, as said, slighly untraditional. Also that is far more realistic than the typical Hollywood endings.8/10


                
Young children will know it as Chicken Run, while older folk (like myself, at the ripe old age of 14) know it as The Great Escape, the classic POW escape film from 1963 with Steve McQueen and James Garner. With its familiar score by Elmer Bernstein, The Great Escape puts us into a German POW camp and we go along with everybody to try to escape in this three hour film.The smorgasbord of characters include Hilts, the `Cooler King' (McQueen), who spends much of his time in isolation, Hendley, the `Scrounger' (Garner), who can get anything he wants, and Danny, the `Tunnel King' (Charles Bronson). During WWII, these people are sent to the POW camp, and decide to escape by digging three tunnels under the camp, nicknamed Tom, Dick, and Harry. If one fails, then they move onto the next. Two hours are spent on this, and the third is spent on what happens to those who escape.Wait a minute! Did I just give away the ending? No, because of two reasons. One is the title: The Great Escape. It isn't called The Great Attempt to Escape. Also, the opening titles say how this is a true story, et cetera, so you know what basically happens. That doesn't mean, however, that it isn't a thrilling and enthralling piece of work. I wasn't exactly on the edge of my seat for the entire piece, but the 2 hours and 52 minutes flew by, and I didn't want to leave the film. I was engaged with everything this picture brought me: an interesting ensemble of characters (alas, like all ensemble movies like this, it's hard to keep track of EVERY character), an interesting and authentic (and I mean AUTHENTIC) set, and a certain air of unpredictability. I knew what was going to happen for some of it, but what happened overall and to each individual, I had no idea.There were some very good action scenes, also. Hilts, after he escapes, is evading German officers on a motorbike (possibly the most famous sequence of the film). He did most of the stunts himself. There was never a dull moment. The set looked very authentic, and it was shot on location. Although it's obvious how they shot it, it really looked like a tunnel under a POW camp. To sum everything up, The Great Escape is a very entertaining, three-hour classic that won't disappoint you.My rating: 8/10Not Rated


                
A fascinating account of a massive escape by Allied prisoners of war from a German prison camp during World War II. The audience is drawn into the story right from the beginning, as we learn that all the "rotten eggs" the Germans have captured (the prisoners who have made repeated escape attempts) are being moved together into one prison. Question: how will they manage to pull this off when, given the kind of prisoners they are, the Germans must be watching every move?Great performances, especially from Richard Attenborough as Bartlett ("Big X") who is in charge of the escape attempt, Steve McQueen as Hilts, who continually draws the wrath of his captors and is repeatedly sentenced to the cooler, and James Garner as Hendley, who scrounges the needed materials any way he can. The movie featured an interesting performance from Charles Bronson as the Polish prisoner Danny. I never quite understood Danny. He spent days on end underground helping to dig the tunnel, then was afraid to escape through it because he was claustrophobic? Did I miss something here? That one didn't make sense to me.The only fault I really found with the movie was the portrayal of life in a German prison camp. The whole thing just seemed too comfortable. I found it difficult to believe that the Nazis treated their prisoners as well as seemed to be the case here. True, the movie does infer that the camp Kommandant - Von Luger, played by Hannes Messemer - was not exactly a fanatical Nazi. I enjoyed the scene where the Gestapo and SS officers who visited him had to drag a rather half-hearted "Heil Hitler" from him. Still, conditions in this camp just seemed too good - almost a "Hogan's Heroes" vision of life in a German POW camp. That aside, this was an excellent movie, and I would give it an 8/10.


                
Many allied officers plan a high scale escape from a prisoner camp. Seventy-six succeeds, but some are recaptured or murdered. This movie is a great action movie: the outstanding direction, cast and story are fantastic. `Chicken Run' seems to be inspired in this movie. Further, `The Shawshank Redemption', in my humble opinion, used the idea of hiding the debris of excavation in the clothes like in this film. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil): `Fugindo do Inferno' (`Escaping From Hell')
World War Two rages on and in the occupied Poland a new prison camp has been built. A camp unlike anything that has been seen before. A camp to house all the worst jailbreakers the war has seen. But when such a group of clever and resourceful men are put together, what else can they do but attempt to escape.The film is based on true events, a true camp, and while there are some historical mishaps - not to mention outright tampering - it's still for the most part a rather accurate portrayal. The biggest change to the narrative is the addition of a couple of American prisoners, while in real life almost all of the prisoners were citizens of the Commonwealth. Quite honestly I didn't let it bother me.There's a lot of characters, but the film is of such quality that you learn all of their names and characters almost instantly. Perhaps the first few minutes you'll be a bit lost and then it's like you've known these men all your life. It helps that they all have their assigned, individual roles to help in the escape. There are forgers, scavengers, lookouts, misleaders, diggers and of course Richard Attenborough's Roger Bartlett as the Big X, the leader of the whole thing.The film has a lot of charm and is an excellent example of its genre. Especially because for once the film doesn't have to explain why we should root for the jailbreaker. Prisoners in a Nazi prison are automatically sympathetic.If I have a problem with the film, it would have to be with the final act. Without giving away too much, the film is based on true events and it sticks to those events. I can't blame it for that and it would have been an insult to change the events, but a part of me still wishes that the happy-go-lucky charm of the first acts could have been preserved.Oh well, such is life. And it's still a great film. Well worth a watch.


                
I'm getting around to viewing films I might have seen only once many years ago and usually upon their original theatrical release, so today I had the opportunity to take a look at "The Great Escape". It's funny how you recollect some things from a movie and not others. Virtually everyone can recall the thrilling motorcycle chase by Steve McQueen's character, while for some reason I distinctly remember the manner in which the POW's got rid of the dirt from the tunnels. On the flip side, I had to be reminded of the potato vodka scene ('no smoking while you're drinking!'), and Hendley (James Garner) snookering Werner (Robert Graf) out of his wallet.The thought that struck me today was how sanitized the movie appears to be compared to what real conditions must have been like, even in an elite camp for captured Air Force and RAF officers. Though I can grant that officers of the German Luftwaffe might have harbored a professional respect for fellow fliers, it seems that a character like Captain Hilts (McQueen) probably should have worn out his welcome after only a single escape attempt. But it's a true story, so somewhere between the reality of the actual event and poetic license used in the film there lies a fascinating tale.McQueen of course is exceptional in his role, as are Richard Attenborough, Charles Bronson and Donald Pleasence. Garner is top billed with McQueen and Attenborough in the opening credits, though his role seems underplayed compared to the other two, while James Coburn seems to achieve more visibility after the escape. The film offers an interesting convention with it's assortment of vignettes featuring each of the main characters in relation to one another.While watching, one might need to bring a grittier sense of reality to the proceedings than offered on screen, as the grim prospect of tunneling fifty tons of dirt never seems to weigh on events as they unfold. There's also the lack of perspective in regards to the time it took for the escape to occur, even though the video sleeve stated that six hundred British and American Air Force men took over a year to plan and execute the largest ever mass escape in history in March of 1944. A follow up to what happened to the successful escapees would have been a nice touch as well.
Just saw this for the first time last night after hearing so many good things about it over the years. My initial impression was that this is so far from what you think of when you think German POW camp that it bordered on the absurd. But then I heard that indeed the Luftwaffe ran the camp and their camps were much more humane than the Concentration Camps that have received much more attention.The suspense of the movie is great and I loved the fact that it did not have a "Hollywood ending". Nevertheless, several details point to the obvious fact that this movie was a Hollywood product and that it was from a period before realism and authenticity became necessary to win over audiences. In summary, my objections are: 1. The POW's looked very well fed, clean-shaved and illness free throughout. I can understand that this was not Auschwitz, but come on! 2. A remarkable number of German officers spoke excellent English. Perhaps this was needed to keep the story moving along, but it was completely ridiculous.3. Similarly, many of the prisoners, once they are on the run, show a command of German that seems hard to believe. As anyone knows, most people can spot a foreigner the second they open their mouth to speak because of their accent. Yet Bartlett passes for German with no difficulty at all.These may seem like minor quibbles, but they are indicative of an age when audiences were perhaps less cynical and Hollywood could get away with a lot more.All in all, a great movie, but a dated one.


                
It's interesting to read all of the rave reviews this movie gets. "Best war movie ever" and so forth. I admit its good, and an excellent example of the Hollywood movie making machine in full epic mode, but it's hardly the best war movie ever made. In fact, its not really a war movie at all. Its a jail breakout movie. It is more similar to movies like "escape from Alcatraz", "the hot rock" and "heat" and "the Italian job" than it is to Saving Private Ryan or full metal jacket.It's also interesting how the focus of the hype for the movie focuses on Steve McQueen, when in fact, if anyone owns this movie, its James Garner. He displays the best range, is on the screen longer than anyone else and his role displays all of the ambiguities that were involved in the POW situation. Plus, cool for cool, he gives Steve a run for his money. McQueen on the other hand spends most of his time throwing a baseball and giving his trademark ambiguous smile and waiting to ride his motorcycle.The rest of cast is a perfect bit of type casting, starting with Bronson, through Coburn and the rest. A pity Mr. Coburn wasn't given more to work with, but then, I've always liked him. Donald Pleasance makes the movie real.As for Richard Attenborough, am I the only one cheering for the Germans against him by the end of the film? Maybe its just because he inflicted the world with the movie "Gandhi" but I find the man to be a supercilious twit. But again, that's kind of what his role called for.As for the rest of the film, all very competently done, sets are good (although interiors look a little like cardboard at times) and someone could have dressed the Germans better. They all look like they bought off the rack uniforms without getting them altered. The theme music was as unmistakable as the pink panther or a spaghetti western, you can whistle it after the movie ends.Lastly, and this was sort of inadvertent, watching this movie with so many great stars in their youthful prime, one is left with a sense of wistfulness now that most are dead and the remainder are a bunch of old men. Just like the real POWS.


                
After my great disappointment over Apocalypse Now, I was not very enthusiastic to watch this movie. But after watching this movie, it has turned out to be one of the greatest movies I have seen about the war. It is very humorous and entertaining. the movie tells the story of some allied prisoners of war trapped in a POW camp in Germany during world warII. The prisoners eager to escape, devised a brilliant plan which I can not really explain here. All I can say is that this movie would keep you glued to your seat till the end. It's a must see movie for any movie lover.


                
The first half of the movie "The Great Escape", namely the build-up for the escape, is slow and overlong. Also, some scenes lack credibility in the sense that the Germans are too nice to the allied prisoners. The second half, that is to say, the escape process, is much more taut, realistic and breathtaking. The plot is beyond the expectation of the audience, which makes perhaps the greatest prison break film of all time.


                
The Great Escape has all the elements needed for a great Hollywood film, but it falls short of perfection.  The acting, direction, photography, and especially the music are all compelling, but the script comes up short.  It is very difficult to believe that prisoners of war would constantly be so cavalier about everything.  The film creates a bunch of fun but ultimately trivial characters that inhabit an all-too-unreal prison camp.  While they cover slightly different ground, Grand Illusion and Stalag 17 both are superior films for presenting a more balanced view of prison life.  In spite of the poor script and silly characterizations, the film does have many merits.  The European locations are wonderful and look fantastic.  The score is riveting.  And the cast provides an informative glimpse into Hollywood, 1963.  This is one of the last great studio action films.  Soon, films that some of the stars of this film are in, like Bullit and Death Wish, would replace the WWII film as the action/adventure standard.  The world was moving forward, away from the patriotism and myth that surrounded the second war.  The great legacy of this film is that it provides one last look back into that lost world and shows why it was so compelling to Americans.  Soon after the film's release, JFK would be dead and Vietnam would be reality. The Great Escape could not have been made in 1969.


                
As far as war films go, "The Great Escape" doesn't rank in the most dramatic or the most eye-opening. It doesn't even make the list of World War II epics with the most compelling characters. It's a movie with that intangible "it" factor that only comes from an impressive story. Films such as this one that are based on true events and real-life people (many of whom were acted by people with similar war experience), are the reason so many "based on a true story" movies have been made over the years. "The Great Escape" will have its skeptics because director John Sturges' approach to the film emphasizes suspense ahead of character development, which usually characterizes fiction. With a background in westerns, Sturges knows how to build up to and then milk the climactic scenes. The reason the final hour with the prisoners escaping is so good is because it took nearly two hours to get there. It certainly didn't help the film's credibility to have Steve McQueen demanding to "do more" in the film and insist on riding a motorcycle, but many remember "The Great Escape" for this reason.The true elements of the story come from an actual escape attempt by Allied POWs from a German stalag. Paul Brickhill, who wrote the book upon which the film is based, actually assisted in planning a tunneling effort. That should put to rest any questions about the film's validity. Undoubtedly characters were created by mashing together multiple real-life persons and their fates did not match exactly what happened to them in reality (who could know?), but this was no cheap Hollywood attempt to exploit a terrific true story. After all, the ending is certainly more akin to a war drama than entertaining historical fiction.Sturges calls upon many of the stars from "The Magnificent Seven" (released three years before this one) to assist him in this film: Steve McQueen as the leader figure notorious for getting in trouble and ending up in "the cooler" or isolation, Charles Bronson as Danny the lead tunneler who ironically is claustrophobic and James Coburn as Louis "The Manufacturer." Other notable stars are acclaimed actor/director Richard Attenborough, future James Bond villain Donald Pleasence and James Garner. What their characters lack in depth written into the script, these fine actors inject back into their roles as best they can."The Great Escape" takes a bit too long to get to the climax so clearly spelled out by the title, but the wait is worth it. The first hour and a half to two hours plays out as a series of episodes showing the preparations and the characters behind them, some more effective than others, but the movie earns its place in war film history with the final act. As these characters flee the prison, you start to realize how much you do indeed care about what happens to them. There's so much suspense inherent in the story and written into the script that a dramatically adept director could've made "The Great Escape" a monumental film, but thrilling and unique are acceptable adjectives when all is said and done, even if they could have been arrived at a tad bit quicker. After all, much of what there is to marvel at this film about has to do with its fascinatingly true story.~Steven Chttp://moviemusereviews.com


                
