During World War Two the Germans build a new prison camp, Stalag Luft III, for the express purpose of housing many of their most troublesome captured Allied airmen. However, all this serves to do is to pool the resources of some of the most ingenious escape artists in captivity and fill them with a resolve to engineer a mass breakout from the camp.   Based largely on real events, this film has assumed classic status over the years and its easy to understand why. Quite simply, it excells in many departments. Director John Sturges was at the height of his creative powers and he keeps a firm grip on the proceedings. Although the film runs close to three hours it never feels sluggish, while at the same time winding up the tension gradually and developing the characters. The production design is first rate, to the point where Donald Pleasance (who had been a P.O.W.) felt quite intimidated by the vast set on his arrival. Daniel Fapp's beautiful photography shows this and the picturesque German locations off to full effect. Put these virtues together with a good script, inspired casting and a classic score by Elmer Bernstein, and you have an object lesson in how to create an intelligent and exciting big budget adventure film.   On the subject of the cast; Much is made of Steve McQueen's role. While I am a huge McQueen fan, I feel that some of the other performances are equal to, if not better than his. Richard Attenborough, James Garner, Donald Pleasance, Charles Bronson and Gordon Jackson are all excellent. Good too are James Coburn, James Donald, David McCallum and Hannes Messemer as the sympathetic Commandant.   This is one of those films that I can happily watch time and time again. In September of this year a new print was screened at the NFT in London as part of an 'Attenborough at 80' season. It was a pleasure to see this on the big screen at last. For the most part the print was in very good condition. The DVD was one of the first that I ever bought some three and a half years ago, and I watched its inevitable Christmas screening on BBC2 last night. I just never tire of it. In these days of brainless, poorly executed action fodder, its a joy to behold something that hits its targets so precisely.


                
'The Great Escape' had the advantage of a fine source, and a fine script... Each actor realizes his potential in a very detailed manner, giving a feeling lost in the actual cinema...Sturges is careful with the pace in the first half, allowing the escape plans develop slowly... Humor, excitement and human drama are wonderfully blended, and smartly underscored by Elmer Bernstein's memorable background music... The film opens with several truckloads of Allied officers, mostly pilots, being transferred to a new German maximum-security prison camp at Sagan... The Camp 'Kommandant', Von Luger (Hannes Messemer), tells Captain Ramsey (James Donald), 'We have, in effect, put all our rotten eggs in one basket, and we intend to watch this basket carefully.'But since all the British and American officers in his charge are men who have made several attempts to escape from other prison camps, Von Luger knows his words are meaningless... The master planner is 'Big X,' Roger Bartlett (Richard Attenborough), who has just endured three months of Gestapo/SS torture, and plans to strike back, getting as many men as possible out of the camp, in order to 'harass, confuse and confound the enemy' behind the lines...He announces a terrific plan for a mass break-out of 250 men and schemes three simultaneous tunnels Tom, Dick, and Harry... The plan, so precise, proceeds in an orderly fashion, with a great deal of attention placed on caution and ruse to deflect German attentions... The captives involve themselves in much surface activity, which masks the underground work... Hilts (Steve McQuenn), the 'Cooler King,' leads the Germans on a memorable motorcycle chase through back roads and across the fields right up to the Swiss frontier...Hendley (James Garner), the 'Scrounger' is a charming thief whose particular gift is the misappropriation of all the required supplies for an escape...Blythe (Donald Pleasance) has the talents of a 'Forger', and makes visas and passports... He suggests in one scene: ' Tea without milk is so uncivilized.'Danny Velinski (Charles Bronson) is the experienced Polish-American 'Tunnel-King.' Louis Sedgwick (James Coburn) is the 'Manufacturer' of bellows-operated ventilation...Ashley-Pitt (David McCallum) is the 'Dispersal' with his ingenious methods of getting rid of the dirt generated by the tunneling activities... Andy McDonald (Gordon Jackson ) is 'Intelligence,' the officer who develops a fantastic security system to protect the compounds from the German "Ferrets." Archibald Ives (Angus Lennie) is the 'Mole,' whose fragile mind has been taxed by several years in the camps, repeated failed escape attempts, and time in the cooler...Dennis Cavendish (Nigel Stock) is the 'Surveyor' who miscalculates the distance to the trees...Guard Werner (Robert Graf) is the 'Ferret' who affirms to Hendley: 'I could tell you stories about my teeth that would make your hair stand on end.' 'The Great Escape' is a pretty good motion picture where the toll of freedom is precious, and the movie's ending provokes deep and serious meditation... It graphically shows what enterprising men can accomplish under the most unusual circumstances... It has a great cast, and is beautifully made...
There are few adventure stories as great as this. The movie never flags - it uses its wonderfully large cast to perfect effect - everyone will have his favorite characters - the colors, the music, the sense of a wonderful adventure is just magnetic.It is interesting to think of how VERY different this movie could have been in different screenwriters and directors' hands. It is easy to imagine a very dark movie about an escape plan for 250 spoiled so that it involved only 76, and of the 76, 60 massacred and only a very few escaping - a story of frustration, of man's hopes destroyed, of the darkness of life. It would be interesting to see such a version - perhaps something like The Piano or Schindler's List.Instead somehow, the movie makes the viewer feel GREAT - vibrant, happy, enthusiastic, excited! It's remarkable that this story could be made to do this - I think much is due to the energy of a large group working with such dedication and teamwork, much is due to the wonderful music, much is due to the very attractiveness of the actors themselves.For me, there is something terribly appealing about the David McCallum character, Ashley-Pitt - his sacrifice to save the leader (and thus the entire operation), his looks, his manner. And something very touching about the Garner-Pleasance characters operating in tandem. Attenborough is himself properly subdued, authoritative, commanding - and Jackson is an excellent sidekick.I've always liked James Donald very much in everything - particularly as the conscience of The Bridge on the river Kwai - he's in the same form here.If you have heard the term, the "Anglosphere" in recent years, one can see a vivid illustration of it here - the Australian-American-English-Scottish team working perfectly - with the same sense of values to be pursued and preserved, the same sense of humor, dedication.This is just wonderful for anyone - but perhaps particularly for men since there aren't any women in it at all!


                
THE GREAT ESCAPE is a history adventure drama which describes, in a commercial way, an escape from a German stalag during World War II. The film is based on Paul Brickhill's 1950 book of the same name.In 1943, the Germans have moved all the prisoners of war, who are prone to running away, to a new high-security prisoner of war camp. Their commandant points out the various features of the new camp designed to prevent escape, as well as the advantages that the prisoners will receive as incentive not to try. After several failed attempts on the first day, the prisoners settle into life at the camp. Meanwhile, Gestapo agents bring the infamous "Big X" in the camp. He is introduced as the principal escape organizer. His attempt to escape will be punished by death. However, he, with the support of other escape artists, who are detained in the camp, plans the greatest escape ever attempted, with tunnels to break out 250 prisoners...The story is exciting and tense, with a lot of charm and humor. Unfortunately, it is stuck somewhere between fiction and truth. The characters are based on real men. However, the commercialization of this film, which can not credibly to follow historical facts, has made some damage. The protagonists are defiant, arrogant, disobedient, surprisingly resourceful and entertaining. Well, that is a successful Hollywood trick. The point has remained obscure. The tragic epilogue ends with a smile on the face of one of the rebels. Characterization is very good, given the large number of actors. There is no depth, but it is somewhat expected. Their expression has an amplitude only in a few scenes.Steve McQueen as Capt. Virgil Hilts, the "Cooler King" is a rebellious and persistent character. He is a subtle link between the two hostile sides. A baseball and glove are too excessive segments. However, his performance is very good. James Garner as Flt. Lt. Robert Hendley, the "Scrounger" is a creative and mysterious character. The credibility of his character is quite impaired, in a maximum-security prison, regardless of an apparent change in the second part of the film. Richard Attenborough as Sqn. Ldr. Roger Bartlett, "Big X" is, maybe, too quiet for a notorious prisoner or a great leader. He's a brain of their operation, in which the other participants have a greater role than him. However, he is their balance. Charles Bronson as Flt. Lt. Danny Velinski, the "Tunnel King", is an irreplaceable base of their operation. A melodrama of his character is a little exaggerated in climatic moments. Donald Pleasence as Flt. Lt. Colin Blythe, the "Forger" has offered the best performance of all the actors in this film. His humorous character becomes his personal tragedy and despair from which is born a strange friendship. James Coburn as Fg. Off. Louis Sedgwick, the "Manufacturer" is a man who finds himself in the right place at the right time. James Donald as Gp. Capt. Ramsey, the Senior British Officer (SBO) is a serious and calm captain who has a broad perception of the events around him.There is no strong emotions, everything is mechanically aligned.However, I enjoyed it.


                
Steve McQueen, James Garner, Richard Attonbourgh, Charles Bronson, Donald Pleasence, James Coburn. How can you make a bad movie from this stellar cast? The Great Escape is a classic war/adventure film. Although it is more than that. It is an exciting escape film filled with great acting, exciting action and suspenseful moments. It really has the whole package. 
You could easily argue when it comes to historical accuracy but I hardly take that into account anymore unless it is detrimental to the story. It is not all action though. Much of the movie is exposition but the dialogue is well written and the actors do such a good job that it is hard to turn away. 
Director John Sturges is a personal favorite director of mine and he does a great job here. It is a classic epic that is a necessity for classic movie and action movie fans.


                
In 1942, Allied prisoners of World War II who repeatedly try to escape are placed by the Germans in a maximum security camp called "Stalag Luft III". As you might expect, they try to escape. Repeatedly. Giving the prisoners a lot of time to meet without supervision, the Germans may be foreshadowing the "Hogan's Heroes" TV series that poked fun at this film. Top-billed is super-cool Steve McQueen (as Virgil Hilts). He's always earning himself solitary confinement. You'll notice Mr. McQueen looks sharper coming out of "The Cooler" than he does going in, sliding his jacket down the wall of the cell without fear of scratching the leather. That's cool...Also billed above the title are super-nice James Garner (as Bob Hendley) and mastermind Richard Attenborough (as Roger Bartlett), who travels with English-accented Gordon Jackson (as Andy "Mac" MacDonald). Known as a scrounger, Mr. Garner takes commendable action when told his forger pal Donald Pleasance (as Colin Blythe) should not go on "The Great Escape" due to a disability. Garner insists on taking his friend, although it will risk the mission - and both their lives. That's nice...Most valuable players may be muscular Charles Bronson (as Danny Velinski) and his blond companion John Leyton (as William "Willie" Dickes). These two tunnel diggers actually love each other; you can't definitively say they are gay, but you can't definitively say they aren't, either. Most surprising are the number of people who actually make it out successfully, with Australian manufacturer James Coburn (as Louis Sedgwick) being the second most likely to succeed, due to his choosing not to travel light. British sailor David McCallum (as Eric Ashley-Pitt) develops ways to disperse dirt, and Angus Lennie (as Archibald "Archie" Ives) is a short-lived favorite...Senior British officer James Donald (as Ramsey) holds down the fort and Hannes Messemer (as Oberst von Luger) humanizes the opposition with a notably "Best Supporting Actor" worthy performance. Nicely produced and directed by John Sturges, "This is a true story. Although the characters are composites of real men and time and place have been compressed, every detail of the escape is the way it really happened." Helping Mr. Sturges in the production are composer Elmer Bernstein, photographer Daniel L. Fapp, and film editor Ferris Webster. This movie is a little long and probably not all that accurate, but "The Great Escape" is a great one.********* The Great Escape (6/20/63) John Sturges ~ Steve McQueen, James Garner, Richard Attenborough, Charles Bronson


                
In one of the first of the multi-superstar war films (following on the heels of the biggest one, The Longest Day), The Great Escape follows the planning and execution of a massive escape attempt from a Nazi POW camp during World War II by Allied prisoners. The determination of these men and the absolute thoroughness of their plan is what's on center stage here. Led by Richard Attenborough (back when he was just an actor, not an Academy award-winning director), the men decide to tunnel out of the camp in three places - this way, if one tunnel is discovered by the Germans, the other two tunnels will still be viable options.Attenborough's not the big star here, though; that honor goes to the young Steve McQueen, with that rebellious smile and blonde locks going a long way toward cementing his own movie superstardom. Oh, and James Garner, and Charles Bronson as a Russian (!), James Coburn, and even Donald Pleasance as a myopic forger. Who will survive the escape? And what will happen to those who do once they've left the walls of the prison?If you're a fan of action, this is a prime movie for you. If you're a fan of suspense, this is also a prime movie for you. Above all, if you're a fan of excellent writing, acting, and direction (by John Sturges), then you'll enjoy this 3-hour opus.


                
The Great Escape directed by John Sturges is about the real life escape by WWII Allied POWs from a German prison camp and lay chaos to all of Nazi Europe, but the film loosely close to the real life events. The film is more based on the novel of the same name by Paul Brickhill, which is a non-fiction account of the mass escape from Stalag Luft III, a new high-security prison in what's now modern day Poland. The characters in the film are composites of real men. Each of the characters brings something to the plot, and escape story-arch. Roger Bartlett DFC RAF, "Big X" (Richard Attenborough) is the brains of the operation. Richard brings a commanding role to the character, and gives him the cutting edge intelligent needed for such a task. He organized teams of people to make tunnels such as Tom, Dick, Harry, but also as well make civilian clothing, forge documents, procure contraband materials, and prevent guards from discovering their work. Flight Lieutenant Robert Hendley (James Garner) AKA 'The scrounger', job is finds what the others need, from a camera to clothes and identity cards. James gives the role, a great sly edge to the character. Australian Flying Officer Louis Sedgwick (James Coburn), "the manufacturer," makes tools such as picks for digging and bellows for pumping air into the tunnels. Flight Lieutenant Danny Velinski (Charles Bronson) is "the tunnel king" in charge of making the tunnels. Charles get down and dirty for this task. Forgery is handled by Flight Lieutenant Colin Blythe (Donald Pleasence) who brilliant acting is amazing, not only is he acting nearly blind from intricate work by candlelight, but Donald Pleasence was truly a real life prison of war during WWII. It took a lot out of him. One of the biggest character and screen time is spent on Captain Virgil Hilts (Steven McQueen), "The Cooler King," whom job is irritates guards with frequent escape attempts so he can recon what's outside the camp. . The information he brings back is used to create maps showing the nearest town and railway station. At this point, with multiply attempts, he would have been shot, but in the film, he's still escaping after time after time. Just go with it. He has a number of key scenes, like tossing a baseball in the cooler, the 4th of July celebrating, and others. Sometimes the film focus way too much of Hilts and little about the other characters, that it become known as only a Steven McQueen movie, when there are other fine actors in this movie. It's really a shame to see the other actors playing second fiddle to McQueen here. The movie gets better when they do escape, as the men find ways to get out of Nazi control areas by any means. No matter if it's by bus, train, boat, plane, or in case of Steve McQueen jumping over barb-wire fence with a motorcycle. Debunking a myth, McQueen didn't do the final jump as it was done by Bud Ekins, but McQueen did the other motorcycles stunts as well as playing the German guard. The ending after that can be really sad after watching 3 hours of the film, after seeing how much work went into escaping, but the film tries to leave the audience with a good note with scenes that their work wasn't in veil. The film was to some extent a work of fiction, based on the real events but with compromises made for purposes of commercial appeal, serving as a vehicle for its box-office stars. While many of its characters were fictitious, most were amalgams of several real characters and many were based on real people. There were no escapes by motorcycle, or aircraft. The screenwriters increased the importance of the roles of American POWs even to the point, that the real escape was by British not Americans. In reality Canadians played a prominent role in the construction of the tunnels and the escape itself. The film little mention them. Another example of Hollywood trying to convince the public that the Germans were idiots. It's hard to think that the Germans would allowed them to have it American flags, a drum, a flute, a still and all those potatoes. Plus all the shoe dye you could use. It's seem unrealish. Not only that the film has the escape in the summer, when it happen in the winter. One thing that the film goes right is the rousing Elmer Bernstein score which gives the movie it's famous tune. It's wonderful and catchy. The film is a triumph of the human spirit in the face of adversity. A classic film and iconic theme tune, but don't forget the sadness. Over 50 men were murdered by the Nazis for their part in the escape - facing death not in a field but often alone in a prison yard. Let us never forget such men and such bravery.
This is a long film based upon Paul Brickhill's true story novel of a real escape of Allied Prisoners from a WW 2 pow camp. Parts of this were later borrowed loosely for Hogan's Heros. The story is followed pretty faithfully except composites were used of the real people involved.A cast of Steve McQueen, James Garner, Donald Pleasance, Charles Bronson, & many others makes this film into what it's title suggests, great escapist fare. The filming was actually done in Germany giving the viewer an authentic look & feel to viewing the film.The film tells the story of the escape well & how the prisoners overcame the Germans, poor conditions, & managed to do the impossible in a historical way. Even though it runs over 3 hours, if you have never seen it, it is worth while viewing. If you like the film, the book is even better.


                
It,s a pity that here in Italy those movies are not advertized, in fact it was just luck that got me to see "The Great Escape" on a Sunday afternoon, anyway I found it a piece of art it's quite a long film but it's really fluent and absolutely free of dead moments, by the end of this production you find out you know all the characters extraordinarily well. You will find A very  fit Charles Bronson (before he started his b-movie career) and of course the great, unforgettable Steve McQueen (who actually used no stunts for the action scenes, including the motorbike ones)Carlo


                
Normally when a film has too many stars it's a turkey, but not the great escape (Or perhaps they weren't all stars at the time?). This film hasn't (unlike its stars) aged either. The Germans are allowed to be people as well, which makes it realistic.Some minor criticisms: the prison camp doesn't look too bad a place, being in the cooler not such a bad thing, one scene you go in, next scene you come out.
Enjoy!!!


                
A great movie...I can still picture McQueen heading to the "cooler" with his baseball and glove.  McQueen, an accomplished bike rider, did the jump over the barbed wire, himself.  The rest of the cast was perfect, as well.  And, then, of couse there's...Elmer...Bernstein's music is the best when it comes to action/drama ("The Magnificent Seven," "The Ten Commandments," "True Grit," among others) and scores another knockout with "The Great Escape."If you're young enough to have missed this picture when it was popular, rent it and enjoy a true classic...a reminder of an era of big movies with more stars than what you see in the night-time sky.


                
Saw this movie again after several years and it reaffirmed why McQueen was my favorite actor when I was a teenager.  I loved his ruggedness and the fact that he wasn't just a pretty boy.  This is a great movie that captures the spirit of McQueen as I remember him.  He had an edge to him that made him seem like a little boy with a bit of danger in him.  Whether this was based on a true story or not, it was done well enough to keep my interest while waiting to see who would get out of the camp.  Great acting by all (loved the Donald Pleasence part, Garner and Bronson) - beautifully photographed and great musical score.  The ending was perfect - just wish McQueen could have stayed around long enough to throw the baseball to me!


                
I remember loving the Great Escape as my parents watched it when I was a kid. Having seen it again recently, it surprised me how many prison movies since have borrowed from it. Many bits in The Great Escape have since become standard in prison-break movies, and the combination here is very well used. It's a great movie packed with quality actors. And of course, half the fun is guessing who will make it and who won't...


                
Possibly the best film cast in movie history. So many quality actors


                
If you haven't seen this by now what are you waiting for? It's one of the best wwii movies ever made. Great cast and just a solid movie from start to finish. They don't make them like this anymore that's for sure... long but very entertaining!


                
I am a tough audience for historical films. As a retired history teacher, I often notice when details are wrong--and I am not the sort of person you'd like to go to such a movie with, as I will invariably complain about the historical license the filmmakers took in regard to the facts. Now I sometimes realize that there are times when changing the facts a bit might not be such a bad thing--but too often, the writers just don't seem to care if they get it right. Because of this, I generally love "The Great Escape" as it IS based on a real mass escape and the characters are often based on these actual men. BUT, what I struggle with is the studio's insistence that Americans be included in the cast--though in the actual escape this was NOT the case. What makes it worse is that two of these Americans (Steve McQueen and James Garner) were among the leads in the film--making the event seem like it was planned and executed thanks to the good 'ol USA. Now I love my country, but I love the truth even more and it made me feel bad that the Brits and their Commonwealth members somehow got the short end of this. But, on the other hand, the film does do a very job otherwise when it comes to portraying this period in history.I could review the film at length, but there are countless other reviews on this movie already. The bottom line is that the film has exceptional acting, really fine dialog and is well made throughout--and is clearly one of the best war films can find. Well worth seeing and a film that easily justifies its nearly three hour running time.


                
This movie is based on real life story . For dramatic purposes some things were changed , yet it isn't a complete fiction . The movie manages to be both entertainment and a honest tribute to the real-life prisoners.The cast includes stars like Steve McQueen , James Gardner , Charles Bronson , Richard Attenbourgh and James Coburn. No Oscar worthy performances here , but more than solid team work makes it a pleasure to watch . Each character has got it's own personality and is memorable. The dialogues are full with sly sense of humor ("There's a madness in this method" , "I'm watching him. I'm a lifeguard") . The whole movie is full of gentle and effective humor ( for example McQueen and stolen keys , McQueen and potatoes) . The screenplay is good , with believable and clever solutions to problems of prisoners (What to do with the sand ? ) .This movie is a war comedy , yet it has a heart. The movie becomes more and more serious the closer the end . Unlike most of today's Hollywood movies the drama here is connected with the comedy completely naturally."The Great escape" isn't a depressing drama , but it never forgets about the humanity of it's heroes . There is fear , loss and paranoia here too. There are two really heartbreaking scenes here – the motorbike chase and the sacrifice of one of the prisoners . In the end the movie asks important question – was it worth it ? It REALLY depends on your point of view.A true classic. Epic in it's length (2 hours 42 minutes) , yet never boring . Satisfying both as entertaining comedy and drama. I give it 9/10.


                
Little did I realise when seeing this classic film on its first broadcast on UK BBC1 on 28th December 1971 that it would be re-shown on UK TV regularly (including tonight), indeed almost incessantly for the next 4 decades and that one day I'd feel I'd know it off by heart. But that's now the case, proving familiarity doesn't always breed contempt. It's one film I don't need to record as it's either always available somewhere and well inside my head anyway.Dozens of problem Allied prisoners are collected together by the Nazis in a Super POW camp, all their rotten eggs in one basket. Richard Attenborough playing the Big Head, sorry, Big X is determined to worry and confound the enemy by organising the escape of 250 POW's and causing a second front to be opened up within Germany looking for them all. Based on a true story the biggest niggle is only slight: the deliberate inclusion of a couple of dynamic American POW's in the film – but thankfully they were because the film would not have been seen by so many people if not. But, ultimately I'm not a POW camp expert any more than I can spot characters wearing the wrong socks or riding the wrong motorbikes – this is just wonderful entertainment. Steve McQueen plays a wild card USAAF Captain, a fabulous character from whom he could never subsequently Escape. The first half sets the scenes and characters, and organises everything with humour, the second half is gripping adventure to a memorable end/s.It's long but an awful lot happens to justify the length - personally I could cope with a six hour directors cut at the same pace! The film isn't faultless but every corny bit or stereotype is completely forgivable and essential to fully appreciating it. All in all, probably the best POW film ever made, maybe even one of the best films ever made.


                
John Sturges("The Magnificent Seven") directs this superb, highly entertaining and action packed World War II film about Air Force officers sequestered in a POW camp by their Nazi captors. These men(played memorably by Steve McQueen, Charles Bronson, James Garner, James Donald, Richard Attenborough, Donald Pleasance, James Coburn, among others) are all escape artists, and the Nazis think that, by putting them "all in one basket", that they will be easier to keep an eye on...a mistake, since they instead dig three big tunnels called Tom, Dick, and Harry, to embark on a great mass escape.A classic of its kind, moves at a fast pace(despite being long, it never feels that way) and is highly involving as a story and in its characters. This is even based on a true story!


                
Sorry ladies, but "The Great Escape" is the ultimate GUY movie.I'll never forget watching this movie when I was about ten or eleven, with my then super-cool brother-in-law, who I realize now was a bit of a slimeball but who at the time I looked up to for the very things that made him a slimeball. But lest you think my fondness for this movie rests only on its associations in my mind and not on its quality, I have seen it since and it holds up remarkably well.Who can forget the iconic image of Steve McQueen taking off across that field on his motorcycle? We can look back now and see that that image served as an announcement of a new and radical shakeup taking place in film and popular culture, and that the next decade or so would be ruled by the renegade and the bad boy. "Easy Rider," "Bonnie and Clyde," "The Graduate," "The Wild Bunch" would all come later. "The Great Escape" came first.Grade: A


                
I love this movie more every time I see it. A perfect mix of British understatement and American pizazz. Wonderful acting throughout.While the most famous scene is certainly Steve McQueen on his motorcycle (and it is funny to know he also played one of the Germans on motorcycles, chasing himself) my own favorite scene is the tunneling - brilliant sense of claustrophobia.The scenes are very accurate - they used milk powder cans with broom handle to make scoops to dig with - and the trolleys are true to life. Anyone who likes this movie might like the book Under the Wire about an American involved in escaping from the same camp.


                
I have to be honest the great escape is my favourite movie. It has a good plot but with a tragic ending and despite what people say is based upon a true story. What makes The Great Escape such a good film is humour of the men as they try to escape and the constant belief that they would eventually be free. This movie is a prime example of the undying spirit of human beings, even when facing the worst. Although some of the acting can be a little bit ropey and whenever I hear the theme tune I can't help but be reminded of it being chanted on the terraces of stadiums, I would say that the great escape is well worth watching. Steve McQueen gives a classic performance as Hilts which sometimes overshadows the performances of the other actors. Charles Bronsen and Donald Pleasence give a touching insight of the problems that they face while trying to escape and the death of Donald Pleasence's character brings a tear to the eye.
How can a film that I first of all never saw until yesterday, that I laughed at in the first 45 minutes because of inconsistent, unrealistic and blatant comedy and scenes, be a classic that by the end of it all...I absolutely was in love with?? This film has some magical powers and one of those powers is an ensemble cast that when spoke about really gets the short end of the stick. Steve McQueen is always hailed as the story and his name is always attached to this film and yet he isn't the star. He's a big part of it sure and his name was the big attraction back in 1963 but what makes The Great Escape is the incredible ensemble cast that each play their vitally important role and create these memorable classic characters. The problem with The Great Escape is first and foremost...it's not really a Great Escape. Fifty Men are shot and killed, and what like one man finally escapes and possibly not even him?? 250 Escape (although it looks more like 50 TOPS when the Escape finally happens,) and all of them are recaptured and the film ends where it begins. It seems so anti climatic. On top of that is this truly a truthful look at a German POW Camp in Germany?? These men arrive at the camp looking Healthy, vibrant, strong, clean cut, and professional to a place that is better than Summer Camps that I went to. Gardening?? Baseball?? Cooking?? Drawing Classes?? Ummm...yeah...I admit I was never in a German POW Camp but I'm regretting it now having seen these wonderful conditions. Yes I know it can be argued that one man is shot trying to escape and later on the Gestapo murders 50 escapees but their time in the camp prior to this is pretty nice. The Germans practically hand them the tools and time they need to prep for escape even after knowing that the men are going to attempt escape they are hardly guarded, never looked in on and are allowed everywhere within the camp and left alone frequently. It's absurd!! So all this being said why am I thinking about the film right now and how incredible it was and how it's now one of my favorites?? MAGIC!! The film a cold hard classic and it just embodies, action, comedy, real characters that are brought to live with some great performance.Let's talk about Mr. Steve McQueen since he is commonly considering the star. We rarely see him for about the first hour of the film. His role as Capt. Hilts "The Cooler King" is good but small in comparison to some of the others. McQueen is strong and a little bit sarcastic and kind of funny in some roles and he appears to be a great leading man along the same lines as Kevin Costner or even Clint Eastwood...his characters don't change much and yet he is vibrant on screen. One of my truly favorite performances is by James Garner who plays Lt. Hendley. Hendley is a lead of sorts and people come to him to get things...any thing. Hendley comes across as trustworthy, determined, and a real hero of sorts. He's a great character!! Garner is terrific!! The terrific Richard Attenborough is the actual leader of the Escape Squadron Leader Roger Bartlett. Although I don't think Bartlett as a character is particularly likable he does a good job of organizing the team. Attenborough is a strong leader and ups the ante of the cast. Terrific in his role is Donald Pleasence who plays the very suave and likable Colin Blythe. His and James Garner's characters have unusual but very good chemistry together as they share a room together. A truly great performance is given often badly rated actor Charles Bronson who plays quiet and emotional Danny Velinski, who despite his title of Tunnel King is petrified of enclosed spaces. An aspect only made known far into the film. Despite that fact that it probably should have been established early on his performance because it's quite a credible and powerful performance. I have seen many, many Bronson films and this is one of his best!! Together this crew and the others I did not mention but still play great roles if not slightly smaller meld together and create a riveting story of friendship and team work to escape this camp although I'm not sure why they'd want to. McQueen's character who is usually labeled as the star forces his way into different scenes and the actors who portray the other scenes are good enough to hold their own but McQueen was "the star." I still must insist on the rather unbelievable aspects of this being a WW2 film but even still the tension, suspense, story and comedy just draws you in. The famous and well shot motorcycle scenes with McQueen do certainly add for some great action but also do feel a little forced giving McQueen scenes to show off in. Truly what makes The Great Escape a classic can barely be explained in a review or in words at all. The Great Escape is a film that just stands the test of time, endears itself to you and is captivating to watch and I do stand by that the incredible cast and interesting characters are a huge part of that. If you haven't seen this movie you must because it's cinematic history. A huge film with an even bigger following!! 9/10
