"The Deer Hunter" is 32 years old. How extraordinary to sit through it now. Walking over the politics that divided , somehow, all of its admirers then. "Great film but..." How silly to think of it now. Michael (a sensational young Robert De Niro) is as extreme a character as Rocco was in "Rocco And His Brothers" His goodness, the one that was always there but that he discovers under the most horrendous circumstances, underlined by Stanley Mayers's "Cavatina" permeates the entire film. I remember thinking, when I saw the film for the first time, that I couldn't or wouldn't spend ten minutes with Michael and his friends, the ones we meet at the beginning of the film but by the end I thought of them as brothers and I loved them. I actually loved them. That in itself is a sort of film miracle. John Savage will break your heart, it certainly broke mine and Christopher Walken is absolutely riveting. How strange to tho think that Michael Cimino, still a young man, is nowhere to be seen. Is still a punishment for "Heaven's Gate" and "Indecent Exposure" or there is something else we don't know about. The Cimino behind "The Deer Hunter" is a true master.


                
I will not repeat much of the comments in the previous positive reviews, but will stick mostly to how the movie affected me. First off, I am an Army veteran of the Vietnam War. Thus there is much in this picture that deeply moves me. I still can not listen to the theme music piece played by John Williams, "Cavatina", without choking up and weeping.I identify much with the characters in this movie. I grew up in a very small town and come from a working class ( Norwegian, Scots-Irish, English) background. Two weeks out of high school and at the age of 17 I enlisted in the Army. Like the men in this movie I came from a tradition of serving one's country in the military. Both my brother, two cousins and my future brother-in-law also served in the Vietnam War.I identify with Michael, played by Robert DeNiro in his sense of honor in going back to 'Nam and trying to bring back his buddy Nick. Additionally I admire Mike when he visits Steven in the VA hospital and brings him back home. Honor is, as mentioned in the movie "Rob Roy", a gift a man gives to himself. Michael (and the movie) doesn't waste time on whether the war in Vietnam is right or wrong. Michael just does what he thinks is right with respect to his buddies. Ask any one who has served in the military and they will tell you that you're sense of commitment to your comrades almost takes precedence over your commitment to your country.I do not see this movie as either pro or anti-Vietnam War. To me the movie portrays how war affects three individuals. It is a movie about character, honor, loyalty------what you are when everything around you is falling apart. I will continue to see this movie many times as I hope that the values depicted in it will still be reflected (albeit weakly) in me.In closing, I can not help to remember that the politically anti-Vietnam War movie "Coming home" starring Jane Fonda and Jon Voight was also up for the same Oscars. When Jane Fonda was asked what movie would win the Academy award that year, she sneeringly replied that she hoped it wasn't "The Deer Hunter". In the years since Jon Voght has transitioned from being a Liberal to a Conservative. Parenthetically, Jane Fonda has never apologized for her pro-Viet Cong actions. At the age of 66, I am still proud that I served my country and volunteered for the US Army and the Vietnam War.
No, this is not the best film about the Vietnam War; it's hardly about Vietnam at all. The vets who don't like it have it wrong, as do the Vietnamese who found it racist. It could be any war, with any combatants. But because the (primary) victims here are recognizable American archetypes, Americans will feel this in their gut more than any other war film I know of. This is one of the very few post-war Hollywood films that shows a sincere reverence for the lives of small town Americans.After seeing it in a very high quality theater on its initial release, I walked out thinking it was easily one of the best movies I had ever seen - and that I never wanted to see it again. But I looked at it today on cable and found that not much had changed about it, or me. I don't want to see it again...but I want you to see it.Even now, the Russian Roulette scene (in context, people: watch all that comes before it first) is the single most intense sequence I've seen; it makes the end of "Reservoir Dogs" seem like a cartoon. Best Walken performance, period. Meryl Streep glows, DeNiro has seldom been more affecting. A unique classic...it is not surprising that Cimino didn't have another movie in him after something this wrenching.


                
A comment re the other comments: A lot of the comments criticize the first half hour as being too long. In my opinion, these comments miss the point of the movie.Of course many of the scenes in the first hour don't advance the narrative. They're not supposed to; they're for character development.The whole point of the movie is to show us how the various characters were affected by the war. It wouldn't have worked nearly as powerfully as it does had the first hour been trimmed down. We have to sense the careless and frat-boy-like immaturity of these young men. That's why the scenes all revolve around frivolity and seemingly senseless boyish behavior; it creates such a stark contrast to the devastated characters of the three who went to war (and the relatively unaffected personalities of those who stayed behind, like Stanley).The strong points of the film are the outstanding performances of nearly every actor in the movie. Yes, there are technical deficiencies in the sound, but it hardly matters. This is nitpicking compared to the overall construction of the film.


                
The Deer Hunter (1978) This is an epic war drama film about a trio of steelworkers whose lives are changed forever after they fight in the Vietnam War. The cast includes Robert De Niro, Christopher Walken, John Savage, John Cazale, Meryl Streep, and George Dzundza. The story takes place in a little working class town south of Pittsburgh, and in Vietnam. The film won five Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Best Director, and Best Supporting Actor for Christopher Walken. It also marked Meryl Streep's very first Academy Award nomination. She is now the most nominated actor in history. It was named the 53rd greatest American film of all time by the American Film Institute (AFI). The film's initial reviews were mostly positive. It was hailed by many critics as the best American epic since The Godfather. The late Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times gave the film four stars and called it "one of the most emotionally shattering films ever made." This film is an American classic. It is my favorite drama, and perhaps my favorite film of all time. It even holds up nearly 40 years later. My willingness to try older films, any films, was because of this picture. Movies are like these are why film lovers should really give older movies a shot. I suggest the AFI's top 100 films as a starting point. The Deer Hunter is a masterful piece of cinema that explores the human condition in a way few films do today.


                
"One shot is what it's all about. A deer has to be taken with one shot."There's that particularly infamous scene in "The Deer Hunter" that seems to remain more disturbing each time we view it, when Michael (Robert De Niro), a Vietnam veteran, tracks down a friend of his named Nicky (Christopher Walken), who never arrived home after the war and is eventually found in Saigon, playing Russian Roulette for money, his mind an utter mess. He is unable to fully remember Michael, and refuses to return home, and what proceeds in the following sequence is a haunting example of gut-wrenching film-making.The Vietnam sequences take place midway through the movie, serving as a connection between the beginning and the end, both of which study the lives of the men and not the war around them. Michael, Nicky and Steven (John Savage) are young Pennsylvanian miners drafted into the war. Steven has just gotten married to the love of his life, but has little time to celebrate as he is shipped overseas with his friends. They eventually all find themselves taken hostage in a Vietnamese POW camp where their captors force them to play Russian Roulette. The rules of the game? Put a single bullet in a random chamber of a handgun, spin it, snap it, raise it to your head, squeeze the trigger, and repeat these steps until there's only one man left standing.After a series of fortunate events Michael, Nicky and Steven escape and make their way downriver. All three men are eventually rescued, Nicky via helicopter and Michael and Steven later on. Steven's battered, infected legs are amputated and he is left helpless in a wheelchair. Michael returns home as well only to find that Nicky is still back in Vietnam. Nicky's girlfriend back home, Linda (Meryl Street), begins to fall in love with Michael, but Michael soon remembers his promise to Nicky ("If I don't make it back don't leave me over there") and travels over 2,000 miles back into the middle of his own personal hell to find and rescue his best friend. It's hard for him to understand why Nicky doesn't recognize him when he finally tracks him down. "It's me, Mike." "Mike who?"Causing mass controversy upon its release because of its alleged "racist" content regarding the Vietnamese, a crowd of Vietnam veterans gathered around outside the Oscars ceremony and caused riots as well, claiming that the film was "not accurate" and somehow insulting to the veterans of the war. However as many film historians, authors and critics have already pointed out, the film is never meant to be a 100% accurate depiction of the events in Vietnam. It is not really a Vietnam War picture at all. Instead, it is a focus on the aftermath of war, and how damaging it can be, both physically and mentally, to its participants. Because of the era that "The Deer Hunter" was released in, Vietnam was a recent event, the focus of the nation, and is therefore used as a more convenient -- and relative -- backdrop (much like "Apocalypse Now"). Unlike "Platoon" this is not a movie relating specifically to the Vietnam War, in fact less than a half an hour is devoted to the war scenes. It is a character study, and accusations of racism -- although perhaps justified to some extent -- are hardly convincing as the film itself is not concerned with bashing the participants of the war as it is the war itself.It is the film's necessary setup that is often called long and boring and, ironically, unnecessary, but this is essentially where the nature of each character is examined for the audience. To launch directly into the war sequences would be sloppy, and we would have a harder time caring for the characters. Instead, we are given scenes with weddings, discussions, and hunting trips -- normal events. Then, the end, a somber reflection upon the past, chronicles the aftermath of the damaging events in the lives of Michael, Steven, Nicky and their loved ones. Michael has a hard time adapting back to his normal life. It would be hard for anyone, after experiencing such damaging events and images. De Niro made a few post-Vietnam films during the '70s and '80s, the most famous being "Taxi Driver," in which Travis Bickle was totally unable to find his way in life again after the war and resorted to violence in order to justify his existence and release his anger. "The Deer Hunter" is similar in approach but reveals more background; this would be a suitable prequel of sorts if the names had been changed.Over the years "The Deer Hunter" has surprisingly gained a fairly bad reputation -- most of which stems back to the controversy surroundings its release and protested accolades. Director Michael Cimino's follow-up ("Heaven's Gate") was an enormous flop, bankrupting United Artists, and he had a hard time finding work afterwards. His first feature film, "Thunderbolt and Lightfoot," which starred Clint Eastwood and Jeff Bridges, was a buddy road movie that was also a sign of things to come in Cimino' later features, most notably the process of male bonding, which is a huge primal element in this project. Cimino was an extremely talented and visionary director, and it's a shame that the ambition of "Heaven's Gate" cost him his career.And furthermore, despite the negativity surrounding "The Deer Hunter," it is still one of the finest works of American cinema, a touching, poignant and ultimately depressing film that asks us if the effects of war extend past the physical and into the realm of human mentality. Yes, I think they do.
I cannot fathom the absolute horror that war brings to a persons life, but never has a film depicted it more harrowing than The Deerhunter. At 182 minutes, it seemed to fly by, leaving me wanting more and wishing this would not end. all facets are explored, all people's emotions are laid bare, not just the combatants. If we obviously did not know better, one would have to say this was a British film, as it has all the best elements that British movie making displays. i can eulogise for hundreds of lines, but this really is the ONLY American movie i can think of (others? apart from taxi driver) that is RAW. A strange word i know but the movie oozes a raw edge to it. Immense performances from all concerned, and if i had to say, i believe i have not seen Christopher Walken in a better role. One of the very few films i deservedly give 10/10. A must for any collection and a stunning example of every aspect of film making coming together, albeit for a sombre depiction of life.


                
I've now seen this film three times with a decade or more between viewings, and every time I see it I come away feeling that movies can't get any better than this.  People always comment on the Viet Nam scenes, and it's true that they are as powerful and intense as any war scenes ever filmed.  The Russian-roulette betting game, in both its up-river and Saigon venues, may be the most riveting, shattering plot device ever invented, as measured by the pounding of the heart. But it's the 'home front' scenes that stick with me through the years.  I think all the steel town scenes are nearly perfect, untoppable.  And that very much includes the Eastern Orthodox wedding and its sequel.  When anyone tells me they were bored I just shake my head.  There's no arguing with short and shallow attention spans.  You're either capable of appreciating art or you're not.   I do have a quibble or two.  The deer-hunting scenes looked like nowhere I've ever seen in Pennsylvania, or anywhere else East of the Rockies.  I think Cimino deliberately picked an ethereal location above the clouds as a contrast to the steel town.  When John Cazale and the others get loaded and act like jerks it jars on Michael, because they have brought the stupid distractions of ordinary life to an extraordinary place.  This would matter less if the 'genius loci' were not so strongly present in the other home front scenes. I wish he had used the soft, green forested hills of Pennsylvania for the hunting.  And some of the dialogue--Meryl Streep's in particular--wouldn't work on the page, and only first-rate acting by an inspired ensemble--has there ever been a better cast of young actors?--pulls it off.  But these are forgivable errors in one of the finest films ever made.


                
Most young people today need to learn that Robert De Niro was not just  the person in Meet the Parents or The Adventures of Rocky and  Bullwinkle, but he starred in films like The Deer Hunter, which got him  to where he is today. Not only is he a great actor, he always picks  good films to act in. And with a strong supporting cast, also, you  can't really go wrong with The Deer Hunter.  Michael (De Niro), Nick (Christopher Walken), and Steven (John Savage)  sign up to go to Vietnam. They leave after a farewell party/wedding  party for Stanley and Angela (Rutanya Alda). Once in the  midst of the war, they are forced into playing Russian Roulette and  eventually they escape, but none of them can forget the experiences  from the war.  It's sad to see that Michael Cimino fade from view, because his  direction here is really memorable and it's what holds the film  together. There's about 70 minutes in the beginning of the film that  has nothing to do with the rest of the film, but it gets us to know  these three main characters, and it seems like you wouldn't care if  they even went to Vietnam, because you certainly were intrigued by  these three people. And once they're in the perils of war, you feel  enough for these three basic people to get through the war.  The Russian Roulette scenes are harrowing, even when it's a complete  stranger who has the gun to their head. I read that to get the tension  on set, a live bullet was put into the gun, but it was checked to make  sure that it wasn't the one about to be shot. And, since you've known  these people for 90 minutes already, you obviously didn't want them to  die, making them all the more nervous.  The Deer Hunter is quite unlike another great Vietnam film, Full Metal  Jacket. While FMJ just showed the immediate results, this movie showed  the results immediately and in the future, back at home. This helped  make everything seem more realistic, which it was. For each of the  three main characters, the war has changed them greatly, and none for  the better.  De Niro is great, but the stand out here is Walken, who accurately  takes his role and makes it into something memorable. Thankfully, he  won best supporting actor. Meryl Streep was nominated as a supporting  character, deservedly. However, this movie is not all about the acting,  it's about the feeling you get. As one character says, 'I don't know  how I feel.' That's exactly how you'll feel after seeing this  tour-de-force.  My rating: 10/10  Rated R for strong language and violence.
Of the first two American films about the Vietnam war with a priceless artistic weight, "the Deer Hunter" wins hands down over "Apocalypse Now" (1979) although Francis Ford Coppola's work is very potent too.But would it be judicious to pigeonhole Michael Cimino's work in the category of the war movie? Unlike Coppola's visual nightmare, only the central part takes place in Vietnam and the filmmaker barely shoots one fight sequence before Mike (Robert De Niro), Nick (Christopher Walken) and Stevie (John Savage) are prisoners of the enemy and are forced to play Russian roulette in the notorious unbearable scene. Actually "the Deer Hunter" is a film straddling two movie genres: the war movie and the social drama. Rather than shooting a political film, Cimino chose to represent us the deadly impact this nightmarish war had on an American community whose hopes and values disappeared.Dividing his work in three parts: before, during, after and thanks to symbolical images, scenes or even eloquent details, Cimino used and honed his own cinematographic language to set out his stalls and the result can only command respect and admiration. Each sequence could be separately taken and carefully studied like the representation of the humdrum but reassuring living standards of the blue-collars with their everyday rituals (Cimino's obsession with rites and customs) revolving around factory, bar, friends and hunting (you have to admire the startling contrast between the dirty little town and the gorgeous, wild landscapes). Archetypal sequences that epitomize life and it reaches its height in the famous, unusually long wedding sequence. Perhaps Cimino wanted to stretch this sequence to make his characters take advantage of this rapture moment. But even during this state of bliss that lives inside them, the imminent tragedy ominously lurks: Mike and Nick gently laugh at an officer who remains dumb and when Stevie and his wife have to drink in a dish, some drops fall on her wedding dress. This sequence also epitomizes the polar opposite to the sequence of the Russian roulette in which death is just around the corner. After the war when Mike comes back to the small town, he's completely altered. Before, a devotee of deer hunting; after his traumatizing experience, he can't kill one. He's unable to talk about about what he went through and for his sidekicks, the experience of a war like this one is incomprehensible. Cimino eschews classical, predictable storytelling and hasn't recourse to psychological study. Nearly everything occurs in gestures and looks while the suggested has a meaty part in the dialogs. Besides, during the whole movie the topic of the war is barely mentioned by the characters. A lyrical whiff blows on the film, dovetailed by Cimino's astounding directing.Cimino was consumed with ambition and went at it hammer and tongs to get his crew completely involved in his project. He was hard on his actors (Robert De Niro has often said that "the Deer Hunter" was his most grueling role to date) and was obsessed with absolute control. But the efforts weren't vain at all and gave a heartfelt, invaluable yardstick in war movie, even American cinema which reached the streets when America rose from its ruins. It was also the beginning of the end for Cimino, a filmmaker ahead of his time and on the fringe of cinematographic trends.


                
Most of you after reading my title are already going to be upset. I do consider this to be the best film ever made about war. I do not look at this film being about the Vietnam War. I look at this film being about war (Period).I think this film is as excellent as it is for one good reason, showing the effects of war. True, we see the films where men are shaped by war, what events make them who they are, and how the events of war transform them. It is mainly about what the war has done to them. The Deer Hunter takes a bigger step back from that and shows the entire character transformation. It does not just show the transformation of a soldier, but also the transformation as a civilian. You spend a good 40 minutes in the Deer Hunter getting to know the main characters and getting a feel for their personalities. The first 40 minutes is about character development and almost getting an attachment to those characters. This makes their transformation more effective for the viewer and they almost feel for the character and what they are going through. Than those characters get thrown into war and you see the events that change them. The things they had to experience as a soldier. And than, most importantly, we see the changes in their characters after the war. And we do not just see the changes in the soldiers, we see the changes that their friends and lovers undergo as a result of the war. We are not just looking at one soldier, we are looking at a network of friends and how they are changed due to the war. Even those who did not go to war are still effected. And the fact all the characters are from a small town makes it that much more powerful. The Deer Hunter is a powerful film about how war effects everybody, not just the soldiers involved in it.The cast is terrific! Robert De Niro, John Cazale, John Savage, Meryll Streep, and Christopher Walken. Need I say more. Christopher Walken won an Oscar for best supporting actor in this film. The script is beautifully written and the movie is filmed perfectly. I can find nothing wrong with anything about this movie. I mean, it did win 5 Oscars in 1978 including Best Picture and Best Director for Michael Cimino.This movie is emotionally powerful. I can not say this film is accurate about war, I can only give my opinion and take from the film what I can. I am an 18-year old teen who has an almost complete control over his emotions. This film brought me the closest to tears I have ever been by a movie. It is an absolute masterpiece. This is one of the greatest films ever made. Take the time to watch this film, it is a classic that hits you the hardest emotionally.


                
This is one of the best adaptions of the Vietnam War on film that I have seen. We have also "Platoon" that represented somewhat of the same thing that "The Deer Hunter" did as well, but this one came first and was a great version. It showed the intense horror and ultimate change effect on the men that fought in Vietnam. At first, I admit, I was a little bored because the beginning is a little long and felt unnecessary, but then I realized later in the film how much that developed the characters and understood their friendships and how they relate.Robert De Niro seems to be the strongest one of the group, his name is Mike. He has a lot of guts, but he also seems to care mostly about himself, he later on proves that after finally just letting go with his kept up emotions, he must take care of his friends as well. Christopher Walken, he's a baby in here! He's such a terrific actor and he did so well by portraying innocence in his role and the ultimate insanity of his character. He and Robert were amazing, they were just so believable and worked so well together.This was the best picture of 1978, so far I cannot really judge one wither or not it deserved the reward. But it is an awesome movie and I would highly recommend it for anyone. The lines are just F****** A! :D I mean memorable! This does deserve to be on the top 250, good job to other IMDb users! 10/10


                
To call Deerhunter harrowing is an understatement. The first time I saw this at university in a large lecture hall I was not prepared for the impact it would have on me. I thought that the Russian Roulette scene between the Vietcong and their prisoners was bad enough, but the climax that had Robert de Niro beseeching his best friend Christopher Walken to come back home was almost unbearable.Deerhunter is such a deceptive movie and that's what gives it its remarkable emotional punch. The first phase of the movie trundles pleasantly along as we observe a pleasant small town in the backwoods of industrial America. There is a great deal of male bonding and general machismo as we see a close-knit bunch of friends doing what boys do best - hunting, fooling around, drinking at the local bar and playing pool. The wedding just emphasizes the joyous innocence of this backwoods idyll.
The viewer is, as a result, reassuringly relaxed, after the opening section of this movie. However, we hardly pause for breath when we are suddenly plunged into the horrors of the Vietnam war. The psychological anguish of the prisoners forced to play Russian Roulette by their captors certainly takes you aback, wrenching you out of your lethargy and dragging you through this world of squalor and despair. I believe that this movie addresses the ultimate human predicament and that is what gives it such force: committing suicide when you are loathe to be dead. I cannot think of any more appalling confrontation. Moments like that inevitably leave scars and so that is what happened to Christopher Walken.Robert de Niro's heart-rending scene when he tries to drag his best friend away from his nightmare and ultimately fails made me so emotional. I don't think I have ever wept so much in a movie. Just to exacerbate that misery, when all the friends are back in Pennsylvania and mourn over Walken's death there is such an epic pathos that when you leave the cinema your eyes are hardly dry. The first 10 times I watched this remarkable movie left me blubbing at the end and I still get emotional when I watch it now. I don't think there has ever been a drama with more emotional punch than The Deerhunter. It flings you straight into the maelstrom, taking you completely unawares, and never lets up as it puts you and the characters through torment after torment. There is a dignified beauty about the main protagonists and how they are able to deal with such tragedy. The power, brevity and loyalty of de Niro's character is quite simply majestic. When you come out of this movie you feel as though you have experienced a major slice of life and you feel changed in some ways. That is what great art does.
Question: Why did Michael go back to get Nick? Hey Mr. C.When Michael returned from Vietnam, he was still incomplete. He hesitated to go back to his friends without Nick, because he felt bad for returning without him. He knew he would be faced with many questions and congratulations, and Nick would not. This made him feel guilty of something, and lonely. He had survived a horrible experience with his friends, and when he returns home, they do not come with him. Naturally, he would want somebody to relate to, and he has no one. The only people that understand him are either dead, or far away. When he is with Linda, he even feels disconnected because she loved Nick before they had left, and now he feels like a mere replacement. He knows that without at least talking to Nick again he'll never have the same life he once did. He doesn't want to let go of his friendship even though his hope is nearly lost until he meets with Steven. Michael feels obligated to find Nick and return him to his home. It's obvious from a viewer's point of view, things will never be the same between the friends, but Michael has nothing left to do, so he attempts to rescue Nick anyway. It is ALL he can do. When Michael finds Nick and tries to convince him to return, he truly realizes his friend his dead. Unlike Steven who was happy to see Michael, Nick is stoic and hardly even acknowledges him. Though Michael still has hope now that he is right there looking at Nick, he still knows in the back of his mind that his friend will never be the same. But still he tries to remind him of their friendship. Nick finally says , "One shot." Michael's hope is at its peak then, as he is almost joyous to see that even a little piece of Nick's personality remains. But he also knows Nick could be going along with it humorously as he has been taking drugs and it seems by the look on his face there is nothing going on inside his head. Although Michael is ruined to see Nick kill himself, I think he is relieved he at least knows now what happened to his friend, and can put the search to rest. I think Michael would have been worse off to not find Nick, and continue with his life full of guilt and hesitation. Although Michael does have a life to return to back home, I believe he wants to lose at the table to Nick. He feels he will be better off dead, rather than living with the fact that his friend has died a ruined and forgotten soul. I think that Michael would want to die in front of Nick so he could see the death of his friend. It may be the only chance of getting Nick to "wake up". I know for myself, I would not want to walk away from that table alone. There is nothing more sad than seeing a friend die in front of you when that person is the only one left to relate to. I wouldn't WANT to die, but I certainly wouldn't want to walk away alone and burdened with the thought of losing my friends.I thought this scene was done very well, as it really puts the viewer in the movie. I thought the saddest part was that both Nick AND Michael had died in a small, dark room in Hell. It was truly the place where they had changed, and it's also the place where they die. The lack of "recognition" I feel toward Nick and Michael's experiences makes this movie. In reality, there are millions of people watching the film and seeing this happening and feeling for the characters. But when I am pulled into the movie, and have no knowledge of others watching, I feel a strong sense of reality. I get the feeling that I am right there with Michael and Nick and the biggest loss is that nobody else will know or understand what has happened. I try to think if the story were real and well-known then it might not be as sad. I truly think the most depressing aspect is the fact that nobody back home will know. I don't think Michael would express his full feelings but rather suppress them and let them destroy his character. And again, the saddest part is that nobody will ever know.If I had to handwrite this, I would have never rambled so much...¼¼¼¼¼¼¼
High quality cast , elite acting, great plot. One of the best ever. Highly recommended.


                
When I decided to watch The Deer Hunter I thought that I would see a war film, but instead what I got was a drama film that lasted for about three hours. The Deer Hunter was released in 1978. It was directed by Michael Cimino. The film received high critical acclaim, won the Oscars for Best Picture and Best Director, and Cimino was even hailed as a genius. The film boasts a great cast, including Robert De Niro, Christopher Walken, John Cazale, John Savage and Meryl Streep. They all provide stellar performances.The film's story is set during the 1960s in western Pennsylvania. It's about a group of friends from a Russian (or Rusyn, to be more precise) community. The men are steel workers. Three of them (Michael, Steven and Nick) are preparing to be sent off to Vietnam. Steven is also getting married. Michael and Nick are in love with the same woman: Linda (Meryl Streep). The beginning of the film features wedding ceremonies and a long party. Eastern Orthodox Church songs such as Slava and Russian folk songs such as Korobushka and Katyusha are played. Before setting out for the war the six friends go deer hunting. The film documents their lives before Vietnam, in Vietnam, and after Vietnam.Right from the get go I knew that I was watching a great film. Some viewers may think that it's long and boring, but if you continue watching it, it will pay off big time. Character development is significant, and it's a big part of the film. After a while I really began to care about the characters. That's how the film absorbs you, not with action or comedy but by showing the lives and actions of the characters. The scenes in Vietnam are graphic, but well shot. I heard that The Deer Hunter was the first American film about the Vietnam War. What happens in the film is totally believable. If I was told that this was a true story I wouldn't doubt it. There is also a fitting ending. After watching The Deer Hunter I felt better, somehow. It's like it raises you confidence and your understanding of life. I give The Deer Hunter my highest recommendation.
Michael Cimino's filmmaking journey was hardly a bump-less ride. It seems that his name is unfortunately doomed to go down in history as of a director whose third film completely ruined his career—Heaven's Gate not only led a distinguished American studio into bankruptcy, but also enraged critics and the audiences to a degree of making every Cimino's future project destined to fail, both critically and commercially. After his second feature, the world simply expected him to keep delivering in the future. It's extremely difficult to live up to that kind of expectation when you introduce yourself to the world with a film like The Deer Hunter. The gloomy all-American epic story of three steel workers from a small town in Pennsylvania deeply and differently affected by the Vietnam war completely swept the United States off their feet back in 1978, earning five Academy Awards and turning the world's spotlights on Cimino in the process.The movie has two important themes: friendship and war. With "The Lord of the Rings" featuring a somewhat full-blown friendship between Frodo and Sam (that sometimes borders on being overly- sentimental but works), "The Deer Hunter" represents a portrait of true, powerful friendship. This is superior to any of the scenes between Frodo and Sam in "The Lord of the Rings," the characters here are more realistic and empathetic, the performances more convincing. When he finds Nicky surrounded by men putting wagers on his life, Michael tries to bring him home, but Nicky just spits in his face. To reveal his feelings for Nicky, Michael holds a gun to his own head. "Is this what you want?" he taunts. "I love you, Nicky." And then he pulls the trigger and the barrel clicks: empty. Michael's face suddenly drains, a reflection of his inner relief.The reason why the film is lengthy is because it rolls out like a legend rather than a documentary and its greatness is blunted by its length and one-sided point of view, but the film's weaknesses are overpowered by Michael Cimino's sympathetic direction and a series of heartbreaking performances from Robert De Niro, Meryl Streep, John Savage, John Cazale and Christopher Walken. But it's the De Niro character, Michael "Mike" Vronsky, the one that somehow finds the strength to keep going and to keep Savage and Walken going. Both on and off-screen, De Niro, as usual plays his part brilliantly. He survives the prison camp and helps the others. Then, finally home from Vietnam, he is surrounded by a silence we can never quite penetrate. He is touched vaguely by desire for the girl that more than one of them left behind, but does not act decisively. He is a "hero," greeted shyly, awkwardly by the hometown people.The film perfectly manages to close it curtains (for America as well) with everyone at John's bar, singing "God Bless America". And they reverentially (freeze-framed) raise their beer mugs to Nick, as Michael toasts "Here's to Nick."In truth, Cimino's The Deer Hunter has not aged as well as its younger brother, Francis Ford Coppola's Apocalypse Now (1979), but there are many legitimate reasons for this. Apocalypse Now was always imperfect, and, in ways no one could have anticipated; its very messiness, inscrutability, and shoehorned ending only gain stature as the perfect metaphor for the imperfect fiasco that was Vietnam.
With the outbreak of the Vietnam War, Hollywood began bursting with a new crop of war films. These films weren't about American honor and the land of the free. Instead, they were about the tragedy of war and its negative effect on people. Some of these films were met with critical contempt and disgust, while others were met with near-universal praise and love. "The Deer Hunter" fits into the category of the latter.The acting in "The Deer Hunter" is its greatest element. Robert DeNiro is pitch-perfect as usual in a great performance as an intelligent man who finds that his life is spinning and changing rapidly as he goes to war in Vietnam. Meryl Streep is fantastic as well in her star-making performance as a struggling woman who finds herself losing her lover(s) to the terrible war. John Cazale is also very good as one of the more under-the-radar characters. Still, the gold medal for this film belongs to Christopher Walken, who rightfully won the Oscar for his performance as a troubled soldier who handles his losses in the worst ways possible. I won't give anything away, but in the final moments of the film between Walken and DeNiro, more emotions erupt and sadness ensues than in any other war film in history. In fact, I feel almost stupid to call it a war film. It's not really. though some of the sequences in the film are set in Vietnam and involve fighting, this film is not about the fighting and the battles. It rises above films like "Saving Private Ryan" because it's not about the battles themselves, but the people who fight them. It's a tale of love, friendship, loss, life, and death. This is a cinematic masterpiece in which characters are presented realistically and action realistic ways. It's sad but intensely accurate: one of the great films of the ages.


                
Please read some of the other reviews to get the story of this momumental film.I was delighted that so many people caught the intention of this movie - another great one from the 70s - to give a commentary on how such brutality completely destroys everyone who is involved in it. The Vietnamese War actually ruined many lives of people who never were there; had I been a parent in that era, I would have gladly sent my sons to Canada to prevent them from being drafted. Some "users" state the term "enlisted" - voluntary. Maybe a few did, but the majority of the men sent there were drafted; because the story was about White Russians in Pennsylvania, there weren't many African Americans in it. How ironic that is, because that race toward the end of the conflict, when troops were getting scarce, were the predominant men (barely out of their teens) who were sent to war. I think Cimino did a disservice to them; there should have been more in the hospital scene. I saw one.Younger people may not be aware of the uproar against this war. Just as President Bush has had to be slightly "untruthful" about his reasons for the "war on terror" in Iraq, Lyndon Johnson did not tell the whole truth about many actions he ordered for Vietnam. He was so distraught when the truth was made public, he decided not to run for re-election. Richard Nixon, along with the many other despicably criminal actions he was involved in, lied about heavily bombing Cambodia ("The Killing Fields"), he resigned the presidency rather than face being impeached. While shouting "democracy!", some of our presidents became meglamaniacs with the power that office holds. We can only wait to see how history handles Bush.......unfortunately, the world is heavily peopled with Muslims. Not all of them want to become Americans nor democratic; they know little of that. Their cultures are so much older than ours.There are a lot of films that depict the dreadful battles fought in Veitnam; "The Deer Hunter" mercifully showed only one major one, while concentrating on how brutality eventually causes insanity, with the total insanity of the Vietnamese to get out of Saigon. Our government turned its back on thousands of boys-hardly-yet-men, closing its eyes on their torture once they returned home. "The War on Terror" has produced almost as many ruined lives, plus sending troops ill-equipped to fight. Hmmmmmm.........DeNiro (Mike) actually prepared for his role by visiting steel-mills and meeting the workers and their stouthearted families. No wonder they drank so much ! "Trivia" also tells us the entire cast and crew slept on the floor of a warehouse for five days while those scenes were being shot. This is by far one of DeNiro's best roles; he was young and so energetic, and was given a beautiful script by Deric Washburn. Bravo! to DeNiro. Again, Bravo! to Christopher Walken (Nick) for his brilliant performance, and also John Savage (Steven) for his stellar acting in all of his scenes. Realism to the extreme. Meryl Streep (Linda) was so into her role, she actually adlibbed most of her lines; this was her audition for "Sophie's Choice". Johns Cazale (Stanley) was his usually obnoxious character, giving his final, great performance. Po Pao Pee (the "Russian roulette" referee) was the epitome of total detachment in those harrowing scenes, showing that some folk CAN ignore their participation in brutality - the bosses of the game stoically ate their meal and raked-in the cash for the final game. Julien Grinda (Pierre Segui) was the sole character left from decades of French colonialism in Vietnam and the mess they left it in, portraying people who manage to live through situations they cannot control. Cinematography rates a 10, at least......Yes, we needed that hour at the beginning of "The Deer Hunter" to become acquainted with those naive men who lived their lives to the fullest, before going off to war. It was necessary to know them to compare the misery all of their lives became. Several of the actors were injured; it was a dangerous movie to film. "Steven's" realization his wounds made him unfit for family life; "Nick's" addiction to heroin gave him the stamina to "roulette" for money; "Mike's" guilt for coming-out of it all whole, and failing to save "Nick", then loving "Nick's" lady; the introversion of "Steven's" wife; the solemn funeral and breakfast for "Nick"; all of this is the real "Deer Hunter".Life is like that. During "God Bless America" at the end, all of the characters knowing they intensely loved their country, no matter what, broke my heart. Yet, it also gave me strength to realize we Americans ARE a truly heroic people - not perfect, but mostly good - this is one of my favorite films, and again I want to rate a 50 to honor the gigantic effort it took to bring this thriller to the screen -
The Deer Hunter (1978) Another pseudo-war movie, only this time the action revolves around the conflict in Vietnam. Streep effectively portrays a young woman at home in the states who must deal with the effects of the war in her own psyche as well as the men who have gone off to fight.The part, though not a starring role, provides a great deal more screen time than was afforded Streep in Julia. And she makes the most of it. When adding this performance to her body of work, audiences can see a string of unforgettable characterizations that made her, arguably, America's greatest living and working actress.Starring Robert DeNiro and Christopher Walken among others, The Deer Hunter, along with another Vietnam movie made the following year, Apocalypse Now, remains one of the greatest war films ever made. It won the Oscar for Best Picture, and is a harrowing and poetic movie, not to be missed.


                
Look, I'm no expert on movies, but this is an incredibly great film filled with excellent actors and performances. And kudos to Michael Cimino, the director. I don't think there are many that can understand the depth of his artistry and genius. Deniro and Walken,..helps me remember why I love those guys. And for Meryl Streep fans, her beauty and performance will break your heart.


                
#2 The three main characters in "The Deer Hunter" have very different personalities which leads to different effects of their time in the war. Mike is a very linear, organized character which serves him well while he is in Vietnam. He manages to stay alive, unharmed physically, and protect the other characters to the best of his ability. When he returns from the war he is changed mentally. Mike had failed to bring Nick back with him as he had promised not to do. Between this broken promise, and the horrors he had to endure himself, Mike goes through minor mental changes when he returns. He holds a gun loaded with one bullet to his friend's head after he had been messing around with the loaded gun. Mike seems to have a minor case of PTSD involving guns. This is also seen when he purposefully misses shooting a deer. Nick was an emotional character from the beginning of the film. This trait served him well at home, but not in the war. Nick lost it when he was forced to play Russian Roulette for his life while he was a prisoner of war. This event had a severe impact on his life because it was his best friend, Mike, who forced him to do it so they could survive. Because he was such an emotional character, Nick was affected by the cruel game more than the others. Nick, unfortunately, did not make it home from the war. He spent his last few months at a Russian Roulette den in Saigon. He experimented with drugs and played the game because he was so far gone. in the end, it was the game that killed him. Steve was the third friend who went to Vietnam. Steve was a childish character before the war. He wasn't extremely mature or even aware of the world around him. This effected him terribly in the war. While playing Russian Roulette, Steve was crying and freaking out because it was so horrific to him. He was corrupted by the war and was forced to see and experience things he wasn't ready to experience. Steve was physically effected as well as mentally. He lost his legs and part of his arm during the war. All of these things that happened to the men because of the war could have been predicted to an extent. Mike is strong emotionally and physically, so he wouldn't be as effected by the war as most. Nick was emotional and therefore would be effected mentally. And Steve was the childish friend, so he would come out of the war different in some way. I don't think it could have happened another way. I wish Nick didn't have to die, but that was critical to the plot and outcome of the war on the men.
I don't want to say something like "Deer Hunter is the greatest Vietnam movie ever!" because that is not necessarily the case. It's different then most other Vietnam movies. That's for damn sure. Platoon and Apocalypse Now gave us a good picture of what it was like to be in the war, but Deer Hunter shows us what happened after. If you are wondering whether or not you should see it, then I would definitely recommend it, just for the comparison.But The Deer Hunter is also worth a watch for just for its merit as a film. It deserves a place on all top 100 lists. I have not been this moved by a film in awhile. It's one of those films where, at the end, the credits roll and you cannot seem to stand up or turn off the TV. You have to sit there.Also, watch out for the acting. Every character is masterful, even those with only a line. You will remember them. Deniro is as great as ever. I don't think he changes his expression the entire film, and yet he makes you feel what is going on in his head. And Meryl Streep... well, she's Meryl Streep. In every role I see her in I can't help thinking that she embodies her characters more fully then any other actor I have ever seen. This is the case in Deer Hunter as well.


                
The Deer Hunter (1978)Extraordinary. There is the worst of it, the Russian Roulette as a gambling game in the jungles of Vietnam and in the back rooms of Saigon. There are no restraints here. When people shoot themselves in the head, it's bloody and horrific. When they pull the trigger and survive, it has a different kind of horror, of surviving and realizing how incredible and insane this is.There is the best of it, the love between men, and between the people in this small iron making town in Pennsylvania. There is loyalty, drinking and hunting, bonding though just being there through everything, year after year.These two worlds collide because of the Vietnam War. But director Michael Cimino never makes it cheap. It is sensational, for sure, and people have complained every since the premier that the gambling scenes are exaggerated and rare, if even ever existing at all (there is no known proof of a single incident of Viet Cong playing Russian Roulette). There also have been complaints that the movie stereotypes the Vietnamese as sadistic, terrible people. The counter to that is that the movie isn't about all Vietnamese, but about these particular terrible ones.A larger point to remember is that this is a dramatic fictional movie. The roulette is hugely effective and also symbolic of the chaotic world of Vietnam. We don't need to believe it really happened to believe it happened in this fictional world. The result, the point of the movie, is the emotional intensity of going to war, of coming home, of figuring out what matters in relationships and violence. And maybe of realizing how little we really control our lives.One of the striking aspects of the film is its incredible mise-en-scene. The famous (and very long) wedding scene, the battle scenes in Nam (actually Thailand), and the more intimate bar and domestic scenes in what is supposed to be Pennsylvania are astonishing for their believable settings and details. The place this breaks down, and terribly, is when they go hunting in the Pennsylvania mountains and it looks like the rugged Pacific Cascades. Which it is--snowy peaks, huge mountains, the whole thing. It's dramatic, but it really disrupts what is otherwise a convincing world. (For people looking closely, there are glitches in the filming of these scenes, too, as the landscapes are intercut with shots of the hunters, and shots of big deer, and they don't really match geographically or even in the kind of light used.)But if you like to like movies, and want to just get sucked in and take things for what they are, regardless of their incorrectness (political or practical), you'll find one of the most disturbing and intense movies ever made about Vietnam. It comes a year before the bigger, glossier, and even more fictional "Apocalypse Now" and the two make an amazing pair, a deeply moving statement about America and Americans.


                
The Deer Hunter is one of the greatest movies ever made. Ironically when I first saw it I was not overly impressed, but for some reason watched it again. I ended up watching it many in times in a short period as I fell in love with the piece and still view the movie regularly.The story is about three men from Pennsylvania who go to fight in the Vietnam War and who's lives are forever changed by their experience. Robert De Niro, Christopher Walken and John Savage play the three friends Michael, Nick and Steven respectively. They are brilliantly supported by the likes of Meryl Streep and John Cazale (who was dying from bone cancer during the filming).The movie is well known for the infamous Russian roulette scenes, in some ways too much as the film is so much more than that. The film is a film of two halves - one pre-Vietnam and one during/after Vietnam. The first half is an almost perfect study of real life, the characters seem so real you can believe it is a real community. This is due to both the excellent work of the actors and fine direction by Michael Cimino.There are many great scenes of interaction between the characters simply living a "normal" life in their small American town. It is a stark contrast to the Vietnam part of the story and amazing performances by Walken and De Niro especially make you believe the change in them following their ordeal.It is quite simply a classic and a permanent member of my top three films of all time.


                
