"The story we tell ourselves about ourselves in order to account for what we are doing, is a lie. The truth lies outside, in what we do." - Zizek A near scene-for-scene remake of 1939's "The Four Feathers", Michael Cimino's "The Deer Hunter" tells the story of several friends (Robert DeNiro, Christopher Walken) from small town Pennsylvania. Early sequences watch as the gang work in a steel mill, congregate and go on hunting expeditions. Cimino's photography, aided by cinematographer Vilmos Zsigmond, is exceptional throughout, but his film quickly nosedives into pretentious, unintentionally funny territory. Cimino indulges in a prolonged wedding sequence (cribbed from Coppola who cribbed from Visconti), filters "Best Years of Our Lives" through a Vietnam era prism, has DeNiro run about naked like a Method Actor fishing for Oscars, and treats us to a forced sequence in which our heroes play Chopin on a piano whilst looking REALLY REALLY SERIOUS. This is a deep movie, see.The hell of Industrial America then becomes the hell of the Vietnam War. Here our heroes, now American soldiers, watch North Vietnamese "savages" kill civilians. They're then captured by the Vietnamese and made to play Russian Roulette. They survive this ordeal, but Walken's character is pushed into madness and begins to play Russian Roulette for money in a Saigon gambling hall. Symbolically unable to escape the damage done by Vietnam, he spends six years there, gambling with bullets. You'd think the law of averages would catch up with him, but no."Don't leave me over there," Walken tells his buddy DeNiro, which leads to DeNiro having the longest delayed reaction in the history of cinema. Eight years later he goes back to Saigon in the hopes of finding Walken, a missing person's search which is apparently really easy. They find each other, Walken commits suicide (partially to punish - and prove his love to - "best man" DeNiro), the film ends with a funeral and a silly, unearned scene in which our gang sing "God Bless America". You can feel Cimino straining with every scene to make a GREAT EPIC. The film won five Oscars.Like most Vietnam war movies, "Hunter" hinges on romanticised madness. Deer hunting becomes a metaphor for "virtuous, humane kills" and Russian Roulette becomes a metaphor for the madness inducing chaos of Vietnam. As is typical of racist war films, the Vietnamese are portrayed as grinning (their dialogue is not even Vietnamese), Oriental savages (introduced with propagandistic scenes showing the NVA killing babies and women) and the "reason" for US defeat is sidestepped by making the Vietnam war itself incomprehensible. Where else but in a wholly irrational country could the US lose a war? Whilst several sequences play with irony (Russian-Americans playing Russian roulette etc), Cimino's tale is one of solemn tragedy. An account of what evil, sadistic, barbaric Vietnamese did to poor, innocent Americans, the film, like "Apocalypse Now", oozes macho self pity with a dash of counter-culture disillusionment and strained appeals to high culture (Conrad, Eliot, Chopin songs, Orthodox hymns etc). The film is silly elsewhere, with random helicopter rescues, love triangles, many cheesy "dramatic" scenes and exploitative Roulette sequences (why's everyone in Saigaon playing Roulette?) which Cimino shoe-horned from another Las Vegas themed script he was working on. Some critics, like Jonathan Rosenbaum, spotted the film's hokiness right away. Pulitzer Prize winner Peter Arnett would call it a "simplistic lie".As with most war movies, the overriding message is "look what they did to us". Cimino perpetuates the racist stereotype that sustained much of America's involvement in Indochina, and hides behind designer madness and much irrationality. Compare to Pontecorvo's "Burn!", which offered a clear analysis of imperialist expansion, and "In the Year of the Pig" and "Hearts and Minds", two documentaries which the CIA waged war upon and whose theatres met with bomb threats.In 2012, the Pentagon began The Vietnam War Commemoration Project, a 13 year, 65 million dollar propaganda effort to clean up the image of the Vietnam war. What are they covering up? The fact that the North Vietnamese constituted a political movement with near total local, popular support, that the US artificially divided Vietnam in disregard of Geneva negotiations (becase Eisenhower knew over 80 percent of the population would vote for Ho Chi Minh), that the US put in place and backed psycho puppet leaders, that even the South didn't support the US, that the US did everything it could to prevent unification and scuttle elections, that 4 million Vietnamese died, that more bombs were dropped than in all previous wars combined, that tens of thousands were assassinated by the CIA's Phoenix Program, that nukes were threatened 13 times, that US land-mines still kill Vietnamese to this day (52000 and counting), that millions of gallons of poison, herbicide and chemicals were used, that US campaigns in Cambodia were directly responsible for the rise of the Khmer Rouge under Pol Pot (later supported with 89 million dollars) and the genocide which took place afterwards, that the first Tonkin Gulf incident was started by US aggression, that the second never happened, that over five million villagers were forcibly displaced, that political prisoners were jailed/tortured in "tiger cages" and that 90 percent of Northern levees, hospitals, villages, towns and industries were intentionally bombed. The US has similarly destabilised over 80 countries in the past 100 years. And yet here's a film with the NVA torturing small-town Americans.During and after the Iraq war, US soldiers committed suicide at a rate of 1 every 25 hours. This figure doesn't include attempted suicides (roughly 1900 in 2009 alone). In Vietnam, the number of US suicides totalled about 150,000. In real life, these vets were trapped in a double bind, unable to reconcile their belief that their conflict was righteous with their actual deeds; they thus nihilistically self-destructed. Cimino wants you to believe the opposite; that the NVA pushed men to suicide.3/10 – Depressing.
It's just boring. Over long Hollywood tripe, with some classic over acting by some classic over actors. The editing is appalling and confusing, the character development is useless. I'm actually annoyed I've wasted 3 hours of my day watching this trash.I recall attempting to watch the film in the past and never getting to the end, I've now remembered why, it's rubbish.Maybe in America it might have more impact, but that doesn't stop it being boring.There are many other films out there that attempt this type of war/character change style and do it much better, without making you want to put a gun to head.


                
The so-called hunters in this film are typical of why P.E.T.A. formed their animal rights group. These boozing bozos, who couldn't even go afield equiped with a pair of boots, sprayed and prayed the woods over until they finally ran some hapless quarry to ground.  A trio of these beerheads decide to quit their jobs at the foundry to go be patriotic in the Viet Nam conflict. But first the suds suckers go to a wedding. Then they suddenly are combat vets who wind up very suddenly: A. As a reclusive paraplegic B. Becoming a member of some super secret Russian Roulette fraternity C. Going home and cruising around in a cool Airborne uniform. This must have been an art form because it didn't play out like a movie. Thumbs down to this useless, meaningless time waster.


                
First of all, The Deer Hunter is boring. In the tradition of the Godfather there is a forty-five minute long wedding scene in the beginning where we learn absolutely nothing about the title characters except for that they are Eastern European, that they all like to get drunk and that three of them are joining the army even though all of them look well above maximum enlistment age. Then they go hunting and you learn that, okay they are all hunters. Next, with absolutely no back story, Michael (Deniro) is in the middle of a Vietnamese village when he reunites with his two friends from home. Then all of a sudden they are all in what looks like a POW camp where they play Russian roullete with the guards. Due to limited dialogue and even more limited plot structure most of this film makes absolutely no sense. Although the actors gave critically acclaimed performances, none has the opportunity to shine in my opinion. Also the director obviously had no military advisors on set because he would have known not to put in several details, (fellow soldiers could point them out immediately). Overall I was disappointed because the cast is very promising and even the concept is kind of intriguing, but the movie is just a mess and too poorly edited for a plot to be deriven from it at any point. This should not be called a war film just a boring ass movie wherein Christopher Walken looks really young, that's all. Oh and Meryl Streep looks pretty hot.
The Deer Hunter is hands down the worst war movie I've seen.  It's a shame that the few powerful moments and fine performances that are here are completely wasted.  Who on Earth wants to see long, boring, and totally pointless scenes of monotonous daily life amongst a bunch of uncharismatic people?  Character development is one thing.  We don't need to see two hours of beer drinking, pool shooting, and especially the extended wedding sequence if absolutely none of it is relevant and not the least bit entertaining.  By the time the film's few genuinely moving scenes do arrive, they are too little, too late.  If you haven't seen The Deer Hunter and are viewing all the positive comments here, please take what I've said into consideration.


                
Three friends, Mike Vronsky (Robert De Niro), Steven Pushkov (John Savage), and Nick Chebotarevich (Christopher Walken), find their lives affected in different ways by the horrors of war.50 minutes, give or take a few: that's how long the opening wedding sequence takes in Michael Cimino's The Deer Hunter. It starts with the preparation, followed by the ceremony itself, and finishes at the reception where there is much drinking and dancing. It's about as much fun as being at a real wedding where you know none of the guests (other than your partner) and are forced to remain sober because you're the one doing the driving home. You want it all to end as soon as possible, but your other half insists on just one more drink (and another, and another) while she chats with all of her friends.Having bored the viewer to death with the wedding, Cimino then proceeds to numb the senses further with some dreary hunting scenes in the mountains, after which the film finally cuts to Nam for a little war action. Here we are treated to the infamous Russian roulette torture sequence, which is arguably the highlight of the film, both suspenseful and terrifying. But don't worry, we're soon back to the drudgery as the main characters escape capture, Mike returning to his steelworks hometown, Nick remaining in Saigon (to earn cash by taking part in Russian roulette games in seedy gambling dens), and Steven recuperating in a veterans hospital. Eventually, Mike decides to find Nicky and bring him home, which he does—with a bullet in his head, his luck having finally run out.Winner in 5 categories at the 1979 Oscars: Best Picture, Best Actor in a Supporting Role, Best Director, Best Film Editing (seriously?), and Best Sound. Superman The Movie might have only won one Academy Award that same year, for Visual Effects, but I'd rather watch a man fly than hunt deer any day of the week.
Let's see now.  A wedding, a deer hunt, Russian roulette; andthree steelers go to War.  For 182 minutes of empty pseudospectacle, which makes the fatal error of making itself seemImportant, when in fact it is a pretentious, incoherent, repellentfilm, which soon becomes an ordeal to sit through.  This is what Ifelt on March 9, 1979; my opinion has not changed, and I have notseen it again. Presumably the most forgotten Best Picture winner of the 70s, anddeservedly so.  Plenty of competition, though.  That stupid Stingmovie, for one.


                
Despite managing to give fleeting impressions of importance and quality, this film is a complete put-on. The long "set-piece" scenes (wedding, Russian roulette, etc.) are much discussed, usually either in the context of being "essential for character development" or "boring". In fact they're a delaying mechanism behind which the filmmaker attempts to hide his lack of storytelling skills. Once he does try to move things along, awkwardly jumping without explanation or exposition from one bloated set-piece to another, you can see the reason for his procrastination - despite being desperate to give the impression of profundity and truth, he really has nothing to say. The actors go a long way toward diverting attention from the film's awkward vacuousness, by giving false and short-lived impressions of character and narrative, but this falls apart whenever the filmmaker attempts to make anything "happen" narrative-wise.De Niro, Walken and company deserve some recognition for some good acting, albeit for such a misguided cause. Ultimately, despite some controversy, many of the film's questionable portrayals of Vietnam, Vietnamese, America, Americans and war are to be condemned more for their cinematic silliness than for their historical inaccuracy.


                
Although this film had good acting (except walken, who was excellent) this film just sucked. the first hour of the film could have easily been 20 minutes.there arnt vietnam scenes in the movie besides the russian roulette scene (which i admit was well done), and it was just all around boring. dont get me wrong, i like alot of boring movies with very little action, even none, but this just wasnt interesting. maybe i didn't like it so much because i expected a movie with drama, but also good battles and war scenes ( Saving Private Ryan for example) and got a boring movie. i guess ill rent it again in a couple of years and know before hand this is a full drama, instead of drama/war ***/**********


                
I can't believe that The Deer Hunter won five Oscars, primarily because its story doesn't make any sense.First of all, I'm positive that the writers of this film don't know anything about military service. How can De Niro and his native friends get drafted in the same platoon? It's impossible that Uncle Sam would make such an arrangement for them pals.Secondly, Meryl Streep and some friends are gathered in their home town to welcome De Niro as he is returning from battlefield, but he avoids seeing them. How do they know he's coming back if De Niro hasn't phoned them earlier?Thirdly, De Niro has a hard time finding one of his comrades, John Savage, who is hospitalized and doesn't want anybody to know his miserable condition. Yet Savage has been receiving "American money" from Christopher Walken in Vietnam. How does Walken know where he is? especially when Walken is already half-crazy at the time.You can't make a film without real experiences. This Vietnam War turkey is miles behind Oliver Stone's Platoon.


                
This movie was a disappointment from start to finish.  The only part of the movie worth watching was the 15 minutes actually spent in Viet Nam.  DeNiro and Walken are fine actors.  They are not to blame for my opinion of the film.  They simply were the victims of a very thin plot based upon, of all things, "Russian Roulette".  I feel that I need not expound on this further. If I were to continue this review any further, you might feel as though you were watching the 30 minute wedding reception contained within the movie. For heaven's sake, the tape of my wife and my wedding does not contain this much reception footage.Please spare yourself the 3 hours and 3 minutes if you have not yet seen this picture.  Spend the time with your children.  Heck, spend the time on the internet, it will stand less chance of disappointing you.


                
An entire two-hour movie about Russian roulette!  How boring!  Performances are fairly good, but character motivation is minimal.  I believe the movie makes the point that the Vietnam War had some bad effect on the people who fought it.  Perhaps this was breaking new ground when the movie was made, but it's no surprise today.


                
The French character who introduces Nicky to the Roulette den clearly symbolizes France getting America into the hornets nest of Vietnam. The character is excited and really wants Nicky to see the den, while France wanted aid from the United States in Vietnam. After the character introduces him to the den, he is relatively uncooperative, especially with Mike when he goes back to get Nicky. This is comparable to the behavior of France after the US gets involved in Vietnam. The French ask why we are bothering the Vietnamese even though they were the ones who asked for our involvement. Both France and the character in the movie are uncooperative and "play dumb" after they get what they want from America and the American soldier. This symbolizes that France is immature and irresponsible and back out when the going gets rough.
I really dislike this movie for several reasons. First, because, from an historical point of view, it seems to me highly politically incorrect. In fact, it describes Vietnam war in a too partial and superficial way. Partial because Vietcongs (vietnam soldiers) are always and only seen as bad and cruel, whereas us soldiers are all somewhat heroes. Other movies, by other (us !) directors, like Oliver Stone, describes THAT war in a very different manner, showing heroism (sometimes) and cruelty (so often !) on both sides. In my opinion, the movie is also superficial because, talking about war in general, describes war as some sort of a "hard competition" between adult men. I am wondering if not only Vietnam war but only one of modern wars fits this description. I am afraid that all modern wars, Vietnam war included, are better described as long sequences of useless massacres involving innocent women, babies, old men and women. As a last observation, in my opinion some sequences are really absurd. Which is the probability that one survive Russian roulette FOR MONTHS ? Which is the probability that two caught soldiers get free from their enemies without any help from outside by simply taking the guns from their enemies trousers ? In this respect, I think a mistake concerning the chosen genre has been done. Some sort of things MAY happen in adventure movies like "star wars" or "raiders of the lost ark", but not in a dramatic one, where events shown needs to be believable.


                
I saw this film when it was released back in 1978 and I wasn't impressed. Just finished watching it on VHS and I am still not impressed. "Coming Home" which was one of the contenders for Best Picture for that year should have won as it was a far better movie and quite possibly may have won if Jane Fonda wasn't in it. In any case Deer Hunter was a big disappointment, for me anyway. DeNiro as usual played over the top when he should have been low key but then again I was never a big fan of his. Chris Walken on the other hand is one of the greatest actors of out time and his supporting Oscar was well deserved. In fact the movie could have been edited down by an hour with more concentration on Walken's character. Another thing that bothers me is the way they dressed DeNiro up as though he were Audie Murphy. He was drafted along with his buddies which meant a two year hitch and he wears a three year chevron on his arm and the "time in combat" hashes on his other sleeve show at least three years of combat???. Add to that all the ribbons and badges and it just doesn't work. Obviousely nobody paid attention to detail in this area and it shows .
The skill of a director, like a painter and a writer, is to be able to make the right choices: to be able to prioritize elements into balance relative with each other over the course of a movie, a book or on canvas. This makes the meaning of the artistic object stronger; it helps convey its purpose, it defines the good from the great artist with all the requisite skills.This quality is brought out in Jackson Pollock, whose works baffles and angers many as just a plane of drips of equal measure without focus or balance. This is of course utterly wrong as Pollock's work is highly structured, layered; the operating intelligence and skill forms the work.To a degree Pollock seems like a good simile to this film. It has a vast canvas, it is along work and yet it exemplifies the narrow ability, the stunted skills. For instance, real time and cinematic time are often rendered in the same way so there are many long sequences of no real value which strain interest but as they progress, rather like cinéma vérité, they intend to add to the truth of the representation but do not because the cinema is not reality. It is this essential flaw which then weighs down the entire film to the result that all the major scenes are very long, overly so, and they are given almost equal screen time, as if to articulate that all is of the same significance.This is defect is a cardinal error in an artistic work. Imagine a novel doing such a thing, the minutiae would be so enormous the writer would be crippled typing it all.It is said that in post-production Cimino could not remove sequences - that he succumbed to the basic mistake of not being able to give priority to the material. However it's not that editing could revise the movie into a tighter more engaging experience with better perspective. If that were possible it would cut the duration and truncate the material which would in all likelihood yield another 'Days of Heaven', a meandering narrative disaster itself. The fault with 'The Deer Hunter' lies in the script, it has everything tossed into it: friendship, love, war, ethnic culture, the US; the list goes on and on, and with all that it its architecture is riddled with dry rot.The result is monotonous, pompous, rambling and inevitable.Not even the technical qualities can salvage something despite excellent photography, and the sense of place and location is very good too, as are the performances from a major cast; and yet, the most important decisions about balance and proportion were not made because those that should have known how to do it had no skill. This deficit would be demonstrated in the subsequent work.


                
I remember watching this movie when it was first telecast on network TV. I was spending the evening with my dad and we decided to watch this movie which had been hyped for the previous week. It was a common trait for movies to be slow to start, but they would usually start getting interesting around 30 minutes into them. Several times during this movie it would seem as if the movie was really starting to get good and then it would just die. After the movie was over I remember looking at my dad and saying that I was still waiting for the movie to begin. He smiled and said "Me too." Other than spending an evening with my dad before he passed away, it was a waste of time. (We both got a chuckle out of these east coast steel town guys hunting deer in the mountains near Mt Baker in Washington State though) Ever since the Deer Hunter, I've looked at the best picture award as being a clear indication of a boring and meaningless movie. Or a movie that tries so hard to be artsy or give a message that it forgets to be entertaining. With a few exceptions in the past 25 years, they usually are.


                
Without the shock impact of the Russian roulette scenes, this was a highly boring, far too long film.  The acting was great - it just took forever to establish anything. The other night I alternated between it and an episode of "Law and Order" and was amazed when I returned to it, how little had taken place.


                
"The Deer Hunter" was a very informative film about the Vietnam War. During the beginning of the movie, one could never tell that the movie would end so tragically. It started with four friends, Michael, Steven, Nick and Stan. The four friends worked together at the factory and enjoyed their simple lives by partying and hunting together. Mike, Steven and Nick end up in Vietnam and undergo many challenges such as playing Russian Roulett at the POW camp and trying to escape. This part of the film was very graphic and I didn't like it. I don't understand why such an enormous part of the film was about playing Russian Roulett considering that there wasn't any evidence that this game was played for sport or combat in Vietnam. I wish that there was more historically accurate occurrances in the film. I was also surprised when Mike wanted to leave Steven at the POW camp trapped in the underwater cage because I thought that Mike would want to save his friend. I'm glad that Mike and Nick got away but things didn't end up well for Nick because he became MIA and got into really bad things in Saigon. Nick was my favorite character and it made me very sad to find out that he was taking opium and couldn't remember Mike. The worst part of the film was when Nick loses Russian Roulett to Mike and Mike has to watch his best friend die. Everything was so different after the men came home from the war. Mike was sufferring from Post Traumatic Stress Disorder while Steven was missing a majority of his limbs and sanity. It is a shame that Nick had to lose his life to sport in the war rather than making it with his friends or fighting for his country.
In the film the deer hunter, after the wedding, Mike and the others escort the newlyweds to the car and mike begins running down the street streaking. When Nick eventually catches up to Mike, Mike is sitting naked at a basketball court, leaning against the pole of the basketball hoop. Nick puts his jacket over Mike. Nick then proceeds to talk about going to Vietnam. Nick tells Mike how he likes his job. Nick says how he loves his friends, and his house and everything about the small town he lives in. He then tells Mike that he needs to promise him that he wont leave him there. Mike after laughing agrees, realizing how serious Nick is.When in Vietnam, Nick gets shot in the leg while escaping after being captured. Mike and the others find a helicopter and although he gets Nick safely in, Steve falls out and Mike follows him knowing Steve can't survive this war alone. Once Nick is healed, he cannot remember anything. He eventually leaves the hospital and after turning down a woman at a party, he notices something outside and goes to find it. Upon doing so, he meets a man who once again introduces Nick to Russian roulette. Mike once saw Nick, but they were separated. Eventually after realizing Nick is still alive, because he has been sending money to Steve, Mike goes back for Nick, keeping the promise he had made before they left for the war. However after going through great lengths to get in, and going on the second round of Russian roulette, Nick dies from the game, and Mike has to bring him home in a body bag rather than as he left.


                
I think that the Russian Roulet sequence shows how everyday that they spend in Vietnam is taking a chance at their lives, ever chamber in the gun represents a day and the chamber that has the bullet is the day they die. I totally agree with this because the Vietnam war was not the typical war, it was south vs. north, all the people looked the same we could not easily identify our enemy. These enemies were not the typical enemy, no more than Russian Roulette is the typical thing that prisoners of war play with their captures. When Nick and Micheal play Russian roulet in the end I think that one of the reasons that Nick dies is because he has spent the most days in Vietnam, he has gone through the most empty gun chambers. Micheal lives because in symbolism he has had as many days or empty chambers as Nick.
