I am a Vietnam combat veteran who served with the 25th Infantry Division in 1970. I have just made a quick look thru the comments on here about this movie. Most are by folks who have not the slightest idea about what the Vietnam War was like, but are quick to call this one of the "best". Cimino 's choice of backdrop for the characters in the movie was very well done...However, he miserably fails in many aspects of the military service of the three characters. From Michael's full beard, to the inaccuracies of his uniform, to the amount of time lapse in the movie, it is all bothersome to me, not to mention the "russian roulette" sequences with Nick near the end...there doesn't seem to be evidence that this ever happened in real life. All the above having been said, I believe Meryl Streep gives a wonderful performance as someone who was left behind during the war and suffered from the effects. If one can overlook many of the flaws in this movie, there is a good story here. However, as being an accurate depiction of the Vietnam War it fails.
Wow. What an overrated movie. Alternately dull and incoherent. The pacing (both too slow and too fast, depending on the scene) lends support to the idea that everyone in Hollywood was doing drugs in the 70s. Frequently unbelievable in silly ways. (When the steel workers sit around in the bar and quietly listen to their buddy play the piano? When DeNiro's character manages to get back into Vietnam via a copter ride to US Embassy roof DURING the American evacuation?)The worst part however is watching every cog turn while a group of young method actors, mostly from rather artsy East Coast backgrounds and educations, try like crazy to BE the down-trodden denizens of a Pennsylvania mining town. FEEL the grit. SENSE the hopelessness. TOUCH the importance of faith and loyalty. MAKE YOURSELF ONE with the poverty.Feh!(By the way, I have nothing against artsy East Coast credentials -- I carry them myself -- or method acting per se. I just found them cloyingly obvious in this movie.)Try Platoon or Apocalypse Now instead.


                
Just wasted three hours of my life watching this highly acclaimed war film, hmmmm....it took 1 hour and 6 minutes before the film actually got to the war part! If you hadn't fallen asleep by this stage you would have completely missed it.The thing that sticks out most in my mind is the fact that most of the characters spent a lot of time getting drunk.....a bunch of grown men behaving like adolescents.Without the Russian Roulette scenes this film would be completely unremarkable. Another film that is more critic/filmmakers fare rather then the average cinema goer.


                
Coming soon after the United States had suffered a humiliating defeat trying to prop up a corrupt minority government in Vietnam and the unemployment rate in the "rust belt" was making national news, rising but fiscally uncontrolled director Michael Cimino assembled some of the greatest of the new generation of university trained actors for what amounts to a phony artistic commercial pandering to the great middle American "silent majority" who didn't know (and didn't care) how the world could have turned against them.Because the story seemed "edgy" with extreme, seemingly unmotivated violence (the Vietnam torture and "Russian Roulette" scenes are all many of its fans remember from the film) and justly flaunted the layered performances which Cimino drew from his superb cast and cinematographer, many if not most critics (and the Motion Picture Academy of Arts and Sciences) hailed it as a major work of art. It holds its reputation today because the world (for many of the same reasons - not to mention the self centered world view of a couple "cowboy" presidents) has remained a violent place and frequently unfriendly to well meaning Americans. What THE DEER HUNTER actually is is a piece of S&M pornography stroking "Middle America" with the illusion that nothing is their fault and the rest of the world is even more mindlessly violent than the unemployed steelworker who defines his existence by how freely he can kill animals with his (unregulated) gun. That they can identify with; it takes no deep thought or understanding.The tragedy (and irony) in the over-praise heaped on the excessively unpleasant (but well made) DEER HUNTER is that some years later, when Cimino directed an actual masterpiece tying together the mythology and history of the American East and West - with an only slightly less accomplished cast - HEAVEN'S GATE was eviscerated for all the same excesses the director produced to far less effect in THE DEER HUNTER, the film proved a financial disaster and destroyed the producing studio.While the later film was epic in proportion and had sex and violence aplenty, IT lacked the S&M, torture and kinky sexual overtones - and sadly, the audience that flocked to THE DEER HUNTER. One must suspect the two were not unrelated, and THAT'S a real shame.


                
Is that it? Is that the famous Deer Hunter which provoked the studios into giving the same director a seemingly limitless budget for Heaven's Gate? What were they thinking? Perhaps from this distance in time it's hard for someone, already familiar with the string of very unpleasant Vietnam movies which followed, to appreciate the impact this movie made on first release. It must be said APOCALYPSE NOW , though earlier, stands up much better and is certainly superior in it's production values, direction and plot. Viewing THE DEER HUNTER in the 21st century , it seems like a rather dull character piece which just happens to involve a 'Nam subplot but could equally have been set in the 1940s and involve Iwo Jima or Anzio. It also features a massivly underedited wedding scene which goes on and on and on.OK for those interested in how it's done in a Russian Orthadox way, but very self indulgent of the director. In truth the wedding itself with endless dancing, and song adds almost nothing of remote importance to the movie. It colours the background, but that needed only a five minute sequence which, if edited well from the footage here, could have been quite visually arresting. It really seems a waste of what must be more than 30 minutes of film(maybe longer I wasn't counting, I was almost snoring).It also seems to ape THE GODFATHER in some respects. There are redeeming factors. Industrial Pensylvania with it's grim steel works and nightmare landscape, is well photographed, reminding us of the how the back streets of New York were presented in MIDNIGHT COWBOY. The glorious mountain country of the deer hunting scenes also looks great, but the plot is so dull,so predicatable and so heavily laced with allegories that it negates all those positive aspects.  DeNiro is good. Nothing more. Walken is probably better, but then his role is more interesting. Streep actually looks really good - we forget how attractive she looked at this time before sinking herself into character roles that didn't require such. She plays her role well but it's woefully underwritten. War movie cliches abound, even if we allow for the fact most Nam films since have drawn heavily on THE DEER HUNTER , I am sure most of these 'war is hell' cliches had been formed in Audi Murphy and John Wayne movies decades earlier.The whole point of the title is a scene so predictable you can almost count yourself into it at first viewing. There's also some truly clumsy use of stock news footage of Saigon at the end of the war. It looks like someone pasted this in having forgotton to shoot the scene, and not relaised untill the movie reached the editing room! Even if the budget was small there was no need for this in my view . None of the stock footage images are of any great dramatic importance and could easily have been dropped altogether. All in all I must say a huge disappointment for a movie I have waited 20 years to catch and which has such a high rating in the all-time-greats. Like LORD OF THE RINGS it's a monument to hype over content.


                
A ten-year-long war.  I was in Jr. High when it started and ended up over there after going to college for 1 1/2 years.Split into four zones, the weather was different in each one, the enemy acted differently in each one, and our responses were different in each one. And that's all at one definite time, let alone over a ten year period.
The Deer Hunter was not my war, nor that of any of my Veteran friends.  It tripped fewer of my triggers than any movie I have watched on the subject so far.  I cannot, and do not, relate to it.  Of course that is not to say anything about the quality of the acting and filming of the movie, just the content.If you want to see something that says more about the subject than any other that I know of see, "Dear Mom: Letters Home from Vietnam."  The Deer Hunter is simply a "script-writer" version of what the writer imagined the war was like.  I was very disappointed with it.


                
If any film goes around in an ever decreasing circle, it's this pretentious effort from Cimino. The title is misleading for starters. If I see a movie called The Deer Hunter, I want to see DEERS. Lots of them. Instead we are given pointless scenes of war and weddings that do nothing but get in the way of the deer scenes. The deers in this movie are particularly lovely. Grazing and galloping all over the place. Nasty Robert De Niro nearly kills one but it psychically tells him not too and it's all OK. This film could be better if edited down to just the deer scenes and we can all enjoy it without blood and guts getting in the way of the light and enjoyable stuff.
******Spoiler always possible******Like many of you who already commented I was sucked in but academy awards and reputation. I know many would find this insane but I prefer John Woo's Bullet in head(Chinese rip-off). Woo was at least willing to get to the point.How for the love of God did that wedding reception get past,the studio,editors didn't anyone have sense to put a stop to this?
The only scenes that really did anything for the parts in vietnam. At the same time as someone who thinks hunting down animals for sport is disgusting. After watching a bunch of drunk losers kill a beautiful animal like deer for no reason but "sport" it was hard for me to feel sympathy for them. The way the filmmakers depicted the people of vietnam was simplistic and offensive. As if they did nothing but russian roulette. Give me a break.I think there were a few really excellent moments but mostly I would have to say no. Overrated.
This is not the most realistic film about Vietnam ever, in fact, it is so completely unrealistic that I couldn't help but become agitated at nearly every turn.First, the opening of this film drags on for way too long and the style of the wedding sequence is a total rip off of Godfather and any John Cassavetes film. Every point it gets across could have been established much more effectively in a shorter period of time.With that said, all of the Vietnam sequences are completely contrived. I noticed that a few others have pointed out the same mistakes that I saw, like, there is no way in hell that all three of those guys would wind up in the same village at the same time during a one year tour! Robert Deniro was Special Forces and the other two were regular army. If you don't know what I mean by that statement, then do some research people! Robert Deniro with a full grown beard in uniform? Yeah right! The Russian Roulette sequence? Yeah, country villagers turned Vietcong would know what Russian Roulette is. Sure! And they would bet on it too! How very western an idea! And that ending... By the way, where did Deniro get all of that money? He certainly didn't get it from the sock drawer! I could go on a lot more pointing out all of the ridiculous things about the film that ultimately make it unworthy of even watching. There are a few smatterings of realism spread throughout, but they're overshadowed by contrivances. One of those smatterings is John Savage's wife's reaction to the loss of his legs. Too bad it wasn't a large enough a redemption to save the film.Michael Cimino never made a good film in his life and this is certainly no exception.


                
To be honest, I was disappointed to see how people were so in love with this movie.  I found it generally to be uneven, boring one moment and deeply disturbing the next.  However, my main problem with the film is more with its mythological take on the war.  The fact that its re-interpretation of Vietnam has been so easily accepted by the vast majority of viewers makes it scarier.  I don't want to write my dissertation on the danger of cinema remaking history, but when you watch this film ask some critical questions about what it is saying to viewer about the past.  E.g. Why are the Americans always the victims of Asian aggression?  Why is the political/social/historical aspect of the conflict completely excluded (We see Saigon falling, but are not asked to see our role in the ensuing chaos)? Why is the tragedy of Vietnam exclusively its corruption of innocent American boys, over and over and over again? Just thought I'd add this perspective because movies, if they choose to deal with heavy subjects and want to be taken as a serious artistic statement, have to then accept the responsibility of affecting peoples understanding of history.


                
This is a film that looks at a group of close friends in a Pennsylvania rust belt town before getting deployed to Vietnam, briefly depicts their combat experience, and then refocused on their efforts to reintegrate back into society. People looking for a more traditional war movie will find it very boring. Interesting portrayal of the fall of Saigon. Brian Ghilliotti


                
The next comment is on the Russian roulette sequence of the film "Deer Hunter."In the movie, the main characters are drafted into the Viet Nam war. Captured and tortured, these characters are made to play games of Russian roulette. None of these characters die, however, they become mentally, and physically abused and will never be the same again. The idea of Russian roulette, though highly explored in the movie, has no relevance in the the actual Viet Nam war and was never plaid. So why add the gruesome details of this game into the story? The point of adding this game is so simple, it is easily disregarded. The game was added for symbolism purposes. The fact of Viet Nam is that there are three ways one can return from the war. A man can return dead, psychologically disturbed, or Physically maimed. The entrance into the war is literally a lose, lose situation. In the game Russian roulette, it is also a lose, lose situation. If a man plays long enough he can die, if a man doesn't play very long he can still become mentally hurt, and in Steve's case, in the film a man can also be wounded by the gun by just grazing his head.Personally I believe this sequence of Russian roulette playing is stupid. If they didn't actually play the game in Viet Nam, why add it? The symbolism purposes that the director uses are very interesting, but I believe there are other ways that it could have been done without adding something that wasn't even in the war.
I finally saw this film after a friend of mine had highly recommended it, and urged me to see it. Unfortunately, I was severely disappointed. The movie lacked substance and was void of any real character development. One hour into the movie, and I had no better understanding of how these small-town Pennsylvania steel workers lived.We were shown their poverty, their simple way of life, and their vibrant Russian Orthodox culture, but it was nothing more than a voyeuristic trip. We didn't get beyond the stereotypical surface. This being the equivalent of a movie trying to capture the essence of Washington, DC life and merely showing politicians in front of monuments.We didn't get a feel for who the characters were, what they stood for, and how Vietnam affected them besides making them nearly mute.In addition: Why were the hunting scenes that were supposed to take place in the Allegheny mountains of Pennsylvania, shot in Washington State? Strange considering they actually did most of the small-town scenes in PA and Ohio.Also, Oliver Stone's "Born of the Fourth of July" makes the Deer Hunter look like a B-movie.


                
During the midst of the malaise of the late 1970's, Michael Cimino's "The Deer Hunter" inexplicably hit a chord with critics and movie-audiences.The story is about working-class pals from a Pennsylvania mill town who end-up being destroyed physically and/or mentally due to their experiences in the Vietnam War. The characters are Hollywood script-writer stereotypes of blue-collar America: mill employed, cheap beer swilling, and deer hunting macho-men whose misguided patriotism led them to believe that fighting in Vietnam was the right thing to do. These were the dummies who got duped into fighting while all the "smart" kids headed for Canada, enlisted in the National Guard/Coast Guard or hid-out on college campuses."The Deer Hunter" was one of the first films to actually address the Vietnam War and its alleged effects upon its veterans. Hollywood had for the most part studiously avoided the subject. Yet, three years after the war's ignominious end American film audiences decided that it was time to view the subject. However, why they thought "The Deer Hunter" was the proper vehicle to address America's hangover from the Vietnam War is beyond me.This is an overlong, over-indulgent, and incoherent film that says a lot more about its director's ego than the Vietnam War. The Vietnam scenes are beyond silly which consist mostly of our lunch-pail heroes being forced to perform Russian Roulette for the entertainment of their Viet Cong captors. B-grade Hollywood Korean War films about the Commie brainwashing of GI Joe POWs are more realistic and honest. It would take another eight years before Hollywood actually did Vietnam War veterans some justice with Oliver Stone's "Platoon." However, until "Platoon," "The Deer Hunter" stood as one of "the" Vietnam War movies.The late Michael Cimino is now mostly forgotten. However, for a brief moment he was mentioned alongside Francis Ford Coppola, Martin Scorsese, and others as a top director of American cinema. The critical and box-office success of "The Deer Hunter" was responsible for that reputation. However, the seeds of Cimino's downfall from the A-list were planted during the making of that film. Cimino's penchant for budgetary excess and exceeding perfectionism were already on display with "The Deer Hunter" which saw delays and went seriously over-budget. An example of Cimino's over-excess was his decision that the Allegheny Mountains and Whitetail deer of Pennsylvania were not picturesque enough so he had the entire production moved to Washington so he could film in the Cascade Mountains with imported Asian red deer. "The Deer Hunter's" success allowed Cimino to get away with those kind of excesses, but he and United Artists would not be so lucky on his next film- the disastrous box-office bomb "Heaven's Gate" which nearly bankrupted UA and practically destroyed Michael Cimino's career and reputation.One last thing is that despite Cimino's reputation as an arch-perfectionist the overall look of "The Deer Hunter" is wrong. The bulk of the film is supposed to take place in the mid-to-late 1960's, but everything about it looks like the late 1970's. Yes, actors in the late 70's were loathe to cut their hair because they knew it would make getting other acting jobs more difficult, but still if one is going to make a period piece then at least try. George Lucas got his actors to wear appropriate hairstyles for "American Graffiti," but crazy perfectionist Cimino couldn't get his cast to do likewise?


                
After watching this movie i left a lasting impression of how horribly slow this movie is. The movie was so boring but i thought it would pick up and it never did. a good chunk of the movie is a wedding scene with almost no dialogue. They shouldn't called this movie wedding rehearsals,3 minutes of deer hunting, 10 minutes of war and an ending that just pisses you right off. This is by far the most over rated movie of its time, excluding blade runner a decade later. There is almost no real entertainment to be had in this film. The messages of the movie are cliché's about how war changes people but its been done much better other films. If you want to sit there for over 2 hours and watch a tedious wedding rehearsal with a few minutes of actual content then you'll love this, if your not then avoid this like the plague and just watch the 5 minute trailer everything that this movie has to offer is shown in the trailer on the DVD, including the "surprise" ending.


                
i consider myself a movie fan, and was slightly embarrassed that this movie slipped through my net. So i bought it cheap from amazon. At last i finally get to see this 'masterpiece'. i consider the film to be in 3 parts. The first part i thought was slow but introduced us to the characters well, and the scenes of the town where these people live, show us perfectly why the thought of going to war appeals to them.Then all of a sudden we are transported to a village in Vietnam, no hint of training or preperation. Then it jumps from scene to scene, to where we find our 3 characters captured.....together, just the start of too many coincidences. There escape is far too easy, Michael managing to carry Steve to safety.....when in reality the prison camp would have a lot further away. The horrors they live with are based on the roulette scene, the shots in Vietnam should have been at least 30 mins longer, and showed a hint of the true horrors witnessed. in truth, at some points i thought i was watching a Vietnam spoof film.the third part of the film is the heroes return, which were OK with some convincing scenes, particularly The scene where Michael goes to collect Steve from the VA Hospital, but again i was disappointed. By the time Michael returns to Vietnam to fulfil his promise to Nick, i had lost interest.I am going to watch Born On The Forth Of July again........and i know i wont be disappointed
I had heard a lot about this film, so made a major effort to rent and watch it. I was somewhat disappointed. I could not figure out if this film was meant to focus on the portion on life in PA, or in Vietnam. It's almost as if there were 2 films made "Life in Average-ville, PA" and "Horrors of Vietnam War" and they were fused together. Somehow, I did not feel any sorrow/angst for the people who were playing Russian roulette for money, which made the end of the movie somewhat 'blah' for me. The POW-Russian roulette scenes were very gripping. The movie focused so much on this Russian roulette issue that I was beginning to wonder if this is the national sport of Vietnam. Is it? Does anyone know? There were several other ways to show the 'impact of the war' <U+0096> focus on the loneliness of the widows/wives left behind. Or, show some more of the suffering of the Vietnamese people. They seemed to be mere 'extras' in the movie.


                
I don't think there's ever been a movie more dedicated to making me feel just awful. I realize how horrid and cruel war is, but to have it shoved down my throat in such a brutal manner was very unnerving and only left me with an upset stomach and shaking my head. I don't know just how accurate it's telling was, but all I could do was cringe and look away through most of it. The only reason I gave it four stars was because of the stellar acting performances by DeNiro, Walken, Streep and the others. In fact, I think it was their believeablity that made me have such a strong reaction to the film. There's nothing I appreciate more than our soldiers and veterans, whom I feel are getting the fuzzing end of the lollipop when it comes to what they deserve for their service to this country, and I'm sure that's one of the reasons this movie left me with an incredibly bad taste in my mouth. This is one of those films that you either hate or love and it seems there's really no in between with it's ratings. Sorry all you The Deer Hunter fans, I know where you're coming from, but for me, this movie literally hurts too much to watch.


                
I was looking forward to this film with all my heart but the results were frustrating. The plot is weak, relying on the sock scenes. There are problems with the pace of the film, making some moments feel unearned. And the representation of the Vietnam war is ludicrous, not an ounce of truth to be found. I suppose that it is not the film intention to be a war film but the thing is that it fails miserably at its true objective. There are films like Born on the 4th of July that have made a perfect role in translating the scars and social rupture of the war in the USA landscape.


                
This movie has an awful story line. It very boring. It is also very depressing. Do not see this movie. If you like boring crap then you should see this movie. It is no 8.2 that is just overrating it. This is a 4. And nothing more then that. I am a young man I am 33. If I were Vietnam Veteran maybe I would have like this movie a lot more. One of Christopher Walken's better movies would Sleep Hollow. And one of the better of Robert De Niro's movies would be Frankenstein. This is not a good movie. If you like good war movies. Do not see this one. This is awful. Do not see it.


                
Mike goes back to Vietnam to find and bring back Nick because before they left for Vietnam he had promised him he would not leave him there. Mike came back without him and realized Nick was still alive and over there when he visited the other friend Steve in the hospital because Nick has been sending him tons of cash from Saigon. So Mike goes back to Vietnam (no one knows how he ends up getting to the country as Saigon is falling to the NVA) to fill the promise and also because Nick's fiancé is all over Mike and he doesn't want to do anything with her if Nick is still alive. So Mike goes and finds him and ends up playing him in a game of Russian Roulette and Nick blows his brains out. End of story.
#1 What was the director trying to get at? He was trying to explain how bad Russian Roulette was, Also he was explaining how much it went it was played back in the old days during the war. Do you agree or disagree with his concept? I agree because it was really bad. It was a kind of patriotism because it was a common game that the Vietnamese play, for fun or for sacrifices of desperate lost and sad souls. Souls of people that are rich but want to die. #2. After they got out of the war their personalities changed, All of them. Mike used to be an honest, straight-forward friend, But after the war Mike loses his masculinity and becomes more sensitive throughout his experience in Vietnam. Nick is an easygoing, fun loving, introspective and somewhat quiet man who values friendship, community and love. But after the war he went to a Russian roulette game, and was there for a long time. He was there for so long he turned up to be brainwashed. Could it have happened differently? Possibly if they stayed together and all got on the helicopter. Instead of one getting on the helicopter and two not get on it. If they all got on Steve wouldn't of broke his legs. (they were amputated). #3. What's the deal with the French character who introduces Nicky to the Russian Roulette den in Saigon? He introduces Nicky to the Russian Roulette so the men can get more money. And more people (Nicky) would continue the game. Plus Nick had a lot of money on him. What is this character suppose to symbolize? He was there to symbolize a man that forces people to do things they don't particularly want to. #4. Why does Mike go back to Vietnam to find Nick? He goes back to find Nick to make Linda happy. Mike was Nicks best friend. Linda was all emotional when Nick wasn't with Mike when he arrived back at the house. But when he gets to the Russian Roulette game place (where nick was) Mike found out that nick was brainwashed. That concerned Mike, so he joined the game. When Mike was trying to get through to Nick it wasn't working. He tried telling Nick about all the memories they had it didn't work. So Nick ends up shooting himself in his head.


                
This is not a captivating movie by any sense. It doesn't hold your interest, and is best seen in clumps. That said, it gives a half way accurate, realistic viewpoint of regular working folks during the Viet Nam War. How it affects them, before they see war, and afterwards. There are liberties taken. For instance, the three home town buddies are assigned together in Viet Nam. I've been in the Air Force, and that's just not something that is done. I'm sure the other branches are the same way. But that is poetic license. The chief character, De Niro, descends into madness. He begins with a very stable attitude. The sort of character you feel won't go berserk.That is what the script intended. He is the stable force, or at least the outwardly stable force. When he returns from the war, he has changed. On his regular hunting trips he reveals the change, until fellow hunter, Cazale, who plays a likable bum, irritates him into near insanity. De Niro issues his famous line "This is this!" And of course it is an insane line, but just the sort of line such a man would say. Not for someone who wants a lot of action. In fact, the hunting trip scenes are more interesting than the war scenes. Still, a very good psychological portrayal, and excellent acting make this one what it is. And if you like those qualities more than entertainment and action, this could be the movie for you.


                
My first thought when this film ended was, "thank goodness it's over!" My second thought was that the director must have really fallen in love with his own work. Any film that runs three hours or more had better have a good reason for it...this one, simply put, had no reason at all.This film is just BEGGING to be cut, with tons of unnecessary footage that makes each scene seem drawn-out and tedious. It's almost as though the director was trying to make this a long movie. What made it even worse was the gritty and unpleasant nature of most of the film, which creates viewer unease that the film length only protracts. Sheesh. Good acting, mediocre story and terrible editing add up to a thoroughly so-so experience. Truly a waste of time unless nothing bad enough is on TV.


                
