This movie contains some of the most powerful scenes I have ever seen. Although this movie does not concentrate on the war as much as e.g. Saving Private Ryan, I must say that the scenes from Vietnam in this film, the psychological as well as the physical torture, is much more disturbing and awful to me than the whole first half hour of SPR. Very powerful. Robert De Niro is as good as ever, but I have to say that Christopher Walken is the one who impresses me the most. He is absolutely brilliant and managed to really show how Nick (his character in the film) becomes self-destructive in the saddest way. Magnificent!


                
A film in which there is a lot that can be discussed, this is a good film overall, but definitely one with some flaws. The film is essentially about the varying possible effects that undergoing torture can have on different individuals. With the Vietnam War in the backdrop, it could be deduced that the film is also about the effects of war on the individual, but such little time is spent war scenes that it is hardly a war film, and war related themes are derived only from the symbolism that one might associate Russian roulette with. Anyway, that should be hardly taken a statement on the quality of the film. Cimino is able to set up some really intense scenes, the acting is generally fine, and the film does have some solid ideas, not only about the effects of torture, but also about strong friendships. The key element that limits the power of the film is a number of plot contrivances, that vary from being rather unlikely to next to impossible, and that is without including some of the factual wrongs with the film. The reoccurrence of Russian roulette could also be regarded as heavy-handed, depending on whether one regards it as a symbol of the futility or chances of war. Could something else not also be used to allude to this? It also is an overly long and drawn out film. The first hour is meant to give us a chance to know the characters a bit better, but even so, it goes on for too long, full of excesses of dance, humorous bits and abandoned subplots, all that inform us precious little of the characters. There is a subplot with two of the characters in the latter half of the film that is undernourished too. The music is not really any help either: it is too sickly sentimental to tie in very well. I found a few others things that I also did not like that I will not mention here for fear of ruining a fresh experience of the movie. It is a good film, even if a grueling watch, despite its drawbacks. As a film about the everlasting physical and mental effects of torture, it does a reasonable job, and as a film about the extreme lengths that one goes for a friend, it also stands up fairly well.


                
Be Vietnam in focus or not, it is an excellent movie on life's changing faces. From a life full of fun and daily doses of sobs, to a life of distress and death - it has aptly covered it all with a vision. Could have been shorter in length. Could have been more crisp in the first part. The marriage ceremony was dragged a bit longer. However, the director might have wanted to show the slow pace of life in a small town. Could have evoked more emotions (like Life is Beautiful) with more human touch on the central characters.Robert De Nero's performance is flawless. Same complements go for all others. Perhaps the best scene was De Nero's inability to shoot the deer after he came back from the war.


                
#1 Russian Roulette is a game of chance. Anyone who plays is at risk. Being picked from a draft is also by chance. If you are drafted it is like being sent to your grave in Vietnam. However, if you choose to be patriotic and go to Vietnam you are compared to Nick, willingly risking his life, in a game of Russian Roulette. In this game of chance it does not matter how good or bad of a fighter you are, it is all statistics. Also, to play Russian Roulette you must have a large amount of mental strength which is also a problem with Nick. It shows Nick when he is under Vietnamize capture mentally breaking down. I believe the director means to show how mentally unprepared many of the soldiers that went to Vietnam were. Also, after the war when Nick was at a point where his life was of no meaning to himself, he would play Russian Roulette almost TO Die and not being forced to, because of the mental trauma he faced in the war itself. When he does die from the game the director shows that even if the war itself does not kill you, the effects of the war will, OR you mine as well be dead. I agree with the director that the soldiers were not mentally prepared for the war, and that who died in the war was more likely by chance than anything else. I am not sure how much i agree or disagree with how much the soldiers life meant after the war, i think that depends on how mentally strong a person was before the war. I can only imagine that far too many people were unable to move on with their lives after the war. As far as patriotism i don't think the director was against it or particularly for it, but simply acknowledged that those who went for those reasons were willingly putting their lives on the line and those people should be honored(song at end of movie). #4. Shawn Collin's Comment: There were several reasons that Mike went back to Vietnam to find Nick. The first, and most important thing was the unique relationship that they shared when they were in their hometown. Their relationship was different from the relationships that they had with their other friends, even Steven. Mike only trusted Nicky. Mike didn't trust steven nearly as much as he did Nicky because he thought Steven was a wimp. When they were in Vietnam it proved Stevens weak mind even when his life was at risk in the POW camp.In the Russian Roulette scene Nicky ran off and Mike could not find him. Later, Mike went back and felt guilty for leaving Nicky after he had promised not to go back without him.
Best Film and Director? Why? For a 1 hour wedding scene to prove how close and happy 3 friends are? U don't need 60 freaking minutes to showcase something that could be done in 15-20 minutes. Did Cappola need the entire wedding of Talia Shire in The Godfather to prove how Michael(Pacino) is different from his family and isn't involved in the business? NO. He needs a two min. story(an offer he couldn't refuse) and Pacino saying "That's my family Kay, its not me". BOOM. That's all u need!The funny thing is u don't even truly understand the depth of these guyz friendship cuz so much time is wasted on the female characters, cultural dancing and unnecessary extras who provide nothing to highlight the movie's theme. What's the point in showing drunk men acting like idiots?The war scenes are too gory and pretentious. BLOOD, not the main characters, is what the director seems to glorify here. After the war the movie is HARDLY about the "3 friends" and more abt Michael(DeNiro) and the effects of war on him. That's the only part where Cimino seems to know exactly what he's trying to convey. U can feel what Michael has gone through.....and his distant/empty behavior is understandable. By this time though, his two friends are completely forgotten until the end where the movie seriously starts to get draggy and u're just thinking "c'mon, let this end already". The screen play is hardly something that would keep u hooked. I got no problem with slow movies that have a theme. But here the director seems confused as to what he's trying to convey. Is this just abt Michael and his experiences at Vietnam? Is this abt his relationship with Linda(Meryl Streep)? Is this abt 3 friends and how the war has changed everything between them?The performance are def. the best thing abt the movie. DeNiro, although a little wooden and expression-less sometimes, gives one of his 10 best performances. Streep is a total natural and wonderful to see perform. Walken was good, but Oscar material? Uhhh...i don't know.Overall, The Deer Hunter suffers from length and a poorly written screen play. The wedding + the final half hour of the movie is just too long. The characters would've been able to register a bigger impact had the direction been more subtle(The Wedding), and a screen play that focused more on the 3 friends, rather then just Michael alone.


                
This is definitely a film with a heavily divided opinion. Some chide it for being long or boring, others over-praise it as powerful and emotional. Myself I respect it as a rather good film, but cannot see it as a great film. Having been born in '81 it's a product of another generation and something that try as I may I can't fully relate to. To the generation that produced it and lived through the Vietnam war I can certainly understand how it would have much greater relevance and impact. This is not only one of the earlier films to deal with issues raised by a highly controversial war, but also one to be done in a humanistic manner focusing on the lives of the people effected by it. Reasonably they are the ideal audience for the film. To those of us following this generation we do not have the same experiences and I feel the film is less prepared to speak to us about more universal experiences as it is rooted in its own time. Not that this is a bad thing, but it will definitely detract from the film's appreciation by a modern audience.Overall I would give this film a 6 or 7 out of 10. It is above-average, but not great. If you were around during the war and aren't looking for a more action-oriented film add a point or two, it's your film, not mine.


                
I didn't know much about this going into it, other than that two people whose opinions I hold in high regard had described it to me as pro-US propaganda. Having seen it, I agree with them. To my knowledge, there is no historical record of Russian Roulette occurring during the Vietnam war. I understand that the people behind this argue that "well, no one knows for sure". Is it that hard to admit "we made it up for cinematic effect"? That's allowed, you know; you're not making a documentary. But if that's what they're going with, allow me to counter: We *do* know that American troops engaged in atrocities including massacres. I'm not saying that their behaviour came out of nowhere(which is not to say that it can be excused under any circumstances, at most it can be explained). However, if you're going to make something up that puts the other side in a negative light, you ought to also show some of the unflattering truth about yourself. I won't claim that this is poorly done from a technical standpoint, or that the performances are bad. That is all I can say of good things about this. It is an abusively long and boring piece that at no point captured my interest. I wasn't missing explosions, a clear-cut hero or a moral; merely for stuff to get me to find it worth the time(and yes, I do love several 3 hour pictures). Someone to care about(other than Streep). Early on, I could barely tell anyone apart; they're all drunk and behaving like morons. I couldn't like any of them in the least. These obnoxious characters have sudden, instant changes of heart at apparently random times. The pacing is uneven with jolting cuts. This is shot entirely on location(no sets), and the sound-side is great. It "feels" real. I gotta say, between this, Year of the Dragon and *Desperate Hours*, I've about given up on Cimino. There is plenty of strong language(also a little in the informational and subtitled commentary by the director and a film critic), a bit of bloody violence and brief male nudity in this. The 2-Disc Special Edition DVD comes with aforementioned audio track, three interviews(that I will review on their individual pages here on the site) and a 7 minute photo gallery, coming to 57 minutes total, as it says on the cover. I recommend this to... I honestly don't know. Evidently, a lot of people love this, and hey, maybe I just don't see what they do in it. Personally, I'd go for Platoon or Full Metal Jacket instead of this. I can't determine who this movie is for. 7/10


                
The central image and metaphor of this film-Americans being forced to play Russian Roulette by the Viet Cong-is both maddeningly effective as a cinematic device and works against much of the rest of the film. Whatever you wish to say about the senselessness of war, the Vietnam war especially, is captured by the random cruelty and striking brutality of the roulette scenes. It simply works to dramatize the existential dread veterans must feel. Unfortunately, it also dehumanizes the Viet Cong and simplifies the war into a good vs. evil struggle. More to the point, much of the rest of the film has an easy naturalism to it that stands apart from the roulette scenes. One could argue war should stand apart from everyday life but the film includes other operatic touches. Whether it is a few drops of wine split, deer, or the sun dogs the film has just enough of these things to think the roulette scenes were meant to be a tonal extension of the domestic scenes. But it doesn't fully work. Is the final scene irony or no? The tonal clashes present make answer that question impossible.Nonetheless, the domestic scenes are quite strong; the various guys are fleshed out in ways that are human and authentically blue collar. The first hour and the final 15 minutes or so are gripping and emotionally powerful due to this. Much of this is due to the cast being who they are as the pace works against emotional release. Indeed the film simply feels like it stops at times and this creates a weird sense of narrative momentum. The film is bit draining s a result but a slightly tighter editing scheme would have been better.This is an unusual film combining several different sources of inspiration-a heist story, Vietnam, and the director's (alleged) life. The result is a sprawling film that is not as strong as it could have been. But the times it is effortlessly cinematic is worth the warts.


                
No, this is not the best film about the Vietnam War; it's hardly about Vietnam at all. The vets who don't like it have it wrong, as do the Vietnamese who found it racist. It could be any war, with any combatants. But because the (primary) victims here are recognizable American archetypes, Americans will feel this in their gut more than any other war film I know of. This is one of the very few post-war Hollywood films that shows a sincere reverence for the lives of small town Americans.After seeing it in a very high quality theater on its initial release, I walked out thinking it was easily one of the best movies I had ever seen - and that I never wanted to see it again. But I looked at it today on cable and found that not much had changed about it, or me. I don't want to see it again...but I want you to see it.Even now, the Russian Roulette scene (in context, people: watch all that comes before it first) is the single most intense sequence I've seen; it makes the end of "Reservoir Dogs" seem like a cartoon. Best Walken performance, period. Meryl Streep glows, DeNiro has seldom been more affecting. A unique classic...it is not surprising that Cimino didn't have another movie in him after something this wrenching.


                
#1. The symbolism for the Russian Roulette sequences. What was the director trying to get at? Do you agree or disagree with his concept? Include with this our discussion as related to patriotism.In preparation for their last deer hunting trip together, Nick and Michael are getting ready in their shared trailer on the outskirts of town above the factory where they work. Michael is a true heroic and serious sportsman who takes pride in his self-imposed, "one-shot" spiritual philosophy. He expresses reverence for the hunt with its various rituals. His all-male code, expressed in sexual slang, emphasizes the quickness with which the prey, or enemy target in life is taken "with one shot" Ironically, Nick is the one who dies at the end of the film due to the one shot of Russian Roulette. Michael went back to Vietnam to help him, but unfortunately did not make it. Russian Roulette is a game of chances, like hunting, and one shot can make all the difference. It's the one shot that kills you. While hunting, one shot can end the deer's life. It is kind of like Russian Roulette because it's the deer dodging the bullets instead of pulling the trigger. It's the humans playing the game with the deer. Russian Roulette is the Vietnamese playing a game with each other. I agree with what the director is trying to portray here.CRAVE THIS IS DEVON! obviously.
Though this movie is filled with plenty of compelling moments, Mike's determination to bring Nick home, as he had promised him following De Niro's epic streaking scene, is perhaps the most compelling of all. Howver, Mike doesn't really seem to have a choice. His ability to assimilate back into normal society seems to be dependent on his bringing Nick home- dead or alive. This is most evident when Mike first returns without Nick and attempts to go hunting. Though one could argue he doesn't slay the animal due to a new respect for life after seeing so much death, one could just as easily attribute this lack of will to kill the deer as being Mike's inability to continue his life knowing Nick should be back home with him.
#4 Mike goes back to Vietnam to find Nicky because he feels an obligation based on a promise he made before they went to Vietnam. Mike, the more dominant, organized and methodical of the two friends, promises Nicky that no matter what happens, he will not leave him in Vietnam. Despite this promise, events that occur while they are serving lead them to be separated, and Mike returns to their hometown without his best friend. After realizing that Nicky is still alive based on money being sent on a weekly basis from Saigon, Mike feels compelled to return and try to save his friend. It is his commitment to save him that leads him to a game of Russian roulette where he tries to bring Nicky back with him, but by that point, he is so far gone from using opiates on a continual basis that he no longer recognizes Mike. In the end, none of his efforts are successful, but at the very least, Mike is left with the knowledge that he did everything he could to save his friend.
Yo yo, 'sup Cravenator, this is Maggie Cobb from your third block film studies class!I'm writing about this option: #4. Why does Mike go back to Vietnam to find Nicky? Be specific with this one and use examples. Before Mike goes to Vietnam, he makes a promise that he won't come home without Nicky. Unfortunately, he's ultimately unable to do this. On the one hand, this isn't necessarily a bad thing<U+0097>he's able to become closer to Linda without Nicky "getting in the way." On the other hand, he is torn up inside. Though he really had no choice but to leave Vietnam without his friend, he feels as though he has broken a promise; both to himself, to Nicky, and to those close to him and Nicky. (Especially Linda.)Therefore, for his own peace of mind, he MUST return to Vietnam to fulfill his promise. Additionally, perhaps he feels that bringing Nicky home safe and sound will win him brownie points with Linda (to whom he succeeds in becoming closer when Nicky isn't around, though a gulf seems to open up between them when the manner in which he brings Nicky home is in a casket.) Also, he feels a need to fulfill the promise to restore the unit comprising of himself, Nicky, and Steve. He and Steve have both returned, and only Nicky will complete the trio. Without him, there's something missing, and Mike feels the urge to full that hole.In the end, Mike does bring Nicky home. It is not in the manner in which anyone would have wished, but at least Mike can rest with relative ease knowing that Nicky is once more on home ground. Mike's promise was finally fulfilled.
I believe that the director wanted you to understand that playing Russian Roulette is a lose- lose situation in the end. This directly correlates to the 18 or 19+ year old that were forced to go into the war because of the draft. Many of the men who served in Vietnam had fathers who were WWII veterans, so they were looked down upon if they coward their way out of the draft. In turn though, if they were drafted and went to war, it was a death sentence. In the movie, Russian Roulette was played to see who had enough "guts" to kill themselves by chance. It was a risk with a great reward, but the risk was death. The draft worked in the same way. You could go to war and be killed or have psychological/physical damage, or stay home and be looked down upon from your family. America is built upon our patriotism for our country and if one is a coward because he finds a way to not be drafted then he is immediately disowned in a sense. America doesn't want our men and troops to die, but we rather have them fight for our freedom then sit back and watch other men die.I didn't at first realize that this was what the director was aiming to make a point of, but once I did realize it, I agree completely. The concept of Russian Roulette and the draft fit together especially since Russian Roulette seemed to play a great part of the movie, it separated life and death as did the draft in America.
I believe that Mike goes back to Vietnam to find Nick not only because they are best friends but because he promised Nick that he wouldn't leave him in Vietnam. Earlier in the movie when they are all on their way home from the wedding and Mike is streaking, Nick asks Mike not to leave him in Vietnam, and Mike promises not to leave him alone there. While in Vietnam they were together for along period of time. When they get separated, Mike spots Nick in Saigon and tries to catch him but instead Nick rides away with the French guy to live a horrible Russian Roulette based life. Mike made a promise to Nick and he is going to stick with it, also the fact that all of Mike and Nick's friends are expecting them to come home together and if he doesn't bring Nick back he will feel like he let those people, himself, and Nick, down.


                
Before the trio go to Vietnam, Steve proves to be the naive friend. He does this by marrying a woman who is pregnant with someone else's kid. Nick is a good friend to Mike but is not very strong. He is easily effected by others and their actions. Nick is the strongest of the three friends. He is the only one who thinks about what sort of ramifications will come out of the war. He is always looking out for his other friends. While in Vietnam these roles stay the same. Steve is the weakest and is the first friend to be seriously injured when he falls from the helicopter. Nick looses his trust in Mike and becomes involved with a group of people who play Russian Roulette as a game. Mike proves, once again, that he is the strongest of the three by keeping Steve alive and then going back to try to get Nick. He is also the only one of the three who is able to return to a semi-normal life after the war. I believe that their different approaches towards life serve as an accurate prelude to what eventually happens and I don't believe it could have happened any other way.


                
Response to question #4: Why does Mike go back to find Nicky?The easy response to this question is that before being sent overseas, Nicky tells Mike that if he 'doesn't come home, don't leave him over there'. However, I believe that it is deeper than this request. Mike and Nicky are best friends. They share many things in common. Before being sent to Vietnam, they both worked in the steel mill, they shared the same trailer, they both loved to hunt, and they both loved the same girl. Always looking out for each other, they escaped from the POW camp and survived combat. In many ways, they are like brothers. This connection helps solidify Mike's need to go back for his 'brother'.As strange as it seems, I think being with Linda affected Mike and made him go back to find Nicky. He knew that Nicky and Linda were to be married. While, he loved her and wanted to be with her, he could see her unhappiness and realized that he could not live with himself if he did not go searching for Nicky. When he returned to his friends, Mike felt different. He was no longer the steel mill worker-- he was now the Vietnam Veteran who had scene many gruesome battles, many people die. He could no longer enjoy bowling or other normal activities. Even hunting, his favorite past time, was no longer enjoyable. He knew that life would never be the same, but if he found Nicky there was hope that it could return to normal.When he finally finds Nicky, Mike is dismayed to learn that his best friend, the man he came searching for, no longer remembers him. Nicky has been playing Russian Roulette for money and it is in a game that the two find themselves. Mike desperately tries to bring out the person he remembers in Nicky. Nicky takes one shot, as does Mike; however, it is the third shot that kills Nicky. In an instant he is gone and Mike is left to return to his friends alone.


                
I saw this film for the first time in April 2006, nearly 30 years after the film received its Oscar accolades. I certainly wouldn't have appreciated this film then, but I did this year! Basically, the ethos of a religious, naive small-town in America (who do not, maybe cannot ?) question the American-Vietnam war; after all, the propaganda "We serve God and our country" is deeply embedded in this community, who are all affected by the Vietnam war.The acting is good - ensemble work - and the scenes of violence are realistic and disturbing. The film is relevant today - what right has Ammerica to be in Iraq? What support exists for brutalised young men and families that have had to cope with senseless deaths and wide-spread injuries.The deer is a symbol of the effect of war - it cannot be pinned down or shot by the marksman at the end of the movie. War changes everything.It's a message, pertinent today too. See the film: its strength lies in languidly setting scenes which are later seen to be transient, not permanent. A deserving film to grapple with.


                
Mike decides to return to Vietnam to find Nick for reasons on several premises. Nick and Mike have always been close friends, and were always reliant on each other for most everything. On the evening of Angela's and Steven's wedding, only several days before they had to depart to Vietnam, drunk and stuttering, Nick and Mike make a promise to each other, that Mike would never abandon Nick there. Once they arrived there, they got separated, and several months later, he found himself back home alone without Nick. He visited Steven and discovers that Nick was still alive and sending money over. After multiple weeks of being home alone with Nick's girlfriend Linda, he realizes he must at least go back and attempt to rescue Nick from Vietnam, if not for him, but for his girlfriend. and NIck's family and friends.
Steve, Mike and Nick all have very different personality types. Steve was shy, timid, and sensitive. He married Angela, even though she was pregnant with somebody else's child, he can see things from other people's point of view. Mike was forceful, responsible, and a driving force. People depend on Mike, his friend didn't bring boots because he knew that Mike always had an extra pair. He has rules about how to do things, that he can only take one shot at a deer. Nick was friendly and likable, but not quite as emotionally stable. Steve's sensitivity led to his downfall, he couldn't handle what he saw, he was nervous , he couldn't get a hold of himself when they had to play Russian roulette in the POW camp and he couldn't hold onto things when they were swimming. He ended up losing his legs, but one gets the feeling that no matter what something bad would have happened to him because he wasn't as strong as the other people were. Mike's personality allowed him to cope very well. When he and Nick were forced to play each other in Russian roulette, he was able to keep the presence of mind to realize that their best chance at escaping was to put more bullets in the gun, so that if they survived a couple of rounds, they could then use the gun on their captors. He also was able to stay calm and bring Steve to safety. He was able to deal with the terrible things that he saw and he remained mentally stable even after the war. Nick did well initially, he was able to play Russian roulette with Mike, but eventually the war got to him. He couldn't cope with it any longer, so he went AWOL and he ended up playing Russian roulette for a living and becoming addicted to heroin as a way to cope. When Mike comes back to get him, he doesn't recognize him until he plays against him, and then Nick dies. He was my favorite character so I was very upset when he died. I think that their previous lives makes all of this fairly plausible, but it could have happened differently. Steve was weaker emotionally, so it seems likely that he would have lost his mind, and perhaps wound up dead. However, the way that the events unfolded does work, because of the emotional and mental states of the characters at the beginning of the film.
Possible spoiler.This movie has all the ingredients to become a masterpiece yet it somewhat fails. De Niro is my favorite actor and I have seen him in many pictures, but in this film he is not close to his best performances; still ok but nothing special. Meryl Streep impresses me the more. Overall the acting is pretty good.I have seen more beautiful films but there are some really spectacular scenes in the mountains. The movie benefits strongly of Myers' beautiful Cavatina score. Like I said in the beginning, this could have been a really masterpiece of a movie. De Niro comes back from Vietnam, remembers the past, sees the woman he loves, he has changed, the music plays...etc. The most disturbing thing I think that spoils this is the Russian-roulette gambling scenes. I liked the part in the Vietnamese prison, that was exciting. But again, and again, and the absolute worst is when De Niro goes back to Vietnam once again...there we have the roulette again. The whole movie gets more centered around the roulette than the deer hunting. I would have preferred an ending half an hour earlier; before De Niro goes back for Nick. But obviously Cimino really really wanted to show the audience what happened to Nick, or he was obsessed with the roulette game himself. Not much happens between Niro and Streep in the end either...On the whole I liked the movie, a lot due to the score and the story, but I am also very disappointed; it could have been so much better.7.5
The story is not much about war as it is about friendship, however, it is a little bit to long and to slow, I think it can bring the point and the message saving us all the dull environment.Any way it was a good job, and a powerful deliverance from De niro, Streep and Walken. I give it 7/10


                
THE DEER HUNTER played on cable this weekend, so we watched it.  We'd seen it when it was first released & we'd both thought it was highly over-rated. Many times opinions change with the years, but not this time.  All the performances were "good."  The exceptional performers were Streep & Walken. We both remembered how terrific Walken was in this film.  We were somewhat surprised by how good Streep was so early in her career.  Still, we just don't understand the passion this film inspires.  You don't see these men "at war," you see them in a made up game seemingly designed to emphasize the inhumanity of "the enemy" ("the other").  It's hard to tolerate such a one-sided view.


                
The film starts with the often used slice-of-life episode which introduces us to the characters. For my taste this part was about 20 minutes too long. Once arrived in Vietnam we learn how Russian Roulette is played. There wasn't much tension for me, though, because I always knew the outcome. DeNiro must go on with his show so he won't die. He's the usual ultracool guy who doesn't mind about life or death which unfortunately hurts the quality of the film. He travels to Saigon to get Nick out of the hell in the last minute possible. And then again he plays Russian Roulette where either he or Nick will certainly die. Will Nick be able to find his way home alone? Hardly. So it's better when HE dies. The Vietnamese are stereotype bad guys and lack any individuality. Overall I was disappointed after 3 hours. Good cast and technically well made.7 /10.


                
This is a movie that takes too long to get started and way too long to finally end. There are some gripping moments in between. On the whole, it is a very good film, and probably deserving of Best Picture, especially considering that 1978 was a relatively weak year for films.CLARIFICATION: I have not taken time to read all 120+ reviews for this film, but I have read at least 1 which has a big factual error about the music written for this film. So for the record, composer John Williams (E.T., Star Wars, Jaws, etc.) had NOTHING to do with this film. The music is written by Stanley Myers, and it does say in the credits that the theme was "perfomed by John Williams." But this is not the same John Williams who has composed legendary film scores. This particular JW is an Australian-born classical guitarist who had reached international acclaim long before this film was made.


                
