What makes things worse, is that its predecessors were basically intricate works of genius, but TDKR lacks essentially everything that made The Dark Knight (particularly) one of the greatest superhero movies ever produced. On top of all this, everyone's bandwagoning on thinking it's great because it's "supposed" to be great, right?!?! How could Nolan's finale not be a masterpiece?! Well, I'll tell you...Bruce Wayne acts out-of-character from not just the first two movies, but from the comic as well. Catwoman's motivation and place in the story is weak, flat, and forced. For a movie that's almost three hours long, you only get about 20 minutes of Batman in costume (if you're lucky). The movie jumps in weird time increments that are mildly confusing, but mostly forced to facilitate its wanna-be epic nature. As for more heavily SPOILERY observations...Commissioner Gordon is barely in the movie, spending most his time injured in a hospital, while Joseph Gordon-Levitt's character comes out of the blue and does what you'd expect the Commissioner to be doing... solution- COMBINE THE TWO CHARACTERS!!! The two Batman vs. Bane fights are flat and boring as hell. Bane is a cardboard, unexplored (until a late-third act flashback... of all ridiculous cliché plot devices) character that reaches for sympathy in one of the most embarrassing, wanna-be-tender, totally out-of-place, extremely laughable scenes I've ever seen in my life- HE FRIGGIN' CRIES?!!?!? Every single, yes EVERY SINGLE cop in Gotham marches down into the sewers on a tip that Bane's raising a secret army, only to have all the entrances blown up so they can be trapped down there... for like three months. Reread that last sentence and tell me what part of it makes sense.Bane holds Gotham hostage with a 4 megaton nuclear device, after blowing up all but one bridge leading into and out of the city, for three months and the U.S. government does nothing. Seriously, nothing. It's said they negotiated a truce and had FEMA send in supplies for survival. Read that last paragraph and tell me what part of it makes sense.The "real" villain reveals him/her self in an absurd Act 3 "twist" that's followed by a narrated flashback (the same one that leads to Bane CRYING), and throughout the entire monologue Batman sits there doing nothing after a knife has been thrust/held into his side.After the 2nd lame Bats/Bane fight, the bulk of the late Act 3rd "action sequence" consists of little more than Batman flying around in that weird-looking clunky flying thing that supposed to be the Bat Plane- half of which is of him outmaneuvering missiles that the bulky "plane" couldn't have possibly eluded.I really, really, really, really, really, really wanted to not just like this, but LOVE it, but as it progressed the enthusiasm cloud gradually cleared to the point of my being utterly flabberghasted in disappointment- mostly because I can't believe the director of The Dark Knight and the masterpiece that is Inception was responsible for this movie. It's lazy and uninspired to the point of being offensive to everyone who's ever been not just a Batman fan, but a fan of non- intelligence-insulting movies.
I'm not one for writing reviews, but the positive response this movie is getting makes me uneasy. I'm really worried about the general population. The acting is just shocking. Michael Cain delivers a good performance, but because everyone else is so terribly 2 dimensional, his character seems almost comically overacted. The story is cliché, poorly written and the time-jumps are just bad. Why is Bane pushed aside in the last 15 minutes of the movie and an intelligent, interesting character turned into some girls thug (some girl we know, or care, nothing about). It's bad, I didn't know Nolan was capable of anything this poor. The movie would have been far better if Bane was a real person trying to incite a real revolution. And I find the glorification of the rich in this film interesting at a time when their is global social unrest towards them in real life. Is this propaganda or what?Why don't the bad guys use their guns? Don't they know that just pointing them at batman doesn't do anything? And walking closer and closer to him until the gun is almost touching him also doesn't help? And then using their gun as bat instead of as a gun is also stupid? And the background combat is also lame. I saw way too many punches that actually didn't touch the face of their victim. It's just poor and unacceptable. Why the hell do all the cops just walk towards the enemy in a big mass? Only the first line can fire? One grenade in the middle of them will destroy them? What kind of city sends all of their cops down a hole? Even if they somehow decided doing this was a good idea, they wouldn't send 10 thousand cops leaving the city unprotected. How about the army? When Batman tells robin (LOL) to get people off the Island, why does he go and grab 10 kids? Out of a city of millions? Where the hell is the cities population? Why don't we see anyone except Bane and a few of this thugs? How does Batman keep appearing exactly where he needs to be at exactly the right time without explanation? Who the hell is cat-women and why do we care? Why does the bad chick (who's Banes boss apparently) keep yabbering with her finger on the detonator, instead of just pressing the damn thing? It's not 1990, those things just aren't acceptable. Oh god the prison scene, It's been a long time since I've wanted to vomit and kill myself at the same time, but this did it. Cliché to the maximum. And when Garry drops the bomb diffuser just out of fingers grasp, on the moving truck. Man, come on Nolan, were you even a part of this film or did you just pay others to do it for you and pick up the pay-check? Did anyone who's raving about how good this film is even watch it? Makes me depressed. I could go on and on but I can't be bothered and nobody is going to read it. This should be a 6 on IMDb, and that's generous. People are as stupid as the movie.
I have no Idea what to even start with about what was wrong with this movie. Apart from the obvious Richard Nixon voice Batman has had in every movie of this trilogy, now we also have a villain we can barely understand .They sit there and expect us to believe that with all the time Bruce Wayne spent training and all the time he spent with Ra's Al Ghul he doesn't even know who his daughter is who is very high up in the League?Then they use the classic bomb going to blow up the city. The bomb that was built to be a fusion reactor. So why does it have a clear LED display of the time on it? And why after flying it in reality about 2 miles off the coast no one is hurt. There is no radiation. No title wave from the ocean. Just a cloud.Then lets look at the spare Batmobiles that the enemies have. I find it really hard to believe that I could blow up a batmobile with only one missile yet his is pretty much indestructible.Then when Bruce escapes prison he magically shows up in a town with only one bridge that is guarded by the military. There were so many aspects of the movie where things just happened. And we have no choice but to accept them.The biggest problem of all though, Robin. Why the people in the movie I was in cheered when she said his name was Robin I'll never know. Let's see what the main parts they got wrong were. Obviously the name. His parents dying's back-story was nowhere near right. Robin was a trapeze artist not a detective. I don't know why people like this movie. Maybe because they are supposed to who knows. But if you are a true fan out there then you will most likely hate this film for the crap it is.This movie didn't feel like a Batman movie to me. There was no gadgets, no detective work, no anything. Only thing that this movie taught me is that now I know for a fact. DC cannot do special effects and in the movie industry will always fall short to fans.
I don't get what all the 10's are about. I don't see how this movie is a 10, or rather even an 8. There are so many plot holes, the characters are so one dimensional, action sequences OK at best.Where do I even begin. Banes voice. I admit, I didn't get what he was saying more than half the time, and even then I had to strain really hard. It was just awful. There were jokes about not understanding Bales growling, but this, this is something else. The movie would have been better without him talking.Catwoman! Suddenly she feels remorse and becomes goody goody at the end, Oh the lord, this was about as predictable as rain in Seattle(very, if you're unsure).Talia, what a big face-palm. Might as well have made a movie when the Batman woke up from a dream at that point. Can the plot get ANY more clichéd? Thanks for popping up the MAIN criminal at the end of the movie, who apparently had the hots for Batman.Batman, his screen time is mostly groaning and screaming and getting beaten around in boxing by Bane. He becomes a superior fighter by jumping across the ledge? I think that's not how the body works. There isn't any Batman stuff at all. Just punching and kicking. Muhammad Ali would have been a better hero to fit that role (Yay, incoming dislikes from people who don't know who that is). Also, big copter no one can find, yea right.Sheep followers wanting to get blown up. Ya, because getting evaporated by a nuclear bomb is so awesome that every "mercenary" wants to do it. Oh, but they didn't know that they'd be blown up.All policemen going underground like a herd of cows because they want to scout out the underground operations and therefore getting caught. Sigh.Big fight scenes. Police officers don't walk in formation with guns against a bunch of mercenaries on higher ground and they all don't start shooting at point blank range. No. That's not how police work. Or any modern force with guns. That ONLY works in Lord of the Rings, because they had SWORDS! Who wrote this script?The other batman movies were good. The first one was great. The second was good too. This one is ridiculous. I don't know how people can be so blind to so many obvious flaws. Even with that, the best moments in this film are...unimpressive. Did I go into the theater with high hopes. Not at all. I expected average, I was disappointed to not find even that.Will be ever get another Prestige from these guys? I hope so.
I honestly didn't like this movie very much, there were many things wrong with it that ruined the immersion and messed up something which could have been good.#1 where is batman? for the most part batman is a no show it's not until the final parts of the movie that you even really get to see him fight.#2 Can character development fail? I think this movie proved it can, many movies attribute failure to not accurately linking you to the characters having too limited development of the character, this movie is proof of the opposite in many scenes they spent far too much time focusing on Bruce Wayne. They did this to the extent of completely neglecting many other aspect of the movie, things that should have been delved into that weren't all because too much of the movie was focused on Wayne...#3 The villain makes the movie. Bane was not a good villain, his voice was difficult to understand in a large number of scenes and sometimes the background noise would override him. He just seemed more like a thug then a mastermind, and lacked believability. The so called "real" villain had no real character development only back story which to me is not enough to make her important. Also anyone who was a lover of the batman comics or TV show was probably also disappointed by the complete lack of the venom used to give bane his strength.#4 Music and sound effects make a movie right? There were many times during the movie where I found myself distracted by a completely inappropriate sound byte or music that didn't quite fit the scene.#5 abandonment of sub characters is a good thing? the butler leaving Bruce, and the lack of the use of Morgan Freemans character to me detracted from the movie a lot.#6 batmans voice... something was just wrong with it it sounded like i was listening to one of those cheap voice changers you get at walmart. Was it just me or was it done much better in movie one?In summary, I have to honestly say that it seems as if the focus of this movie was on two actors not on two characters. I couldn't find myself feeling for Bruce, or Robin, they were just... badly overdeveloped characters that instead of making me feel sad for them I just didn't care... Batman had 8 years to prepare and get ready for bane yet he wallows in self pity and lets his whole life go to pot over a girl? I just don't believe it. Batman is the definition of self hurt turned into helping others every time batman sinks deeper into the well of despair he hurts criminals more not less. he over came both of his parents dieing and leaving him alone as a child I just could not see him giving up because a girlfriend dies no matter how over developed they made his character.If you like to think about things in a movie, I think you will find that there are too many "distractions" in this movie to allow for proper immersion and enjoyment.
After seeing and liking the first and the second part of this trilogy, the third came off as a disappointment. There are only a few things that actually work in this movie - Hathaway an Levitt gave very nice performances, and were convincing despite of the ludicrously cliché lines they were given. Before seeing the movie, I presumed that (based on the reviews I had read) they had only minor roles, but the two of them guide the plot. Also some action sequences were well executed. But only a minority of them. The majority was illogical and confusing. In comparison with the second movie which I found to be, in its core ( even with the occasional shabby lines), an intelligent and elegant movie, this one lacks action. Of course that a movie shouldn't be judged by the amount of action, but in lack of it there must be a good storyline. This movie has none. Its plot is full of gaps, frustratingly illogical. One of the things that induced from me a great snore was the jail and childwhoescaped subplot. The idea of the jail is absurd. Whose prison is it, why are there no guards? Oh, I know it's inescapable... but please. Its location is outside of some ancient city walls, but very near it, and a modern complex is build only yards away (you can see it on the edge of the screen when Bruce escapes – but I will get to that). Bane (the Big Bad of the movie) escorted Bruce to the Asian jail himself, made all that way just to tell Bruce that he will torture his soul, and went back to Gotham, in the US, in the matter of hours. Why making that journey? It's impractical as hell. Furthermore, the man in prison, who are paid by Bane to keep Bruce alive (the man actually uttered the line – I'm paid more to keep you alive, when Bruce asked for death), are helping him fix his dislocated spine (no, it's not broken) and escape. Why? After a few tries, Bruce manages to climb the well and emerges on the surface. He throws some big, fat rope back in the pit. Where did that rope come from? Was it left outside just in case someone climbed to freedom so he can free all the other prisoners? Bruce himself had no rope – that was the whole point. Is the prisoners safety rope actually tied at the surface? If so, why no one climbed the rope itself? Hell, my brother with whom I watched the movie actually thought that he threw down the safety rope to make sure nobody else would escape. Then Bruce, with no money, no passport and no knowledge of the native language returns in the terrorist occupied and military guarded Gotham. He also, at the time, has no Batmobile, Batcopter or any other Bat-based vehicle. How did he get into the city? Fortunately, once in the city, he found his Bat-copter lying on the roof of a middle-height building, a huge thing covered only with a nett, and visible from air. With all the riots in the city, is it possible that nobody had stumbled upon it? Also, once in the Bat-copter, he encourages the not-long-ago buried police forces (who all have clean clothes and are clean-shaved after being underground for months) to attack the terrorists, but instead of helping them by shooting the enemy from air superiority, he lands the Bat-copter and seeks Bane for a fistfight. Is this not idiotic? The only action scene that was good was the one after the stock-market attack when Batman made a dashing escape. But, not even this scene can be compared with the ones from the second movie which were thrilling, masterfully directed and longer. They were also simpler, there was no atom bomb, there were just guns and explosives, but it worked better, it was more realistic, and darker. Unfortunately, what replaced action is load of parapsychology, the endlessly recycled story of the orphan Bruce, with many annoying flashbacks from previous films. You know the movie is not doing well when there are flashbacks involved. What got on my nerves a lot was also that all lectured Bruce, the man who sacrificed everything to help Gotham and do good. Alfred was particularly pathetic. Bane is truly a poorly done movie villain. The comic book character is said to have some intelligence. This was not present here. The opening scene, the delivery of the plan of doctor Pavel's abduction: Bane has executed a pointlessly expensive and complicated operation where he sacrificed unnecessarily three of his man, chopped up a plane and then used the already seen skyhook (The Dark Knight), when he easily could have attacked the plane on land. The romance between him and Coltirald's character is also redundant. His and Cotillard's background story could have been left unexplained. Even with it, both of them lack motivation. The rest of the movie Bane makes impressive entries. Actually a lot of the movie is about walking on the street, walking through the sewage, etc. And entering rooms. The romance between Bruce and Cotillard character was redundant and not probable (I accept this only if Bruce wanted a quick shag after a long time of drought). The explosion, beside the unnerving need of certain directors to explain in word what we understood in picture (someone actually had said Explosion! after we've have already seen the mushroom), was not realistic (no waves). But, as a whole, the movie is sufferable, just don't expect anything great. The thing I hated the most is that Batman is missing from this film. Bruce was more out of the suit, than in it. Seems to me that Nolan became a little bit too cocky with all the praise for the two previous movies. It's a shame because the movie could have been a lot better if he hadn't.
The movie was so boring and lengthy that I considered to leave the cinema. The script was predictable at some points and the acting was so poor amongst some of the actors. Anne Hathaway was horrible, she was not convincing at all and her outfit looked like a cheap Halloween costume. Bane, the main villain of this movie was killed in a split second and everything was forgotten about him, that's it. It's like the script writers wanted this movie to end quickly as possible at this point. The actor playing Miranda who appears to be Ra's Al Ghul's daughter Talia should get the award for worst death presentation, it was some of the worst acting I have ever seen, you can tell that she is acting. It's like she is taking a nap for crying out loud. Blake who appears to be Robin gets access to the Batman cave and all the high tech stuff that is in there, but he didn't receive any training at all so he wouldn't know how to use it. Robin is just an ordinary cop in this movie with no combat skills, yet Bruce Wayne gives away the cave to him and settles down with the supposed Catwoman.
My areas of disappointment : 1) Bane, 2) the threat on the city (nuclear), and 3) the Mr. Nolan's surprising lack of storytelling and bleak cinematic visual (even though he seemingly had the best filming tools to deliver so.). 1) I only wished the Mr. Nolan did not abruptly reduce his newest villain, Bane, to something so insignificant and small. The menacing, intelligent, "brute force" was indeed a towering figure throughout the movie until he presents himself as secondary towards the end of the trilogy.2) And the threat on Gotham City, a nuclear one, was surprisingly unoriginal considering how innovative the poisonous vapor threat was in "Batman Begins" or how chaos forced the protagonists of Gotham to make extremely troubling decisions in "The Dark Knight." 3) Something breathtaking was so suppose to happen in either the plot or in the IMAX grandeur. However, Mr. Nolan surprisingly failed to deliver in both areas. Mr. Nolan did not make us hold our breath like he did in the "Dark Knight" nor did he captivate our focus with his playful plots and mind bending cinematic visuals as he did in "Inception." In other words, I could not help but looking back at his past films while watching the "TDKR." There were a few other things that caught my immediate, negative attention. But who cares. It is really over now. This was how Mr. Nolan decided to end this truly life defining story. With that said, I am simply stunned and truly hurt that the trilogy had to end . . . like this.– davidwoongkim, Seoul
1. This movie is almost 3 hours long. Out of this 3 hours Batman was sick and crippled 2 hours. He was in his batman suit and did his batman stuff 15 minutes.2. I could not understand 80% of what Bane was saying.3. There are A LOT of long, boring, brainwashing , cliché dialogs.4. Gotham painfully reminded me of LA and NY. I mean really painfully.5. Throughout the movie i had a feeling that i was watching some stupid piece of propaganda how wonderful all super rich people are and how dumb are the rest of us. That orphanage in Bruce's house almost made me puke.Catwoman was rather enjoyable character.This movie, or should i rather say this propaganda piece would appeal to a people with very low IQ and some really die hard Batman fans.
i cant believe that some people are giving 10 rating for this pretentious,boring film.some are blinded by the hype and mass hysteria.even though they feel the movie boring,they are not willing to accept it.the guy who sat beside us in the theatre fell asleep halfway through the film and after the completion of film,he woke up and clapped.lol.all they want is part of batman patron and feel cool about it.coming to the film,its a rip-off of Bond film 'The World is not Enough'. In both films, the innocent woman is ultimately revealed to be the true mastermind/villain and the "monstrous villain" works for her out of devotion. Both are also willing to sacrifice themselves for love. Not to mention Bane was very much like Renard (villain from TWINE): a single named, intelligent anarchist terrorist with super strength due to a disorder, and we are led to believe throughout the bulk of both films that Bane and Renard are the masterminds behind the plot. Then there's Miranda Tate and Elektra King; beautiful,foreign businesswomen who deal in global energy.Both earn the trust of the hero (Bond/Wayne) while becoming romantically involved with them, though it's all a part of their plan to use the hero's company (MI6 and Wayne Enterprises) to her own ends. The plans are basically the same as well: steal reactor- nuclear material with the goal of nuking an entire city (Gotham and Istanbul). Another leading lady who is foxy at first and helps the hero later.character Q - Lucius fox with gadgets,M - alfred.Just added the holy drama stuff like depressed,burdened,not so-heroic Batman and hope for the city blah..blah.the icy post-apocalyptic,anarchy episodes are boring.there are many plot-holes and logicless scenes like taking a big city as hostage for months
I'm starting to suspect there's some mass cultural delusion effect at work here, and in a few decades time people will come to realise that it is, in fact, just about as bad as a film can be and is easily the weakest of Nolan's Batman trilogy. Let's explore why.1. Why is Marion Cotillard in this film? This is the wrong role for her. Her death sequence was a masterclass in bad acting. And if you didn't see the obvious twist that she was Talia after a whole movie of hanging around conspicuously it's time for a sight test.2. That blonde Selina was hanging around with really heavily implied Catwoman was a lesbian, or bisexual if you count her shoehorned-in fleeting kisses with Bruce. Why?3. The movie is filled with pointless characters. "Here's a new major or minor character, we'll stop the plot dead in it's tracks while they give dull exposition about their past and their motivations". This happened at least half a dozen times. In the case of Bane it would have been justified... if they had told his backstory all at once, not tediously dragged it out.4. Why did a nuclear reactor core contain a red countdown clock? Did Lucius Fox know that it would be hijacked, and made life easier for the hijackers by letting them know when it would explode? More irritating is how characters in the film keep mentioning there's a bomb and saying how many days/hours remain, like they have forgotten.5. There is no tangible sense of time, of scale, or of anything at stake. I was waiting for the movie to establish a sense of what really mattered. Would it create a real feeling of being in Gotham? It never did: it became more convoluted and confusing instead. I never got the feeling there were millions of lives at stake or that there was anything worth caring about.6. The movie takes itself too seriously. It was a gloomy dirge of self-pity and heavy-handed, lazy commentary about current affairs, with that stupid pounding music score pulsing along underneath ratcheting up the tension because the writing couldn't.7. Robin was written in so he could take on the mantle of Gotham's leading superhero at the end. The other things he did were things Jim Gordon could have done if the movie hadn't put him in a hospital bed. Getting rid of Robin would have also dispensed with the pointless subplot where he is trying to save a busload of orphans. I rolled my eyes at that one.8. In other versions of Batman, Bane is huge because he's on a supersteroid called Venom. In Rises it is never really explained, despite the fact he was a tiny child when he escaped the well prison. His death sequence was also terrible; the film spends so much time building him up as some kind of badass Batman can't beat, then he dies with relative ease.9. The sound mixing was terrible. Even characters that didn't have a stupid mask with batteries taped on the front (Bane) were, at times, very hard to hear. Considering how many millions were spent it really should have had reference quality surround sound audio.10. Chris Nolan is not good at directing this type of picture. In all of the Nolan Batman films (including Batman Begins, which I like despite this problem) he doesn't seem to know how to direct scenes, whether they are action, quiet drama or a mix of both. Camera placement is all wrong. The "Bane and Batman slug it out on a rusty walkway" scene feels claustrophobic despite the fact it's supposed to be some kind of huge fighting pit. It might as well be taking place inside a vacuum.11. Jim Gordon in his infinite wisdom stops what he thinks is the bomb truck with... a regular passenger coach, which would have broken apart under the weight.12. Gary Oldman cannot hold his American accent for even one scene.13. Batman is a plot device, not a character. It used to be something special when the cape and cowl were on. But the way Nolan has shot Batman here never made me feel he was the last bastion of justice in a corrupt city, powerful enough to keep criminals at bay with both his mind and his fists. He's one-dimensional and boring.14. Despite the fact Alfred mentions how underprepared Bruce his, despite the fact Bruce's doctor tells him he has no knees, all he does is strap a bionic movement device to one of his legs and is suddenly sprightly enough to be Batman again.15. Plenty of other problems the internet already covered.CONCLUSIONThere's no weight or levity to The Dark Knight Rises because characters and objects jump to where the poorly-constructed plot requires them to be, as if they were beamed there by a Star Trek transporter. The balance of the real and the exaggerated was just right in Batman Begins but in this one it bounces from set piece to boring drama scene and back again with no sense of cohesion, logic or grace. It's a complete mess.On the other hand, maybe it is a great movie and I just can't see it. Or maybe when the cultural zeitgeist changes direction everyone not so close to it and not hyped up to breaking point will see it's not all that. Time will tell.SUMMARY1. It's everything that was bad about The Dark Knight ramped right up.2. It's everything that was good about Batman Begins removed or neutered.3. It wastes good actors and a pretty large budget.4. It is joyless and illogical.5. It is one of the worst films I have ever seen.But it's not all bad: at least it wasn't available in 3D!
The characters are void of purpose most of the movie; terrible explanation of why and who are the "people" raising against the status quo; fighting scenes that are worst than Chinese B movies (knocking a guy out with a box is not acceptable anymore, or a dozen armed men choosing to wait those extra seconds just enough to fail and then trowing punches at the bat instead of using the guns in the first place), the whole bruce wayne goes to "hell on earth" prison that ends up to be a hole with a bunch of old farts where all he does are some sit-ups... come on, it's just plane wrong. But the piece de resistance is when the bat tops the line "a hero can just be the guy who puts a coat over a children's shoulders and let's him know the world is yadadada...". I mean, after the dark knight with Ledger, pfffff, this is simply WRONG! Oh, and the end... why make a whole plan to get the bomb to a designated place with all the work involved if all you needed to do was grab a cable and lift it to the sea? I mean, this movie is right there along Charlie's angels and stuff like that. Where's the power punch of the first two? This sucks! Big time!
In order that this review doesn't sound like it came from the Department of Redundancy Department, I will try not to cover the same ground as my predecessors in declaring that the Emperor has no clothes. Rather, I will try and discuss the little things that made this a big, bad film.Let me also say I am not a worshipper of Mr. Nolan, nor am I a staunch detractor of his. The Prestige is one of the best and most original films I have ever seen. I enjoyed Memento, and also Batman Begins.I was not a fan of Inception, and my feelings on The Dark Knight are mixed. I very much enjoyed Heath Ledger's performance as the Joker, and the way the Joker's character was written. I thought the Joker's monologue in the hospital when he explained to Harvey Dent that the hokey pokey IS what it's all about was nothing short of brilliant.I did not come to The Dark Knight Rises ready to hate it, or love it. I watched the film, objectively, and I saw it a second time from a better seat in a different theater, just to make sure I wasn't being unfair.Nope.Sorry Mr. Nolan, sir.Your movie sucks.Why? Because, as the Joker might remind us, the Devil is in the details.Details, details, details, it is the little things that the mind notices. Some of us laugh and call "BS" when John Wayne gets eleven shots out of a six-shooter, but we believe it when Clint Eastwood or Bruce Willis never have to reload, because they swear and they have dirt and blood on their costumes and faces.For example, the matter of Bruce Wayne's fingerprints.Mr. Wayne is not only Batman, he is also a billionaire businessman. Surely, he would be a bit more, oh, perturbed that his fingerprints have been stolen. Let's be serious. If you found out that your fingerprints, or something else intimately connected to you, like your SSN or your signature had been stolen, wouldn't you be thinking about the possibility of identity theft? Wouldn't you be in a cold sweat that someone was going to use those fingerprints to perform a total cashectomy on you? Well, Bruce Wayne isn't. He's pretty cavalier about the whole thing. Ah, well, so somebody wants to steal my identity. Or my money. It's not like I'm a billionaire or I have a secret identity or anything.Wait.ALFRED! Ah, yes, but Alfred's not coming, Master Bruce. You see, he's so worried about you being completely unhinged, and unready to get back in the Bat-tights, and the possibility that you might be killed that he's just going to take it on his toes and leave you to your own devices when you're at your weakest point and you need him the most.Hurm.And then we have the matter of Miranda/Talia. Here I am thinking Tony Stark's the superhero who'll screw just about any interesting chick who's willing and available, but, well, Bruce has been having a bad month, we'll cut him some slack.Except Tony has staff members who do background checks on his playmates, and staff who dismiss them when he's through playing.With a few bucks and a non-disclosure statement, most likely.You would think that before Bruce Wayne wagered HALF his assets on a business partnership with Miranda, he would have used his state-of-the-art, info-the-KGB-CIA-MI5-doesn't have supercomputer to do a thorough background check.He is the goddamn Batman, after all.Well, he didn't. Not did he do any research on her before they got involved, kind of out of the clear blue sky.But he didn't find her sudden romantic interest fishy, and hey, she seemed like a nice girl, why not pass up Alfred, or Lucius Fox and just let her have the whole shebang.And then, after we discover How Bruce Got His Groove Back, he decides to buy some pastel shirts and abscond to the continent, leaving Gotham, and the Batman legacy in the hands of some cop named Robin (groan) with another very nice girl who has shown him that she's a liar and a thief who probably doesn't have his best interests at heart.Here's to you, Alfred. Sorry you're broke. Good luck with all those orphans and none of my money, relying on the city to keep you funded.Burn the furniture in the rooms you're not using for heat if they cut you off for a few years. Get the boys some paper routes.Now, if you'll excuse me, I have to go return some videotapes.Hurm, I say again, because this person doesn't sound like any Bruce Wayne I've ever encountered, in any of his many incarnations.I mean, Adam West was a lot more on the ball in the old TV show. And if this is Bruce Wayne as an, ahem, realistic character? Realistically, this self-pitying, egocentric, blundering half-wit wouldn't have ever made it out of that Asian prison in the first movie.Riddle me this? When is Bruce Wayne not Batman? In this film. Because there is no Devil in these details, indeed, if you are looking for The Dark Knight in Bruce Wayne as portrayed in this film, there is no-one there at all.
Hype can kill a movie, and I think the fanboys can't handle the fact that this film isn't the cinematic masterpiece it was made out to be. Therefore, they still give the film 10/10 because they can't accept failure. I think this Avengers vs. TDKR crap has really riled them up (note, I am NOT an Avengers fanboy). Ever since the release of The Dark Knight, there have been a new legion of insane fanboys and they outnumber everyone. They are always right, we are wrong. But hey, TDKR is amazing because it's supposed to be, right? Wrong.Let's discuss the film at hand. It's called The Dark Knight Rises which is a stupid name for a movie. Let's discuss how dumb this movie is.John Blake randomly figures out Batman's identity. So according to Blake's logic, every orphan knows who Batman is. Give me a break.The nuclear reactor changes into a bomb in a few minutes. Do some research, this is impossible. It's also funny how it has a LED display. LOL.So, Bruce Wayne falls in love with Selina Kyle after she steals his mother's necklace, steals his car, and then sets him up against Bane which resulted in his back being broken. Explain, why does Bruce love/trust her after all that? It makes no sense. And why does Catwoman randomly change from bad to good? No explanation, which shows the laziness of the screenwriters.The prison Bruce is sent to has a way to escape with no guards. What a weak plot device. You'd think Bane would leave some of his men there just to make sure nothing goes wrong. I mean, he obviously knows people can escape. And plus there is a rope Bruce throws down after he leaves. Couldn't any average Joe just walk up there and throw the rope down? Come on Bane... I thought you were smarter than this!How did Bruce make that jump with an injured knee? No explanation. Lazy screen writing.If you do your research, you will learn that Bruce magically healing his back like that is impossible. More lazy screen writing.Why did Talia wait so long to blow Gotham up? Why not do it right when Batman returns, right when the people regain hope? But she waits, and waits, and waits... also got to love her Razzie worthy death scene.Funny how Batman stands around listening to Talia's final speech when there is a bomb about to blow up the city!Batman gets stabbed but he's OK... because he's Batman.Uhm, why didn't Batman use any gadgets against Bane in the first fight? Well, he used those lame firecrackers, but you're telling me he doesn't have anything better? Seriously.Catwoman possesses the ability to magically appear wherever she needs to be. Kind of like the Joker. It's a pretty cool super-power.The writers couldn't think of anything more original than a bomb timed to blow up a city? Like that hasn't been used before. What a shame that this final film resorts to using so many clichés.TDKR is a fat ripoff of THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH, which is a James Bond film. More lazy screen writing.Uh, Bane and his minions magically get motorcycles after the Stock Exchange heist.Day randomly changes to night.Poorly choreographed fight scenes (Nolan is TERRIBLE at shooting action).How about sending almost all of Gotham's police force in the sewers to get Bane? Please explain to me what makes sense about that.Yeah, this film is unrealistic garbage and is an insult to film lovers. If you like clichés, hectic pacing, plot holes, forced romances, cheesy dialogue, and lame action scenes, then this film is for you!
The above quote is from Roger Ebert's review of the 1999 stinkeroo "Wild Wild West," but it is eminently suited to this waste of time, talent, and filthy lucre. The kid from "3rd Rock From The Sun" is mind-blowingly miscast as the deuteragonist, the cat lady has all the world-weary sex appeal of a fatal fishing accident, and Nolan's apparent desire to deify and then blow every cop in sight is downright sickening.The mask "holds the pain in?" What kind of idiocy are we expected to swallow? This was not just poorly written, but actually asinine, and "asinine" is not a word I use lightly, much like "gonorrhea" or "complete transmission rebuild." Plot holes and contrivances abound, so numerous I shan't trouble with them except to say that conventional wisdom tells us that the US has about a three-day supply of food on hand if the supply chain were interrupted, but Gotham has enough for three months without outside help, which Bane explicitly forbade? Including enough to feed thousands of cops trapped underground, presumably so they'll be on hand for the assault on Mordor at the end of the film? And all this is handwaved away by Detective Exposition telling another character that "they're getting food and water." Based on the fit and energetic fellows who show up at said assault, they ate pretty good down there. Let's say ninety days underground at three meals a day for 4000 guys (a woefully small number-- the real NYPD has over 34000 uniforms). That's over a million meals! How'd that work again? Even if they only got one MRE a day, that's over 350000 meals. In a city of about a million and a half (again assuming parity with Manhattan), that's a lotta food. Where'd they get it? I don't ask (or expect) much of films, honestly, but I do insist on crap making sense.To sum up, boring, lifeless, silly, and pretentious. The socialist class-warfare claptrap the cat lady kept spouting didn't help, either. Badly written, mostly badly acted, trite, and conventional. Everything wrong with Hollywood in a 200-million-dollar nutshell. Overblown drivel masquerading as deep social commentary.Dreck.
I think the other reviewers are on crack... This is one of the worst films I have seen in a long time. The plot made on sense, Bain was horribly misrepresented as one of the greatest comic villains, and the story had horrific plot twists that made on sense as to why it was even in the movie. To me the only saving grace was killing Batman because they killed his career with this insipid movie but alas they even screwed that up.This is just simply a bad movie with a few special effects that of course were completely impossible in real life and mostly wasted scenes. Wait for the CD and use it for a pot holder...at least you might get something positive from this movie...
It took me one week to finally watch this whole movie, fell asleep twice, got distracted by lint in my belly button, watching paint dry, etc. I don't know what people are looking at. This was SOO boring and the plot holes and ridiculous story lines was just too much. I agree with all the other negative reviews... couldn't understand anything Bane said, the fight scenes were 'yawn' boring, what happened to Batman's kick ass kungfu???He got slapped around like a 2 dollar hooker... no reasonable explanations for anything-how did he get back to US??? and what kind of "hell on earth" prison has cable TV? Policeman come out of dark sewage like they are getting ready for a parade...the big melee fight, police have no guns, bad guys have guns and they just let the police beat them up???Talia's death scene, she needs to go back to acting school, I just burst out laughing...it goes on and on and on. Save your money, wait till it comes to video.
Part 1 and 2 where good but part 3 is something really boring. After the first part of this movie when I saw it in the cinema I still hoped it would get better and maybe even awesome. This didn't happen. The first part of the movie made a couple of my friends, sitting next to me, fall asleep. This almost happened to me too and that would have been the second time ever if it would have happened. Instead I laughed because two of my friends had indeed fallen asleep. batman does almost nothing in the first hour because he is crippled or something. How exciting, a batman who can't do anything. And I'm not writing batman with a capitol b because this batman isn't worth pressing the shift key. Catwoman is pretty cool. The problem here however is that she isn't really Catwoman. She's is just a girl with cool moves and a tight outfit. No cats anywhere. The bad guy is nice but the movie is so slow that it doesn't matter. In the second part of the movie we see batman recovering from a hernia just like that. All of sudden he is the man again. However, this doesn't give you any real cool Batman action. Noooo just the same lame batman action we had to see (or sleep through) all movie long. Most of the things batman does, he does from some bat bike or bat plane which is boring. I almost forgot, the acting by most actors isn't really good. Most of it is boring, again. Except for the butler played by Michael Caine. He's a good actor in most of his movies but manages to make you laugh your ass off when he starts a sentimental lecture to Bruce Wayne. It's so funny when he starts crying and makes the movie even more stupid. It's not that I can't take sentimental moments, no. Believe me, it just looked ridiculous. And of course batman needs someone to follow in his footsteps because well, he kills himself trying to save the city. We can all see who's going to be the new Robin halfway through but I remembered Batman and Robin working together from old series, cartoons etc. These two hardly know each other. I don't know if they even meet in this movie. I can't remember because I'd rather remember a movie that's worth watching like the first two of this series. Or even better, the movies with Micheal Keaton as Batman. That Batman kicked ass!!
Bad guys: have selective omniscience, perfect security, complete willingness to die for a very obscure cause. Perfect precision in operation. Good guys: Absolute idiots, useless in a fight, completely disorganized.Plot: Riddled with holes you could drive truck through, even contradicting itself five minutes later because, apparently, the scriptwriter couldn't be bothered to care. Motivations of characters: None, on either side. Stuff just happens. The stated goals of the characters make no sense, but then very little does.Time scale: Disjointed. Things that should take months take minutes and vice verse.Fun level: Zero. No character in this film is particularly sympathetic. Action sequences are dull and look exactly like previous outings, not to mention none of them are of any consequence, solving nothing. Of course, you may enjoy pointless beatings, but don't expect them to advance the plot--whatever the plot is.This film is the Mass Effect 3 of the superhero film.


                
I have just seen this movie and was deeply disappointed. I think this is the worst movie I have seen in years. I really liked the previous film "The dark knight" with Heath Ledger in a fantastic role as the joker, but this film !? Why not rename it "The dark knight s". The messy plot, all the logical faults, the soft comments where to sacrifice oneself for the city of Gotham, the tears, the worn out wisdom of the wise-man in the cave. I suspect a "we're only in it for the money" attitude for the creators of this film, but then again it looks as if they tried but failed, and an expensive film to make it must have been. Why not use some of that money on an intelligent plot. Instead of this mess. Just forget this movie and save your money, and your time.


                
What a load of rubbish! I can't believe I actually went to see this tripe. It was only because I went with friends (and they all wanted to see it), that I went.Nearly three hours of utter clap-trap. I didn't understand the story-line, I couldn't tell what the guy with the "Alien type" mask over his faced was saying? I couldn't care less about ANY of the characters.. There was no story to it... All of the actors (such as Christian Bale and Michael Caine and Anne Hathaway were obviously just doing it for the money).. Christian Bale should be ashamed as he has done such fine work in his time such as "The Machinist" etc.All that money and THIS is what Hollywood gives us these days!!!! Where are all the GOOD films these days? Where are the "Schindlers List's"... Where are the "Empire Of The Sun's" or "Eyes Wide Shut", where are all the arty films such as last years "The Artist"?? This film was utter rubbish!


                
This movie reminded me a lot of watching a transformer movie. There was almost no plot, horrible acting, and overblown, unrealistic action scenes. It was as if Nolan thought by having constant action, it would be a great movie. He was dead wrong. The villain in the movie, Bain, was the worst bad guy I have ever seen. He was a bad actor, extremely hard to understand at times, and added little to the movie. In my opinion, all of the acting was atrocious. Furthermore, I know it's a batman movie but I've never seen a movie that consistently had so many unrealistic aspects. I don't want to give away anything, but over and over again the most ridiculous incidents and scenes occurred. It was almost like a 12 year old with no sense of anything realistic wrote the movie. By far the worst Nolan movie I have ever seen. It's truly a shame the third part of the trilogy was so poorly written, filmed, edited, and directed. I don't know how anyone could rate this movie a 10. I went inwith low expectations because the first Dark Knight was so good and I knew this one would not be nearly as good. The movie didn't ever meet my meager expectations. It was truly awful, not even worth the price of admission.


                
As time goes by and the hype dies down and the Nolanites either grow up or move on to other agendas, this film will be seen for what it really is; a bloated, stupid, preposterous and dull entry in the cinematic adventures of The Batman. If you are looking for Batman, you will be disappointed as he is scarcely in the film. The first half is particularly dull and could have easily been edited down drastically to ease some of the pain. The pacing picks up in the second half, but unfortunately, so does the absurdity in the plot. The motivation of the villains is never explained in anywhere close to a satisfactory manner and their actions defy all logic. The ending is particularly laughable and even embarrassing to watch. Nolan fans who claim that these Batman films are somehow rooted in the real world aren't really paying attention. This film is every bit as bad as the Schumaker films, worse because this takes itself seriously. THE DARK KNIGHT probably stands as the best Batman film to date despite it's own flaws. THE DARK KNIGHT RISES is the worst. I'd rather watch Adam West as Batman than this mess.


                
After reading so many good reviews I was expecting a lot more from this movie. The time line is completely screwed, events even more impossible than any other super hero or even science fiction movie I've seen lately and I can't count the number of times I thought "Oh come on!.. that's just ridiculous". Certainly there are nice images and interesting characters but the story sucks so much it made the movie absolutely boring and ridiculous to me.I was not a fan of the previous Batman movies but at least I found something interesting the first 2 movies of this trilogy. This is more like a science fiction movie and nothing like the other movies which were a lot more realistic and close to my idea of what Batman should be like.


                
The plot is a total nonsense from the beginning to the end. They don't even try to make it believable. I know it's a super hero movie, we're not in the real world, but still. I felt this movie was an insult to the public. It's like saying you don't understand anything of what is happening in the world around you, why would you care to understand what is going on in the movie? We end up with a very childish plot where whatever you want to happen just happens with magic. A nuclear reactor turned into a nuclear bomb with a screwdriver in 2 minutes in a garage, a broken spine healed with a rope and 3 push ups, it's all like this. Just boring and lazy. Even the fights are lame. Bane and Batman are supposed to be the 2 best fighters in the world but they fight like a couple of drunk cowboys. Jackie Chan would kick their butt in no time. Can't believe it's rated 8.7 today.


                
