As this movie was the most awaited movie of the decade, I obviously wanted to watch it as soon as possible. My friend won some contest online and so, I got to watch it a few days earlier FOR FREE.The movie is everything you want it to be. The story is very well told and there is enough of Nolan-kind twists. Tom Hardy has some powerful lines as Bane but the enhanced voice doesn't work at all. But, he still does his character justice and performs to his full potential. For the first time in the trilogy, Batman wasn't the strongest. This gave a chance to Christian Bale to show off his acting skills without the mask and he did a fine job. The veterans Gary Oldman, Morgan Freeman and Michael Caine went about their job as if it was just another day at the office. But, a major surprise was Joseph Gordon-Levitt who portrays an ordinary police officer and pulls of an unexpectedly awesome performance. The special effects, sound and action were out of the world. Nolan spent a lot of money and he made it visible in the movie. The movie connects all the dots from the previous movies and provides a fitting end to the saga. Although, personally I liked The Dark Knight better. But, TDKR certainly came very close it.Finally, I would like to thank Christopher Nolan for portraying Batman in a way no one ever thought was possible and for making one the best trilogy of all time.


                
Let me start by saying, that I am an avid Nolan admirer. Up until now I haven't seen a bad Nolan film. All of his movies would be in my top movies list if I had one, I consider him a genius. After seeing the final act of his Batman I have started to reconsider.The movie was filled with moments where I found myself thinking "This is not believable" and after the first hour I asked myself "Is this it?". Gladly after the first hour things did become more meaningful. The "fall" of the dark knight was awesome, Bane was a tough guy and the Batman did suffer. It was great. Even Anne Hathaway came trough crushing all my negative preconceptions. Other than that, the movie certainly didn't deliver.In the end they ruined Banes character. Batman's training in this film was far from believable. There were lot of little stories and story structures going on, which didn't work when added together. I mean they worked but comparing to the previous films of Nolan they certainly did not deliver. In many scenes I thought "This is something that just could not happen", the things in this film just didn't work. And I don't mean Batman doing his stunts, of course they are unrealistic, I mean all the little things that left me bothered.On the other hand when it comes to Batman's stunts there were little, the end conclusion left me thinking "was this the great finale of BATMAN?". Isn't Batman supposed to do something cooler than fly a plane or ride a motorcycle? Isn't Batman supposed to be an acrobat who beats everyone in a cool, cunning and mysterious ways? Here he was the operator of an army plane. In the previous films he was Batman, in this film he doesn't really come off as Batman. His only a random commando wearing a Batman suit. This is something I could not forgive Nolan for.If the scenes we're actually believable I would've propably considered forgiving him this error, but these two errors together are just too much for me to say this is an impressive movie. You might be able to go as far to say this is good, but it is not impressive. This is a shame, because the guy who did this has done nothing but impressive movies. For some other director this movie could be a good stepping stone for something better, an acceptable movie that did have its moments, but for Nolan it is an utter failure. There we're times in this movie when he got me and I was impressed. The movie did in certain scenes raise my emotion and hit me where it should've, but as a whole taking into account all the bad things it cannot be regarded as a movie above others.I was let down with this movie. With all of his previous movies that I have seen in the theathre I have gone in with enormous expectations, like the kind of hyped mind you should never walk in with and every single time I have walked out with my expectations blown away by the grandness of what I have just seen. This time I walked in with the same expectations and came out disappointed. The only question in my mind being "How was he able to not see these flaws in this movie, I thought he was a genius who could not fail".


                
Christopher Nolan did a great job on the two first films. His greatness came to be in combining a complex rich story with even more complex and interesting characters.No doubt that this is an epic movie in a lot of ways. The score, the directing, the visual effects. Everything is done with utmost precision and thought, but, one thing is lacking - Plot and even more important is the Character motives. There is no explanation to why so many people follow Bane (or why goddamn no one shot him down), or why bane himself is so devoted to the concept of the league of shadows. So is Miranda. Nor why exactly cat woman does what she does if it's helping batman or helping Bain. I wouldn't go about complaining about the love story between Batman and Catwoman which simply came to be without any explanations. There are many plot holes: mainly about the nuclear bomb (that came to be known by the bad guys after they kidnapped the nuclear physicist).Well the whole story itself and many scenes were just really CHESSY; like the one that Catwoman fight off one of Bain Henchman so that the poor little kid could have his stolen shiny red apple, the anthem scene and many others. Watching this movie you feel as Nolan didn't have put much effort to write an interesting script.In conclusion, just another breathtaking full of action and special effects summer movie, Nothing more.
I'll be brutally honest here. I liked The Dark Knight better than this. Even though its just couple of hours since I finished watching it.Sure, TDK had its flaws, but then, it was such a marvelous noir saga, a treatise in crime drama that left us begging for more at the end. The phrase "page-turner" is often applied to engrossing books, but that could work just as well for the magnificent film. To this day, I cannot take my eyes off whenever I see TDK and by the time that ravishing interrogation scene between Batman and Joker is on, nothing is likely to stir me from my seat. By choosing to make the titular character undergo a perception shift, a massive (and ultimately successful) gamble was taken. And who can forget the late, great Heath Ledger's spectacular performance? TDKR is not a bad movie per se. Seen alone, it has the ideal ingredients for a summer blockbuster: an A-list cast, monumental action sequences, modern themes of terrorism and official ineptitude, as well as intricate sub-plots which mesh well together at the end. There is more than a passing reference to the predecessors, especially Batman Begins (which, in my humble opinion, is an enormously underrated flick). And it works to a great extent.Where this film fails as TDK succeeded is in the amount of layering. Some sub-plots were so complex that I was left confused as to where I was before that particular sequence (case in point: Blake's impromptu reconnaissance of a dockyard). Others were left frustratingly hanging in thin air. The plot also seems slow paced at first. While the first sequence is downright awesome, what follows afterward is distinctly underwhelming. Above all else, Batman is renowned to be a master strategist. Here, he ends up getting deceived not once, but twice at Catwoman's hands. You mean to tell me that eight years is good enough to make a superbly trained, marine-worthy, genius escape artist-cum-detective become dull? Really? I won't go ahead and slate Nolan more here, simply because he gave me the privilege of watching two of the best superhero movies ever filmed in Batman Begins and TDK. The glass is always half-full in my eyes, and I'll admit that Hathaway and Gordon-Levitt were both perfect selections for their roles. I'm not too sure of Tom Hardy, since his performance is more physical than metaphorical but given his task was to exude a ruthless menace, he did his job. The rest of the familiar supporting cast are brilliant as before, especially with Caine showing his human side that we always suspected was well alive beneath that stiff British upper lip exterior and dry wit. I read somewhere that this is not a Batman movie, but a Bruce Wayne movie. And I fully agree. Having to reconcile (with unflattering results) with a life without Batman, Bruce is alone even as a social presence and a corporate figure. It is a true challenge but then again, Christian Bale turned in a remarkable performance in both BB and TDK (he held his own in those scenes where Ledger was not present). And in TDKR, he leaves an indelible mark on a role that would probably be the benchmark.Batman Begins was all about "Fear" while "Chaos" was a running theme in TDK. TDKR does a great job in being a conclusion to the trilogy, but it is not the best one among the three, probably because there is no strong undercurrent of a theme here.


                
I am a huge fan of Christopher Nolan and the first 2 Dark Knight movies, so I had high expectations for this movie. The Dark Knight Rises is good, but it is nowhere near the level of the other two movies. It has several things that are a bit cliché and it also had several plot holes that I found very irritating and distracting. My friend who I saw it with initially thought it was the best out of the trilogy, but after we discussed the plot holes that he missed, he ranked it as the worst of the three movies. Throughout the movie I felt like everything was a bit overdone. It seemed like they were trying so hard to make the "epic conclusion" that they forgot to make it realistic or reasonable. One of the things I loved about the first two was how it dealt with Batman in a fairly realistic way. There was a fairly good overview of how he functioned and how he was viewed. In this I thought there was much less dealing with the separation of Bruce Wayne and Batman, which was one of the interesting parts of the first 2. Also, I would describe the main character of The Dark Knight Rises as Bruce Wayne rather than Batman, which I found greatly disappointing. Still a good movie, but not nearly as great as the first 2.


                
As a huge fan of superhero movies and undeniably the batman Christopher Nolan has depicted is the favourite of my choice. He is humane yet enigmatic, heroic and self-giving. Chris Nolan has produced superhero movies into a whole different level. The action, acting, sound and other visual effects was absolutely mind-blowing for the previous two productions. He is good at picking the right cast playing the right role like Michael Caine, Gary Oldham and Morgan Freeman who have always been the linchpin behind the success of the movie. I am also in awe of his previous works excluding the batman series such as Momento and The Prestige. So I had high hope and expectation on the Dark Knight Rises of how the director can build up the finale of the Batman trilogy which the world has long anticipated this blockbuster.Judged by the content of the trailers, lots of people might expect it to be an action intensive film with lots of explosive elements and the elemental conflict between good and evil. If I'm honest, I have already seen most of the action scenes of the movie via the trailers before watching the film which is a saddening thing to hear from an audience's point of view. The entire film was almost three hours long and there were way too much chit chatting with the whole conspiracy by the villain but not getting down into the main point or the action bits. I think those scenes about having trials on the people by the judge whether they were guilty or not was plainly farcical in my opinion and quite cheesy which I never experienced in the previous two batman films.The Dark Knight Rises has put in a lot of new characters who played a key role in the film including Joseph Gordon-Levitt playing John Blake and Marion Cotillard as Miranda Tate. But the main villain, Bane played by Tom Hardy made me anticipated on how he can use his eyes as his weapon to proceed the acting, to show his wrath towards the corrupted society. I must say I was a bit disappointed at the villain role as the joker simply played too well in The Dark Knight in which Tom Hardy could not exceed the expectation. With those prestigious casts which all of them are great actors, I expected that it would be a sensational experience crafted by those actors. However, the entire film always talking about bits and bobs and never really get to one main theme. The experience was messy and too stuffed in without much focus to cause the audience to fall into the frictional world that Christopher Nolan was trying to present.In conclusion, The Dark Knight Rises does not exceed my expectation nor better than the predecessor. I thought it was a let down the way how Christopher Nolan wrap up this impeccable Batman series. I only gave the rating 7/10 because of the two fantastic previous productions he made.


                
Before I get down-voted because I'm not giving 'The Dark Knight Rises' a 10 (the trend most of the users on her seem to be following), I'll list the numbers of things I really enjoyed about the film, and there were plenty.-The cast Nolan's able to put together to end his trilogy is really something to marvel at. From the veterans of the series (Bale, Freeman, Caine, Oldman) to the new faces (Gordon-Levitt, Cotillard, Hathway, Hardy) each bring their all to their characters, even if a few are somewhat undeveloped (more on that later).-Action scenes. 'Batman Begins,' while I admire it for it's first look at the gritty take to the comic formula, had some incredible poor and incomprehensible fight scenes, where it was unclear how who punching what or what was happening. In 'The Dark Knight,' the scenes were much more clear, a big improvement. Here, the fighting scenes are at their best. When Baine and Batman throw down, it's some of the most intense fight scenes I've seen in a long time.-Huge setpieces. I could say that about all of these movies, but in this film especially. Gotham City is beautifully recognized. It's always great to see a huge place like this down naturally, never been plagued by artificial CGI (Nolan uses as little as possible.) Not to mention the number of extras, which number in the thousands.-The ending. Even if it jumps the shark, the ending to Nolan's epic trilogy is overall fulfilling. Fans of the series won't be disappointed, even if the casual might Not that that's out of the way, the problems I had with the film. . .-Bane's voice. When we first meet Bane, on a plane, his voice was nearly unbearable. It sounded like something a ten-year-old would do when playing with audio effects on his computer. The dialogue didn't help, as he spewed out clunky one-liners. Here was Bane, with his terrifying appearance,sounding like a cartoon. It did improve over the ocurse of the movie, but the first introduction to the character was something I almost couldn't shake off.-Too many character introductions. Maybe this is a criticism of the whole trilogy, but I'll have to put the blame on this one. Too many characters are brought in, with their developments feeling rushed. It almost appears like Nolan adds these new additions to the script at the last minute.For the most part, the good outweighs the bad. It's a very entertaining film and, as far as summer blockbusters, it's definitely worth the price of admission.7/10


                
Ultimately, this is an excellent film, but after seeing this as part of an all night trilogy viewing, I have to say it is not as good as The Dark Knight.The film opens with, strangely for Nolan a quite farcical scene that introduces Bane. I won't spoil it, but please tell me, who takes 3 unknown prisoners on a plane without even looking at their faces? Really??The proper story starts, and to chose words like jaded, withdrawn, cynical, tired, lethargic and disconnected, is how we find our hero and Police commissioner. So ultimately this is how the audience is manipulated into feeling too, and so act 1 is ultimately a long "downer" as lots of elements are put in place for the last 2 acts. But, after sitting through six hours of Batman Begins and The Dark Knight, I was left feeling it was too much, and I started getting bored with the overall emotional shade of the film, coupled with the lack of action and the lack of any real story. It was like watching a plate spinner getting 40 plates spinning on pointy poles, necessary for his act, but ultimately boring for his audience.The second Act is where our bad guy makes his play and gains the upper hand. One of the strongest sources of praise for The Dark Knight, is the ultimately real-world story telling. But what Bane unleashes on Gotham, takes us back to the more comic book villainy of the first film, which I won't criticise, but for me is not as rewarding as the realism of the second film. All the while our good guys are slow, wrong footed, and creaking under their mental baggage, so we are two thirds through a superhero film, where our superhero has been anything but. Action has been thin on the ground, and we have all been through the ringer, and we are crying for some redeeming pay-off.After the third act, our her is restored, all has been put right. However, ultimately our pay-off for all we have been put through in the first two acts is only satisfying if you can shrug off the memory of what you have just been put through. It's much like childbirth, you need your brain to be swimming with endorphins to blank out the pain of labour, and for me, I didn't get enough endorphins to make the experience totally rewarding.Add to this, a slightly facial bad-guy twist, and a groan-worthy sequel shoe-in, I have to say that Nolan has tried to squeeze in far too much, and Batman's saga creeps over the line, rather than ending with a bang, so much so, you will feel convinced that this is not the final part of the story, and we will need another installment to accept that our hero has sailed off into the sunset.


                
as much as i am huge fan of the batman in almost every facet of the genre, i am having a hard time getting completely behind this film. it makes the same mistake a lot of sequels do: it tries to pack too much into the story. the reason why the first two films in the trilogy, batman begins and the dark knight, worked so well was because they mostly focused on one central story and villain. in the dark knight rises there are too many new characters and too many story lines to be introduced and told that the film loses focus. sure it has plenty of action which you would expect but nolan strays too far from the source material when it comes to the characters in the film. the cast does a fine job with the script they had to work with and most film goers will probably like this film but i think true fans of the batman who know the history of the characters will wonder what nolan is doing to their batman.


                
Christopher Nolan's "The Dark Knight Rises" is a mainstream accomplishment, a skillfully crafted, ambitious superhero movie that adds more dimension to the superhero genre. Here is the epic (2 and 3/4 hours!) conclusion to a most beloved trilogy that forever changed the genre that it was type-casted in.I really have to admire Christian Bale's dedication to the role. At times he is weak, lacking confidence, and shrouded in gloom. At other times (in later scenes involving a prison) his eyes show the painful return to his self-determination and perseverance. Yes his Batman no doubt is still the best interpretation of the character, but here he is more human, less growly and more prone to weakness than ever before. Here, we first see Bruce Wayne as a single, rich hermit with a limp in one leg, aided only by his loyal butler Alfred (Michael Caine in his most emotional performance of the trilogy). Caine may get a supporting actor nomination for this movie.It's been eight years since he took the rep for Harvey Dent's crimes - but Wayne/Batman soon faces a new threat - the towering, ominous terrorist Bane (Tom Hardy in a remarkably gripping performance and an empowering presence) who threatens to destroy Gotham city. Hardy is ruthlessly terrific as Bane, true to the spirit of the comics, as he manages to instill fear in all of Gotham. It would be unfair to compare him to Heath Ledger's pitch perfect portrayal of the Joker, but these are two completely different characters. Whereas the Joker aims for a battle of psychological wits between Batman, Bane aspires just to destroy Bruce Wayne and Gotham.There is a pervasive sense of haunting dread and gloom throughout the movie, especially throughout the first 2 hours and scenes with Bane, this is achieved not just by Nolan's writing/directing but also to cinematographer Wally Pfister who shoots the film in a gloomy hue throughout, and composer Hans Zimmer's great, dark orchestral score. Zimmer probably has outdone himself in the trilogy so far, especially with Bane's ominous one-chord theme.But the last 30 minutes contains nothing but great, sometimes spectacular action sequences and stunts which segues in with the story (a rarity) and which all leads to an emotionally satisfying conclusion to the trilogy. The stunts are so well done, they clearly show they were all done using practical effects instead of CGI (with the probable exception of the stadium scene and scenes involving "the Bat" and the "Bat-cycle"... which still look great). Lee Smith's crisp editing and Pfister's cinematography cuts the action at a perfect clip while making the somber moments absorbing.Two love interests are introduced - Selina Kyle (Anne Hathaway, looking mesmerizingly beautiful while giving a devilishly cunning performance), a specialized thief/con-woman who is not what she seems, and Miranda Tate (Marion Cottilard) who provides a more gentler shade for the lonely, love-lorn Bruce to rely on, or does he? Young cop John Blake (Joseph Gordon-Levitt) serves as a somewhat younger shadow of Bruce, and he also shows the same selfless courage at the climax of the movie where he tries to save some kids from an orphanage. Scenes involving Commissioner Gordon (Gary Oldman) and Lucius Fox (Morgan Freeman) are not particularly notable, but at the very least every one of these characters are still very active in the film's climax.Its the screen writing which suffers slightly. While clearly ambitious and detailed, the screenplay lacks some depth from which the previous film succeeded, and seems to return to the roots of "Batman Begins", focusing more on comic book origins - combining with the sombre, ultra- realistic tone of "The Dark Knight". For the most part, it gels nicely. There's also some nice character development for Bruce and Alfred, where they're relationship gets strained to the fullest. Some twists at the end that would arouse comic-book fans too. However, Bane's full character should have been expanded upon - yes, even though the film is nearly 3 hours long, it's not really long enough. Bane's and Selina's characters lack in development and they come across as near-two dimensional. It's clear Nolan bit off a bit more than he can chew here, since he was trying his best to outdo his previous effort. No faulting the actors though.For all of its screen writing flaws though, "The Dark Knight Rises" is a mainstream triumph, putting new levels of fear and dread in a superhero movie not seen before its own predecessor. Nolan's vision for the character shines through completely and makes this trilogy rightfully stand out as "The Godfather" of superhero films. This entry may not be as brilliant as its predecessor, but it is still nevertheless great, sort of excellent really, and hats off to Nolan, Bale, Hardy and the rest of the cast and crew, past and present, for delivering the truest interpretation of the Batman character that has never been, and very likely in the future, never will be seen again. Kudos to you, Christopher Nolan.Overall rating: 86%P.S.: My review for "The Dark Knight" (2008) four years ago is basically a teenage me kissing the behind of the film, with me calling it a masterpiece and editing the review on IMDb so much until they won't allow me to edit/review it anymore. Looking back, I probably shouldn't have been so enthusiastic and made myself look like a rabid fanboy; it isn't a masterpiece, but nonetheless still an excellent film and the pinnacle of the superhero film genre.EDIT: My sincere condolences to the victims and their family and friends of the Aurora shooting tragedy. This was a real random, cruel and senseless act of violence.
The Dark Knight Rises is a great film and should definitely be watched. This review will have a bunch of critiques in it because... what's the point of reading a review that just compliments a movie non-stop. So remember, I really enjoyed the Dark Knight Rises... but it did have a bunch of annoying factors to it that did take away from the experience overall. I will list my issues with the movie first, then I will say what I enjoyed about the film at the end so that the review will end on a pleasant note.Something that really bothered me about this movie is that it was inconsistent at times. For example, the power of Batman's bat-copter. In one scene its rockets are extremely powerful and can easily blow up multiple cars in a single shot, but in the next scene it can't even scratch an armored truck with multiple rounds... or even burst its tires. This movie is full of small stuff like that which really bothers me. The other movies were all about making Batman... realistic and more logical. But in this movie it seems like everyone is making stupid decisions, wrong choices, and there seems to be a lack of anyone making intelligent moves except for the main villain. Though I will mention that Commissioner Gordon and his detective side-kick break that formula which was nice. First off (and this goes with all of the Batman movies): why are the cops portrayed as cliché jerks who don't really know how to fight? This movie really portrays cops badly and that they are useless. In the movie there is an army of cops with armed guns, running against an army of thugs with machine guns, snipers, and rockets. So what do the cops do? They run out into the open in a large swarm... and use hand to hand combat... they don't use their guns to fight the hundreds of guys with machine guns and tanks... it makes no sense. The military in this movie seems to work similarly to the cops but even worse. In case you don't know, *spoilers* this movie revolves around Bane and a nuclear bomb threat. Basically he has a fusion reactor that is portable and is threatening Gotham with it. The thing that bothers me is that the military does absolutely nothing about it. While Bane does say that if anyone enters Gotham that he will set it off, there still would've been ways to take out Bane. It bothers me that the military does absolutely nothing at all to try and stop Bane. But I guess this movie isn't about the military.A small problem I mentioned earlier and I will mention again is that no one except the enemies use their guns... at all. The enemies are threatening Gotham with a nuke, are killing hundreds (if not thousands) of innocent people, and armed with machine guns and even declare they are in open war... but no one ever really uses any guns (effectively) against them. Which leads me up to Bane... Bane is really menacing and well portrayed. But people seem to forget that (like the joker) a single bullet can still kill him. The second you realize that guns actually could've stopped this entire situation... the entire plot starts to fall apart... now I'm started to sounds like I work for the NRA hahahaha so I'll stop.Minor issues: No bat-mobile... at all, Bane doesn't have a dramatic death, all guys fall for women they've met two seconds ago, if you could stop the fusion core from going off by flooding it (which is stated in the movie) then why did it go off at the end? Another question, why didn't Morgan Freeman just flood the room with the reactor which would've killed all of the bad guys and would've disabled the nuke. That would've saved so many lives and the movie would've been a good hour shorter.Now that I'm done listing the minor faults of the movie, here are the good stuff! First off, the movie has a lot of nice standard special effects. Standard special effects always look nicer and keep movies from aging. Though the CGI in this movie... it already looks aged. Bane is a good menace in this movie and is very well acted. He looks very powerful and intimidating in appearance, but the movie didn't put much emphasis on the fact that his mask is what makes him powerful. The movie never really says that his mask is the key to his power but oh well. The acting is really good in this movie and it seems slightly odd that pretty much everyone is a little bit more interesting than Bruce Wayne. I'm not saying that Christian Bale didn't do a great job of acting, but all of the other characters were a bit more intriguing in my opinion.The plot is pretty good, there are a few plot holes here and there but that's not too important. I guess I was kind of curious why every single person that is in jail seems to be evil and a murderer. I find it odd that it seems like all of the gang lords and murderers want Gotham to be in chaos because most people don't actually want chaos.The ending was good, but it begs for a sequel sooooooo much! Which is kind of annoying since there won't be a sequel. But at least it ended on a good note that was actually happy. Good movie! Not perfect, but still good!
The Dark Knight Rises and Falls. I cannot put it in more simpler words than that.I went in there with my coffers full of hope of having my mind blown out. After all it was Christopher Nolan and I am yet to see a work of his which has under-delivered.But I guess everything has a first time.Don't get me wrong. It's a good movie, not just a great one, and it left me highly confused as to how I should feel about it. TDKR, more than anything, falls under its own weight. With the endless hype and as a follow up to one of the greatest superhero movies of all time, TDKR had a lot riding on its shoulders. Tasked with this,Christopher Nolan has to be lauded for what he has achieved, or should I rather say 'hoped to'?Let's begin with the basics. The Dark Knight trilogy was not a trilogy to begin with. Batman Begins (BB) and The Dark Knight (TDK) are almost two independent Batman films with little in common in terms of a story arc other than the characters it carries forward. That given, TDKR's greatest flaw was in attempting to connect the first movie to his final one so as to make it feel like one continuous arc. (Think kind of what happened in the final season of LOST) While I understand Nolan's intentions, the forced continuity just killed it.This was further amplified by the many plot holes that marred the story. To keep this review spoiler free I will not mention any of them here but it will suffice to say that if you are a fan of the series but are willing to look past your fanboy goggles, the failings are plain to see. Tom Hardy's take on the superstrong Bane was interesting enough to start off with, but as it went on there were just too many similarities with a previous villain (I will not say which one) to actually stand out on his own. Even his motives and methods were too familiar to be regarded as novel. His fights with Batman were epic enough though, and you almost pity Batman for having to face the mini-hulk that Hardy had transformed himself into. His menacing voice coupled with the cold hard stare in his eyes gave him the aura of a truly awful foe, one that must not be triffled with. But add to that some cringe worthy dialogues, forgetful action sequences and appalling acting by Marion Cotillard, and I find myself subtracting more from the movie than adding. Nolan needed to make this movie bigger and better than the previous two, and for that he needed a crisis large enough to destroy Batman's world. While he did manage to conjur up a scheme, its immensity and implausibility made it hard to believe. I really wanted to love this movie but far too often found myself shaking my head in dismay as things got grander and larger, until they no more fit into the world. But while I might seem to be cursing the movie a lot, remember I did say it is a good movie. And the best thing for me in the movie was - wait for it - Anne Hathaway as Catwoman/Selina Kyle.I will confess that when I had first heard the casting I was more than dismayed. But now I'm forced to eat my own words. Anne Hathaway was brilliant. She might not be your regular comic book version of Selina Kyle, but in Nolan's Dark Knight universe she was the perfect choice to portray Gotham's sexiest vigilante. Everything from her stance to her fight moves and to the way she spouted sassy dialogues was perfect. Given more time and space, I am sure she could have probably stolen the show. That however would have been unfair to Christian Bale/Bruce Wayne/Batman. The man has been a constant shining light throughout the series. He is a perfect fit for the role and has carried both versions of his character almost flawlessly. Moving into his third (and final) film in the series, I am glad to say he has not faltered a bit. While BB was about Batman, and TDK about the Joker, this movie was about Bruce Wayne the man behind the mask. As a superhero who is a mere mortal compared to most others out there, TDKR's focus on Bruce Wayne's mortality was totally warranted. This was not a Batman movie. This was a Bruce Wayne movie, with his alter ego guest starring. TDKR plays out like the swansong it is to this great character Bale and Nolan have moulded over the years.Gary Oldman, Morgan Freeman and Michael Caine are as dependable as usual. They provided stellar performances as always. Even the newcomer to series - Joseph Gordon-Levitt gave a fine performance as the hotheaded cop John Blake. His character was by far one of the most interesting in the movie, developing into interesting dimensions, but alas finally being let down partly by the story and mostly by the limited run time that a movie of this scope can afford to a new character.All in all, TDKR is a fine movie, but sadly nothing more. While I thoroughly enjoyed the ending (the last 5-10 minutes) and a bunch of scenes here and there, the action sequenced seemed bland, and the motives for some of the main characters left a lot to be desired. Batman was great as usual, but Bruce Wayne was better. And given the track-record of threequels, TDKR is a comparatively great ending to a great series, even if it is not all that it could have been. Probably the weakest entry to the series but nonetheless a wholesome entertainer on its own merits. Just don't expect to be blown away.


                
The Dark Knight Rises Review 3/5The expectations were high for this film given that it was a direct follow up to The Dark Knight. With a great storyline, memorable characters, groundbreaking action scenes and a perfect performance by Heath Ledger it was easily one of the best comic book adaptations to date. But even that film had its flaws but not as much as this one. At the time of its release a lot of the critics received backlash and even death threats from the rabid fans. The fans were even worse than the Star Wars fans. Anyway The Dark Knight Rises is far from perfect but it does have some enjoyable moments throughout. Eight years have past since the events of The Dark Knight. Bruce Wayne is retired living his life in isolation, The Joker is locked away and Gotham City's crime rate is at an all time low. But the masked villainous Bane and his army are lurking in the sewers and he has a plan. After hearing about Commissioner Gordon being hospitalised and encountering a mysterious cat burglar Bruce Wayne decides to come back out of retirement. It's a real crowd pleaser when he comes back as Batman but he has to go toe to toe with his toughest opponent yet. He's not as fast as he used to be however that is what gives the film it's edge, we can finally root for Bruce Wayne because he is in a vulnerable state here. Bane is sort of like a 60s Bond villain taking the city hostage threatening to blow it up if anyone leaves. The opening plane hijack sequence is breathtaking and like the majority of the action sequences it was shot in IMAX using practical effects. From miniatures to daring stunts we see real stuntmen hang off of the dangling plane fuselage. The overall action scenes are intense accompanied by an epic music score by returning composer Hans Zimmer. Although some of them suffer from bad editing they are still enjoyable and look spectacular. It's best to watch it with surround sound speakers as the sound effects make the experience more immersive from Banes heavy breathing, the bone crunching punch ups to the extremely loud gunshots and explosions. It's the most action packed of the trilogy but it suffers from a thin plot. Christopher Nolan does a fine job directing the film but not much can be said about his screenplay. Unfortunately it's his worst writing yet making this the most implausible chapter. It's full of so many character storylines and it just gets confusing. There are a lot of things that make little to no sense. There isn't much logic to many of the scenes, there are some obvious twists throughout and a lot of things go by unexplained. Using flashbacks it harps back to previous plot lines and characters in an attempt to make it feel more connected to those films. On top of all that it runs at nearly 3 hours which is just too long considering how half baked the plot is. Aside from all of this Christian Bale gives his best performance as a more weary broken Bruce Wayne. Tom Hardy is really good in the role of Bane and every time he's on screen he is physically imposing, very intimidating and he has some great lines of dialogue. Michael Caine is only in it briefly but he gives an emotional nuanced performance as family butler Alfred. Joseph Gordon Levitt and Anne Hathaway both do serviceable jobs - However with such a big cast the film didn't really need them, they are just there for fan service and to be honest their story arcs are not very interesting. But that being said Hathaways cat suit has a cool realistic look to it which fits well within the continuity of the Nolan franchise. That's one thing you can give them credit for is they make these films as grounded in reality as possible. But with outlandish characters like Bane and Catwoman there are a lot of things they have to compromise like Selina Kyle/Catwomans backstory. She wasn't resurrected by cats like the comics, she is simply just a woman who is very good at sneaking about. Bane isn't a raging hulk who gets pumped on steroid juice he's just a conflicted man who has been through some bad stuff. Overall it's a thourouly enjoyable film but it's let down by lazy writing full and plot-holes.


                
Much like the final Harry Potter movie, The Dark Knight Rises is good, but it's not the best of the series. This final installment ends the trilogy well. It gives us inspiring heroes, intimidating villains and plenty of dramatic action. However, some important plot points seem glossed over, there are some cheesy moments and Anne Hathaway's role seems a little out of place. Nevertheless, I liked it and I will be proud to have all three of Nolan's Batman films in my collection.


                
Well, I just wished he could rise a little higher above my expectations. This is certainly not a bad movie, far from it, it's effective in the way it wraps us all the elements of "Batman Begins" and "The Dark Knight" and heads them into a satisfactory conclusion. But if you discount the ending, the film was a real downer... with every character carrying the most contradictory motives, even Bruce Wayne who lived recluse after Batman's disgrace had to drown his soul in a contemplative ennui that irritates Alfred... and ordinary viewers do not have Alfred's patience.I got back to my reviews of the first two first films, and both had one thing in common: they were positively thrilling, something that hooked your mind and filled your heart with an enthusiastic je-ne-sais-quoi. "Batman Begins" started 'slowly' as it didn't show much of the archetypal Batman until his reveal, but boy, what a great moment! I cheered when Batman made his entrance and later came full circle with his demons. Then the Joker deconstructed the edifice of pompousness built by the "good guys" and with such style and gusto he almost made his "point" and confronted both Batman and Harvey Dent to painful ironies (delightful for him). Dent lost his idealism but not Wayne.
 Now "The Dark Knight Rises" was necessary because Batman needed a rehabilitation. Or did he? After all, Gotham City lived in peace and since 'innocent is too strong a word to use against' Gotham people, it was quite an achievement. If the price was Honest Gordon praising the man who threatened his own child and Batman's exile, why would Wayne care? After all, vigilante wasn't a vocation but a necessity, to serve justice and fight criminals, if crime stopped, so should his melancholy. Yet Wayne is clearly affected, health problems and loss of cartilage forced him to walk with a cane, but we suspect the pain is underneath rather on the body. I think that romantic grieving angle could have been more interesting than the predictable urban mayhem that strikes Gotham in every "Gotham" episode. Indeed, I wish Nolan was less ambitious on the field of special effects and cared a little more for Bruce Wayne like he did in the first films, wishful thinking. Wayne is the same all right and there's nothing two-dimensional in Christian Bale's portrayal, the problem is simply arithmetic. In the first film, we had Wayne, in the second Wayne/Dent/Joker, here, we have to concentrate on so many supporting players that I wondered if the film wasn't intended for the hardcore fans who'll watch it over and over again. I'm afraid that a first viewing isn't enough to get the film, it was for the previous ones. Where to start? You have Catwoman who swings between the role of a protagonist and then antagonist with the agility of a cat jumping between clotheslines. Anne Hathaway is actually terrific but exudes so many sensual "femme fatale" vibes that she creates an unfortunate sense of redundancy with Marion Cotillard as Miranda Tate. Wayne has a way with women but Nolan should have thought about making them a little more different, sometimes it goes as simply as making one blonde and another dark-haired. Both women are secretive, talk in enigmatic insinuation and existential innuendo, there's always an element of seduction you can't put your finger on but after a while, you start to envy Alfred's celibacy.Now, Nolan isn't exactly the ideal director when you yearn for clarity but I take again the first "Batman" films, both had complex plots but not complicated... and they had great villains. Another problem is with the Alpha-villain in this film, Bane has a spectacular action-establishing moment that leaves no doubt that he's the match for Batman... as he seems as tortured a soul and in pain than his nemesis. But then again, I was really scratching my head to figure out what Bane's real motives were, he speaks like some revolutionary leader who believe the ends justify the means but his vision of chaos seem rather pointless... except if it was to get his kicks, that would have been good enough for me, does every character need to be tormented about something?The Joker loved chaos and disorder because they could reveal deeper truths about our own ambivalences, and whatever he did, he did it with style. Tom Hardy is great as Bane, and intimidating as well, as hell, but he's just like a rollercoaster of muscle with a Darth-Vader face and a Scottish accent, whenever he appeared on the film, I just felt uneasy. I know his presence would mean pain, punches, killing, intimidations, which is good for a villain, but the film was way too dark and gloomy that I was begging for a little relief. I think what I get from the "Batman" series is that the villains have fun being bad, pleasing oneself being the most selfish motive, Bane didn't have fun at all... and he was the main villain, so that didn't leave much fun to the story.So let's recapitulate, we have similar female characters with uncertain motives (some revealed near the end), Wayne in his usual "who am I?" quest, a villain who doesn't enjoy what he does but feels it's necessary, a commissioner who can't get over his lies and his separation, in this ocean of gloom, only Joseph Gordon Levitt as a Batman admirer seems to carry the last hope of idealism... not that it brings much to the film. Paraphrasing Alfred, I wouldn't say that Nolan failed his fans (not according to IMDb ratings) but one of the reasons I avoided these films is because he always struck me as a director who like his characters sorry, sad, angry, and way too serious, I was glad I was wrong with the first two films, I was for that third opus, maybe he should have pulled a Joker and ask himself indeed "why so serious?".


                
Didn't think this film lived up to the hype surrounding it. It was good, don't get me wrong but it didn't compare with the Dark Knight. Seemed too full of action and definitely violence, which obscured the story somewhat.However Christian Bale played a blinder again and he has definitely made the role his and his alone. Nobody would be able to compare to him. The ending was again a bit rushed and didn't really come as any surprise, and again this let down the overall film. Sets up another series, which would have to be exceptional to compare. But overall a let down and not a fitting end to this franchise. Let's hope the Man Of Steel (another DC offering) will strengthen the comic lines takings as the Green Lantern certainly didn't. Sorry, the Avengers will be the box office topper this year!


                
"The Dark Knight Rises" (2012) is the third and final film in Christopher Nolan's trilogy about the comic book superhero Batman, created in 1939 by Bill Finger and Bob Kane. The franchise, starting in 2005 with "Batman Begins" and continuing in "The Dark Knight" (2008) is brought to a conclusion, and traditional Hollywood thinking is used by the Warner Bros. Studio here: everything is bigger, louder and more explosive and with higher stakes than before. Yet this expansionism hasn't translated into greater quality; if anything, it is the most flawed of the trio. Continuity errors, plot holes and logic defying events plague the film incessantly. The screenplay, by Nolan and his brother Jonathan, feels like it is two or three drafts away from being a finished product. Geopolitical significance is constantly strived for, especially in the latter part of the film, yet it fails to fully grasp its own half-articulated ideas and ends feeling like the pat, smug "safe" hawkish ideologies of a studio executive more interested in profit margins than ideas. All these mistakes are a repetition of the previous entry in the series; in many ways this perfectly encapsulates Hollywood: nothing forgotten, nothing learnt.Still, Nolan's direction is as impressive as ever, really delivering in the large scale set pieces that dot the picture. He brings a real energy to the screen that almost papers over the cracks in the story. The dynamic action scenes are hardly original though and the opening sequence is straight out of a James Bond movie.The acting is generally of a high standard, with Christian Bale, Michael Caine, Gary Oldman and Tom Hardy all very good. Unfortunately, the Oscar winning Marion Cotillard is given nothing to do and struggles to create a performance out of a poorly written character.The cinematography by Academy Award winner Wally Pfister is good and a cut above the usual standard found in the average superhero blockbuster, the same of which can be said for the editing by Lee Smith and the booming music score of Hans Zimmer.If then this climax to the Batman series is a disappointment, torpedoed by a below par script, then at least Christopher Nolan directs so well that you will be immersed in the film to the point where perhaps you will be more forgiving of its flaws and be swept along by this enjoyable spectacle.


                
Christopher Nolan has taken the image of Batman and completely changed the way superheroes are viewed. Making the Dark Knight trilogy as a more realistic take on Gotham City was an innovative way of looking at comic books. Focusing on fear in Batman Begins, Nolan teamed up with Christian Bale stepping into the shoes of Bruce Wayne. Chaos took the place as the main focus of The Dark Knight, and with Heath Ledger's legendary performance as the Joker audiences everywhere immediately became excited for the next pain-based installment in the Nolan universe.The Dark Knight Rises takes place a full eight years after the last film. Harvey Dent (Aaron Eckhart) is seen as the hero of Gotham City after his untimely death while the retired Batman is hunted by the police for the murder of the "white knight of Gotham". Only Commissioner Jim Gordon (Gary Oldman) knows the truth about Harvey "Two-Face" Dent. After taking the blame for Dent, Batman is forced into hiding, and Bruce Wayne (Chrsitian Bale) is trying to adjust to life without the mask. He meets an infamous cat burglar, Selina Kyle (Anne Hatheway), who is searching for a way to clear her record. "Cat" woman is performing a small job for a team of mercenaries led by a fierce criminal known only as Bane (Tom Hardy). With help from a hot-headed detective (Joseph Gordon-Levitt) and a business partner in a clean energy project (Marion Cottillard) Wayne and his alter ego attempt to get back into the crime fighting game to stop Bane, much to the disapproval of his fatherly butler, Alfred (Michael Caine). Other actors featured in the film are Morgan Freeman as the head of Wayne Enterprises, and Matthew Modine as officer Foley.This film has its flaws. Voices are occasionally difficult to hear and understand, specifically Bale and Hardy. Bale has a tendency to speak lower to the point where it is almost a whisper which makes it difficult to hear his dialogue. Hardy is speaking through a mask and his accent makes it a challenge to understand all of his script. After seeing it three times I was able to understand all of what was said, and the dialogue from Bane is brilliant! At moments in the script the audience might feel as though the dialogue is cheesy, but overall it is not terribly written.The pacing seems off at times. Fight scenes are well built, but during the more dramatic moments the script and characters seem a bit dry. There are some strange story arcs that could have been taken out to make room for more intriguing plot points. The entire character of Foley was poorly played out in the movie. The potential for a redeeming character is there, but the way it is played out makes the entire development seem annoying and distracting. There is also a strange love scene between Bale and Cottillard. For comic books fans it is an understandable relationship, but there is no reason for it to play out in the movie the way it did. There is a poorly edited sequence of three scenes near the end of the film which confuses the audience, and it took me until the second viewing to understand what had happened.Tom Hardy as Bane has an amazing command of the screen. Delivery of his lines are even more intriguing due to the accent used. On occasion it is difficult to understand him, but it truly is astounding. There are some great character dynamics at play. Bale and Hardy have great chemistry during their scenes together. Overall the stand out actor in this movie is Tom Hardy. In his movement and voice you see and hear a tremendous amount of character. Most impressive though is the belief the audience can see in his eyes. Every emotion, every thought and every pain can be seen through Hardy's eyes which makes his performance that much more incredible.The ending sequence is also very well edited. Possibly the best edited sequence in the Dark Knight Trilogy, the last few minutes of this movie bring forth a satisfying and fulfilling end to the film. Comic book purists may be disappointed by some of the character changes that were made, but it is a very well made movie. It is entertaining and satisfying with a few impressive homage's to the comic book universe.
I did not like how this was the most sentimental of the three Nolan Batman-movies. I prefer when the emotional aspects are more subtle, letting the audience draw its own conclusions about the characters feeling given their circumstances and back-stories. In The Dark Knight I felt the director trusted his audience more to understand Wayne's reactions after having heavily emphasized his childhood in Batman Begins. Whereas in The Dark Knight Rises it was much dwelled upon and fed to us with sentimental music. This made the first part of the movie a bit dreary, but it quickly became more enthralling and kept getting better as the story progressed. The acting was impeccable as were the visuals. I admit to having prejudices against superhero-movies, but the characters are complex and interesting. So was the plot, though it is clearly made to appeal to a mass-audience. There is nothing wrong with being popular and I did not waste my time watching these three movies.


                
Nolan's films seem to have fans mainly among boys/young men. I have seen many of his films and never found them really satisfying. Emotionally, I have never felt a connection with his movies. They're OK, but they do not stay with me. I found Batman Begins tepid, I found TDK exciting only because of Heath Ledger but I thought the trailer for the movie was better than the actual movie, so I was not really excited to see TDKR.Having seen it, I have to say I think this was the most enjoyable one of the trilogy and I think one of the reasons is because there were finally some female characters worth something.I am not a fan of Anne Hathaway but she worked here. Catwoman had the best one liners and she was the highlight of the movie as far as I was concerned. Not being a fan of Batman comics, I was surprised that Miranda was revealed to be the mastermind and happy to see a woman in the ultimate villain role although her reasoning was nutty.I do not find Christian Bale to be attractive but for some reason, that last scene where Alfred sees him alive and well was hot as hell. Not sure why I found it so. Bruce Wayne being brought to his knees and being humbled, losing his wealth (but obviously he had something stashed away as any smart person would), but becoming free at the end by losing his identity and all the baggage that went with it, it was hopeful at the end, and perhaps it was seeing him a bit carefree that was very sexy.Interestingly, while Bane broke the Batman physically, Bane made Bruce Wayne whole emotionally/spiritually by the end. The person that truly broke the Batman was the Joker because we saw what happened to him after he put the Joker away. The Joker said "you complete me" to Batman and clearly that was also true for the Batman until the end scene where we see Bruce Wayne in sunlight.I do not think the Nolans can ever really write good female characters, their movies are so male centered and male POV, but TDKR was their best effort to date and finally, one of Nolan's movies struck at least tangentially, an emotional chord, albeit fleetingly and lightly.
The Dark Knight Rises had to be stunning and spectacular and brilliant just...because. After a very good start with Batman Begins and a truly magnificent follow-up with The Dark Knight how could Christopher Nolan go wrong? Expectations were off the charts. And those expectations were not quite met. Nolan certainly didn't get it all wrong but he surely didn't get it all right either. There's no way around it, this film is not as good as The Dark Knight. Does that mean it's a total letdown? No, not at all. It just means it is not the glorious triumph everyone expected. It's a satisfying finish to a great trilogy. People were just hoping to be able to use a better word than "satisfying".So why does this film not measure up to the last one? Well there are a few reasons but one stands out above the rest. It's glaring and obvious and there was nothing Nolan could have done about it. This film misses Heath Ledger's Joker. Bane is an ominous presence. But a rather dull one. And what the heck is he saying anyway? The Joker had a manic intensity to him that this film sorely misses. Stretched out to almost three hours, clearly too long for its own good, this film desperately needed some real jolts along the way. Someone had to grab a hold of the story and shake the audience up. The Joker did that, Bane does not. Yes, Bane is frightening and foreboding and clearly very dangerous. But the personality just isn't there. There's no sense of wonder. The Joker always had you on your toes, what would he do next? Bane never intrigues you that way.If you miss the Joker it could also be said that this film leaves you missing Batman. Christian Bale is solid as ever in the dual role of Bruce and Bat but in this film he spends very little time in that famous costume. We see an awful lot of Bruce Wayne, very little of Batman. The other familiar faces from the first two films are back. Gary Oldman and Michael Caine and Morgan Freeman doing what they do. New characters? Well, there's Anne Hathaway doing a better than expected job playing Selina Kyle, who's kinda sorta maybe but not really Catwoman. Marion Cotillard plays Miranda Tate, investor in a Wayne Enterprises energy project. This character is woefully underdeveloped which proves to be problematic. Tom Hardy does the best he can with Bane, a very challenging villain to portray. Hidden away behind a mask it's hard to infuse the character with any personality. And again, seriously, what the heck is he saying? And there's Joseph Gordon-Levitt playing young police officer John Blake who knows Bruce Wayne is Batman just...because.The fact this nobody cop knows Batman's identity is not the only disappointing contrivance required to move the plot along. The location of Bane's lair? Convenient. The entire Gotham police force trapping themselves underground? Very, very convenient. And dumb. And let us not even delve into Bruce Wayne's remarkable healing powers. This is a story which at times really struggles for momentum. With the Joker around lack of energy was never going to be a problem in the last film. Here things really get bogged down on more than one occasion. But while the film certainly has its flaws it does ultimately manage to satisfy. The trilogy gets the big sendoff it deserves. The Dark Knight Rises doesn't reach the spectacular heights of Nolan's last Batman effort so maybe you come away a touch disappointed. But taken on its own merits this is a good film. True greatness may elude it but it is a worthy end to a terrific saga.


                
'The Dark Knight Rises' isn't Epic. But its impressive nonetheless. Christopher Nolan delivers a film worth watching, however, he doesn't quiet top himself in here. Its an entertainer! 'The Dark Knight Rises' Synopsis: Eight years on, a new terrorist leader, Bane, overwhelms Gotham's finest, and the Dark Knight resurfaces to protect a city that has branded him an enemy.'The Dark Knight Rises' is overtly long & dragging. Christopher Nolan & Jonathan Nolan's Screenplay is excellent in parts, but at times, it comes across as dragging & long. For example, the bad-guy, Bane, played by Tom Hardy, why does he hate Gotham so much & why he's being so god-damn heartless. There is proper reason, yet he's creating a chaos. Another flaw, lies in its running time. 168 minutes seems a bit too stretched. Christopher Nolan's Direction is extremely competent. Cinematography is grand. Editing & Art Design, are spectacular. Action-Sequences are huge. Performance-Wise: Christian Bale as Bruce Wayne / Batman, shines. The Oscar-Winning Actor is so believable & natural in his part. Tom Hardy as Bane, is a big letdown. Anne Hathaway as Selina Kyle, is quite good. Michael Caine as Alfred, is given the backseat, while Gary Oldman as James Gordon & New-Entry Joseph Gordon-Levitt as John Blake, are terrific. Marion Cotillard as Miranda Tate, has a delicious role. Morgan Freeman as Lucius Fox, is dignified. On the whole, 'The Dark Knight Rises' is an impressive superhero flick, but it isn't half as good as its predecessor 'The Dark Knight'.


                
Batman Rises is a film with nice action and spectacle, but has a too superficial storytelling and is too bombastic. It seems as if Nolan included excessively lots of action scenes and mini stories in the film. Story lines aren't worked out in depth enough. Take as example the departing of Alfred. In a scene of just a minute or so he cries for the very first time and leaves Bruce after decades of service to the Wayne family. As viewers we have to process this so quickly! Because right after this scene another ministory starts. Take Miranda, she becomes out of nowhere at the end of the film as the new and mastermind bad guy! The reason for this she tells in a couple of sentences. Sure there are the other story lines which are glued together, but this is too forced. All the more because she as a bad guy and also Bane lean on the Badguystory of Batman Begins. This is too easily chosen. Because of the fast completed film elements the film lacks emotional depth. Yeah, Nolan tries to suggest emotion with for example Bruce as an old man, or Alfred who cries or a Bane who is sentenced to death in prison on a younger age, but because of the rapid completion of these emotional stories (it should arouse emotion), you as a viewer can't feel sympathy for the characters. And that's a shame. Because of this the film becomes mostly over-imposed and deafening spectacle. Moreover because of the implausible scenes. Take for example the policemen who en mass enter the sewers like a flock of sheep, Batman who survives the nuclear bomb or police inspector Foley who stops chasing Bane (while Bane just hit the one of the most important buildings, the stock exchange) and sends all policemen in pursuit of Batman. Nevertheless it is a nice movie, but to earn a 9.1 it just needs to stick together a whole lot better.
I enjoyed the movie, fun, fast paced action as we expected, but there were waaaay too unrealistic exaggerated, and even absurd scenes, in my opinion.The best example of this is when Bruce Wayne escaped from being imprisoned for a long time in a hole that was hundrets, thousands of miles away, being alone and without resources and very wounded to go back to a Gotham City who was completely CLOSED for anyone to enter and exit just in the perfect moment to be in a suit and meet Catwoman and say an 'americanish' catchphrase. This is the ugliest example, but there are more moments when very alert action stops for a kiss between selina and batman or for the villain to tell the story of their life just before killing Batman...These scenes made me facepalm hard... Overall, a fun action packed movie which makes you jump off your seat a lot of times, but fails to meet the Dark Knight expectations.


                
Lets be honest here: there was NO WAY this movie was going to be better than The Dark Knight. The Dark Knight is arguably one of the best action movies of all time, and Heath Ledger's performance has pretty much solidified that movie into the iconic status of Alien, The Matrix, and other classic movies. But really it didn't have to be as good, just good enough would have sufficed. Well, did it achieve it? Ehhhh... sort of.First and foremost, people are going to ask whether the villains are as good as in The Dark Knight? The villains made the second film and not just from superb acting but from their schemes and mindsets as well. Nolan created fully realized characters in that film. Ultimately, this film can't reach those impossibly high standards, but both Bane and Cat Woman are still really good. Cat Woman is sexy, slick, and most importantly--smart. Some of the best writing, in terms of clever moments, occur with Cat Woman doing her cat burglar thing. Early reports were that Cat Woman stole the show, but I didn't feel anything especially riveting about her performance: good, but not great. Bane, to me, is a far more interesting villain. His ruthlessness and cunning are on full display, and his voice has an interesting menace to it. But (and I don't think I'm alone here) half the time, I was struggling to hear anything he said. When grouped together they do a good job, and I was generally interested with the movie when they were on screen. Overall I was pretty impressed, I think Nolan did the best he could under the circumstances.But the villains are only one aspect of of a good movie. The Dark Knight succeeded with a (mostly) intelligent script that had twists and turns galore, and this is the sticking point of this film. Don't get me wrong; there are plenty of memorable scenes such as the Bane and Batman showdown and plenty of the intelligent scripting that Nolan is know for, but for every smart move the story makes, there seems to be a misstep as well. The Dark Knight wasn't perfect; it had its share of awkward moments: I can still remember Batman falling with Rachel from a skyscraper and slamming into a taxi with nary a scratch. Still, this film seems to have more of those types of awkward scenes: Batman getting his spine realigned by a kick in the back (seriously?), the Bane airplane scene (wouldn't you pull of their face covers before they get on the plane?), etc. All these things could have been forgivable, but the plot was just kinda plodding. I'm not saying there were superfluous scenes cause I don't think there were. I do think the film is poorly paced though. There are long stretches where I just lost interest in what was going on, never the sign of a great movie. Also, I, personally, didn't enjoy some of the directions the film went into. Bruce going bankrupt, and his crippled demeanor just felt out of character for the brand. I know this probably doesn't bother other people, but for me, it was jarring. Lastly, the action sequences lacked panache. I know I might get a lot of flack for this, but I don't think Christopher Nolan does action sequences particularly well, excluding the excellent driving sequence in The Dark Knight. In this film, the hand-to-hand combat never felt visceral, and the driving sequences felt lackluster in intensity. I also thought the "war" at the end of the film was handled a little haphazardly and lacked the epic quality Nolan was trying to achieve. When you add all this up, it sufficed to say the film has its problems.The Dark Knight Rises feels a little messy, but at its heart, it is a pretty good movie the completes the themes that Nolan has revisited the entire trilogy. Whatever problems I have with the film, I do feel that it has something to say and completed the story arch that began with Batman Begins. Overall, I think this film will be remembered as the weakest of the trilogy but not a debacle, just a disappointment with enough to still make it a worthwhile film and conclusion to the series. I will concede that its ending was pitch perfect. The Dark Knight Rises gets a 7 out 10.
