I hope that people don't see the score without reading the reviews as much as I think they do. Believe me, I find that you can still enjoy a movie, even respect it, without liking it. This is definitely the case with 12 Angry men. While I can enjoy the experience of watching the film, I've come to the rather unpopular opinion that this is not a great film. 12 Angry men works far better as a stage play, than a movie. As a film, it's quit uninspired and lacking emotion. The dialogue being as uninteresting as your least favorite math class, this is only accentuated by the fact that this film attempts to carry itself on dialogue and performance. Another problem comes right from the name itself; 12. The 12 angry men in the film are mostly indiscernible from each other, excluding a select few. While on stage the characters can show a lot of complexity with each actor playing off of each others emotions and bringing something new to performances each night, the film is lacking in character development.


                
The main reason that I dislike this movie because it is played in black and white. It made feel tired, so I cannot concentrate in the movie.Another point is that it did not change much scene, they mainly acted in the jury room. They stayed in there for most of the time that made me feel uncomfortable and closely packed together. After that, I think they had talked to much about the case and they waste so much in talking the same thing. All in all, I don't like this movie because it is black and white and it seems to be that they were repeating the same point again and again. Therefore I don't like this movie at all.


                
12 Angry Men is a fascinating, great film. I was forced to watch the movie in the beginning. Although the whole movie takes place in one room, and is just a bunch of men arguing, it still somehow keeps your full attention. As far as content goes, there isn't too much parents would object to. Characters discuss a murder, but that's pretty much it. It's appropriate for kids, although I'm not sure if many will like it since the whole thing is dialogue and it's rather slow-paced compared to most of today's films. (4C) ............................................... ......... ...................... ........... ........................ ............ ........................


                
Doesn't allow you to guess the end! Introduces evidence that the audience isn't aware of at the end of the film! Poor writing, what a bore.


                
