I found this movie to be rather boring and predictable. Sidney Lumet always had an agenda in his movie making. Unfortunately he never understood the word subtle. This movie is a prime example of his pretentious, preachy, sledge hammer approach to his message. From the very beginning one could figure out the ending robbing the film of any suspense. The characters were too broadly drawn to be believable especially the role of Lee J. Cobb. Where is the complexity? The explanations of the prosecution's inconsistencies by Fonda strain credulity and would convince no one. If you like the courtroom genre of films try Anatomy of a Murder or Witness for the Prosecution.


                
I can believe this movie take long time in same room and have a lot of details the the actors weren't convincingand we cannot know about these case more than what they say so it's boring.Especially when you have see it in the class and do argument about it! I hope I didn't see like these movie in the class, I don't why it has 8.9! if i have to do it again i will watch the door door handleit's more interestingthan watch these movie again C4


                
I've watched this movie on three occasions. It baffles me how this is considered a classic movie. I'm not going to go into the plot or storyline of this movie other to say it's about a jury deliberation in a murder trial. The premise for the this movie is O.K. but some of the script seems excessive or down right silly; take for example the man who is really upset with his son. He's mad with his own son so he's going to convict this other young man for murder???????? Awwww, but wait; Henry Fonda is here to comfort the guy and to get him to do the right thing. What B.S. Also take a look at the dummy that wants to go to the baseball game. Who acts like this in real life? Now maybe he does want to go to the game and is willing to vote with the majority so he can get going but this would be called a SECRET AGENDA with the emphasis on SECRET. He wouldn't be telling everyone; like I said, who acts like this in real life. The characters in this movie are totally unbelievable and everything is overacted. Just my two cents.
The film Twelve Angry Men did not interest me as much as I thought it would. I cannot get myself to pay attention to old-fashioned movies, mostly because the older films are in black and white. With this movie being so old, the audio and sound system had very poor quality. I'm so used to listening and watching new movies with such amazing quality, that when I have to watch an old film, I lose interest very quickly. The actors in this film were not good in my opinion. They did not show different emotions to make the acting seem more realistic. Lastly, it was difficult to follow along during the film because the characters had no names. Even though I disliked a lot about the film; there are still a few things I enjoyed about it. One of them being the main idea of the film, I enjoyed the main idea because it was about a crime. Crime stories are one of my favorite genres. An interesting point that I noticed was that the movie and the written play reminded me of philosophy because the jurors would never know the exact answer or what actually happened. It was also brought to my attention of how often the votes changed throughout the film. This showing that there were good points and examples to cause the jurors to change their votes. Lastly, it's interesting that the only action that was given throughout the movie was Juror No. 10's yelling. This review shows what I enjoyed about the film, what I found interesting and lastly what I disliked about the film and written play 'Twelve Angry Men'.


                
I really don't think this movie should be on the top 250, let alone the top 20.The acting was alright, but as for the plot, there wasn't anything incredible or mind blowing enough to warrant a basically one setting movie.The entire movie revolving around the one scene and circumstance got incredibly repetitive and boring. It seemed simply to me like just a short jury drama with nothing much else to add to it.Even at the end, after the jury switches its opinion completely, there was nothing great. To me, it was just an average boring argument between several people about a minor crime without even later solving the main crime itself.Perhaps this movie was good back then. Right now, it is 2013. And right now, if it was released, it would barely make a dent at the box office. I judge on this movie's entertainment value in the present, and in the present, it does not entertain me.
"12 angry men" was really a disappointment for a guy like me who waited for 1 hour to watch a story in the film...but after an hour i have realized that how wrong i was to download such a film..i was so much desperate to watch dis flick and in the end it disappointed very much.I've heard people saying it is a simple story though i din' found it simple rather i found it irritating. There was no reason for making such movie and moreover no reason to share a place in top 10 list.I can not see even a single positive point about the film except few dialogues..few dialogues were excellent..henry fonda was average but unfortunately sidney lumet nowhere shows the direction which i was expecting from such a good director.just 12 jurors fighting on a murder and the life of the kid was in their hands. 11 were in the favor of GUILTY for the kid, while one was saying the kid on whom the blame was to kill his father was NOT GUILTY and after more than 1 hour of distracting and boring discussion the alone juror who feels the kid was not guilty was successful in changing the mind of other 11 jurors and in the end saved the life of the kid.Watch it on your on sake.. 3.9/10


                
