What could have been a great film exploring the personal prejudices and other troubling peculiarities of jurors during their deliberation of a murder trial, is for me ruined by the ridiculousness of a single juror eventually (and with considerable difficulty) convincing all eleven other jurors to completely dismiss the eyewitness testimony of a woman, in addition to dismissing the "ear-witness" testimony of a man.The woman who testified that she saw the boy stab his father, as far as we know from the film, did not have her testimony challenged in court, or if we assume it was, then it certainly wasn't disqualified or damaged enough, not enough to influence the eleven jurors who initially believed it.But a juror proposes that she could not have seen the boy stab his father, because she had these little marks on either side her nose. I find it ridiculous that a juror would bring up the marks on the nose, then conjecture the wearing of glasses, and follow that up with proposing the woman could not have seen what she said she saw (and again, despite her testimony going unchallenged or otherwise not refuted in court), and then the other jurors one by one agree, until they have all decided to completely dismiss eyewitness testimony!Likewise the "ear-witness" testimony, where a man who, apparently from what we know from the film, knew the boy and recognized his voice as arguing with his father upstairs, and upon hearing what sounded like a crash of a body on the floor, went out in the hall, saw the boy fleeing downstairs and outside, and then went upstairs to discover the stabbed father.His testimony was dismissed because he wears shabby clothes and is old and is probably just seeking attention!I like Henry Fonda too, but not that much.
Ah, another Liberal "classic" with Henry Fonda, a true left winger showing all the right wingers where they went wrong!This all-star cast is really a play as the entire thing takes places in a jurors' room where 12 men determine the fate of a suspect charged with murder. Eleven of them vote "guilty" but Fonda holds out for "not guilty." The story is about him slowly convincing everyone else to see things his way. There are lots of familiar faces from the '50s: Lee J. Cobb, Ed Begley, E.G. Marshall, Jack Warden, Martin Balsam, Jack Klugman, etc. They are all interesting.Good for one look. As with most movies with political leanings (this one, All The Kings Men, The Manchurian Candidate, etc.) Hollywood is always ready for re-makes where Liberal causes are far more pronounced than they are in these classic movies. Only in the twisted mind of Liberals are we to have more sympathy for the criminal than the victim. Only in Hollywood are the defense attorneys always the good guys and movies end like this where nobody ever goes to jail!


                
The is nothing but 12 men in a room arguing. How boring is that. That is totally boring. This movie got an 8.9 because people like boring movies. I do not. 8.9 this is an overrating and boring movie. The story line is awful. I am warning you. Do not lesson to the hype. Do not wast you money. And do not wast your time. Do not see this boring movie. I do not know why people like this movie. How could you have fun being so bored. This is a very boring drama. Good actors wasted they talent in this movie. This movie is pooh pooh. Pooh pooh, pooh pooh pooh, pooh pooh. Do not see it. Do not see it. Do not see it. It just boring old pooh pooh.


                
12 Angry men is a film in which maybe those over 25 would enjoy. It explores prejudices and preconceived notions which people had in the 1950s. Actors such as Henry Fonda, Lee J. Cobb, Martin Balsam, Jack Klugman, Jack Warden, E.G. Marshall, and Ed Begley give good performances and make their characters believable. Without these good performances, it could have been a boring movie with meaningless discussions in the jury room and in the court room. These talented actors bring life to the movies. The movie could edit out 5-10 minutes. It is a classic so it warrants watching. Otherwise, a bit slow. The movie had a predictable outcome.Watch it alone for the performance of it best actor, Henry Fonda.


                
"Life Is In Their Hands -- Dealth Is On Their Minds!" A tag-line of 12 Angry Men.12 Angry Men had 3 nominations for Oscars and won 13 other awards, but it does not mean that every one will like this movie. While the movie started with the dark and white atmosphere it gave me a tiresome impression. 12 men were just sitting in a room quarreling and sometimes murmuring and muttering. Are movies only providing human acting and talking? Teenagers like me like to have something much exciting, but not sitting dully in a room. Secondly, I wasn't engrossed in the Juror quarreling during the film. I don't think most of you are interested in others' affairs, especially others' conflicts. Also, as the tag-line shows, the life and death of the boy is in their hands, but how about the audience? It seemed that we have already been left out. In addition, Henry Fonda is a good actor, however, when the movie ends, I think everybody would have asked "Is that all?" I still had a hope to see anything unexpectedly broken out before the ending, but what a pity that it did not happen.It may be a great masterpiece to most of people but I hardly have a slight interest on it. My comments might have changed if the 'debate' had an unpredictable result.


                
