This series was not what I expected. At first I liked the series very much since James Gandolfini is excellent for his role. He brings forward a character that has his doubts and inner conflicts, but at time can be a really scary mobster.But too many story lines weren't developed enough and just die out. Then there is lots and lots of conversation with not much happening. It became more like a soap for men and I lost my interest. Okay it might be a realistic series in some way, but I didn't find it entertaining enough.**spoiler warning**Things I expected are like the case with the lamp and the bug in it. The lamp was in the kitchen for a while and I thought maybe Tony will say something to incriminate himself leading to his arrest. The case would then need to be dropped since the permit was for the basement only.Or the storyline with the rape of Dr. Melfi. This storyline just dies. Why not develop it more and let her ask Tony to deal with it. Giving the viewer some satisfaction. Instead her relationship with Tony stays very flat.All in all I don't understand why this series is so highly rated.
I'm at the beginning of season 6 and I feel like I'm obligated to finish it at this point. But seriously, since season 4, they have been reaching for plot and had one too many dream sequences that don't mean anything.I enjoyed up till season 3. The characters were consistent and the plot lines were intriguing (Except for the kids.) It was interesting to see all the different mobsters and their different personalities. After that though, they started completely changing the way people acted (Adriana) and didn't make up for characters' horrible personalities (AJ??) making them interesting to watch. Because of this, I'm giving the first half an 8/10 and 2nd half 0. I seriously feel like I've been wasting my life on it and nothing in the story arc intrigues me anymore.


                
This has to be the most overrated show of all time. I'm not saying it's all bad but it's just incredibly average. There's episodes or you can just skip and you would've missed nothing. None characters really develop But for the kids. The show drags It uses way too much symbolism to the point where it takes away from the narrative The plot is repetitive it was ground breaking But at this point it's just Average Because one second you watching the episode that I would consider a masterpiece the next second you watching one of the worst episodes of episodes you've seen your life. It's basically the mafia version of Game of Thrones


                
Every season kind of runs together . You could watch the first season only and have everything you need to know about the entire series. Every time someone was about to get killed there would be several clues it was about to happen . What was surprising to me that someone was getting killed almost every episode but no one ever thought they could be killed and of course they were never prepared for it . Not sure why so many people rated this as high as they did . It was so so at best for me .


                
I Know That I'm going to get a lot of heat but I don't really think the sopranos is that good. I feel like the show constantly dragged. I didn't find all the characters compelling the show constantly wasting my time. The show shoved Metaphors and symbolism in my face like I was the idiot constantly and I just felt like one big soap opera with no real end game. You can use it we skipped episodes And not miss anything. The acting is pretty good the directions is average But it just gets old and you really can't relate to mafia people And you can only make ahead so interesting after doing it so many times. The show had great aspects but for me it kind of fell apart after season 4


                
The sopranos is great but it just isn't as good as shows like breaking bad. Also some episode I just feel like are a wast of time. But holy crap there are some just off the charts good episodes . You should watch it but it's a little dated great .


                
