I can't add an awful lot to the positive reviews already on here - great acting, balanced writing, multi-faceted characters, a great anti-hero in Tony, great commentary on millennial American life. The integral use of psychiatry coupled with Tony's mother issues are especially fresh and humorous. Several other characters add a lot of depth - Hesh's interesting history as an outsider muscling in, Ralphie's total irredeemable viciousness, Chris' dual desires in life, and so on.I have to dig into some of the criticisms however, especially the 'it glorifies violence/belittles Italian-Americans' one.Most of the writers and actors are Italian-American, would they attack themselves? There are several positive Italian-American characters - Artie Bucco the chef, Dr. Melfi and her family and the Cusamanos next door to the Sopranos. Indeed, Dr Melfi's ex-husband notes in season 1 that only a tiny minority of Italian-Americans have ever had Mob connections (certainly smaller than the proportion of African-Americans involved in crime, dare I say it. In both cases poverty and lack of opportunity are the biggest causes).Most of the characters don't really choose the life they have; family background or circumstances largely corner them into it. Outsiders (even of Italian stock) who attempt to integrate into it usually meet distressing ends - Matthew and his friend in season 2, for example. If you criticise this show, I assume Frasier made you want to be a psychiatrist, or Will & Grace made you want to go homosexual? Presumably you won't listen to rap music that discusses gangs, or r'n'b which discusses promiscuity, or rock music which discusses drugs (or any other combination)? People aren't as stupid as some of you make out....Not everything is perfect however. A lot of characters have only appeared once, when by all logic they should have been seen or at least mentioned in previous episodes - Tracee the dancer, Meadow's friend Ally, Uncle Junior's ladyfriend (supposedly for 20 years until they split in season 1).


                
The Sopranos stands out as an airtight, dynamic exploration of American life, and how the American experience is shaped and defined by money. By setting the story in the milieu of the underworld, David Chase eliminates all barriers to a grunt, low to the ground and outright mean deconstruction of the post-modern era. Every character represents a facet of American industry. Tony Soprano exemplifies the beleaguered working stiff, torn between familial duty and a need to keep his "business" on an even keel. The convergence of these two things is the imperative that keeps the story moving forward. The characters of Christopher, Paulie, and Bobby reflect the loyal - but self-serving underlings present in every enterprise, who are trusted out of necessity rather than merit. With the character of Ralph, Joe Pantoliano essays a brilliant interpretation of the charismatic psychopath, a twisted businessman who's flourishes of violence are tragically outweighed by his stunning earning power. And Dominic Chianese is the ultimate symbol of the antiquated old-guard, which maintains power through established relationships and the need of the up- and-comers to deflect blame.Though abrasive and occasionally disturbing, The Sopranos has earned its place as the ultimate TV drama. PS A good companion piece to Chase's series would be The Shield, another violent drama that manages to make the ugliest of characters interesting.


                
The Sopranos is perhaps the most mind-opening series you could possibly ever want to watch. It's smart, it's quirky, it's funny - and it carries the mafia genre so well that most people can't resist watching. The best aspect of this show is the overwhelming realism of the characters, set in the subterranean world of the New York crime families. For most of the time, you really don't know whether the wise guys will stab someone in the back, or buy them lunch. Further adding to the realistic approach of the characters in this show is the depth of their personalities - These are dangerous men, most of them murderers, but by God if you don't love them too. I've laughed at their wisecracks, been torn when they've made err in judgement, and felt scared at the sheer ruthlessness of a serious criminal. The suburban setting of New Jersey is absolutely perfect for this show's subtext - people aren't always as they seem, and the stark contrast between humdrum and the actions taken by these seemingly petty criminals weigh up to even the odds. If you haven't already, you most definitely should.


                
The show is absolutely great. And what makes it such is the great combination of crime television as well as looking deeper into their personalities which created such a complex cast. We love those characters even though they do things we not always approve of.The main example would be Tony. We get to know him through his psychology sessions better and better and we understand him more. So no matter what he did I loved him. Of course also because he loved animals so much.But besides tony we had a lot of other amazing characters. Junior, Tony B., Chris, Paulie , Richie etc. They all have a great originality in them that makes it a pleasure to follow them and worry if they will die or not.The show also has a great range of female characters. This is not often the came in mob or crime shows. Like my favorite TV show Breaking Bad had awful female characters. Sopranos on the other hand has some great and complex characters who were all interesting and not very stereotypical. Adriana was one of my favorites, but Carmela's great complexity added a lot to the show as well.The final season was really not my favorite, I felt the show dropped a bit on quality but it was still better than most that we get to see on TV. And the first 5 seasons were absolutely brilliant.


                
I've always longed to see a show in its entirety as it ran on television. Above all, I believe this heightens the emotional attachment that grows between the audience and the characters portrayed, not to mention the anticipation of waiting in-between seasons. Unfortunately, I wasn't so lucky with 'The Sopranos' and am yet to experience this with a TV show (something I hope to correct very soon). Needless to say, in the 2 months that it took to blitz the 6 seasons of this show, I grew hugely attached to the majority of the characters of this show, and one of the most enigmatic, compelling characters portrayed on screen – Tony Soprano. The show is vast; it covers many aspects of life, from the minute details of household troubles, to the tests of morality that we can all relate to. 'The Sopranos' succeeds in bringing the audience right into the heart of organised crime, and the consequences and events that surround the people caught up within this. The viewer finds themselves feeling sympathy for even the most disgusting characters at times – I for one, tried to justify the actions and choices they made, all because of the attachment that had grown between myself and the characters. This, in my eyes, is the sign of a great drama. After finishing the 86th and final episode, it is safe to say I am left with a gap, which only this New Jersey family can fill. 'The Sopranos' will grip you right from the Pilot, and I'd be surprised if you didn't feel driven to keep watching throughout the entire series. It is up there with the best and will no doubt be heralded as a classic. A terrific achievement.


                
Let me start by saying that I loved the Sopranos.I was hooked from the first episode onwards. A series full of interesting characters, many times with a comical touch in regards to these guys' closed minds, and hypocritical thinking. I just finished the series, for the first time (yes it has ended over ten years ago). I'll start by saying what I liked least about the series. Sometimes, the situation got a bit stagnant, in the sense that there was not much going on, or rather, not many new events going on. When something new did happen, the situation would often go back to normal after maximum three episodes. I loved the first season since it was probably the most variant in terms of events (maybe that's just the way I feel). However, there are far more things I liked rather than disliked. 
What I absolutely loved most about the series is witnessing the different characters, their thoughts, their actions, and especially the hilarious hypocrisy. Italian-american gangsters are like this. This is a much more realistic version of the italian gangster the movie world is used to. It's rarely a world of gentlemen, and great Dons who are against drugs regardless the money (quoting the Godfather here). Gangsters make money in any way they can, and the bosses don't care where that money comes from, as long as it goes into their pockets, as we often see in this series; Tony receiving a fat envelope from one of his captains, and putting it straight in his pocket.The southern italian mentality is also truly present (I am from Naples, Italy). Something very stereotypical was the fact that at the Soprano house, there would always be a plate of pasta, lasagna, etc. ready to be eaten. Carmela would always worry about whether her family has eaten enough. This is very much the case in southern Italy. I loved the different characters' mentalities, one of my favorites being Paulie. Paulie is an amazing character on the show. He is a straight up G, who's main objective in life is making money, and stacking money over that. If something is in his interest, he goes for it. He's more calm in the final season, but that's also because he's older. Every character has a story, and many times it's up the viewer's mind to figure out how he got to where he is, but all of them had the more or less the same childhood and upbringing as the main characters we are witnessing. I have to say my favorite episode from the entire season has been and still is episode 6, from season 3. It's an episode that is fabulously directed, and goes into the life of one of the Bing's strippers: Tracee. It shows how brutal the gangster world could be to those who are just seen as tools to make money. A young girl named Tracee, uneducated on the opportunities life has to offer, is dragged into a life of drugs, sex, and abuse by the men working for Tony. The episodes shows the few events leading to her death. It was an emotional episode for me, seeing the parallel of a hopeful girl, who truly has nothing but a dream for a love life, and a baby (Tracee) and the one of Tony's daughter, Meadow (same age as Tracee), who studies at a prestigious university, unaware of the true issues in life, having always lived in a bubble of wealth, provided by the money people like Tracee were making for her father. It highlighted the fact that in life, the main player is luck, whether you are lucky enough to be born where you're born, and whether you're lucky to develop the intelligence to change your situation, and make a difference.Regardless, I rated the Sopranos a 9/10. I enjoyed the series, but am glad to be done. RIP James Gandolfini


                
A great show about a family man Tony Soprano (James Gandolfini) trying to balance time between his two lives by therapy. His home life and his criminal one. In 2013, the Writers Guild of America named it the best-written series in television history. Created by David Chase, the story of The Sopranos was initially conceived as a feature film similar to that of Analyze This (1999), but after some input, it was turn into a television show. While the series is named after David Chase's high school friend. The series is partly inspired by the Boiardo family, a prominent New Jersey organized crime family when Chase was growing up, and partly on New Jersey's DeCavalcante Family as well. The series had a very good supporting cast. Lorraine Bracco as the therapist Jennifer Melfi was one of them. Fans love her, so much that on Season 3 episode "Employee of the Month" when her character got attack; fans were rooting for Tony to get revenge on the guy, but Melfi doesn't tell him. Edie Falco starts as Tony's wife Carmela Soprano is also an interesting character, a bit annoying, but glad the show didn't focus too much on her. The show did focus a lot on Christopher Moltisanti's Tony 'nephew' (Michael Imperioli) from his problem relationship with Adriana La Cerva (Drea de Matteo), his troubles with substance abuse, and his oddball relationship with the other members of Tony's gang. Mostly involving Paulie Gualtieri (Tony Sirico), a comedy-relief character, but also one of the most sinister of them all. Not as sinister as Silvio Dante (Steven Van Zandt from Bruce Springsteen's E Street Band). He was just pure scary. Who knew a musician that play 'Born in U.S.A' can be that scary in a television role. The cast of the debut season of the series consisted of largely unknown actors. After the breakthrough success of the show, many cast members were noted for their acting ability and received mainstream attention for their performances with Emmys and other awards. Even several well-known actors guest star or join the cast in recurring roles such as Joe Pantoliano, Steve Buscemi, Robert Loggia, and Frank Vincent. The show's opening theme is "Woke Up This Morning" by Alabama 3 is a pretty good song. While it's has it catchy tunes, the show lacks a theatrical theme song like Godfather. The series had some pretty good episodes, most of them based in the settlings of the New Jersey area. Without spoiling too much about it. Season 1 & Season 2 are pretty good, and follows the raise of power for Tony. Best episode on Season 2 is "Commendatori" when they go back to Sicily. Season 3 is interesting, but nothing worth noting. Not enough great episodes there. I think the best episodes here are "Employee of the Month" and "Another Toothpick". Season 4 has it's up and down. Episodes here are in mixed reactions due to its intense most plot driven episodes. Some people might like it, some might not. Season 5 foreshadowed everything that was to come in Season 6, but its bring in too many new characters. Season 6 was the biggest drop in ratings they ever had. Only good episode here is "Members Only" first episode of season. Sill a couple of good episodes just not as good as the others. Don't buy this one unless you are a die-hard fan. Episode 3 "Remember When' is an episode worth watching. Everybody probably has their own opinion on the last infamous Sopranos episode "Made in America". In my opinion, I thought it was incomplete when the camera cuts to black. Some people wanted to see if Tony survive or not. Some people believe that it was a metaphor for the three times someone tried to assassinate Tony. The first two times failed, this one didn't. Hints why it takes Meadows (Jamie-Lynn Sigler) three attempts to park the car. Who knows! I just think Meadows is a lousy driver. Some people believe he survive with the song Journey song 'Don't stop believing'. Anyways, Chase's decision to end the last episode abruptly with just a black screen was controversial. The ambiguity over the ending and question of whether Tony was murdered will be talk about for years. The Sopranos is credited for creating a new era in the mafia genre deviating from the traditional dramatized image of the gangster in favor of a simpler, more accurate reflection of mob life. While some people hate the negative stereotype of Italian-Americans as mobsters families, in my opinion, the song really does try to make this characters have some depth, than face value murderers. In my opinion, MTV's Jersey Shore is worst than the Sopranos in negative stereotypes for Italian-Americans. About the characters, yes they can be a bit unlikable, and crude, but remember it's a television about a mob family, not the Brady Bunch. Overall: Sopranos is a great watch. Sadly, I doubt there will be any more Sopranos shows made anymore with the 2013's death of James Gandolfini. James was a great actor. Not just the sopranos but many movies. He understood the struggles of living the blue collard life because he was once there himself. A gentle giant that will be greatly missed. Maybe gone, but for sure will never be forgotten. RIP.
Fantastic, inpressive , wonderful . Gun Tower Suit


                
Love Tony as the anti-hero. Watching it all over again 20 years later. It hasn't lost its luster. I highly recommend.


                
Great drama with funny scenes but I expected more from this show and I am not gonna comment the ending we were left wondering about rise or fall of the Sopranos family.


                
The Sopranos is the kind of TV you want to pay for.


                
I've only watched the first series on DVD, but would summarise The Sopranos as a Shakespearean plot with a Tarantino-like script. The series is as good as Goodfellas and Casino, and almost as good as The Godfather (hence not a "10"), and far better than any of Guy Ritchie's efforts. Although there's plenty of action, some of it pretty bloody, the story is character driven. Even some of the minor characters contribute to great story lines; e.g. the priest's relationship (or lack of) with Carmilla and the restaurateur's wife, and Christopher and his dimwit friend (who didn't last very long (a Darwin Award nominee?))Apart from the plot, the script and the acting, the other reasons I liked it;1. It made me want to visit New Jersey and eat pasta with a tomatoey sauce. 2. The music. 3. It shows that literally anyone can suffer from mental health problems.


                
I watched two hours of "The Sopranos" and felt I had seen enough redundancy to know the rest of the series was going to be pretty much the same. A sitcom about a mafia don, "The Sopranos" relies heavily on the juxtaposition of a mob boss and a sensitive family man in the same character (Gandolfini) for its "it ain't easy being a don" backbone with sufficient violence and tit-ilators to whet the male interest and enough "I'm in touch with my feminine side" family stuff to appeal to the females. However, the characters are corny cliches from the grumbling mom to Chris, "Pussy", and the other "wise guys" and trying the straddle the comedy/drama divide diluted the efficacy in each genre making it too obvious, too pat, and too much a formula product. Nonetheless, you can't argue with success and with Emmys and accolades from all corners, "The Sopranos" will not be denied; at least not by prime time tv audiences looking for some no brainer entertainment. Film buffs and those into serious drama might want to give "Street Time" a try. (B)


                
Well what can you say other than great! My only problem is with the final season. What a waste of greatness! Half the season was in a hospital and the other half hiding.Man what they could of should of on a last season.With that said, one of the few times in my life where I looked forward to Sunday night TV.Most every episode was a winner. I would have given this show a ten but there were to many episodes on the couch; to many dream sequences and to many waits between seasons.And the producers always seemed to cheat on time with the long entry and ending.I think this show was hurt by the producers. This show could have been better. Actually, much better.


                
Amazing. The talent and the cast of a mobster mafia series.


                
I will start off by saying if you are reading this review and wondering if you should watch this show, that would be totally up on you. This show has nudity, violence, cussing and simply just some not so very good things. With that said, this is one of the greatest shows ever to be produced. If you are looking for goodfellas, go back and watch goodfellas. If you are looking for the Godfather, this isn't that either. What happens in this show is honestly what has happened to real wise guys. The Sopranos was so real fbi wire taps over head wise guys saying they thought it was them on the film. The strip clubs, the beatings people took, the affairs and simply all the side stories are so realistic, its crazy. Personally Dr Melfi was my favorite character. The first thing I noticed when watching this series is how many people were in goodfellas, the bronx tale and casino. I swear joe pesci and robert deniro would put out sooner or later but never did. But Lorraine Bracco just made her best performance yet in this show. She turned down the part for Carmela Soprano to play Dr Melfi. And her character was most unpredictable are left you wanting more. Plus she was very sexy. Very professional. I looked forward to him going to therapy on every episode. And the talks they had was so good I must say towards the end like season 6 (both seasons) the producers really failed on the material. I just didn't get excited to watch the show. The first episodes were about keeping the business running, whacking people, affairs, and simply shady business deals. I also want to say how it was great this show touched about such strong topics with children, racial issues, sex issues and love issues. Also the character Adriana Le Cavera was great as well. Drea de Matteo is a great actress. She has played in two of the greatest shows on TV the Sopranos and Sons of Anarchy. When her character died I believe the show lost a great actor. In all James who played Tony Soprano was a good actor but he wasn't good enough to carry this show along at the end. I read some of the reviews and they are great too. But sorry this show started off great and didn't stick to what made them great. The only reason I didn't take away three points instead of one is cause the actor Frank Vincent. He actually saved the show at the end. Such a great actor. If you want to watch a great series you will probably never ever see and you are fan of goodfellas, casino, bonx tell, and the godfather, you will like this one. But don't expect this to live up to those movies cause its not the same.
A true pioneering box set TV show that started the ball rolling for other greats alike. If you're interested in the Soprano's then why not check out and download "The Box Set Pod" on iTunes or acast.com/boxset. A podcast in love with TV Box sets. The latest news, chatter, and guests from in front and behind the camera of the greatest box sets in the world.The latest episode at the time of writing this review focuses on The Soprano's and makes for great listening. Hosted by Northern English Hywel and Jamie (award winning radio presenters - its like being looked after by two guards of the nights watch...


                
This isn't a quick-paced, action-packed series. Nor does it rely on cliffhangers. It follows the mafia life at a more realistic pace. It does a very good job of developing the characters and completing small story lines throughout the seasons with just enough action to keep it moving.It does slow down at times, but it's hard not to be intrigued and continue watching. The main character, Tony Soprano, is played perfectly as somewhat of a bad guy that you root for. It has all the things you expect from a mafia show: the FBI, rocky relationships, rocky families, illegal activity, etc. It's not the best show ever, but it's certainly worth watching.


                
Since I lived some of my life in New Jersey, I started to watch this series with the great intent. It was very interesting from the beginning. First of all it portrays well people, and places in tri State area, especially New Jersey. More people then the places. Characters are so well developed and well cast, better then in most other series.As far as mafia portrayal, I am not sure that it really works like that in the real life, but I am not a mobster, so I do not know. I read the criticism that mafia and it works are not truthfully depicted in this series, but I leave that debate for the specialists of the Mafia and their works.There are so many things in this series which have stuck in my mind, but there is one particular scene which is worth describing. It is a moment when Soprano and his gang are returning from sunny Italy to New Jersey and looking to all the oil refineries of Elizabeth area. They fall silent. That is exactly how we felt when we would come back from Dubrovnik to NJ, which we did during those years.I will not bother you with further reviewing of this title, because there were books written about this series. I will just say it is outstanding! As far as James Gandolfino goes R.I.P. he will be missed. His acting was excellent.Really cool stuff!


                
If it weren't for the existence of HBO's landmark television series "The Sopranos", television as we know it today would not be the advanced form of entertainment that it is today. In other words, outstanding television dramas like "Mad Men" and "Breaking Bad" practically owe their existence to this show. I've only seen the first two seasons of this show so far (plus a couple episodes of the final season), so this review will be based solely on what I've seen thus far. And from what I've watched so far, the one aspect about "The Sopranos" that rightfully stands out is the work by the late great James Gandolfini. Through some specific touches that the writers add to his character as well as his commanding execution, it's no wonder that Mr. Gandolfini is best remembered for his work here since it really is a phenomenal role. The series follows an Italian-American mobster named Tony Soprano (James Gandolfini) and his struggles to balance life with both his family members and the crime organization he heads. He and his wife Carmela (Edie Falco) experience difficulty raising their rebellious teenage daughter Meadow (Jamie-Lynn Sigler) and underachieving son A.J. (Robert Iler), especially since they know about Tony's profession. Tony's struggles are further challenged when he has weekly sessions with psychiatrist Dr. Jennifer Melfi (Lorraine Bracco) to try and cure his depression. Jennifer is also Italian-American and she does her best to treat him even though they disagree on many things, have polar opposite personalities, and also try to hide sexual feelings towards one another. For me, the best part of this television series is when we focus on Tony himself as well as his family. Even though our main character is a mobster who (along with his associates) commits illegal activities, I like how we see this sort of sweet side to him. I know that sounds weird, but in my defense, how else would you describe a mobster who likes to feed animals sometimes and do other such affectionate gestures from time to time? I mean it's something you don't see every day, right? This specific touch is very smart because it definitely plays with our expectations about this character. We know that whatever this mobster does is considered a crime, but at the same time and like most of us I'm sure, he does have this lust for the little things in life that's actually very relatable. The more human side to this character is further revealed with his sessions with the psychiatrist. For me, along with the family stuff, this is where the source of the show's entertainment is. I really admire how we are able to get to know him as an individual. The conversations that he has with his psychiatrist are very intriguing and they always keep me hooked. The relationship between him and his mother is the television equivalent of Norman Bates and his mother from "Psycho" (1960). I mean that mother-son relationship is messed up, but in a good way entertainment wise. I liked how the writers handled Carmela's character in that they incorporated an inner moralistic struggle with her character. On one hand, she's trying to be supportive on her husband and give the children a good life. On the other hand, she thinks that by supporting him, she's committing a sin. I love how they handled anything involving the family with this series. I forgot to mention that the series also focuses on the operations of Tony's organized crimes for business. But there's a reason why I don't talk about it that much. On top of the fact that I have no idea how mafia organizations or anything of the sort works, I have difficulty remembering what even occurred during these parts of the series. The only things I can recall them doing is killing or interrogating people for not fulfilling their end of the bargain. That's pretty much it. It's done fine I guess, but it just doesn't hold a candle next to the stuff involving the family. And when one part of the show overpowers the other part, you can't help but want a little bit more out of it. This is just my own personal taste. "The Sopranos" is a show that any television fanatic should check out because of its focus on how a certain mobster deals with his family members. Many people say that it's the greatest television show of all time, but I'm personally not quite ready to say that yet just like I'm not ready to consider "The Godfather" the greatest film of all time. I personally don't quite share the same interest as most people when it comes to mob-related films or shows. But when the show focuses on Tony and his family, it's an undeniably well-crafted show.


                
This show began in 1999, and soon became a TV gem. Its portrayal of Mob life in North New Jersey, the scale of it and of course the violence and rituals that come with it. Beginning with Tony Sopranos played the unique and amazing James Gandolfini, a well respected and good earner within the the New Jersey Mafia as a Captain in charge of his own crew. Of course this is really the start of the show, but not for Tony Soprano as hes been involved with the Mob since being a youth he followed his family into the life. However the show begins with his rise to the throne, of Boss of the family after the former boss dies from Cancer.Through this transition, we meet his family; wife Carmela, his daughter and son and then his other family. The New Jersey Mafia family, his captains, under boss, consigilarie and his soldiers earning for him. The show is known for not being just about violence and the mafia, but also the idea of family life, love, trust, loyalty, and even the idea of depression. From the moment Tony takes over in 1999, through the war with his Uncle Junior for the tile of boss and on through the next several years he deals with internal struggles within the family, even separation with his wife through to 2007 and the war with one of the five New York families inherently we see many main characters drop and others rise in their place and role.As indictments hang over the Family, many going and coming from prison and others just disappearing we see how the inner workings of the modern American Mafia is, or as close we can get safely. New characters are brought in, as we are pulled deeper into Tony Soprano's personality, either you love or hate him in the end but he is portrayed amazingly by Gandolfini.For over several years, The Sopranos has had me fixed watching episode after episode as part of my routine. David Chase has taken us on a Gangster Epic journey, through many problems facing the Mob, the blood families of its members, even those outside of its world. The two worlds, the Mob world and the world we all know. Different reactions to things such as homosexuality, infidelity, even how to cope with depression. Such a different reaction, one that scares many.The soundtrack of The Sopranos is probably one of the greatest i've heard with such a deep, thought provoking show. Songs fit snugly with many scenes, just matching the pace of the emotions of characters. Some call The Sopranos the greatest show on earth, its very close and to me in many aspects it is indeed true. The cast has been amazing since the beginning to the finale, the sets, even the writing has been grade A for all these years. Its a show for Mafia fans, its for those wanting a deep HBO drama, and its also just a piece of great television.
The show runs for the fourth season now and there hasn't been a single dull moment. The characters are very well developed, the incidents look very lifelike and the story looks very original even after 3 full seasons. The innovative feature in the series is the character of Tony Soprano who unlike all screen mobsters (until now) seems to have problems with his conscience, work and family and seeks help from a psychiatrist. That approach, in my opinion, is why the series is such a big hit. It makes people feel like Soprano (he has problems, I have too) unlike other mafia stories where mobsters were pictured as strong guys that could handle anything. Anyway, it is a must-see!


                
Not the best non-comedic TV series since the 60s, but the ONLY good non-comedic TV series since the 60s. (Annoying trash like "Ally McBeal", the various "Star Trek" spin-offs, and countless appallingly dull cops-and-robbers (now increasingly cops-and-serial-killers) shows come first to mind.) Television is increasingly a beehive of garbage and clichés, especially when it comes to dramatic shows, so to actually come across a high-quality mob drama - of all things - was a very pleasant surprise. There are many things going for the 86 episodes: terrific casting, convincing acting, more-or-less realistic and fun dialogue, plenty of plot twists, some good humour, and very good photography (practically on a movie level). Another major plus point would have to be the un-PCness.There seems to be plenty of criticism, even coming from the show's fans, that there is (too much) racism in TS. Naturally, that's absurd. Of course there is racism; thankfully the decision was made by the show's producers to make the characters realistic, which does NOT include Italian mobsters saying how much they love the black man. The point of TS is anyway not to sympathize with the mobsters. To some extent it's difficult not to occasionally root for Tony Soprano, but only morons can consider him to be some kind of anti-hero (much like Gotti was; adored by masses of morons). The show's writers have gone out of their way to constantly remind the viewer that Tony and his gang are sociopaths and psychopaths, for the most part. Hence Tony's appeal stems not from him being a lovable teddy-bear, as some dim-witted viewers might perceive him as being, but from Gandolfini's natural charisma (which he can't help projecting) and from the interest he awakes with his exciting - and often absurd - lifestyle.If there is any criticism to make, it would be regarding the casting of Tony's wife, for example. Lorraine Bracco was supposed to play that part, but VERY unfortunately she turned it down. She's wonderful as Tony's very patient shrink, but she would have had far more screen time as his wife, not to mention the fact that Tony Soprano having a beautiful wife would have made far more sense and been infinitely more pleasing to the viewer's eye. Yes: Eddie Falco is rather unattractive, mildly put; her performance is admittedly quite good, though. The fact that Furio later (season 4) falls in love with her doesn't really ring true 100% for this very reason. These mobsters are used to picking and choosing; they don't just grab whatever they see first, right?Various directors have been involved here. Steve Buscemi's 3/11 episode, the one in the woods in Winter, I would pick out as the most memorable one, while an episode directed by Peter Bogdanovich (who also plays Bracco's shrink) is unsurprisingly one of the weakest. (An overrated, pretentious geek who considers pre-70s movies to be superior to anything that was made later.) But generally, the standard remains consistently high throughout the entire 6 seasons. Perhaps the episodes that over-focused on the problems of Tony's wife and the kids were slightly weaker than the more mob-activities-related episodes.
The Sporanos will be remembered as a series that made television worth watching. The stories are intelligently written and the characterizations are just perfect. The manner in which Edie Falco portrays Tony Sporano's wife, and the contradictions in being devoutly religious and wanting to raise her family in the best way possible, while wanting the material trappings her husband's businesses bring her is really something to be seen more than once. James Gandolfini is thoroughly convincing as Tony Soprano. Episodes highlight the contradictions of organized crime, where strong family ties coexist with violent and immoral lifestyles. This series really needs, and thoroughly deserves to be watched more than once.


                
The life and times of NJ Mob.Who would have thought that a TV show devised and produced by an old TV hack like David Chase (who's previous C.V. highlight was the silly-but-fun Rockford Files - A private eye who fools the entire world with home-made business cards!) and who's onset direction is tossed around a like an oily mechanics' rag would strike gold?A hit most places it has been shown - with the notable exception of France where, despite a lot of press hype, it died a total death.(One of the people giving it high praise was the double Oscar winner Glenda Jackson - now a British MP.)In a recent NY Times interview Chase said "it's really very easy to write The Sopranos, because everything that everybody says is untrue. Complete falsehoods, self-justifications, rationalisations, outright lies, fantasies and miscommunication. For that reason, I think there's always sort of a joke going on, which is that these people aren't communicating at all. These people are kidding themselves, and lying to themselves and to each other all the time."These are the key names the show revolves around: James Gandolfini (Tony Soprano - the big bad mob boss), Edie Falco (Carmela Soprano - the bosses wife), Lorraine Bracco (Dr. Jennifer Melfi - the Bosses Shrink), Michael Imperioli (Christopher Moltisanti - the bosses favourite young henchman).Also of note are Dominic Chianese (Uncle Junior), Drea de Matteo (Adriana), Robert Iler (Anthony Soprano Jr.), Jamie-Lynn DiScala (Meadow Soprano), Tony Sirico (Paulie Walnuts), Steven Van Zandt (Silvio Dante), Steve Buscemi (Tony Blundetto) and Robert Loggia (Feech la Manna).The No.1 luxury TV has is time. The No.1 disadvantage TV has is formula or least the expectation of formula. While this show tries to change pace and surprise, it still cannot escape its own format limits: If you pay people to act then you have to get them on screen somehow. Either that or you have to kill them off!The hardest people write for are the "virgins" - the people that are around, but are not supposed to know what is really going on. In truth they are really semi-virgins. You also have to fit in the forces of law and order. This bit of the show always looks a bit unloved and unwanted - like the party-poopers that they really are. Gandolfini took over the thing and the made the show his own. This being America off-screen power battles and money squabbles were sure to follow - and did. Thankfully it doesn't show on screen. The authors (and Chase is only one) have clearly been looking in on the works of Tarrantino and Scorsese (players from a higher league), but they are copycats and not originators. If not how come they weren't coming up with this kind of stuff ten years ago? They even own up to who they are copying from in casting and dramatic references: In-jokes flow freely, but I won't give examples here. How much easier it must have been for the writers' when they had seen his early performances. When he (Tony) is not killing people he is lying, cheating and stealing. He even lies to himself and his shrink - which allows him to give his inner thoughts without need of voice-over.He is a character unlike anything that we have seen before - bar maybe Larry Hagman in Dallas and even his back stabbing was merely metaphorical. Often shown in vest and boxers, stomach hanging out, dazed look in his eyes. He even dares to be bald! Anti-heroes don't get any more anti than him. (What would have happened if the Italian-American actor had gone on a health kick after the first series? Was it written in his contract that he couldn't?)Eddie Falco (Carmela Soprano) does a brilliant job playing "her indoors" - the bosses wife. A hypocrite of the very first order and someone we have to piece together from fragments of conversation and little moments. A lady that likes to play the rosary-clinging catholic one minute and go off on money laundering trips the next. From her money saving ideas (turning off the pool because "no one is using it") we learn that she is really a poor woman in a rich man's house.Everyone knows who Tony really is - even the kids at his children's school - so let us not play games. What goes through her head I don't know, but I guess she is a classic looker of the other way - or someone that sees "The Home" as a different world from that outside. Something that is part of the real Mafia code - people are not attacked in their own home. The show is wise enough to know that the threat of violence is enough to create tension - you don't have to follow through with it. It also knows that you can't play cry-wolf too many times or the audience won't trust you. A rare TV show that takes chances and breaks knew ground, but moral questions keep it from being perfect. Indeed there are times it seems to be enjoying what it is pretending to condemn and - at other times - treats the forces of law and order as being on the same level as The Mob.


                
