A bona fide masterpiece. As simple as that. It is ironic that one of the best films about the Middle East conflict, and specifically the tragic civil war in Lebanon, should be made by a Canadian film maker. Incendies is based on a play but it feels as though it has been adapted from a great literary work. In fact there is no specific mention of any country in the film but no one can be in any doubt that the unnamed country is Lebanon.A Canadain-Lebanese woman dies in Canada and in her will she leaves two letters to her twin son & daughter. One is to be delivered to their brother (whom they did not know existed) and the other to their father (whom they had presumed dead). To find these people they have to travel to Lebanon to unravel the mysterious past of their deceased mother. As we follow their search, flash backs slowly reveal to us key moments in the life of their mother.There are extremely powerful and unforgettable images and scenes in Incendies. Suffice to say that even if you have no interest in the history of the Middle East, this film will capture your attention from the start and grips you right till the end. It is the third great film (and arguably the best)that I've seen on this topic after Waltz with Bashir and Lebanon. All of these are essential viewing.


                
Denis Villeneuve has created nothing less than a masterpiece. This film is revealing a great Director, especially when given an original story with such powerful dimensions.Despite being skeptical as first of the film being shot in Jordan, when dealing with the very specific, multidimensional Lebanese drama, the geographic distance with the land of Lebanon is detaching the film from the strict reality of the place and taking it to whole other level of significance. Jordan's landscape especially with the film's photography, are somewhat surrealistic, as if the story was taking place in a deep level of the region's sub-conscious.Villeneuve has managed to delicately craft a story with dimensions that a human mind in its normal condition is not prepared to understand and confront. And yet these things did happen, many times during the war and retelling them is a very not an easy task. Actually a quasi impossible one and yet Villeneuve did it.This has to be the film representing Canada at the Oscars. And it will win.


                
The film begins in sweeping slow motion, centered around a harsh cemented premises with a bunch of boys undergoing the shaving of their hair ala military fashion, with the camera centered on one boy possessing this crazed looking eyes, before cutting to Canada where twins Jeanne and Simon Marwan (Melissa Desormeaux-Poulin and Maxim Gaudette respectively) arrive at a notary's office to accept the will of their recently deceased mother Nawal (Lubna Azabal), where they are left with letters to deliver to a father and brother that they do not know. In the meantime, they are to bury their mother in a certain strange way until their quest has been completed, with the notary Jean Lebel (Remy Girard), Nawal's boss the last few years, ensuring that her last will and testament is completed the way it was intended.Incendies, based upon the play Scorched written by Wajdi Mouawad and adapted for the screen by director Denis Villeneuve, was this year's Best Foreign Language Film nominee from Canada, and there's every reason why it was a nomination well deserved. Set against a mystery to be unraveled so slowly, bringing together seemingly disparate events together in shocking fashion by the time we're through, the narrative is split into two different timelines, with the current one being the twins' journey to an unnamed Middle Eastern country in search for clues to their unknown father and brother, while with each milestone achieved of sorts, we get to see a flashback to the time of their mother, brought up in a harsh environment involving the staining of family honour, as well as religious zealots and militants who set her off in a tale of an avenging angel, and sacrifice.And the story sprawls in many directions, though with Villeneuve always having an assured hand in not having this fall into melodramatic terms nor have any wasted scenes, highlighting issues that still exist to this very day involving hatred, revenge and forgiveness, but not before laying down a number of surprises that will shake you to the core especially when the mysterious equation finally gets solved – you may get a hint of what's to come, but this got handled so expertly without being verbatim, that it accentuates and compounds the myriad of complex emotions felt by all the characters involved.With sweeping cinematography that's achingly beautiful to gaze at, one of the best scenes involve the brutal, cold blooded mass murder where militants spray countless of rounds into a packed bus, culminating in that shot of a burning bus shrouded in thick black smoke against an endless sandy environment, with Nawal finally snapping into making a decision to take matters into her own hands from then on. Between the two stories, perhaps it is Nawal's painful journey that makes this compelling viewing, from having her lover forcefully and terminally separated from her by family during her teens, then her volunteering and sacrifice leading to imprisonment and ill treatment within as punishment. What she did as part of reconciliation is in part a masterstroke in inflicting inexplicable pain in return to her perpetrator, is what made this film a winner, although it will stun you into silence well after the end credits roll from the devastation the narrative left in its wake.The other half of the narrative deals with Jeanne and Simon's journey to dig through unwritten laws, and reluctance of tightly knit communities that prefer to keep the status quo and not dwell and reopen wounds inflicted from their collective shameful past, some in denial, while others happy to have seen a more favourable outcome from Nawal's hardships. It is this piecing together of the mystery like an investigative drama that makes Incendies unique, and what more, Radiohead also features in the soundtrack – strange but true, and very powerful if you ask me.Comparing the ratings between this film at M18 and Womb at R21 reveals what the censors allow and not allow when dealing with more mature themes, likely centered around the intention of its more controversial scenes. It's anyone's guess why was was given the highest rating possible, and the other one rung lower, given that both actually didn't have anything explicit, except perhaps one was used as an unintentional weapon of torture and destruction in the psychological sense, while the other was a love story gotten out of control! Still, for its strong story and excellent production values, Incendies becomes that must watch film in 2011, especially during this season of noisy summer action blockbusters that absolutely don't resonate as much as this film. Highly recommended!


                
I had the pleasure of attending a screening of Incendies at the Telluride film festival and was absolutely shattered by it. This meticulously crafted film was my favorite of the festival. Stuff happens and you'll be like NO WAY and then the film goes even further and you'll be like WHOA OKAY WHAT and then even further and you'll be like OH MY GOD and then even further still and you'll be like HOW CAN THIS BE HAPPENING OH MY GOD PLEASE and then it'll just keep going even further and further and further and by the end of the film you'll just be a steamy, shattered mess like I was.Characters and events throughout are depicted with the subtlety and prowess of a master filmmaker. I don't want to spoil anything, but there were numerous moments in the screening that I attended when the audience was vocally reacting to moments on screen that were extremely visceral and affecting. Beautiful, powerful film.


                
This is a superb film. Best film of the year in my estimation bar none. This exceptional Canadan film should easily win best Foreign film at the Oscars. Directing, photography, cinematography, casting, acting all outstanding. The film also has something to say on the nature of hate and violence. Unfortunately this wonderful film will neither be seen nor appreciated by a wide audience. Denis Villeneuve has created a fabulous film. He has done an immense job taking this from novel to the screen.


                
Incendies is based on the play by Wajdi Mouawad. The film is a Canadian film in French and Arabic with English subtitles. Going into the theatre to see Incendies, I really knew nothing about it. I had not read any of the reviews that came out, but I had heard from the television news shows that it was supposed to be very good and now with a Best Foreign Language Film Oscar, I assumed that it was going to be a really good film. I decided not to read anything about the plot before I saw the film because these days I find that so many critics gave away too much crucial information of the films in their reviews that when you finally do see the film it does not have the same affect on you. So having known nothing about Incendies and then watching the story unfold before my eyes was quite an experience and I would recommend you do the same if you are at all inclined to go see it. Other than the film's director Denis Villeneuve, I was not familiar with anybody else who appeared in the film, or worked on the sides, but I must say that they all did a fantastic job. This is the type of film that when you are watching it, you are not quite sure what will happen, or how the climax, or the ending will come, but when it does, it makes sense to you and leaves you with a multitude of feelings. At times Incendies was not always the most easy film to watch, not because it was overly violent, or graphic because I thought everything was handled in a very tastefully done way, but it still sucks so much emotion out of us and we get to care so much for the characters and what they are going through as we watch it before our eyes, that we can not help but feel sad, enraged, or even physically ill watching it at times. I should clarify that the film does deal with some of the goings on with the Middle East and the wars, tension and prejudices that came out of some of those wars and moments of terror that people at that time and still are going through. I also liked how when dealing with such a tricky and controversial subject matter such as this that as I mentioned it was all very tastefully done and none of it felt like you were watching a Hollywood movie. I think if this had been a big budget, big name star movie extravaganza, then it probably would not have worked. The reason it works so well as it is, is because the fact that it is so character driven and deals with events that have gone on in the past and in some similar and different ways are still going on today. The film felt personal to me. It felt like the people involved with the film had something to say and instead of sugar coating everything and making it an easily watchable film with a feel good portion of it, it instead goes for all your emotions and in a sense almost takes you on the journey and the personal trials and tribulations that the characters in the movie have gone on and understandably we can almost feel their pain, exhaustion and hurt because the performances have this sense of believability and authenticity to them, that everything we see them go through feels like the real thing and the way they handle each situation is believable and not far fetched at all. The characters in the film give us something to believe in because they are searching for the truth and will go to many lengths to find it, even if at times it is difficult, or even dangerous and the amount of honour and pride they carry with them to set out someone's wishes is truly remarkable. This is an incredibly powerful film that as I mentioned, does put you through an array of different emotions, but I did not mind that because I felt I could connect with the characters more because of this. The look and feel of the film is not big budget or fake looking, which makes all the interior and exterior shots look real and further enhancing the emotions, or moods we are supposed to feel in each scene. The acting by everyone involved is all terrific here as well and this is just a really well put together film with a great cast and director and wonderful material to work and mold into this brave, haunting and yet life changing experience. I have not seen any of the other Best Foreign Language Film Oscar nominees, but having just seen Incendies now, I would say that it has a good chance of winning because of how masterful and great it is. Do not just take my word for it, go and see it when it opens in a theatre near you. This is certainly one of the best films of 2010.


                
Because it's so good, after watching Canadien/French Film Incendies for the second time, I thought that it must be based on a novel of play. I needed to find out. I now know that it is based on a play by Wajdi Mouawad. Mouawad is a Canadien writer, and to my delight, Incendies is part of a series of four plays. This means I have three more Incendies-like plays still to read. I won't go through a run-down of the plot, talk in abstractions about arch, characters symbiosis or lack-there-of<U+0085>. there are tons of proper film reviews out there already dealing with these topics. I thought I'd just talk about two things, the two things that I thought make this an outstanding film: Photography, and the remarkable unfolding of a dramatic story; better film critics than me, which is to say any real film critic, have said that this film pulls off tragedy better than the Greeks. The photography, the photography, the photography<U+0085> was just as good the second time as it was the first time I saw it. The film opens in a village that could be mistaken for Greece of Israel. At thought maybe this was set and shot in Palestine, but I think most of the film as actually shot in Jordan. Theses shots are actually set to portray a fictional Lebanon, both past and modern day. The history intertwined with the movie seems to be loosely fictional; I can't find any information on any of the places that appear in film. My Lebanese civil war history is a little rusty. Anyone else?There are two shots in particular that stand out. Both are shot at a distance to reveal the vastness of the landscape, unmistakably Mediterranean. Rocky, and the trees, not that I'm a tree expert, but they must be olive or fig trees, they are almost overused as prototypical symbols of the Med, but they work great. The first shot I like is actually two shots, meaning one type of shot that is used twice, almost identically. It's of a bus traveling on a skinny, mountainside road. At first, the camera is in close then pans way out to show the whole panoramic view, massive landscape, and tiny bus, a common technique in World films that are shot in exotic landscapes. The other shot is similar. It is later in the film. One of the characters is driving to a modern day Deressa Refugee camp and there is a shot taken from the sky of the winding roads leading up the side of a mountain. This shot is amazing, and whatever effects of filters the photographer added to make it fit the film's tone so well, I can't think of a better word to use to describe them, and the shot as 'cinematic.' I know that's a terrible term to use when describing Cinema, I really do, but a shot like this is so expressive and well-placed in the film, there is nothing going in the film here excepts visuals, the shot on it's own stands out as an artistic, filmmaking achievement.The storyline, the storyline, the storyline<U+0085>unfolds with the precision of a textbook tragedy. It sets up the conflict right off the top--- find missing brother and father. As the drama unfolds the story becomes more and more complex, adding twists and turns to the plot that we never even thought possible. In the end we are left with remains that challenge Oedipus the King in magnitude. (but without the fall from grace) The film still manage to exit the scene with a sparkle of hope. Forgiveness lets the audience breath a little easier as the film closes, a catharsis, but even then the story, the film, will haunt your subconscious for a good while after. More reviews at drumgodchris.blogspot.com


                
I just wonder what could make me watch the 2 hrs long movie at 3:30 am?.. I don't like the movies regarding the middle eastern wars at all.. That is how I thought before watching this one... I just gave it a chance... And wasn't intending to finish it... Just wondered why this movie has been rated 8.2... It's a quite long movie actually but you don't feel and don't complain while you watch till the end... slow pace is easily adapted and even makes you ask for more...The movie contains many flashbacks which at first looks like a historical review of situation of those days... But then you realize the real mastery in telling the story in front of that strong historical background... The flashbacks and the real time connected by the end of the movie in such way that feels like there's no other way to understand and really ''feel'' the movie...The story itself is not comparable to any other one... at least I haven't watched a movie with such a strong and different scenario... very very powerful movie...This movie deserves applause and all kinds of rewards...I strongly advise this movie to everyone over 16 yrs old... as it is not a ''feel good'' or a ''have fun time with family'' movie... just a very very good piece of art... a master's work...I'm very very happy that I watched it!!!


                
I have been hit by a truck........ by the movie ¨ Incendies ¨.The best, most absorbing & emotionally enthralling movie I have ever witnessed. ( In my 34 yrs ) Am profoundly & unutterably moved.Affected.Right to the very Essence of my Being.Am speechless. Overwhelmed.Shaken.To the my C O R E.Made me cry.Never a film has smashed my heart to countless pieces. Am so serious & somber.... no joke can make me laugh.Will never be the same person.Am a walking cadaver. Dead, yet still alive.I am less my body now. More my Spirit.I honestly feel my Soul has AWAKENED.Maybe I can be happy & have happiness.Perhaps.But I don't care for happiness .... any longer.Means nothing.After ¨ Incendies ¨ ate & ravaged my heart.


                
Want to see where one of the modern era's hottest directing streaks started? If you do, then Incendies in the film for you.Directed by Denis Villeneuve, who went from this French/Canadian co-production to move onto Prisoners, Enemy, Sicario, Arrival and last year's brilliant sequel Blade Runner 2049, Incendies is the Oscar nominated film that put Villeneuve on the path he finds himself on now and remains a film of substantial power these years on from initial release.Adapted from Wajdi Mouawad's play of the same name, Incendies is a multi-layered narrative that spans both numerous countries and numerous characters over various timelines but Villeneuve controls his film perfectly as the mystery that lays at the heart of this tale about family, war, life and death never gets muddled as we're drawn further and further into a film that wraps us up in its web and refuses to let us go.There's not the abundance of filmmaking and visual flair that Villeneuve has started to become known for over his more recent Hollywood productions but Incendies power comes almost exclusively from Villeneuve's deft hand with his performers, his handling of a script that other filmmakers would struggle to bring to life and his ability to slowly ebb out more information as we go, that by the time we come to realise just what lays in store for the films characters, the power of Incendies becomes even more apparent.Saying to much about this story would be a disservice to a film that takes many various turns and pivots. Essentially at its core, a story of both twins Jeanne and Simon Marwan trying to uncover the secret of their father they've never met and find a brother they never knew they had after their Middle Eastern born mother Nawal passes away, Incendies becomes so much more than a typical family drama as it showcases time in the conflict of the Israeli and Palestinian Holy Wars, as well as the twins journey back to their country of nationality.The film in many ways showcases a different side to Villeneuve and proves the director is just as at home handling a $150 million plus Sci-Fi for a major Hollywood studio as he is behind the camera of a small intimate drama that is driven purely by its narrative and characters. Proof the filmmaker is a man of many talents and a director to be cherished by those that love cinema.Final Say - For any fans of Villeneuve's work, world cinema or powerful character driven dramas, then Incendies should be a film you seek out as soon as possible. Losing none of its power since its initial release, this sometimes hard to watch but always enthralling film is standout filmmaking and the official blasting off point for one of the modern era's great filmmakers.5 swimming pools out of 5


                
This is a beautiful film. The direction is perfect; the score poignant and edgy at times when it needs to be. The cast all gave the performances of their careers. The cinematography is second to none with the shots beautifully done to draw you into this, at times, horrific story.But it is the story that makes this film superb. All of the characters are real. You feel with them through all of the beats and the dialogue is really well thought out. This is especially true with all the use of dramatic irony through the use of multiple languages.A must watch but not for the faint hearted.


                
Not what you "believe", but what is believable. Eternal truth - our ability for good AND evil. If you want to see this in 4D (such thing must exist)- see also Waltz with Bashir.The most important part is - the life being so much more bizarre than fantasy.This film shakes you up to the core. Whether this is a "true story" or not literally makes no difference. It is a metaphor on ANY hateful relational process, but especially on so called "religious" confrontations.Take facial tissue and don't be embarrassed by your tears.
this film is not for the faint of heart. the film contains a great deal violence. this is NOT make believe movie violence. this REAL fear inducing violence.the back drop of the film is the Lebanese civil war & its sectarian divisions. The opening sequence, the reading of a will, contains burial instructions, instructions that will haunt me the rest of my life.the acting is great: very real. the script is exceptional: very believable. great use of sound. great plotting.I love films that take me from my safe world & thrust me into worlds that I don't know & fear. I am very disappointed that this film did not win the Academy Award for best foreign language film.this film was VERY deserving of the award.


                
'Incendies' is the film that put director Denis Villeneuve on the map. Now, with 'Prisoners', 'Enemy', and 'Sicario' under his belt Villeneuve has become one the more eye catching directors working today. Just like his other films 'Incendies' strings together a cobweb like story. We watch as a pair of twins venture out to the middle east in search of their father and brother, as a final wish of their recently departed mother. Although the film is more about these twins finding out who their mother was. Naturally this not all that the film is about but, to avoid heavy spoilers and to keep this film as the experience it should be, I will leave it at that.And this film is an experience. Even though the film runs at a fairly long two hour and twenty minute run time, what 'Incendies' accomplishes in that time is remarkable. It is able to draw you in and hold your attention for its entire run time. Its story is unlike anything you will ever see. It's a slow burning thriller that hits every beat that you'd expect and every beat that you don't expect. And it does it in such a way that everything feels completely natural and progressive. The control that Villeneuve has over the film is insane. Every single person involved in front and behind of the camera does a superb job. Villeneuve knows what he wants out of the film and gets exactly that.It's a beautiful film that is able to manipulate its audience with utter ease. Its not just a beautifully constructed film but a beautiful film to look at too. It may not be Roger Deakins who shot 'Prisoners' and 'Sicario' but 'Incendies' seems to take note of this gritty realistic look. And it employs this same style here. And just like his other films 'Incendies' has an ending that will knock you flat. This ending would not be near as effective if where in anyone else's hands. It cuts between flashbacks and reality in such a way that keeps the film from becoming predictable. So, when the film concludes it comes as a complete shock. I could go on and on about how miraculous this film is. But I think I should just leave it here. If you have any desire at all to see this film please go out and purchase it. If you do, I assure you that 'Incendies' is a film that you will never forget. It's a beautifully constructed film with enough style to keep just about any body interested.


                
I have probably by now watched this movie over ten times, in counting all the times that I have shown it to friends. <U+0085>And every one of them loved it<U+0085> This movie I should not have liked, because it started a little bit slow. I didn't know what I was dealing with, and what significance the initial scenes would have throughout the movie. First the scene of the child whose hair is being shaved, then an ugly file room with a man standing there and then a will being read to two other protagonists. <U+0085>hmmm<U+0085> Definitely a boring movie. NOT SO... Approximately five minutes into the movie I was hooked.I have to admit though that I did watch the trailer and that I was attracted to this movie by the part where it was mentioned that "your mother was not crazy." This was enough to entice me to watch it. Throughout the movie, the facial expressions and display of emotions of the actors, especially the ones of Lubna Azabal were stunning. It made me an immediate fan of hers. The acting was just superb this movie all around.This is not your typical movie and not your typical feel-good storyline. It is something new and refreshing, something that I had not seen before. Very few movies made in Hollywood have good plots now-a-days. The few recent Hollywood movies that were memorable in my opinion were Doubt and Precious, because the plots were unique. With that said, I am usually underwhelmed by the lack of a good plot/story-line/twists, or just shocked at how they overstep the imagination in order to somehow come up with a " TWIST," Watching Incendies was a great experience. This movie made me go on the search for non-Hollywood movies left and right.I read some reviews criticizing such things as Lubna's accent and how the scenery didn't match every aspect of Lebanon (the presumed country where this was taking place). I disagree with that finding, as after all, this is all fiction, and as such, it does not have to be 100 percent perfect. Being that I know that this is fiction, I understand and tolerate the fact that the plot development and culmination are unrealistic, but that's what art is all about. After all, this movie came from a play, correct? You might as well criticize the play, instead of the movie.Compared to the crap that Hollywood feeds us most of the time, I say that this movie is probably one of the best ever made. I could give this movie an 11 out of 10, because it really deserves it.


                
This is a movie that will make you cry, that will make you understand what war is, what middle east is


                
This, for me, is Oedipus Rex (by Sophocles) in movies. One of the best by Dennis. The plot and story resembles to Oedipus Rex, and a great story has revived by the hands of Dennis.
I don't know if I've ever seen a more heartbreaking and shocking story. Check that, "The Boy in the Striped Pajamas" was another film that served a solid punch to the gut that remains with you a long time. I have to credit some other reviewers for this film to identify the location of the story and place it in context of the Lebanese civil war. I might have considered it myself if I hadn't been so absorbed by the story and the intricately detailed revelations regarding Nawal Marwan (Lubna Azabal) and her twins, son Simon (Maxim Gaudette) and daughter Jeanne (Melissa Desormeaux-Poulin). One must pay attention though, to the non-linear story telling style of director Denis Villeneuve, as well as the identity of the Christian and Muslim factions involved in war time brutality and atrocity. Apart from the principal story, the scene that will stay with you for a long time involves a Christian militia attack on a busload of Muslims attempting to flee their war torn and devastated city. A noble sacrifice on Marwan's part turns into a horror spectacle when a young child is gunned down by the militants. The picture exemplifies the terror of war and it's heartbreaking effect on those fortunate to survive.
I went into this not knowing anything about the plot or having any knowledge that it was nominated for the best foreign film at the 2010 Oscars. This was undoubtedly one of the most pleasant surprises that a film has ever given me.I will not go into the plot to spoil anything for those of you that have not had the pleasure of seeing this. What I will say is that this it is definitely one of the best films I have ever seen. The direction is superb, there are some breathtaking shots of the rundown, war torn Middle Eastern landscapes. The score containing various works from Radiohead is fantastic and really sets the bleak tone of the movie perfectly. I'll be honest and admit that I did not recognise any of the actors or actresses but they are all exceptional, particularly Lubna Azabal who gave one of the best performances I have seen in a long time. She really encapsulated the dire situation she found herself in.If you enjoy the work of Alejandro González Iñárritu, you'll love this. Bleak, dark, gritty and thoroughly captivating! 10/10


                
The film opens at present day in Montreal with twins in their twenties, Jeanne and Simon Marwan, hearing the will of their mother Nawal Marwan, who has just passed away, from a notary Jean Lebel she'd worked for many years. Her last wish is for them to find their father and brother, to their bewilderment, because they thought their father dead and they never heard about having a brother.At first, only Jeanne is willing to undertake the journey to an unnamed country in the Middle East (however, this clearly refers to Lebanon, where the author of the play himself was born at and escaped from) while Simon, questioning their mother's sanity, refuses to embark on such a crazy quest.Simultaneously, their mother's story entwines with their research. An incredible story of a woman who is caught between the conflict of religious conflict between Muslims and Christians, especially the war in the country in the 1970s' and 80s'.What gives the story an extraordinary strength is exactly this comparison between the perceptions Jeanne and Simon who grew up in a free country versus the life, habits and ways of a nation in the middle of a raging conflict in a country so distant from their lives, especially – and this is apparent during the entire film – because Nawal has shared nothing of her past with their children.This is portrayed during the twins encounter with the local tradition, especially at one moment, when Jeanne meets the villagers who could have known her father and is told by an elderly woman that "she is looking for her father, but is her mother she knows nothing about". This exactly depicts the relation of the audience in the western world, who, unless they've lived in similar conditions, cannot relate to some of Nawal's later radical actions and the endurance with which she accepts the imprisonment that follows.This endurance of Nawal through the atrocities she is faced with during her life before the final escape to Canada is mind-blowing. Death, abuse, inhumane conditions and life-lasting rage are emotions Villeneuve has captured with a divine skill.All pieces to the puzzle are gradually served to the audience (depends of how quickly you pick up on the clues) and the moment you realize what actually happened just stops your heartbeat for a second.Like many of the critics, I would have thought this film would win the Oscar for the best foreign film. It has everything a film should have to be more than welcomed to the Hall of Fame and a message that clearly, is immortal.
It's disappointing that Incendies didn't get an Oscar because...Incendies is one of the very powerful movies I've watched so far. Probably the most powerful one, because I can't remember the last time a movie made me speechless...that 1+1 scene...OMGBest French Canadian movie in my opinion, even thou I only have watched 2 so far :P, I have no doubt Incendies will be the best French Canadian movie for me for years to come. It is a masterpiece.The story is about the twins that go to middle east to search their brother they never knew at their mother request. It is very fascinating how the truth is unfold one by one and I didn't expect that coming...the ending is very shocking one. Yes it is powerful masterpiece with amazing writing, but it is not flawless, I think there is a logical flaw or technical flaw (damn u make up artist >,<), but it is also something that make the audience from figuring the truth. Even with the flaw Incendies is still 10/10 movie for me.


                
Incendies ("Scorched") is a dark, powerful and haunting thriller-drama from Canadian director Denis Villeneuve. I will leave the plot line out for the benefit of the audience. The film is in French/Arabic, so English viewers will have to go by the sub-titles.The film shares it's secrets in layers - when you've watched one layer and think you've seen it all, you're presented with another that is far more complex and visceral than the previous one and so on and so forth until the film explodes in a shattering climax that will leave you reeling. I remember being stunned as the credits rolled and have never recovered. I decided to own the DVD because I haven't watched such a great thriller in years.The direction and cinematography is a work of art. The acting is excellent and Lubna Azabal is phenomenal. Finally, this film is not for everyone but if you're an open minded movie lover who doesn't mind being taken on a new journey, then Incendies is a ride you will never forget.Thank you Denis for making this film.


                
Incendies, is one of the few movies that I intended to watch more than once. I have a problem watching any movie or reading any novel more than once... but this was different, I wanted to make sure my wife watches it all so I saw it all again with her. This is one of those movies that while I watched I have stopped the DVD for several pauses in order to grasp what I saw.... The ending of the movie itself - the resolution of the story where they finally find the father and the brother was amazingly shocking and it will haunt me forever. Such a horror never was seen, heard or thought of before.... blew my mind away!While the mix of different subjects beautifully woven in a single movie and a very well cinematography and story telling, the movie ranked on my top ten list. The editing was amazing - going to different time zones - and the acting of both women was absolutely stunning. I congratulate the whole crew who made this movie perfect and the best of luck for yet another mind blowing story which I will be waiting for. I suggest the movie to all those who have a brave heart and like to be disappointed from time to time even by things that we think or know that are the only truth, righteous, and very personal.I gave it 10 points although I did not want to categorize it in making it a movie to be ranked because it is way too different... I simply loved the movie and would like everyone to watch it!Thanks


                
you can see both the reality of living in middle east and struggle of a women. to me; it definitely worth watching. you can never guess the end of movie and you can't even move your eyes for a while after turning off your device. it is one of the best movies I have ever watched. but unfortunately, it couldn't reach a wide audience.


                
This movie will forever imprint in my memory. What a story! I could never believe this movie was just based on and adapted from a play. The screenplay, the storyline and the scenario are one of the best I've ever seen. It's so complicated yet the shocking end is at the same time so obvious in plain sight. Like the Plot of IMDb: The title in French means "Destruction by Fire" and "Scorched" in English, but if you refer to the Greek tragedy "Oedipus", "the fable of Oedipus, with a theme of inadvertent relationship between a mother and son, ends in disaster and shows ancient taboos against unacceptable direct bloodline relationship as Oedipus is punished for committing an already existed ancient taboo by blinding himself. In the "sequel" to Oedipus, Antigone, his four children are also punished for their parents having been entangled in bad incestuous original sin. we could even link this movie's title 'Incendies' was not far away from 'incestuous' crime and punishment from Oedipus. What we didn't see in this movie is the Oedipus-like guy blinded his eyes and banished himself into the wildness, and the Antigone-like young female mathematician and her twin brother were tormented and troubled by the finding, discovery and the myth of their origin.The only thing not so clearly portrayed in this movie is the war, the location of the war, the period of the war. Also the racial and religious conflict of the mother's first love. It seems that from the very beginning, the 'Singing woman/prisoner' was a combination of Oedipus and Antigone, she was mysterious punished by the unseen fate, her first romance and affair as well as the vague war. A war at first looked like the independence war declared by Algeria from the French, then became more confusing as a war between the Palestinian and Israeli, then after some research, it's actually about the Lebanese Civil War (1975–1990)! The Christians and the Muslims killing each other, both sides were blindly manipulated by the forces around this once-like-paradise then a war-torn country. At the very beginning of this movie, it should have been clearly told that it's during the Lebanese Civil War, giving us a more exact time frame and locality.This is the only unsatisfactory confusion in this movie, but the directing, the casting, the performances played by the two actresses are all top-notched. Failed to win the "Best Foreign Movie", "Best Screenplay", "Best Directing", "Best Cinematography", "Best Female Actress" and "Best Supporting Female Actress" of Oscar were the biggest shame of Hollywood. To us, this movie should have won all of the above-mentioned categories. In the meantime, by watching this great movie, we also understood what "greatness" and "catharsis" really meant. We also inevitably realized that the two mothers of all evils in this world: Religions and the wars caused by religions and ethnics differences.Let the sleeping dog lie somehow might be the best way to deal with your life; never look back; let bygone be bygone; never believe that the truth will set you free, because sometimes, the truth will kill you. Your past really that important? Hell NO, your DNA actually is not that important, just move on.


                
