This is overall a "nice" movie with a deep message about wars and a few clever analogies, but it is somewhat too far fetched and unbelievable. Several movies like this one have been made, where a person is torn between two religions or ethnic groups since their birth and confronted to their origins when going on a quest (Greek vs. Turks, Armenian vs. Turks, etc.), but they don't need Radiohead to be entertaining. This movie shouldn't either. I also don't like movies that rely on spectacular coincidences. With everything else, it completely threw me off.Last but not least, the whole mathematical parallel was clumsy and appeared as a sign of "trying too hard" to be "deep" on too many levels. Anyone having studied maths at university will find the professors' characters (both Lebanese and French/Canadian) unreal. Maybe this worked better when it was a play. One can easily see the classic tragic themes and elements. But I didn't see it then.
I can understand some of the attraction to 'Incendies,' as there are some well crafted elements of the film, including beautiful cinematography, superb acting, and a story that immediately draws the viewer into the world of its troubled characters. But what I find inexplicable, as well as frightening, is how so many people who have seen 'Incendies' appear incapable of seeing it for what it is, i.e., a Muslim propaganda film. While the protagonist of the story is an Arab Christian, her character clearly serves no other purpose than as a medium for illustrating completely unprovoked evils of her own people against the Muslims, who are all portrayed in this film as the most perfectly innocent victims one could possibly imagine. It is worth noting that the lead actress in Incendies also played a major role in 'Paradise Now,' a Palestinian film in which it is the Jews who are portrayed as the unprovoked tormentors of the Muslim people. While there have in fact been incidents of violence against Muslims by non-Muslims, there is a long and indisputable history of Muslims committing acts of violence upon not only non-Muslims but each other. And while I've seen much passion, beauty and poetry in films written by Muslims, I have unfortunately never seen a single one that even attempts to show any sympathy whatsoever with non-Muslims or that places any responsibility whatsoever upon the Muslim people for any kind of problem facing them. But equally disheartening is how many people--including some of those who are the objects of the lopsided demonization portrayed in so many Muslim-made films--subscribe to such blatant hatred and lies.


                
