Forgive me for being the on person who stood out among the crowd here, but by God I really can't see how this has an 8.2 rating here on IMDb. Now I can see that this would be loved to death by those who only watch "film" and not movies, but come on, folks. I do like Denis Villanueve... Or at least I did. I saw his movie Polytechnique and I loved it. It was brutal, uncompromising yet very heartfelt and uplifting. I loved the black and white cinematography, as well as the feeling of being caught in the middle of the shooting. His filmmaking is just lovely in that film. So with hi expectations already in place, I was hoping this would do the good deed.Alright, from a filmmaking standpoint, as in cinematography and all that jazz, the movie is amazing. If I could give the movie a 10 for that alone, I so would. With all the gorgeous scenery and what not, this film really is pleasing to the eye. And the soundtrack is fantastic too, with "You and whose Army" by Radiohead over the opening scene- I LOVED that! And the acting is really brilliant, Maxim Gaudette and the female lead both did very great together.But how shallow was this film.The biggest problem is its characterization. Characters go a long way in a film for me, and believe me I wanted to feel for the mother and her children. I'll admit they did quite well with the mother, and the scenes with the flashbacks to her past were very intriguing. But them we went to present day with the kids, and the daughter in her mother's homeland, and suddenly the film goes all to naught because the children are SO DAMNED UNINTERESTING. In fact I don't remember a thing about the son because he was in the movie for like, literally, 5 minutes. Another problem is the script... If there even is one.. The movie feels like Villanueve dropped the script one day, then picked it up and instead of putting the pages in the right order, went "Ah, never mind, shoot it like this!" The dialogue is so wooden and hokey, that at times I fell on the ground laughing at the implausibility. In fact scene. After scene, I was scratching my head because the scenes have no meaning. And don't get me started on the twist with the third child, when that came, I asked myself "was this some bad joke the cast and crew had going on throughout the shoot?"I wish I could jump on the bandwagon like a lot of us here have, but the movie is so dire, tired and dull. And furthermore it's 30 minutes too long too. This is a 90 minute or even a 100 minute movie stretched to 2 hours and 10 minutes. It did not need to be that long.OVERALL: 3/10Pros: A very beautifully shot movie, with great acting and soundtrack.Cons: The film is otherwise very shallow, with an almost zero level script, bad pacing, and dull and shallow characters.
Like 'Blue Valentine', the virtues of this movie, its craftsmanship in terms of photography, performance, exposition, and so on, ultimately lead to its undoing. Its absolutely repulsive denouement simply destroys any viewer satisfaction in the whole. This is indeed the spoiler - the brother for whom the twins are searching, and the father, turn out to be the same person - with the added flourish that their conception occurred as the result of torture/rape.What exactly was the point here? Was there one? In 'Chinatown', which has a similar twist, the revelation is treated with horror and disgust (plus it explains eccentricities in the Faye Dunaway character). Here it says absolutely nothing about anything - in fact, the revelation is accompanied by the ludicrous hope of the dead mother that it 'will end the cycle of anger'.Are you kidding? What it's going to do is lead to permanent estrangement and alienation of all three, plus do permanent damage to the twins' self-perception.And what does any of this say about the Middle East? Or any larger human issue? Next to nothing.Disaster. Ugh.
I have not watched something so utterly superficial and falsely intellectual in ages, and I am not really one of those demanding types at all. It goes along well with other moronic attempts such as Jolie's film about the war in Bosnia. This "masterpiece" is set in an inexistent land (?), with the political situation and other circumstances resembling to those of Lebanon. The resemblance with the real life stops there. What follows is a chain of unrealistic and senseless occurrences, which aim to shock the viewer, but it is actually going from bad to worse each minute. All in all, this is pathetic attempt to elucidate the sense of human suffering and get an insight in destructive forces within through the portray of society in a spiral of violence. Bad, stupid, boring, and more Hollywood than anything I have seen lately.


                
This film was just before the mass imigration from syria. The goal of this movie was probably to change ppl view on musilism ppl. They never mentionned once the word musilism, but you hear christian often, and guess who are the christians, THE EVIL PPL.Oh well, sadly im from where denis villeneuve is born and it totaly fits with tghe politic here, clearly a leftist propaganda movie


                
