Incendies starts with twins a brother and a sister receiving a letter from their late mother. The letter sends them on a mission to find the truth about their backgrounds. The main problem with this film is the purpose of the letter. Why does the mother send them on this mission? The truth revealed is cruel and shocking? The mother has died after finding out the truth, now she wants her children to go on a mission to find the truth rather than reveal to them the truth through the letter. One could argue that the mother wanted to reveal the truth and reveal the horror and the pointlessness of the Middle East conflict. But the journey is contrived and feels as though the screenwriter just wanted to use the incest as shock value.
"Incendies" is a amazing movie ! It is like a theater stage that you feel everything is happening in front of your's eyes... it has a taste like documentary about wars! there is one thing that is really bothering to me; why was Nawal obliged to say the truth to her child! it was unfair!... You should absolutely watch, but you need to be careful about what you would see it...It was admirable to hear that a mom kept her promise in any condition, but at the same time why she chose to say it ! I just do not understand that. On the other hand the players were great, the screens were great and the music was chose by carefully... I love all that details, but just I think a mom should never do that to her children ! It was unnecessary...
Whether or not "Incendies" is a good or bad film, one thing that struck me was that for the longest time I had no idea where the film was taking place or the context for the film. I am sure I am not the only one who felt this way watching the move. I thought that perhaps it was taking place in North Africa or Lebanon--I just wasn't sure. A bit later, it became more obvious--but only because I knew a bit about he history of Lebanon and their long and amazingly destructive civil war. Because of this, it really would behoove the viewer to read up on the war BEFORE watching the movie--then it will be a bit easier to follow.The film begins in the French-speaking portion of Canada. Two young adults are at the reading of their mother's will and are in for some surprises. First, their father, despite what they'd been told, is NOT dead. Second, they have a brother! The rest of the film consists of the daughter going in search of these folks and eventually the brother going to Lebanon in search of his sister--who seems to have just disappeared.From this point, the film bounces back and forth from the past to the present day. This can be a bit confusing--you have to really pay attention to keep track. I know that this sort of yo-yo cinema has become more popular in recent years, but I really wish they'd stop doing this and make films in a much more linear fashion. You do learn that the mother's life was hellacious but you also learn that the two children certainly did NOT need to know about their hidden past! I am pretty darn sure I wouldn't want to learn what they learned about this. And, I also predicted this awful truth well before it was divulged in the movie--making it a bit of an icky anti-climax. I thought the film was interesting but also pretty unpleasant from start to finish.By the way, the film is very, very adult--with many adult themes and lots of bloody violence. Now I am NOT saying it was gratuitous--but it's not a film for kids or anyone who doesn't a realistically violent film. Folks getting burned alive or getting shot in the head at close range are among the things you see and, fortunately, the rapes are underplayed but still make this a super-adult film.
That opening scene was indeed a stunner (as was the harrowing bus incident)<U+0085>but I found there to be too many coincidences in this film to make it digestible. I thought it was an ordeal to sit through and strained credibility throughout<U+0085>though I realize the vast majority agree with you as this has received virtually nothing but glowing reviews. Either way, it certainly is a film worth talking about. An extraordinary film. I agree with the review concerning the violence ; it was handled very sensitively by Villeneuve. Beautifully filmed and splendid photography. Lasting impression is one of sadness for mankind with so much trauma for children and the silent suffering of Women within certain cultures.
Let me first say that I enjoyed this film overall. The surrealistic screenplay and photography wholly contributed to the mysterious nature of the story. It is a film the audience won't soon forget after viewing and leaves a lasting impression on the mind. No doubt it will be represented at the Oscars.However, this is not a movie for everyone. I admit my tastes fall into the political/action/thriller genre, but I do enjoy a bit of drama or mystery every now and then. That said, I was honestly a bit bored for the first forty minutes. If you are the least bit squeamish, or can't cope with the idea of years and years of torture and rape, or children being graphically shot and families massacred...then simply prepare yourself by reading the Parental Advisory or just avoid this movie altogether. I personally have a rough time with torturing women and lengthy imprisonment (can you imagine being locked in a room for decades, raped and tortured on a daily basis?). If you don't have a problem with that then go right ahead.Nutshell: This is a movie you will be glad you watched but will probably only watch once. Solid 7.5/10.
the movie itself is an example of how you can express feelings through a moving picture.realistic.so well directed.naturally acted.Really one of the best dramas of recent times.The ending is not a happy or sad one.it is just life.it ends as it should end,any other would have been so unreal,artificial.And these days,changes our look at middle eastern people.they are not all terrorists.they have lives,pains,sufferings just like we do,mothers,fathers,just like everyone.they have feelings.they have hopes and lives to live.a peaceful documentary a remarkable drama.Thanks to the director and all the cast.A must see movie in my opinion.


                
Lebanese-Canadian Nawal Marwan (Lubna Azabal) has passed away. She was at the swimming pool, started staring off into space, and then slowly faded away in the hospital. She has left behind her twins, Jeanne and Simon, who are in their early '20s. To them, their mother was a secretary to a local notary, liked to swim, and that is all. Their mother does not have a past, at least not one which she ever brings up in conversation. There is no father in the picture and the twins assume he died back in Lebanon during the war.At the reading of Nawal's will, the twins receive startling news. Their mother has left instructions for them to deliver two letters, one to their father and one to their brother, relations which they know nothing about. The twins take the newfound discovery in completely different ways. Jeanne (Melissa Desormeaux-Poulin) accepts what her mother wants her to do and takes off for Lebanon, a place that is familiar to her only from textbooks. Her brother, Simon (Maxim Gaudette), refuses to have any part of this nonsense and wants to stay out of the affair altogether. For Simon, his mom may have had some alternate, hidden past, but that was not who she was to him. She was a Canadian secretary, not some Lebanese village girl.I will reveal absolutely nothing about what comes next, that is for the audience to discover right along with Jeanne. As Jeanne slowly pieces together the facts of her mother's previous life in Lebanon, the film cuts to Nawal in the past and shows her experiences firsthand. The children start the plot of Incendies; however, Nawal gets most of the screen time. Furthermore, the film does not take time to explain what the war in early 1970s Lebanon was all about. It assumes the audience is familiar with the right-wing Christian militias and the Palestinian refugee camps in the south. If you are not, it may help you to read about the different sides beforehand so you will not waste time during the film trying to sort it out.This is very well written script and the acting is high-quality. What the film lacks is a score. There are two Radiohead songs played in the film which fit in nicely and help shape their introspective scenes. On the other hand, the rest of film is sparse, just dialogue and scenery. This is most likely what the director (Denis Villeneuve) intended, but a memorable score would have gone a long way in helping the events portrayed here land with a deeper impact. The choice of two mellow, thoughtful Radiohead songs though was a very good idea.


                
It would help if from the beginning, you were aware that this movie is mostly involved with the vicious Lebanon civil war between the Moslems and the Christians. It make take a bit to become completely oriented as the movie does consist of alternating stories in different time. It also doesn't help that it is mostly in French with English subtitles. But eventually we got the hang of it and the very unusual plot which we are introduced to at the beginning as twins Jeanne and Simon are being read their mother's will and realize she has asked them to carry out her final wishes and deliver two letters on her behalf. Their task seems almost as difficult as finding a needle in a haystack. If you don't mind fiction being stranger than the really terrible things that happen to people in these type of wars, the movie provides a gripping story. It is horrifying at times with what should be an unexpected ending. It provides lessons of persistence, forgiveness, motherly love and an appreciation that any one of us if we were switched at birth, could be quite the opposite of the person we turned out to be. The movie, which was co-written and directed by Denis Villeneuve, received recognition with several film festival awards and was nominated for an Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film.(2011)FilmRap.net
Great idea but weak realization. Story has strength and depth and, if it was made by the book, book probably kicks ass, but movie left me indifferent. I can not say what is the issue, if it is acting or directing or music or what... but until just few minutes before the end I had absolutely no emotions towards what I was watching and I was bored. For idea and very end of the movie 9/10, but overall impression about 5/10.!!! SPOILER ALERT !!!Christian girl gets involved with Muslim refugee and she gets pregnant. Christian police kills Muslim and her child is taken away on birth and sent to orphanage. Many years later she gets revenge for tragedy of her youth by killing leader of Christian police. She ends up in prison where she is raped by the most cruel guard. She gets pregnant again and gives birth to twins. After she is released from prison she takes her children to Canada.After she died her testament sends her children in quest to find their father and brother and deliver letters from her. Daughter goes to search for father and son searches for brother and they both find the same person.Orphanage was destroyed in war and child was adopted by attackers and trained to be killing machine. He ends up as prison guard where he rapes female prisoner not knowing it was his mother.Twins first get to know that their father is not killed in war like they were told. They find out that they are result of their mother being raped in prison while she was serving sentence for murder. Then as icing on the cake they find out that she was raped by long lost son. So, in adult age you find out that your whole life was lie. Your mother is murderer, you are rape child, rapist is your older brother and you are just side effect of sadistic, incestuous rape and now you are expected to continue with your life as mentally stable person... yea, right, like it is possible...So, I would like to improve this already sick movie by adding some epilogue to it:a) Father/brother receives both letters and, when his brain finally realizes shocking truth, he drops letters on the floor and jumps through the window (shoot himself in the head), while twins end up in closed section of sanitarium.or, for those who root for happy ending...b) Twins cry in embranchment, which ends up "horizontally", and father/brother accepts his new found family and joyfully awaits birth of his grandchild/nephew and they lived happily ever after.P.S. Yup, I'm sick, I know :P
Having seen Sicario, anything but whimsical, and some of the comments made about this film and the director in general, I expected something more than this convoluted, cack handed effort at emotional drama. Sure the cinematography was excellent, the acting exquisite, the Middle-Eastern landscape lovingly captured but the story was so preposterous that it undermined the real suffering which has occurred and continues to occur in the war-torn areas of the Middle East. Right from the hackneyed letters device at the beginning of the film I started to worry, ooh person speaks from the grave, what is this "The Greatest Gift" all over again? To the inexplicable throwing-up of the lives of the children, really you're just going to drop everything including your burgeoning career and whatever else is going on for a wild goose chase on the behest of your emotionally distant and possibly unhinged mother? These decisions seemed incongruent if we were to assume that the children were sane, balanced individuals and we were certainly meant to perceive the daughter as such, as she was, along with her mother, the emotional centre of the film and had clearly made something of her life, excelling in her field. As a result of this incongruence, you're left with this emotional centre losing its impact as the character starts to come off as a plot device, add the brother and lawyer to this category too, used to expose upon her mother's fantastically tragic past and to tie together an exaggeratedly distressing and chronologically mind-boggling familial history. I loved the music, the setting, the acting and the way the film was shot. The pacing was a little off at times, constant transitions between mother and daughter threatened to become jarring, but at the beginning of the film it worked well and even seemed to be channelling The Godfather Part II at times. It's true that Villeneuve has a real command of his craft and the films I've seen from him show that. The thing I really had a problem with, however, was the story. It was just unnecessarily absurd and over-the-top. If Villeneuve can stick to more realistically hard-hitting fare in future, again I mention Sicario, he'll serve his talents much better in my view.


                
'Incendies' is a film directed by Denis Villeneuve and it is adapted from Wajdi Mouawad's play of the same name with the screenplay co- written by Villeneuve and Valérie Beaugrand-Champagne. The film's plot has an epic-feel to it because the film takes place over a lengthy spell of time covering a large number of years. The film stars Lubna Azabal as Nawal Marwan and Mélissa Désormeaux-Poulin and Maxim Gaudette as Nawal's twin children Jeanne and Simon respectively. After Nawal's death, Jeanne and Simon get informed that their mother had left two letters one for each of them respectively. They learn that their father is alive and they have a brother whose existence they were unaware of. Jeanne is supposed to deliver her letter to the father, while Simon is supposed to deliver his letter to their brother. This mission takes both of them individually to an unnamed Middle-Eastern country as they try to piece together clues to gather more and more information about their mother's past.This is a film that becomes very tough to watch at times. Villeneuve really goes for a gritty, stripped down depiction of what it is like to survive in a country divided by hate and experiencing civil war. The film is brilliantly directed and Villeneuve's brutal guerrilla style of shooting reminded me Alfonso Cuarón's style in 'Children of Men'. The themes of the film range from the absurdity of hatred borne out of religious diversity to elements of immigration. It shows the sorry state of the lives of children in countries and regions devastated by war. Their lives pretty much end before they even begin. The film also underlines the concept of showing people living is financially well off countries, the privilege that they sometimes forget to acknowledge. The acting is brilliant from the main players, but a special mention has to be given to Lubna Azabal. A fair portion of the narrative of the film rests on her shoulders. The screenplay is cleverly written. The film doesn't give you all the information all at once. The expositions happen gradually. The narrative shifts from mother to daughter constantly in a very Godfather II-esque manner.I would have probably given this film a 9, had it not been for the ending. The shocking revelation at the end is genuinely unexpected and has an impact while you're watching the film. But once you start to think about it, it becomes very difficult to buy it. To some extent it might be meaningful from a thematic standpoint, but in a film directed in such an aggressively realistic manner, even symbolism has to have some literal believability in the context of the plot.'Incendies' is a well directed, well acted film about war, hatred, intolerance and the hardships of living in ultra-conservative and unstable societies. The film will have an impact and make you ponder about life itself. But the ending of the film in my eyes hinders it from making the transition from good to great.


                
Twins journey to the Middle East to discover their family history, and fulfill their mother's last wishes.Many of us, sooner or later, get interested in our family history and want to know our roots. Do we have a famous ancestor, or do we have connections to an Indian tribe, or maybe something else completely unexpected. Often, the journey is fascinating and can spark a real interest in history and a connection to our fellow man.Sometimes the journey is not so good. Many of us have Middle Eastern blood in us somewhere. Go back a hundred generations and we can trace our path just about anywhere. And the Middle East, as a whole, is a great place... but this film shows what can happen if the path goes askew.


                
incendies is a movie that will tears the viewers apart as the story untold. slowly but surely-devastating, every time a truth revealed. with original writing and great panoramic screenplay, thats all that raise this movie. the director did great job to choose the set-place and very precise to positioning the camera to shot. with his skill, the viewers discovers the true beauty of a place in the middle-east (where the set placed) beside the hard life of the current country's crysis. he brings us the other perspective of the country while swallowed by it's calamity.using a slow-paced screenplay. the director let the viewers enjoy the panorama. and also giving time to truly feel the current condition of the country. slow-paced and panoramic camera works are very good combination to do, giving so many advantages to viewers. besides the viewers, these also will give the actors/actresses to develop their characters, giving the duration to them to reveal the traits of their role. although the storyline and script is just on average level, yet the cinematography. still this movie is beautiful.for some viewers, maybe it is a movie that hard to enjoy, especially in this generation. this is a movie which needs a calm condition to enjoy, not for wisher for complex or tense drama-mystery-genre, but for how good the movie was made.


                
"Incendies" is a mystery movie in which we watch a twins who they just lost their mother. In her testament their mother had some wishes and in the next time we watch the twins traveling to Middle East to discover what their mother wants about their family history and to fulfill their mother's last wishes.I liked this movie because I found it interesting and the plot had many swifts, something that made this movie even more interesting. I also liked this movie because of the interpretation of Mélissa Désormeaux-Poulin who played as Jeanne Marwan and she was very good at it. Another interpretations that I liked in this movie were Maxim Gaudette's who played as Simon Marwan and Lubna Azabal's who played as Nawal Marwan.Finally I have to admit that I did not expect to like this movie but I was mistaken. "Incendies" is a great movie to watch and I strongly recommend it because its a lesson about life and the fight for it. It also combines very well mystery with a drama of a family and of course war, and this is something that makes this movie even better.


                
An odd one. Very intriguing, very well-acted and very well-paced all around. It isn't until it's over, though, that you start to pick it apart in some of the contrivances. It's a good film, but ultimately a too melodramatic for my taste. That doesn't mean it's not enjoyable on a scene-to- scene basis, though. The tone in this is probably its biggest accomplishment, as it really does have an affect on the sombering mood it has us in, particularly in the context and setting of the world these characters are living in. It's enough to remind us of the atrocities performed on humans all throughout time. I'm not sure I'd call it one of the best films of the year or even the best alongside the foreign language nominees, but definitely effective.


                
The opening scenes of Incendies paints an image of a cantankerous elderly women whom, even in death, is forcing her children to run around on goose chases after a series of eccentric entries to a will that does nothing but pose further questions and cause further action when closure and other such things are all that's desired at such a difficult time. We feel sorry for the kids, a Canada residing brother and an elder sister; we feel a little bitter towards their recently deceased mother and then we witness a duel pilgrimage across the Eurasian border so startling that words such as 'humbling' don't really do it the sorts of justice it requires.The family to whom all this bother is unfolding are the Marwan's: siblings Jeanne (Désormeaux-Poulin) and Simon (Gaudette), here in the present day, and then that of Lubna Azabal's Nawal, way back when. Needless to say, I'd rather have the modern-day set bother and the strife of the siblings than that of Nawal's. Jeanne and Simon sit silently in a solicitor's office, an odd air of grief and frustration abound as these requests documented by Nawal are read; requests more broadly encompassing the apparent need for the two to journey great distances and find a specific someone which will reveal all. Jeanne is the one who takes the plunge and ventures away from the niceties of her first world, economically developed living quarters to that of where Asia meets Europe. In the solicitor's office, Jeanne chirps up ahead of Simon when asked if there are any problems or inconveniences with what is being presented to them – yes, there is and the labelling of this person as being the sort to initially put the foot forward is established when Simon only begins to enquire once the green light has been instigated.A maths teacher, so good with problem solving and equations which are seemingly impenetrable, Jeanne heads out to a place which is ambiguous in its actual identity and that people appear to entrust is more broadly representative of Lebanon, in spite of the fact a Palestinian flag is very briefly identifiable in the corner of the frame at on one fleeting instance. Her journeys take her there so as to look for what the will says is a long-lost father as well as another brother whom neither she nor Simon ever knew of. Unfolded in crisp tandem is the tale of their mother some thirty-odd years ago, and Nawal's own hardships born out of persistent rejection from peers; religious circles and family members. It leads her to exploring this free-spirited characteristic embedded within by herself, and on a very dangerous line throughout, as she attempts to look for a son born out of wedlock and to a certain individual of a certain ilk many of whom within Nawal's initial circles take issue.The parallel between either journey mother and daughter undertake, similar in structure and scale, is fairly clear; the quest taking either woman all around the houses, from bombed out orphanages to grotty prisons. There is one sequence, a sort of grotesque centrepiece in its content but quietly beautiful in its harsh and thoroughly professional depiction, which is absolutely terrifying: a sequence which depicts a bus full of Muslims being ambushed by that of a Christian group of militants during this, a Civil War which has broken out in the undetermined nation. It is a sequence remarkable for its stark nature anyway, but additionally because it isn't necessarily the emotional crux of the film. The scene is made more impacting given the happenings within recent years of the film's production in nations such as Pakistan and Angola, and attacks relayed onto that of sporting personnel whose tales have graced news reports when their buses have come under fire and lives have been lost. Additionally, the sorts of brutality aimed at those within does well to subvert the idea of anonymous Muslim aggressors, of whom are shrouded in mystery and come complete with towels around their faces, attacking innocents and children by reversing the religious backgrounds as well as the respective roles of victimised and perpetrator. Here, Christian soldiers go on a rampage thus destroying a small, and often easily demonised, Muslim congregation. Regardless of that individual sequence's affecting qualities, Denis Villeneuve's film is a real sucker punch of emotion and biting self-discovery which, at certain stages, crept up on me; a really ambitious and worthwhile piece.


                
This film is recommended.  Imagine there's no countries, It isn't hard to do, Nothing to kill or  die for, And no religion too.  -Lyrics from John Lennon's Imagine   Religion has always been a unifying and emotional force to some and a  polarizing and divisive one to others. It has shaped and guided our  world with the holiest of words and actions and also destroyed and  misled many under the philosophical guise of good and godliness. It has  provided insight and strength to one group while blinding and weakening  another with overt powers over its most devout believers. This dualism  is ever present in the thought-provoking Oscar nominated foreign film,  Incendies, directed by Denis Villeneuve. We are forced to examine the  far-reaching effect of religion and its aftereffects in its tale of two  siblings who begin a spiritual journey to fulfill their mother's last  wishes.  The plot involves a twin brother and sister who are forced to confront  their mother's past deeds and secretive life. Jeanne and Simon (  Melissa Desormeaux and Maxim Gaudette ) are given two letters from  their dead mother, Newal ( Lubna Azabal ). They are asked to locate  their brother who they never knew had existed and deliver an envelope  to him and also find their lost father. This request takes Jeanne to a  Middle Eastern country as she tries to unravel the mystery while Simon  looks elsewhere.  Told in flashback, mostly from Newal's point of view, we learn about  her unknown past and her loves. Just as Jeanne and Simon unravel the  threads of her lifestory, we discover the impact that politics and  religion formed upon her mother and Newal's ultimate choices that led  her to a violent conflicted existence.   The film takes its bleak depressing subject matter and immerses itself  directly into the world of civil wars, martyrs, violence, and religious  zealots. Director Villeneuve successfully shows this clash of cultures  between Christians and Muslims and the consequences of hatred and  pointless bloodshed throughout the years. However, he weakens his own  film by allowing some scenes to go on too long, causing less tension  and suspense with his narrative. With his cumbersome flashback  structure, he also divulges key evidence in the ongoing investigation  to the movie audience before his present day characters can unravel the  intricacies of the mystery itself. ( I, for one, figured out the  supposedly shocking climax with a half hour left before the film's end  credits appeared. )  Still, the film contains powerful images, mostly when dealing with the  film's violent nature ( a bus and its passengers set afire, close-ups  of battered and bruised legs of political prisoners, a frightened child  cold-bloodedly shot as she tries to flee for safety ) and strong  performances by its cast, especially Lubna Azabel as the sad and  tortured woman whose death begins this tale.  Incendies presents both worlds with a haunting clarity, one steeped in  traditions and servitude and another trying to break free of its bonds.  This is serious and fearless filmmaking that leaves one feeling moved  and helpless at the same time. The moviegoer leaves the theater hoping  the world will live as one, even if the equation can never be solved.  GRADE: B


                
