considering this was in the top 250 of IMDb its hard to not watch this movie. i was expecting great things and what not. but alas it was disappointing in every way imaginable. may be it was something amazing or different in 60's but today it is just another predictable movie which wont impress today's audience. Just after the first murder i predicted its ending and not to my surprise the ending was just as predicted by me (trying not to write any spoilers) ..why its in top 30 movies is just beyond me. maybe only old people are rating these movies. and there might be a lot of them. so yeah. its just not that thrilling or horrifying or anything it claims for today's audience. i am breaking the DVD right now.


                
When I read the novel, it really creeped me out. Not long after I watched the film and was disappointed. The only thing I liked in it were the story (which is absolutely the same as in the book), b/w cinematography and acting from Anthony Perkins. Shower scene and the scene when Bates runs in his mother's outfit were hilarious. What makes the film good is its story. Thanks to Robert Bloch, not Alfred Hitchcock! And come on, Hitchcock is overrated. Most of his films are very theatrical and acting in them is not credible. Billy Wilder and Orson Welles are much better directors, in my opinion. Sorry for my English. I'm from Russia.


                
Well,   what can I say about this film.   It's merely okay and the black and white makes the film seem completely dull and frankly quite boring.  I don't understand what all this talk about the color being artistic but I found it repulsive.   The acting in the movie was very mediocre, especially from the stiff John Gavin,   the ever so proper Vera Miles,  and the so serious Martin Balsam.   Try watching the new Psycho and you'll find that these characters can actually have personalities. As for Janet Leigh, well she was good,   but Anne Heche seemed more innocent,  more human,  and more sympathetic.   As for Anthony Perkins,    he's also so monotone, barely ANY emotion,   and I struggle to understand why people rave over his dry performance.  As for the "mother twist",  well that was good but there are twists in about every horror film now a days and they are usually more entertaining than this joke. And then there is the shower scene which everyone says is so scary?  Where have they been ,  I could pick out a dream sequence from any A Nightmare on Elm Street sequel that was done more creatively and powerfully.  It was a simple knifing in the shower for god's sake,   isn't watching the opening of Drew Barrymore in Scream ten times more chilling and exciting? Give me a break,  when I went to Universal Studious they said the shower sequence was one of the most famous scenes of all time.  Well,  give an audience an opportunity to watch either that or the astonishing death of Piper Laurie in Depalma's Carrie,  or the thrill of the finale chase in Halloween,  and well see what brings more reactionary emotion of the audience.  Well,  what can I say about a movie that I will never understand?  When people made the new Psycho some thought it was stupid because of the story--and so I know I'm not alone.   It's just that these old foggies are so hung up on old movies that they are blind to see that modern movies provide for much more entertainment.    Some old horror films like Rosemary's Baby are excellent,  but this is not.  As for Bernard Herrmann score,   it's overplayed,   can't he think of anything new to compose? Compare Pino Donnagio' lush score from Carrie opposed to this and see what's more creative and effective.  What can I say besides people, this movie is simply average and that it might of have been good back then, but it's simply OK now.  Do we still rave about the type writer just because it was original back then?  I have spoken and I guess that Blockbuster Video agrees with me that the movie is too much of a joke to be placed in the horror section.  It's in the Drama suspense category,  and certainly a thrilless and dated film to belong anywhere else.  Psycho remains as the most overrated film of all time and the new Psycho is a much better improvement.


                
After having heard all the noise surrounding this film,I decided to watch this film as I had to give a presentation of a Stephen Rebello's book based on this film for my teacher Monsieur François Thomas at Cinema studies section of the University of Paris 3 Sorbonne Nouvelle. I was utterly disappointed as this film was not so chilling as I had expected it to be.Psycho is more of a character study of some oddball persons.In the beginning Hitchcock takes us on a guilt trip of a woman who is in love with a married man.Funny thing is that both of them know that they cannot find any happiness in their so called secret love.Later on we are taken for a ride as this bizarre woman steals a lot of money and without any rhyme nor reason decided to leave her hometown.Now everybody knows what happens after that.Psycho is a film about matter of taste. It might have appealed to the people of the sixties with their fascination for things black and white.But Psycho does not make any sense in the colored era of 2007.


                
Made no sense, boring and needlessly bloody. I don't understand why everyone was raving about it.


                
If there were negetives in the vote, mine would be much lower than 1. I mean, what was that? I tell you what it was..... It was a waste of resources, and almost two hours of my life! The main character dies?!?! What is this? Now, I've seen some lame movies in my day, but nothing comes even close to the utter crappiness of 'Psycho.' It was the most overrated film in existence.One day, about 6 months ago, I came across this movie at Roger's Video, and I rented it, just to see what all the fuss was about. The story line sucked, and the plot was loose. Who wants to watch a movie about some old hack who works as a real-estate agent? I'll tell you who; perverts, and housewives. Rated 'R'? For what, repulsive? retarded? rendered useless? Here in Canada, it got a 'PG', even that seems a little high! For Chrissakes, I thought I was watching the Bob Hope Christmas Special! It made me laugh! Those losers who say they never took a shower again can burn in hell! Hitchcock's worst, and thats no easy feat! The Birds was good, and thats it! I give it: negative *****/5
I literally thought Marion was gonna be alive throughout but instead in the midway through the film, she was then killed by that weirdos mother who is a crazy old hag. I was fairly disappointed because this is meant to be the top movies out there and it just didn't satisfy me.What i would rather prefer:- Marion surviving the attack and then see her trying to get out of the hotel but couldn't as the crazy psycho mother blocks her every time she would try and escape. I even would like to have seen her and that weird son become a couple if she didn't get killed off so soon. Sure, she escaped to have a new life, why couldn't she go out with guys again? Regardless of that guy being so kiddish, himself and Marion ship would work!I don't consider this to be the best Alfred Hitchcock film to be perfectly honest with you. If Walt Disney was alive, we would share lots of reasons why this film is crap!
