As with most very old films, Psycho is unlikely to have the same impact on a modern audience than it had upon its first release. So those who are watching it expecting the 'masterpeice' they are often told it is, prepare to be disappointed. Having said that, if you take Psycho of its pedestal as 'one of the greatest films of all time' (though through a historical perspective and in terms of influence, the title is richly deserved' and watch it treat it for what it is, a psychological horror, than the film remains very enjoyable. The acting performance put on by Anthony Perkins is highly believable and at times chilling and, if you have not been exposed to the shows twists and ending already, they still have the potential to shock and surprise even the most seasoned horror fan. On the subject of horror fans, it is worth a watch on that merit alone or for any fan of cinema, to see the film that has shaped cinema today more than almost any other film


                
There is a difference between a serial killer movie and a good movie about a killer. To those sad few who think the movies like Gacy, Ed Gein, and Dahmer are of some quality, please burn those movies and simply watch a good movie about a killer ... PSYCHO! If you want to watch a good story about John Wayne Gacy, I'm sure one on A&E will be on any day now! Watch a documentary if you want the facts, if you would rather watch serial killers for entertainment, at least watch a movie with some quality and one that doesn't live off the infamy of the subjects last name!Check out my more in-depth review on my site timothynoble.com!


                
"Psycho" is hailed as one of the greatest movies of all time, but I just don't view it as the amazing film others do. Before I had even seen the film, I was told how great a job Hitchcock did. I'm sorry but any director who uses a corpse THAT fake looking didn't do enough. Instead of putting little motifs in every scene he should have looked at the simple things. By simple things I mean stuff like the indent in mother's bed and of course that corpse. Plus I'm sick of hearing how great the music score was... yes, the music DID fit the movie well, BUT it was one of the most redundant scores I have EVER heard, and frankly it had gotten very annoying 30 minutes into the film(I laughed when the music started again when the cop chased Janet Leigh). On a lighter note, I thought that Anthony Perkins was extremely good and Janet Leigh wasn't bad herself. I also found myself rooting' for John Gavin's character, Sam Loomis. The directing(apart from the props) was good... I was impressed with all the motifs and imagery(even though I have a sneaking suspicion that a lot of those genius acts Hitchcock took were product of over-analyzation). I am a big fan of Hitchcock's decision to film in black and white. I feel that black and white is much more expressive(especially when you have the option to film in color). I also have a small problem with some pieces of the plot that are very unbelievable. Ex: Marion's receipt found next to the toilet(like hell they would find that), Sam being knocked out by a shot to the back with a pot, the lack of emotion shown by Lila Crane when she finds out that her sister is dead, etc...I know my review sounds bad, but don't get me wrong I did enjoy the film. My position sounds bad because it is easier to point out the bad than the good. I feel that this is a fine film it just has too many holes and pet peeves for me to recognize it as one of the best. I gave "Psycho" a 7/10 although I wanted to give it more around a 7.5 or 7.75. I think you should see "Psycho" for yourself and draw your own conclusions because whether you like it or not it IS a classic.
Below are 2 quotes from actor Anthony Perkins who had played the pivotal role of Norman Bates in Hitchcock's "Psycho". I think these quotes are sure to be of some interest to anyone who is at all familiar with this film and its legacy to the genre of horror.(1) "Hitchcock thought of Psycho (1960) as a comedy. When it first came out, it was greeted with screams of laughter. People laughed all the way through, so much so that he declared it was the first time he had ever been out-thought by an audience. He knew it was going to be funny, but he didn't realize it was going to be that funny." (2) "Not many people know this, but I was in New York rehearsing for a play when the shower scene was filmed in Hollywood. It is rather strange to go through life being identified with this sequence knowing that it was my double. Actually, the first time I saw Psycho and that shower scene was at the studio." .... Well, there you have it.


                
Hitchcock declares up front that we're going to be on the edge of our seats while he has us captive. The music is shrill, obsessive.We float in through the window on two lovers breaking up. A tailing police cruiser drifts out of the rear glass while we watch the girl watching her mirror. The camera floats out of the girl's dead eye, pulls back on her face frozen in fear, it swings around, pulls in on the newspaper, then swings away to the haunted madhouse on the hill. It levitates up the staircase, focuses on the 'conversation' in the next room, backs away and upwards and views the hallway straight down, all in one movement...a more impressive minute than the entire contents of many other movies.Required film school viewing, absolutely. But also for us more casual viewers, this is a key movie we all need for understanding where visual vocabularies come from. The later borrowings from this are uncountable. The most literal borrowing from the shower scene is in the "Raging Bull" Lamotta/Robinson bout, matching the cuts from angle to angle and in the same rhythm.Brilliant vision and music, medium story and acting, though Perkins made every tic and stutter count.


                
One of the few movies that deserve to be a classic.
The acting game was on such a good level and there was intense during the whole movie.
Maybe I should watch it a second time cause I want to see the things that Norman says in another perspective after I know that he killed his mother.
Oh, and let's not forget about the last scene! Such a masterpiece!
Definitely not a horror though but a true thriller!
One of Alfred Hitchcock's most well-known films. Regarded as one of the very first examples of the slasher genre. Still one of the most beloved thrillers ever made and an all-around classic. The shower scene movie.And yet, if that's all you know the movie from, you're missing a lot. The shower scene was scandalous back in its day, much like the rest of the film in general, but it doesn't encapsulate the film all that well. It happens near the middle of the film and a lot happens after it. Sure, it is the most striking scene in the film, but I would personally put more weight on the overall performances of Anthony Perkins as Norman Bates and Janet Leigh as Marion Crane.With these two powerful actors Hitchcock manages to tell a truly haunting and nerve-wracking story. Because, to be honest, nowadays the movie would be a bit boring and a lot predictable. The viewer is never truly confused as to where the film is going. But in a way that even enhances the experience. Because you can so clearly see why these characters would make these decisions given the amount of information they have.Add in some masterful camerawork, some really insightful use of surroundings and shadows, the two main actors and a one of the creepiest scores ever produced, and you have a masterful film in your hands.A must see film for all fans of horror and still a really, really good experience all around, despite its age.


                
What made me love this movie was Norman Bates. He seemed like a such a nice every-day type guy...that just so happens to be psychotic and stab people in their showers. Janet Leigh (who is a much better actress than her daughter) was a great choice for her character. On the other hand, I really hated the whiny girl they cast as her sister. What made psycho work as a thriller/ horror phenonemon was the way it was marketed..because, let's face it--the shower scene isn't THAT scary. The reason why its so memorable is because of the way it shocked people who didn't know what to expect. I mean if you watch the old trailers, it doesn't give away much. So Psycho really should go down in history as a classic.


                
From the past one month, I went all gaga about watching the 'classic' movie Psycho. I kept reading about it. The effect it had caused on all. My grandmother told me that it was really creepy and scary and my father warned me that I would wet my pants!I roamed all around Vadodara, my birthplace in India but couldn't find even a single shop that sold the DVD or the VCD of the movie. Finally, God had heard my prayers. Psycho was going to be shown on the television.I watched it with my mother and sister. My sister went all huddled in a blanket from the very beginning. Overacting, that's what she does, and I got wild at her whenever she talked loudly while the movie was going on, asking spoilers; how the movie would end? Why did she do that? Who was the mother? And what not!And I kept waiting for something the fright the s**t out of me throughout the movie. Unfortunately, I did not find it eerie, scary, frightening at all. But I kept reminding myself that it was a movie of the 60's when there were inadequate means of adding special effects and the video cameras too would have been old and therefore not much effects could be added.I thought the black and white color of the film would make it more frightening but unfortunately it too didn't help that much. Till the end, I kept making excuses, siding the film, about how not much facilities were available at that time.It is a timeless classic and therefore, it is hard for me to give a rating more lower than this. But after watching movies like King Kong where the inhabitants of the Skull island were unfathomably creepy looking, the skeleton of the Mother didn't make me even shiver a bit or make my heart thump faster.The story too was nothing too extraordinary, but an excuse I can give for this is that maybe there are a lot of movies after Psycho which have borrowed somewhat the story from the movie and therefore I found the story of Psycho a bit lame. But I feel that the story could have been better, especially the ending, because Agatha Christie too was I think, alive at that time, and the suspense in her books gave me creeps and made me perplexed. An excuse: Don't read any suspense books before seeing Psycho.But I loved the script, though the story was a bit lame. The dialogs were crisp, especially Anthony Perkin's famous quote:- " A boy's best friend is his mother".The acting was superb and all the actors were at the top notch. But no one could make my shift from my place, because I heard a lot that its a creepy film.I would give it a seven out of ten, but still, I felt that it should have been scarier, or rather, it is my err that I was born in 1993 and watched this film in 2007, when loads of special effects enhanced the horror in films.
Reviewing Alfred Hitchcock's famed black and white opus Psycho from a 21st century perspective gives the film less credit than it deserves. For it's time, it was revolutionary. Now, it is just a well acted, yet somewhat dated horror film. The editing in the shower scene has become a cliché in pop culture, but one cannot deny the original brilliance of the scene. The movie really only works as well as it does because of the performances of Janet Leigh and Anthony Perkins. Perkins never really had another role he was better in, save Mike Nichols' Catch-22, a personal favorite. After Hitchcock died, he later starred and directed in numerous Psycho sequels before Perkins' eventual death. Hitchcock's killing of Leigh at the onset is also quite ground-breaking. It was mirrored in Wes Craven's Scream with the Drew Barrymore character, as well as in many other pictures.Psycho also created the character of Dr. Sam Loomis, a name later used in the other revolutionary horror film, John Carpenter's Halloween. Overall, the movie doesn't age as horrible as some other select black and white 50's-60's horror films, but nevertheless it does age a reasonable amount, leading to many cringe worthy and laughable scenes, most likely due lackluster performances by the rest of the cast, low production values, and shady effects and "skeletons."


                
The threat of this review is... well to best quote Norman bates himself, officious, a word only a PSYCHO would use so I'll just keep it short. It's Good.


                
Psycho is the temp plate for moderns slasher movies! Tame by today's standards with smaller body counts and less graphic or creative murders. But, and I mean but , Scream, Jason, Michael Myers, and many slasher with knife movies follow the temp plate: (1) Psycho has a slow burn start, the audience knowing something bad will happen but when. The slow start where the characters not always, but usually doing something they should not dive into a scene where the audience get hit bam with a murder scene. (2) The mood setting music be it the sharp violin sounds of Psycho, the chi chi sounds of Friday the 13th creates a chill in the back of the audience. (3) The unpredictability of the unbalanced character in a creepy way. Norman Bates' odd conversation with the hotel guest create and uncomfortable uneasiness which resonates with the audience. (4) The ending answers questions of why, when it's too late and everyone is dead finds out Why! Bate's mother pushed Norman over the edge. However, the problem is never fixed the antagonist is still around for part 2. 7 out of 10
This film is thrilling and shocking. In the beginning, I guessed that this is about money because money is a familiar theme, but this film is about the relationship between a man and his mother. Marion drops by a motel where Norman operates on the way to steal money and see Sam, her lover. And then, the story develops unexpectedly. The way Norman speaks and his odd collection of stuffed birds make me feel weird and thrilling, after that strange murders happen repeatedly, but I couldn't imagine who causes. Especially, the background music is effective for this film. Thanks to BGM and camera works, this film successfully builds scary and tension. Norman has an excessive attachment on his mother and looks eccentric. This film relates to complicated mental disease and criminal emotion. That setting is elaborated and interesting. He is so psychotic that this film scares me. I was also surprised and impressed by the ending.


                
I have met this movie for the first time. I felt that this movie was the kind of horror all the time, because in a play the multiple murder were repeated and the fact of matter wasn't shown at the end. Moreover, the sound track gave us the feeling of impatience and tension.I think that "Psycho" and "Vertigo" have something in common with women. In "Vertigo" Scottie tried to appropriate Madeline for his personal use by making ideal woman. Whereas in "Psycho" there is the description comparing women to stuffed birds from Norman's lines. I felt that these express the men's will wanting to make women their own. I wonder if women are passive compared with men is really the case.Also, this film shows strange relationship of gender, because Norman and his mother have the reference of incest in Norman's brain. Of course mother and son are not lover but family by thinking about blood relationship from commonsense. So the love of between parent and child is "abnormal". That unusual love invaded Norman's spirit and ate in his heart. That sounds like so terrible.


                
I think that Hitchcock's films often have the meaning on every scene. For example, he used a mirror and tried to show double sides of a human, or in Vertigo, he reflected the Coital Tower at love scenes. However I thought that "Psycho" had scenes that played games with me. They were the parts that Marion Crane had run away with the money of her picked of a man. In that part, policeman picked on her action and shadowed her car with his car. It seemed that his tailing is persistent, but anything did not happen after all. I have another instance. She had been driving in heavy rains until she has arrived at BATES MOTEL. Maybe, the audience thought that something would happen, but it was just heavy rains. Anything have never happen. Are those Hitchcock's mischief? I thought he had kidded the audience. Next, I noticed about Psycho's soundtrack, "The Murder". This tune is pretty shrilling. People tend to feel the nervous to the register. So this music matches "Psycho". And it is exaggeration that this music makes the film become famous. In Japanese TV shows, it has been often used on the scary shots. I really think that influence which "Psycho" brought the world of movies and TV was so huge!
Psycho is a respected classic for being the first slasher film. Its great and you must respect it for starting a new breed of films. But it seemed to be a bit boring. Now I'm not saying its not great, but for a suspenseful movie it was boring. But it is a movie from the 60s so it is still pretty amazing for being a classic. Plus the acting is great and Anthony Perkins does an amazing job presenting himself , he is just chilling to the bone. All critique aside, I love this film. In particular, the shower scene. It is easily one of the most chilling horror scenes of all time, and I'm sure audiences who first viewed it were floored. It is so effective because the viewer never sees the knife actually penetrating the victim's skin. Its all left to your imagination.
Finally a good thriller. Horror movies are by far my favorite and I must say Alfread Hitchcock did a great job of casting a sense of fear. The movie started off a little slow, the story line was kind of boring to follow,and the acting really wasn't the best; but for some reason I still found the movie entertaining and convincing. During the horror scenes and the ending is when the movie really got interesting and even though the music was incredibly cheesy it worked well with the film. I enjoyed the fact that this movie didn't just focus on murder, it also played with the idea of being a true "psycho" by portraying the murderer with multiple personality disorder or maybe even schizophrenia.I can understand why this movie is a classic horror film and I think any fan of the genre needs to see this film, if they haven't already. It sets the framework for may horror films that have been produced later on and gives a certain standard they have to meet.
Psycho Is about a young woman, Marion, who steals $40,000 from her employer in order for her to start a new life with her secret lover. On her way to him she is forced by sleep and rain to stop at a motel. Here she meets this young man that is controlled by his mother. Psycho is very well known for its famous shower stabbing scene. Alfred Hitchcock made the scene seem so real, but without even showing Marion getting stabbed. Marion's sister and friend come looking for her and soon find out the truth(which i will not give away). The ending was very unpredictable, and well done. I give this film a 7 out of 10 because I thought Hitchcock did a very good job creating this film, but it did not really keep me entertained.
1st watched 1/27/2009 - 7 out of 10(Dir-Alfred Hitchcock): Scary and strange classic Hitchcock movie provides plenty of reasons to watch and enjoy. Janet Lee plays a woman who decides to steal a large sum of cash and escape with it. The problem is she stops off to stay at the Bates Hotel overnight(which was definitely a mistake) and runs into the Bates family -- or at least it appears this way. Anthony Perkins is excellent as the disturbed son of the messed up family who covers up for his supposed mother's mistakes in the true good son fashion. The mystery behind the movie is determining who did the evils to Janet and others in the Bates Hotel. Hitchcock brilliantly keeps us guessing til the end as well as providing the shocks that we expect from the movie. This is the ultimate weird family scary movie that others have tried to imitate(some well and some badly), but they never match the excellent direction done by the master storyteller. There is the much imitated shower scene, but the overall movie in general is well written and put together and the one scene shouldn't make the entire movie(which it doesn't here). Viva La Hitchcock!! You have done it again!!


                
Alfred Hitchcock has no sympathy for the victims in "Psycho", and he views them dispassionately. This relatively low-budget film is in silvery black-and-white, eerie and beautiful, with gliding camera-work and clever production touches which warrant repeat viewings, however it is much too merciless towards its characters to be a black comedy. It's also not much of a murder-mystery (we have an early idea of what's going on), yet the suspense in the third act is mounted with cunning precision. Mostly, Hitchcock seems curiously fascinated with plot-exposition and details, although the picture is still quite chilling. Anthony Perkins' tightly-controlled performance as Norman Bates is hypnotizing: his boyish good looks can be taken either way--gangly or crazily disconnected--and his eyes, which are frantic, dart around like an impatient child's (it's the role of a lifetime). I didn't much care for Simon Oakland's psychology report at the end, but the final shots and the voice-over are masterfully pulled-off. *** from ****


                
Story:
The story is captivating. A great thriller about a young man who suffers from mental disorders.
It has its lengths, especially in the beginning, but when it comes to the motel part, things are starting to evolve and the pace picks up.
7/10Actors:
They all do an amazing job, but the one who carries to whole movie is Anthony Perkins - his acting skills are phenomenal. The fact that it was released in 1960 makes this even more outstanding.
9/10Setting:
Even after watching Psycho so many times, the house and motel scenery still gives me the goosebumps.
10/10Picture:
Not bad for its age, but have seen some better restorement.
5/10Sound:
The sound quality was disasterous. Voices were extremely quiet, as if the actors were mumbling, while the music was way too loud and shrill.
2/10Score:
Just one word, amazing!
10/10Average:
7,1/10
The movie is an outstanding piece of art history. Compared to today's standard, it has lost a bit of its shine.
Nonetheless, if you haven't watched it yet, do it, you won't regret it.Watched on: Netflix
Language: English


                
The plot was small, but interesting and I enjoyed how the scenes were shot and cut, but considering how this is not the early 60's anymore, people shouldn't watch the movie if they want to get scared because the story itself isn't all that thrilling, not because it was badly written, but because the plot twists have been dulled due to their being so famous now. Janet Leigh, a popular name back in the day and Jamie Lee Curtis's mother, has enough screen time for her character to be better appreciated and Anthony Perkins's portrayal of Norman Bates is both amiable and creepy. I would recommend watching the movie as a regular movie rather than a horror movie because the picture is still beautiful and the story is interesting, but it's just not all that scary anymore.


                
Many claims it to be Hitchcock's best but I disagree. 10/10 are from those who didn't see the twist coming. After watching Rear Window, I had high hopes for this one and well it was another wonderful movie too but didn't live up to the IMDb ratings and class expected in my opinion. Not that it isn't great, maybe I'm one of those 1 out of 100 people not to be fazed by this film. As the title of the film suggest, I anticipated the twist and it the part which is supposed to 'blow your mind' was way too predictable for me. But top notch direction again. The characters were strong and the suspense is well documented to thrill the audience, but this isn't Hitchcock's finest, not by a mile.


                
While I know I'll anger a lot of thriller fans, here's my two cents: this is one of the least enjoyable Hitchcock classics. To clarify: if you compare Psycho to North by Northwest, Strangers on a Train, Vertigo or Rebecca, I can't see how any self-proclaimed film fan wouldn't conclude that it falls considerably short. Even other Hitch classics I don't particularly love or hate (such as The Birds, Rear Window or Marnie) trigger a wider emotional response than the pretty simplistic shock effects which are all Psycho has to offer. Of course there's some great cinematography, but it isn't backed by any involving factors other than sheer horror, or the kind of hammy pseudo-psychology Hitchcock already tried his hand on in Spellbound.My reasonably kind rating of seven out of ten is mostly motivated by its historical importance - even if you take into account that Peeping Tom, which I think is a far superior film with a similar theme, relentlessly flopped earlier in the same year - as it opened the mainstream public's eyes regarding the horror/thriller genre. But if you've seen Psycho once (which, in fact, any film fanatic should), to me there's no real reason to watch it again.


                
