To drop the ball with idiotic scriptwriters for the new seasons!
I hope they fire them and fire them again and again and again, they should never have written these new episodes, they are a joke, fulfilling nothing of what X-Files used to be. They are only making fun of the show and not in a good way.
I want to like it so much but i cant, they F-up.


                
I used to love the X-Files. This reboot not only asks of the viewer to disregard everything that was "learned" the first 9 seasons of the show while at the same time characterizing anything and anyone with a right of center perspective as being a complete, ignorant, hate- mongering buffoon. The politically correct bias is so in your face militant that I can no longer watch it without feeling like I'm being vomited on. Goodbye X-Files!Nothing left to say so I'll just repeat to get minimum 10 lines of text.Nothing left to say so I'll just repeat to get minimum 10 lines of text.Nothing left to say so I'll just repeat to get minimum 10 lines of text.


                
I can't understand the high rating this show is receiving. That was one large pile of alien excrement. It stunk and was a chore to watch. With how much anticipation this show generated, I was honestly shocked that FOX would release such a poorly written, stupidly rushed, and embarrassingly bad acted show. There was very very little going for this show - probably about a 2 or 3 rating. But because of the material and financial support this show has, I held it to an even higher standard. Thus, a single, lonely star for a a singularly poor episode. I predict that this show rating will slowly but continuously decline as more people watch without blinders. It was historically bad. I will say that I understand the challenge the show had - how to pay honor to the past while setting the stage for the future. That is the one thing this show did semi-well, at least in that they did set the stage for whatever mystery/drama/setting they will explore this season. But I promise, I have zero interest in seeing where it will go and will not waste another hour watching.


                
After the last movie, I swore I was done with this series. However, my curiosity got the best of me, and I watched last night. I really wished I hadn't.Horrible-is really the only word I can use to describe this mess. I was bored too tears after 20 minutes. David and Gillian seemed to have phoned in their performances, which is such a shame. I've seen them in other series and they are both terrific actors.Sorry Chris Carter, but having your characters repeat old slogans and long drawn out periods of expositions does not constitute a script.I will not be watching further episodes.


                
I am giving it a 1/10 in an attempt to offset the number of perfect 10's, which if having seen the episodes, makes one wonder if there are shills at play. Maybe I'd give it a 2 otherwise. Read the other negative reviews and you will get a much more accurate picture of the reboot.2cents: it is as if no one from the original series took this reboot seriously, as in trying to actually deliver on good TV, and this is especially true of CC... The writing is horrible, as is the directing, and the only main character that kind of tried (scully) was hobbled by the writing and directing. You would look into mulder's eye and basically see a smirk reflecting back at you, and mchale didn't even really try to hide it... He was actually smirking, and my guess is laughing to himself about the horrible dialogue he was forced into saying. Mchale was a gimmick anyway (like the product placement cuts), and is just an example of the series not taking things seriously. It felt more like a community parody where ahbed was going to pop out as cheesy fx'd alien. It was so bad in this regard, that i was left w a face of disgust while watching, wanting to change the channel multiple times, yet forcing myself to just get through it, apparently as a misplaced sense of fan loyalty. Others have commented that as a true fan that watched it all during live airing, one is left w feeling of being personally attacked (somehow),and leaving us almost angry at CC directly. Really, in all honesty, so far, the whole thing has been a horrible experience. Just awful TV... Everything that is wrong w modern network broadcasting. Just horrible.An aside... Use this opportunity to notice the positive professional reviews... You can really pick out the knuckleheads. Soooo disappointed.


                
Season 10 of the x files was badthe plot lines sucked, especially the finale where the world is ending- utter garbage. How the hell did anyone think of something that stupid? And the acting isn't even that good. the villains sucked- the Bandaid nose man was more funny than creepy, the first two episodes were OK, and the comedy werewolf episode was horrid. I am so disappointed by everything here, even the special effects were bad. 1/10. GARBAGE
I loved the original series ! It was one of the best show ever made. When I heard about a new season I was really happy ! But......huge disappointment ! Is like the budget is my monthly payment and the people who are writing the script are amateurs......the 10th season was very bad.....this last one is horrible.....I watched the first 3 episodes and thats it ! I cannot anymore. And like the poor script it was not enought , they feel the need to imput some politics in it....some private agencies (with headquarter in Moscow) with russian employees are leading the FBI and the head of these agencies is at the White House.....really ????? I'm not an US citizen, so I'm not involve in the US internal politic, but........really ? There is any hope for improvment ? "I want to belive", but with these writers and directors, I dont think so.....Bottom line, do not watch the last two seasons....keep in mind the first beautiful 9 !
The X-Files are a fond memory from my childhood. I remember waiting every night for the episode to air with incredible excitement so when I heard that the series was getting a sequel I was, mildly put, overjoyed.And basically, the hype that I felt before the show aired was the only good thing to come out of it. I won't even start listing the things that sucked, because I'm pretty sure that I'll exceed the character limit only halfway through. So I'll just finish this review with this - watch this at your own risk. If you were a fan of the original like I was, you will almost certainly become disappointed in the obvious cash- cow that the revival is.


                
I was really looking forward to this.Unfortunately, I was slowly tortured half to death as David Duchovny's pathetic performance melted all memory of his likable naiveté, with... well, something else... that indicated either he had absolutely no desire to be in this thing at all and was only doing it for the money, or he was being forced to do it by the same hidden conspirators portrayed to be behind the scenes running everything in the theme of this piece of garbage, which is over the top on all accounts. I guess no one behind this ever heard of the expression, "less is more." The greatest actors and film makers of all time always underplayed, rather than overplayed themselves. It makes for more realism and better entertainment.The overall effect of episode one is really bad and horribly disappointing, and how anyone could give this a "10" rating as many have, is completely beyond my comprehension.


                
If I could give this a ZERO, I would.This new "X-Files" is completely ludicrous, and it's mostly about attacking:--Fox News/Bill O' Reilly --The fossil fuel industry --Republicans/conservatives --The "military-industrial complex"Ohmygosh, in one monologue, a character goes on a psychotic rant where he wove:--Corporations, especially pharmaceutical companies --The Patriot Act --The NSA --The USA Freedom Act... into a global conspiracy by some unmentioned power to throw the world into chaos and ultimately conquer it.This is completely disposable, so flush it and don't bother watching the subsequent episodes.
I was horribly disappointed by season 10 of the X-Files. I had been told that it was an awesome show, so I checked it out. The first two episodes were interesting, but not impressive. It really went downhill with the Were-Monster episode. I generally dislike "comedy" episodes of any TV series that isn't a comedy, because they are almost never funny. If you want a comedy episode, hire some comedy writers. It was very cringe worthy to be honest. Also, I really didn't enjoy Home Again. The band aid nose man was just a horrible villain, he could have been creepy but the way he killed people removed the tension from the entire episode. Babylon was a little better, and the finale was just messy. Overall, the plots were just dumb. How is this #78 on the Top 250 TV Shows? Doctor Who was rated best sci fi TV series of 2015 by Rotten Tomatoes (rightfully so), and it's #87. I think Doctor Who is a far superior show that receives almost no recognition for what it puts out. Watch Face the Raven or Heaven Sent from series 9 to see a little of what it can do. X files was just bad 4/10.
So folks, I've decided to watch 11 season today, after my criticism about 10 season (man become a reptile)...really... I was watching 11 s 04 episode where the "alien" showed and told Mulder and Scully that they finished gathering Intel about human...That alien was like from comedy, I was so disappointed, It was so low, so disgusting for X-files, so embarrassing for Carter as the master and the creator of X-Files... (what happened to you man?) So I've deleted all other series ( I had 5 more)...These new low producers ruined my past X-files, they suck su much, that we must build a lawsuit against them...I'm in tears, watching my best Tv Series going to sh..Original X-File likers - We need to file a petition to this insanity, how far will we let them to make fun of our greatest all time series?? We must do something...


                
Can someone tell me who ruined all X-files saga, all 9 seasons of true masterpiece with seasons 10 comedy? Did you see 10 season 3 series?, a reptile who becomes a man? Really? It was like they wanted to make a laugh from X-files and make a parody. First of all season 10 was the biggest disaster to the x-files, I was a huge fan of all 9 seasons... Super endings. Season 10 was nothing more then a complete failure to the fans, because series were very stupid, not logical. Smoking man wasn't needed anymore, his character William B. Davis is too old and all the plot is very wrong and not logical. Mulder needed just to finish his job exposing the conspiracy, but they began something foolish and started all over again. I was so disappointing with season 10 and 6 series that I just wanted to cry. ( not directly). I remember classy X-files with some questions, deeper thoughts, deeper scenarios, good actors. Chirs Carter, why did you took James Wong's, Darin Morgan's, Glen Morgan's, writing? Their writing was something terrible, It's like Carter had something mixed in his drink to hire these low experience writers, or Chris Carter just got old? Still, I will waiting for the truth to be found..


                
I really enjoy the original seasons. It included quality dialogue and genuinely interesting or unique plots. The revamped seasons are horrible. The acting is mediocre at best and the plots are completely shallow. It's not that the plots couldn't be interesting, it's just that the screenwriting is stilted and unoriginal. To me it feels like they wanted to revive the series, but didn't want to put the effort into doing it right which is a shame.


                
The tortured effort to insinuate 2017 political drivel into the show doomed it. Why start out aggravating half your audience and present half baked scripts to finish off the remainder? Is it to serve some higher cause? If so make the case within the context of the stories rather than have the characters flippantly hand out opinions at completely nonsensical times. A sad end for a once great show.


                
A story about pensioners surrounded by conspiracy and fake news...
No, not the Whitehouse. 
Skullee and mouldy. 
Great series in it's days but now tired and old like the cast.
Dreadful stories, painfully slow stilted dialogue acted mostly in the dark.
Most dialogue tries to explain what happened 30 years ago, who people were, what happened then. 
Is almost as if they are trying to
1. Appeal to a new audience - fail. 
2. Appeal to the old audience, who are now senile - fail. David Duchovny looks like he has melted. 
I'm too much of a gentleman to comment on his companion. She can lie in a comma very well. Method acting I think that's called. 
It is perhaps good that the few stilted lines of dialogue are easy to remember for the cast. 
 S
As a reboot it is just a reboot of some last minute careers. As a new x files, it needs a new cast and new stories. 
It is good to see that the fbi employ the elderly but not to the extent that they don't know that a computer system has a backup. (episode 2).But to be fair nor does my elderly mum. 
How come they weren't aware that the x files would have been digitised. 
I assume assume that their ability to dodge assassination bullets is because they use octogenarian assassins.
How come the smoking man hasn't got lung cancer? 
Why bother with an overarching theme of the end of humanity. Surely the real president can manage that without a shadowy organisation.
Actually, to be fair, why bother? 
The biggest mystery? Why series 11? Why those 2 actors? Why am I watching it?
Will I watch episode 3? Oooooooo!! Spooky! 
No I won't bother. 
Some stuff is best left as good in its day.


                
This is one of the worst TV series to ever appear. It had the most laughable plot imaginable. As if that wasn't enough, the characters and subplots are so mundane and boring that it is impossible to stay awake. First the main plot. Some nut working for the FBI (probably the only believable thing about the series), believes the Defense Department is covering up UFO sightings. This is so logical. how else can the Defense Department ask for a smaller budget at appropriations hearings. "Oh, we don't want to reveal there are UFOs because then we could ask for less money for our budget!" No. If there are UFOs, you can bet the department of defense would be loudly proclaiming it. Sorry. For them not to is completely impossible. So we have the stupidest conspiracy premise ever actually succeeding as a show for several years. This would make sense if there were interesting subplots, action, or suspense, but everything is so predictable, you'll wonder if it's a comedy. Not saying there aren't aliens. (If you ask me, you're all from some other planet.) Just saying the premise falls on its face with a thud, and can't be taken seriously.


                
I'm not a big fan of this series because when it was on air years ago, the show time conflicted with my schedule and I wasn't allowed to watch. But I did watch a few episodes here and then and I remember I loved them.So I'm half excited when I know there'd be a new season, and the other half is surprised because I know the original cast would be too old by now. But I watch it anyway. And it's one of the mistakes of my life.The main characters, at this point I don't even care to remember their names, look like the walking dead and talk like the walking dead. At least the walking dead look real, here they look like either they are addicted to plastic surgery or they are wearing a ton of make up on their faces. And what with the "out of breath" speaking, especially the female lead? There's literally no emotion on her face and her voice sounds like it comes from a tomb. She's in fact scarier than any of the strange creatures of the show.The male lead looks like a grandfather and acts like a grandson even though he's supposed to have a child already. Being wise but also playful is completely different from being old but still haven't grown up.I have seen pictures of the actor and actress, and believe one of the reasons they were casted and made this series famous is that they were good looking. The guy was cute and I wouldn't be surprised if many girls watched this just because of the pretty boy and didn't really care what the show was about, as long as it wasn't terribly bad. Now they lose it, and even appear to be those people who can't accept that their golden time is over. I don't know if this's appealing to old fans, since I guess they keep all the original aspects of the show, but to a newbie like me it's saying "stop watching this cash cow".


                
