What was that? No seriously what the actual? Is this X-Files or effing Star Trek? Five minutes into the first episode and we already get to see CG spaceships crashing and aliens getting shot at.This is X-Files dumbed down to today's notion of hyper-active nonstop action entertainment, where a minute cannot pass without something blowing up or someone getting shot at, otherwise the average American viewer might fall asleep. X-Files used to be all about the mystery, involvement of extraterrestrials was always implied, but it was done intelligently and had to be deduced. But the creators of this thing apparently were afraid that their audience aren't smart enough to understand subtleties, so they had to make scenes explaining every single thing with CG and explosions, leaving no room for mystery or imagination. They removed a huge layer of the mystery which is wondering whether there's a conspiracy or Mulder is just going crazy. Nope, they cleared that part right away by showing us the Aliens and their spaceships so we wouldn't have to worry about that. Now all we have to worry about is whether Mulder can prove that aliens exist.And what happened to Scully? She used to be all skeptical and scientific, now she just has PTSD and is totally aboard with Mulder's conspiracies, she doesn't even bother providing an alternative explanation to events, so instead of Mulder and Scully, we just get another Mulder only this one is female.


                
*UPDATE AT BOTTOM*Chris Carter pulled out all the stops to compress an incohesive and completely implausible conspiracy storyline into a scant "6 Episode Event" - and still manages the time to troll everything he personally dislikes.From Bush, the military industrial complex, pharmaceutical companies, fossil fuels, Fox News, Republicans, and conservatives, the "They Are All Evil" mantra has become all-too familiar banter from the lunatic leftist fringe over the last several decades, and Chris Carter makes no bones about being lock-step with the present-day form of the political brown shirts on these issues. Quick flashes of Bush's face while describing the evildoers portends to be subliminal (like in 2008's "I Want to Believe"), but merely comes across as childish and naive. If the Republicans are in on it - then so are the Democrats, otherwise the alien "secret" would already be public. Giving Clinton and Obama a pass doesn't make any sense unless you are drinking the Kool-Aid. In which case, you really shouldn't be making a show about conspiracy theories. You are part of one.For a conspiracy show to have plausibility, it has to have a solid premise. This new "envisioning" fails on nearly every level. Chris Carter throws out the book on everything built over 9 previous years of the show to tell us that, "Oh, yes. Aliens are out there. But they don't do anything to us. It is evil men using their technology." This could not get more confounded or silly. The entire concept of this new story arc is debunked with one simple question: Does anyone here believe that the U.S. government would expose it's ultra Top Secret, alien reverse-engineered aircraft to the prying eyes of every cell phone camera in America, or risk crashing it, to kidnap unsuspecting civilians to use in medical experiments? If so, why wouldn't they just get a few vans and pick up homeless people from major cities? You could collect a thousand in one night - and no one would be the wiser. Even "Blade (1998)" had a more realistic premise on where vampires get their blood supply. Oh, and don't forget the group of civilian "experts" in the desert that somehow managed to build their own version of Aurora using Mercury-based superfluid toroidal anti-gravity - and LED invisibility projection, too. And what did they do with it? Did they present their research and design to journalists, the scientific community, or even post it on the internet freely for all to see? Nope. They stashed it in a hangar for years and only allowed Mulder to see it. It was there for no other purpose than to be destroyed by the "evil" U.S. military.As for the acting, it was painfully forced and dishearteningly shy. This was an opportunity for both David and Gillian to really re-embrace their roles with fervor. Instead, they exuded the type of pain that only comes when someone believes they are being forced to swallow their own vomit. They both begrudgingly present themselves for the camera as though they feel the entire franchise is behind them - and being "forced" to do this again is beneath them. They, in real life, have become the elites this show is about. Forgetting your fans and where your career started is a prideful way of "Fighting the Future". It mirrors Leonard Nimoy's 70's dichotomy when he wrote "I Am Not Spock", followed a decade later by "I Am Spock". We can only hope that one day they will awaken to this "Truth" and appreciate the fame that we, as the fans, gave them.Based on Chris Carter's apparent personal politics, it is readily clear that the next 5 episodes will not be any more enlightening. The truth is indeed out there. But it is all too apparent that we, as fans and human beings, will not find it in this catastrophe of an homage.2/10. I would have given it a 1, but William B. Davis' appearance and final lines provided a very mild, if melodramatic, redemption.UPDATE: I had to bump it up to 4/10 due to last night's (S01E02) episode. It went from a dark cloud to one with a silver lining in one night! No politics, better acting (by the supporting cast, at least), and a more intelligent premise. Holding out hope that they will continue to lift a bar that was set so low on the outset. Not much, just a little. Chris, like all those of his political ilk, won't let an opportunity to chum the airwaves with his political blood escape. I only hope the production team held him down for the remaining 4 episodes.
The X-Files in the 90's were interesting and enjoyable to watch. Had I rated the earlier seasons it would have been a 7. But when the series was revived at season 10, oh boy, it was terrible and absolute nonsense. Season 10 qualified for a rating of 2 only. Season 11 did not start much better. Some episodes are unwatchable but one or 2 episodes were of the old school and interesting. Just finished watching episode 9 and again, nothing in it. I hope the season ends soon and does end for good. A sad day having come this far and ending with a rating no higher than 4.Good-bye Mulder and Scully your time is up.


                
The confusion is out there. The ridiculousness is out there. The "Jump the Shark" is out there. The plot is not out there. Maybe the plot is with Mulder's abducted sister. By the way, what ever happened to that theme? I enjoyed this show so much more when it was kind of a version of the "Twilight Zone." Every week, Mulder and Scully investigated a weird occurrence -- sometimes solved, sometimes not. Now, in 2017 and 2018, The conspiracy nonsense is out there. The X-Files should no longer be out there.


                
