Fox Mulder (David Duchovny) is a marginalized loner FBI agent stuck in the basement. He's been ostracized because he's a true believer in the paranormal. Dr Dana Scully (Gillian Anderson) is a skeptic, a woman of science, and assigned to keep Mulder under control.The X Files represents a breakout for the sci-fi genre. Its success gave it license to put on more paranormal shows treated as reasonable. It also became a benchmark by which these shows are measured. There are amazing episodes with some less so. The best is the chemistry between the two leads. It broke new ground with great writing from some future notable names. It lasted 9 seasons. It may have gone on too long but it was great while it lasted.


                
I miss this show. To be honest, I miss most of this old shows like Twin Peaks, X - Files, Frasier, Cheers... hell, I even miss Friends, because todays shows just suck. Most of the todays shows are focusing on idiotic doctors, snobbish lawyers, retarded people with super powers and boring forensics. Todays shows are just copying each other and are so boring and predictable.Take a look into the X - Files, clever, mysterious, dark, humorous, disturbing and scary show about two FBI agents, Fox Mulder (David Duchovny) and Dana Scully (Gillian Anderson), who are working on X Files, a special FBI devision for paranormal and UFO events. Both Mulder and Scully, are one of the best couples I've ever seen in TV show and their chemistry definitely works. Okay... sometimes I have a felling like Duchovny is playing too much like a stone (with minimal emotions), but overall I like Duchovny and his character, spooky Mulder. Anderson is cute and sarcastic, most of the time she doesn't believe Mulders predictions about aliens and paranormal events. Both are making really odd couple with a good sense of humor and intelligent thinking.The episodes are always concentrating on government conspiracies with aliens, paranormal events, people with special powers etc. The episodes are sometimes stupid and don't make a lot of sense, but overall X Files is a great show for all people, who are having open minds and accepting the fact that we're not alone in the universe. The music in the show is also great, very intense and not annoying even for a minute, the environment is often dark and the events disturbing. Other characters are also great and sometimes very scary (The Smoker, Kryczek, Myers and the gang) etc.Overall, this show is great. It delivers an intelligent view in the theme, which could be considered stupid, but not in hand of the creator Chris Carter and other writers. I miss X Files. Why there is no original show on TV today?
I grew up with the x-files before the proliferation of the internet and the massive expansion of conspiracy culture online. The original series (first 9) was great, in part because it had the feeling of a cult show. It referenced and acknowledged it's influences... The Outer Limits, The Twilight Zone, Twin Peaks etc and the direction style was in keeping with that. It gave tantalizing glimpses into the black budget world of the deep state and covered genuine conspiracies as well as flights of philosophical fancy. At times there were some comic moments/episodes but it was for the most part a subtle and dry humour. Conspiracies were presented with the necessary gravitas to draw the viewer in, creating dramatic tension and encouraging investment in the story line.The new episodes however (seasons 10 and 11) are just bad. They make a mockery of everything that has come before. Story lines that have built incrementally over years are reduced to 30 seconds of pure voice over exposition, laying it all out without any imagination or commitment required by the viewer. Smoking man is in a full frontal position exposing the character to the point of doing away with all the mystery surrounding him, (That was the appeal) so much so that he can no longer be feared or even taken seriously. Mulder behaves in ways that the original Mulder never would, mocking out of the ordinary situations when it should be him that goes out on a limb and ends up being proven right. OK so he's older and more cynical but what is the point of Mulder or even making more episodes if Mulder has lost the need to find out the truth. It's the whole basis of his character. The pretty much continuous attempts at comedy are jarring and vanquish any air of mystery, intrigue or tension that the old show had. I accept that some subjects can and should be approached from a more lighthearted angle but these new episodes feel as if they are just trying to mock the conspiracy research culture it helped to awaken. Then there's the blatant propaganda. This is a Sci-Fi show not a platform for anti Trump propaganda. Chris Carter, please get David Nutter back to Direct and stop taking the piss out of your own creation. It is dear to many people. ;)


                
I was cleaning out the spare room the other day when I came across a stack of magazines ( 'Starburst', 'T.V. Zone' and 'Dreamwatch', all defunct alas ) from the mid-90's. The show everyone was talking about then was 'The X Files'. It debuted on U.S. television in 1993, and two years later scored the highest ratings for Britain's B.B.C.-2 channel ( it was then promoted to B.B.C.-1 ). The country ( nay, the world ) went 'X Files' crazy. You could not pick up a paper, turn on the radio nor switch on the television without seeing or hearing it being mentioned. I went into W.H. Smiths once to buy 'Private Eye' and David Duchovny and Gillian Anderson were on the covers of practically every magazine ( including 'Yachting Monthly' if I'm not mistaken ). Books about the making of the show or tie-in fiction took up whole shelves. Even Jonathan Ross' wife Jane Goldman had one published. Each time something odd happened in the world, reporters mentioned that it was like 'something out of the X Files'. Why was it so popular? The '90's saw a boom in television sci-fi, with umpteen 'Star Trek' series, 'Farscape' and 'Quantum Leap' on air, but this only partly answers the question. The plain fact is that 'The X Files' was a very good show.Created by Chris Carter, it told of the exploits of two F.B.I. agents - the enigmatic Fox Mulder ( Duchovny ) and the sceptical Dana Scully ( Anderson ) - whose job it is to investigate the unexplained, from alien abductions to mutants living down sewers. Mulder is obsessed with the idea that there is life on other planets ( he believes his sister was kidnapped by aliens ). The U.S. government, rather than be portrayed as the good guys, was depicted as being behind a major cover-up, hence the show's famous catchphrase 'The Truth Is Out There'. It owed a great debt to 'Kolchak: The Night Stalker' which starred Darren McGavin ( as roving news man 'Carl Kolchak' ) and ran for one season in 1974/75. Carter openly acknowledged this. But there was more to 'Files' than just aliens and other assorted grotesques. The relationship between Mulder and Scully had viewers fascinated; it was coldly formal, yet the possibility existed they might throw self-control to the wind and leap into bed. It was one one of the first shows to benefit from the then-new Internet as viewers could watch episodes and then debate them online. Anderson and Duchovny became sci-fi sex symbols, Mark Snow's catchy theme tune even made the British pop charts. An amusing sketch on 'Spitting Image' had Mulder and Scully confronted by the cast of the 'Scooby Doo' cartoon series, enraged at the blatant theft of their show's format. The stylishly directed show was both critically and commercially acclaimed, winning awards by the score for its writing and acting. Imitations came out of the woodwork - 'Poltergeist: The Legacy', 'Strange Luck', 'Dark Skies', and a retread of 'The Outer Limits'. But over time, viewers grew weary with the show's refusal to provide answers to the enigmas posed, and to make matters worse, Duchovny's involvement decreased to the point where he left eventually to be replaced by Robert Patrick ( from 'Terminator 2: Judgement Day' ). I cannot recall at which point I stopped watching. It could have Season 6. The show had run out of puff, and with Duchovny gone there seemed no point in tuning in anymore. The final blow for the show came with 9/11. Nobody wanted to watch a programme about government conspiracies in the aftermath of the horrific tragedy, and its ninth season a year later was to be its last. Two movies - 'The X Files' ( 1998 ) and 'The X Files: I Want To Believe' ( 2008 ) were made, but as the latter was a flop, it is unlikely we will see more. Mulder's sister will have to stay with the little green men.It is strange to think that a show so loved at the time could go on to be virtually forgotten now. I'm inclined to think it would have benefited from being cancelled a lot sooner. It is a reverse situation from 'Dark Skies' which suffered from having too few episodes! These days, Britain's main television obsession is 'The X Factor', a bizarre situation itself worthy of a Mulder and Scully investigation ( could Simon Cowell be an alien? ).
The best thing about the reboot of this series is if you didn't previously follow or watch the beginning you can still get so much from the characters and story line this time around. Chris Carter did a masterful job of the pilot. The characters, filming and plot of this show are second to none. Nothing was spared it bringing this series back. I'm not a huge sci-fi fan, but always enjoy the idea of this show. Most of the original cast is back and the cinematography of the series is excellent. Not a lot of cheesy CGI. The production budge must be very good for this series. I'm glad they waited to do it justice and didn't bring it back too soon. Duchovny and Anderson are brilliant in their returning roles. Better with age. It's very believable. That said, if you didn't watch the X-Files the first time around, please spend a few weekends and Netflix it. You will believe!


                
I had never been a fan of sci-fi, quite frankly I can say I didn't really care about sci-fi.. To this day I still struggle to remember which is Star Wars and which is Star Trek...But despite that, The X-Files got me hooked since the very first airing of the Pilot episode almost two decades ago.It just had it all: monsters, mystery, murders and an interesting UFO/conspiracy plot that didn't really take over the whole show until the final seasons.The X-Files could be enjoyed both as a series of unrelated cases of mysterious events, or as a coherent story about a government conspiracy about aliens.Either way, it was always a nice experience and the count of disappointing episodes is remarkably low for a show that ran for nine years.Mulder and Scully (played masterfully by Duchovny and Anderson) were an interesting take on the traditional "odd couple". They were dedicated but not pedant (besides Mulder's rants about the conspiracy, but that was part of his weird charm) and always managed to be witty enough not to become too perfect, but without becoming zany either.We slowly got to know Mulder and Scully's back-story and personality, and it was easy feeling connected with them. Their personal past was much part of the story without invading it and turning it into a boring and trite soap-operaish drama. A real rarity for most shows, especially nowadays, where the characters are either driven and dedicated iron men or squeamish teen-like wimps, more focused on their private life than on their job.Thankfully we were spared a full-fledged romantic liaison between Mulder and Scully, despite some hints of something being there in later seasons. Not every show on Earth needs romance, much less a show like X-Files with two rather "asexual" characters like Mulder and Scully.The rest of the cast was very solid and the characters worked very well with the two main stars and with the plots.It's really difficult finding flaws in a show of that caliber, but just for the sake of nitpicking, I have to say the final seasons, when the alien/government conspiracy plot became the main focus of the show, were a little bit over the top in terms of twists and swerves.But all in all it's a forgivable sin, considering the overall quality of the series and the fact it would have been impossible ending the show without putting more emphasis on the main theme of the whole story and trying to give it some sort of closure.The X-Files was a landmark in the history of sci-fi and of television. Not only the best TV serial of the 90s, but probably one of the best serials in the history of TV.


                
Once in a while a character comes along who knocks away the cobwebs and compels you to keep the lights on when you go to bed at night. If you've never seen the episodes of The X-Files which feature a certain Eugene Tooms, all I can do is promise you you're in for a treat.The actor in the role is Doug Hutchison and he plays an absolute blinder. To call him scary would be rather like saying Groucho Marx was good at telling jokes - it states the obvious.He pops up in two episodes that I know of, and in each one he lingers long in the memory. It may be the eyes, or the rather understated way he has of speaking, but Hutchison fills his portrayal with an unnerving authenticity. As I watched the second episode I got to thinking about Tooms and his past; what made him so sinister; what was his upbringing; what sleights did he suffer to make him so thoroughly malevolent. Then you realise you're asking all this about a fictional character, and you start to realise just how good the actor is to suck you into a world which doesn't in fact exist.Or doesn't it? We are, after all, talking about The X-Files.


                
I'm 14 and I started watching X files because my parents recommended it. I recently finished all 9 seasons and it was easily one of the most amazing TV show journeys I have ever experienced. Over the 4 months I spent watching it I became an x files nerd and took a fascination in conspiracy theories. If you like a shadowy plot line about UFO cover ups and aliens then this is the show for you. The first 7 seasons of the show are absolutely terrific. Seasons 8 and 9 are the only thing that keeps me from giving the show a ten because during these seasons the story falls apart. Not to mention the main character Fox Mulder makes little to no appearances and his wonderful partner Scully looks like she has just completely given up on the show. In the first 7 seasons this on screen duo worked so well together as our protagonists that it had me watching the show just to see them talk to each other. But if you are going to watch seasons 1-7 you kind of have to just finish it up. The whole show is not one big story though. Most of it is the Monster of the Week episodes which are separate cases that don't involve the storyline. Most were great, some were amazing, and some were just awful. But every show has bad episodes. Most kids my age are not watching x files but I love to be a nerd about it. This show should be watched by everyone who wants a good story and an extraordinary science fiction thriller


                
X-files... This name alone has made it to History...at least TV History. Good episodes, good acting, good plotting...Most of the episodes, since 1993, have been first rate. Chris Carter is a smart guy, he knows very well his business. Even the movie was pretty good.Scully is a very good character, and Gillian Anderson breathes life into it in such a way that you´d swear Scully exists and maybe mrs. Anderson is just like that. Sometimes it ´s just too annoying to watch her character be so skeptical, but the fact is that in real life I´ve met people that think and act that way, no matter the evidences against their rationale. She is a good actress and I personally hope to see her in other works, maybe a movie which can project her persona into the mainstream kingdom.Fox Mulder...determined, focused, open minded, dedicated. This guy is what most of us (with a functioning brain and a grain of sensitivity) are or want to be, and he has the chance to seek the truth out there. Mr. Duchovny is a terrific actor. Besides the X-files, one should see the other works he has to offer us. Good work. In this series, he is just fabulous. His acting ranges from dramatic, professionally cold, to paranoid and outright funny.It´s been a pleasure to walk side by side with these characters all these years. If we lived in Wonderland, I would just hope that we continued to see more of this series for the upcoming years, but...This series is thought provoking, sometimes original, imaginative, thrilling, has very fine actors supporting it, from Steven Williams to Mitch Pillegi and Nicholas Lea, the writers who make the scripts really make an effort to be varied. When I watch it, I know I´m in for a treat, most of the times. Like Babylon 5, The Pretender and The Practice, X-files is part of the golden shows that run nowadays on TV.


                
First of all, let me say that i didn't first get involved with the X-Files until after the show ended. I'm only 16 so I wasn't exactly interested in the show's basic idea when the show was at its peak, me preferring laser guns next to an FBI badge. But last summer, I stumbled on a clip on Youtube.com and thought that the idea was very well done. First of all, the show actually plays on the ideas of extra terrestrials (sorry for spelling) and conspiracy theories that plague the thoughts of a lot of people. Next the added mystery that the threat Mulder and Scully face is usually in the shadows, we are usually seeing the threat for the first time at the same time as the agents do. I also think that the idea that only two characters are focused on is interesting. It is one of the few platonic relationships that stayed true for a very long time. Sure, there was that sexual tension that you could cut with a knife but they stayed professional and very good friends. They also threw a bone to the shippers out there, having a kiss here and there and then, finally, having them reunited at the series finale. It has inspired so much pop culture and the male and female team investigating unexplained phenomenon, not to mention mystery series with FBI agents as the stars. All in all, The X-Files is an incredible series that will really surprise you if you give it a chance. Sure it doesn't have laser guns and aliens with different prosthetics every other week, but it has movie like delivery, intricate plot lines and two characters who revolutionized the sci fi world. The Truth is Out There. I love saying that.
The first episode went beyond my expectations,using all the post 9/11 events that happened in our world to construct a new conspiracy theory was very well placed and "Cancer-Man" behind everything was awesome. David Duchovny and Gillian Anderson were great and how there relationship has evolved gives a different tone to the series. Even elements from Roswell incident gives that extra spice to this new season.Also credit should given to Joel McHale playing the money hungry reporter that proves to be a great asset to the series.If they are gonna keep this up for the rest of the episodes we will looking to see one of the best seasons of the X-files.
Tonight's premiere was great. I can't wait for Monday's episode and the rest of the new season. After a 13 year break or as Chris Carter calls it, a 13 year commercial break, The X-Files finally surfaces with an extremely contemporary reality, maybe a bit too contemporary. The Show references its relationship storyline that was in I WANT TO BELIEVE film, and we also get to see AD Skinner who somehow is still assistant director all these years. No promotion. WOW. Noticeably is the show's age with its characters and the actors, which it's a good thing because it ain't the 90s anymore or early 2000s for that matter, so don't be expecting Mulder and Scully to be in their 30s and 20s. It ain't happening.This new episode has all the trademarks that made the X Files great: the iconic theme/ title sequence, Virgina location, cliffhangers, cinematic lighting and camera moves, and CSM, who i can't believe is still alive, especially after the ending in THE TRUTH PART II. Come on! Really?! Fine, I want to believe...too. If you love the X Files, you'll love its return. However, the one thing that i hate about this new X-Files is the "VIDEO LOOK" that it has like so many other TV Shows. It appears like a "SOAP OPERA" or an "EXPENSIVE VIDEO SHORT" and it makes everything look fake. I wish they had shot it on FILM the way they did for TEN YEARS! It grounded the show in reality and it truly made me believe. This new one...not so much. CHRIS CARTER! please shoot the next season on 35mm FILM, please. STOP SHOOTING ON ULTRA HD VIDEO! IT LOOKS FAKE! Thank You.


                
OMG it was perfect! Incredible! They're back! It's back and better than ever! Wow! What an ending to the first ep. I'm totally bouncing off the walls. I thought the acting might be offbeat or out of step, but g-damn! Everyone was right back in at the top of their game! There were a very small, tiny handful of lines that were a little weak but the other %98 was spot on. So close to a perfect 10 but I am so excited they achieved a 9 in my eyes. I want to go running down the street yelling X-Files is back after that first ep.All I can hope for now is strong filler eps. I know they're coming; I'm not gonna hate. But the acting and the writing is a lot more mature now. Im just hoping they have a feel that is a lot less R.L 'Goosebumps' or cheesy 'Supernatural.' Speaking of more exp. Scully still 'got it' lookin great.Mulder's lookin nice and seasoned and Mchail.. it's the guy from The Soup and Jeff Winger from Community (which I love). He seems a tad out of place on the show. I love him, hes great.. but it's like Adam Sandler trying to take on a serious role like Tom Hanks in Bridge Of Spies (which I did not see but the trailer looked pretty serious).I respect McHail trying to stretch out into different roles and types of characters.. but for now, he seems a bit out of place(he was 'on-point' though, kudos there). Im sure we'll get used to him as time goes on. I'm not upset about his casting at all, but it does feel kinda weird. Again, we'll give it a few more eps. But lets be honest, with how they started the first ep of S10.. they done bought me right out for the whole season.Skinner's back, everyone is back! Im .. I just couldn't be happier to see them all again. Thank you show writers, creators, directors and actors. TY so very much for coming back.


                
... whether you actually do or not. On paper, it doesn't sound like much. Two FBI agents are teamed up - a believer in UFO's since as a child he witnessed the abduction of his sister by aliens - Fox Mulder - and Dana Scully, an M.D. and a skeptic about paranormal activity. I watched from the very first episode and there is just something magical about the chemistry of the entire thing. Scully is ordered into the assignment, and everybody believes Fox Mulder saw something awful happen to his sister, but they think his mind created the alien abduction scenario to help him cope with the shock. And so for seven years they encounter things for which maybe a logical explanation can be found, maybe not.I really loved X-Files, but I think I liked their individual episodes more than their story arcs, which, actually, were quite confusing. Was smoking man Mulder's biological father? Was Mulder's sister really kidnapped by aliens and gone for good or did she come back as some kind of cloned pseudo daughter for Smoking Man? Was Scully's baby just a case of "the doctors were wrong you can get pregnant"? Was he a product of an alien experiment she does not remember? I dunno. But the fact is people all over the Internet will tell you they do know that this or that was true when largely all we have are insinuations in the show itself, never explicit facts. Maybe this was done on purpose, and sometimes it made the show confusing but it always kept an air of mystery going on that was thoroughly compelling.As for the idea that Smoking Man - one of the true villains in the series and brilliantly and subtly played by William B. Davis - was at the center of every assassination of the 1960's - I always found that a bit Forrest Gumpish for me, but an interesting idea. (He wanted to be the one to kill Martin Luther King because he respected him so much???? What the...) My two most favorite episodes of the entire series were "Home" and "Clyde Bruckman's Final Repose" - neither of which did anything to advance a story arc but were great examples of just how good X-Files could be when everything came together to tell an interesting story in 50 minutes or so. If you watch "Home" from the beginning of season four I'll just tell you that you'll never be able to listen to "Wonderful Wonderful" sung by Johnny Mathis in quite the same way again. It will be like listening to "Layla" after you've seen Goodfellas.The thing the show did best? Showing a growing loving relationship between Mulder and Scully that maybe got physical and sexual and maybe did not. The point is they wisely never had a TADA! moment of consummation, the kind that killed "Moonlighting" and killed "Cheers" twice in the 80s by killing the sexual tension.The thing they did worst? Probably soldiering on for two seasons without David Duchovny for large chunks of those two seasons. Was it better than anything else on TV today - certainly. But even two characters that were well written and well characterized - Doggett and Reyes - could not replace Mulder. That is the only reason I did not rate this series as ten stars.Watch it from beginning to end - even the last two seasons - I think you'll find it time well spent.
Overall, X-Files remains a classic late night watch for me, whenever, wherever. I'll make this brief so here it goes.(I'm sorry if my bullet points mess up in the formatting)-Great acting and chemistry between David and Gillian. -Excellent writing with a slow, but enticing plot. -Original plot twists throughout the series. -Good supporting actors throughout the series, many famous actors too playing small roles (Before blowing up) -Greatsuspense, occasional thrills. -The entire show is original, and wellwritten regarding researched events. -Conspiracy, a seemingly open minded show. And not entirely unreasonable points but thats my opinion. -Great mixing of historical events with fiction.--- Once again, making it uniquely original. -Great character development! Creates a deep emotional connection with the viewer -Again, Humor mixed with thrills. Profoundly, and remarkably fun episodes. I could go on with these bullet points of why I love the show, but I am bound to repeat myself and draw this review out for too long. So take it for what it is. I would definitely recommend it, I don't know of many, if anyone, who can say it's not a stupefying show. Enjoy, it's ribbed for your pleasure........ ..... . .... ... .


                
I didn't start watching the X-Files until 2004. I am somewhat of a closet sci-fi geek but am generally not a fan of most Sci-fi/fantasy except for the creme de la creme like the Star Wars Saga and Lord of the Rings which are near obsessions.I guess X-Files started when I was in 8th grade and between school, sports and friends, I never really followed any TV shows seriously. Once X-Files moved to Friday night, that pretty much killed any hopes of me seeing it being the social butterfly that I was.Before 2004, I had only seen one episode of the X-Files ever, but I then started watching reruns of the X-Files late night on TNT and was immediately hooked. The mix of drama, quality acting and carefully planned out story lines with excruciatingly detailed knowledge of science is amazing and there is the perfect mix of drama and sci-fi to keep things balanced.For the past two years, I've probably seen every episode an average of 5 times. Can't tell you how many nights I stayed up until 4 or 5 in the morning watching marathons on TNT. When recently getting the seasons on DVD, my chronology is now straight and the continuous plot lines all make sense.I think seasons 1-6 are brilliant. This show has produced so many great characters including Mulder and Scully of course but the Cigarette Smoking Man might be one of the best characters ever on any television show. The elders of the Syndicate are phenomenal, too. And, of course X and Deep Throat were great, as are the slippery Krycek and the hot Marita Covorubbias.Being a late bloomer, I never held a grudge against Agents Dogget and Reyes as I wasn't entirely accustomed to Mulder and Scully yet. If anything, I thought Dogget's accent made him appear less intelligent. I think they did excellent jobs in seasons 8 and 9 but unfortunately, the conspiracies had just become too far-fetched and convoluted. Still entertaining, though.To me, Chris Carter's dream had peaked in the middle of Season 6, once the Syndicate was finally destroyed. One Son was one of the most mind-blowing episodes I had seen it. Carried so much weight.While still interesting, I just thought the writers were reaching for material to continue the conspiracy after Season 6. I liked the idea of a new conspiracy under the supersoldiers (even though they could have come up with a better name for them) but what happened to the alien human hybrid colonization program? Were they the new hybrids or there to insure the program was still in place. Did that conspiracy die with the syndicate and someone else was now in charge. If so, who was in charge here? The government, the aliens? Just too murky.Still. Incredible series.Favorite episodes: Two Fathers, One Son, Redux II, Leonard Betts, Paper Clip, Home, HerrenvolkLeast favorite: Fight Club, X-Cops
Now, since Gillian Anderson decided not to come back to X-files, I think Carter should consider Lauren Ambrose and Robbie Amell as replacements for Gillian and David. I know they are irreplaceable, but rather letting to be cancelled the show, they should do it. Besides, They were not that bad on the screen. Redhead female and brunet male. Just like the original characters in this show. I wouldn't be surprised if they put them on the screen on purpose. So the audience saw them. And in the future, in case they should replace Scully and Mulder with these two, the fans won't be that much upset, as they could be, if the choose some actors which they never saw before.


                
This episode must watch it it ALL the people of #metoo, generally all the people and especially the idiots that do not understand the meaning of innocent until proven guilty.


                
The 18-49 demo is what gives the Network heads their gauge on how a show is doing. Unless Chris Carter abandons the original Seasons 1-9 formula this may not see Season 12. In 1993 the pilot introduced us to our beloved Mulder and Scully. Episode 2 "Deep Throat" gave us the alien conspiracy. Episode 3 started the formula I like to call the "filler" Episodes. The patience of that generation before to wait for another alien themed episode was greater than today. I must admit in my "Old Age" (LOL Again) 63 years young that my patience level with filler Ep's is not what it was. There is too much TV out there to watch. In 1993 it was not until Episode 17 till we really touched back on the alien takeover. That's too long for today's 18-49's. Episode #10 to get back to the William part of the saga. Toooooooo LoooooongChris, "Scrap That"!Bring back the other two agents from season ten. Give them the "filler" Ep's. Then every week Mulder and Scully can focus on CSM and the conspiracy. If this is not done soon, I'm afraid a big Red circle with a red bar through the center will be over the X-Files. The 6 Rating only is for season 11. Chris make it a 10 please.


                
I am a longtime fan of the X-Files franchise. In my opinion, this was the best sci-fi show on TV during the 90s. David Duchovny and Gillian Anderson played the main roles of Fox Maulder and Dana Scully. I remember when I was a younger; I watched the first couple episodes I was hooked on the series. The whole sci-fi, UFO, alien abductions, story line was interesting to me. If you are a newer generation of TV watchers, I recommend this series to anyone interested in the sci-fi genre. It's a smart, well written series. I hope this review helps others who are looking for something different. The truth is out there. Cheers.


                
And they were right, when it first came out I would insist to stay up 'late' and watch it with them and most episodes would scare me. But by the time I was 10 that stopped happening and I started to enjoy one of the best sci-fi shows ever made. My parents have always liked sci-fi quite a bit so I was exposed to the x-files, alien, the terminator, 2001 a space odyssey, all the classic shows and movies by a young age.At 26 now I have recently re-watched the show and some parts are still creepy and the show definitely holds up all these years later.What makes the show so good, its hard to say, but I think its the way Mulder and Scully are always portrayed in a realistic believable way. Mulder always like that 'one consspiracy nut' we probably all know, and Scully acts like the super logical 'know-it-all rationalist' that we probably also all know.Even the 8th and 9th seasons where David Duchovny takes a limited role are still enjoyable, though not as much as the first 7.Throughout all of them however there is a good balance of 'monster of the week' style episodes where a one of x-file is dealt with, keeping the main story episodes spaced out far enough to always keep you on your toes and guessing, and most importantly, anxious to watch the next episode and see what happens.They don't make TV like this any more. If you haven't seen it yet stop reading and go, start and S1E1 and enjoy you won't be disappointed.


                
Chris Carter created this long-running series that starred David Duchovny & Gillian Anderson as FBI agents Fox Mulder(the believer) & Dana Scully(the skeptic), who spent nine seasons investigating the paranormal and government conspiracies(ghosts, UFO's, monsters, mutants, etc.) usually covered up by the Smoking Man(played by William B. Davis). Mitch Pileggi played their boss A.D. Skinner, who had to walk a fine line between helping them, but protecting himself against the other. Most episodes were exciting and well-made, with only a few real duds over the years, but far more classics, and epitomizes the 1990's feeling of false security. Trend-setting and influential show that is still popular today.


                
After 2000, we've had some great TV shows, like The Wire, Sopranos and Breaking Bad. Maybe we have to credit Sopranos for that, which created this new tier of TV drama. In the nineties we didn't have shows like that. But if there was a TV show of which each episode looked like a movie, it was The X-Files.I don't know any other show that had more memorable episodes than The X- Files. I mean, I would say Breaking Bad (created by an X-Files writer) is a better show than The X-Files. But I don't think it has as many memorable episodes as The X-Files had. Each episode of The X-Files was a short movie, and some of those were very good. I never get tired of watching the pilot episode. There are other favorites as well, such as "The Field Where I died", "Musings of a Cigarette Smoking Man", "Home" etc.What I liked the most about the show were the characters Fox Mulder and Dana Scully. David Duchovny and Gillian Anderson played them so well. The chemistry between them was just fantastic. In fact, I think theirs are the best love story there's ever been on television.The writing was great too. What other show has had William Gibson and Stephen King writing episodes for it? Every episode gives you something to think about, even if the stuff that they give you to think maybe totally crazy. The reason I gave The X-Files 9, not 10 is because the show wasn't consistent. When The X-files was at its strongest, there was nothing better than it. It could even compete with Breaking Bad or Sopranos. But towards the end of the series, it deteriorated, especially after Duchovny's departure from the show. Even before that, some episodes weren't as good as the others. The X-Files really was a series of movies. Some of them weren't as good as the others.Still, it was the best show of the 90s


                
Possibly THE show of the 90's, this was one of those odd moments in TV history whereby a genre specific, cult show hits the mainstream big time. Of course, once the sheep are told by their chosen newspapers that they should be watching it, they follow faithfully and, in this case, it can only have been damaging.The first three series are stunning: Original, thought provoking and frightening, but once it was realised that it was popular, the experimentation and self congratulation began.Tense, dramatic and intelligent, with some of the best atmospheric music outside of an Italian Giallo movie, this started out just great. There's still some merit in series 4 through 7, but the hits are less frequent than before.I guess the good times can never last for long.....Seasons 8 & 9 - Finally got round to watching Season 8 and, wow, I was blown away. Defying all expectations, the series really returns to form as new FBI Agent John Doggett, played superbly well by Robert Patrick, joins the fray. He's the skeptic and, in a reversal of her original role, Scully is the open-minded believer. Frank Spotnitz and Chris Carter appear to handle most writing duties, which explains the lift in quality as, crucially, the intensity of the first three seasons is back, as electrifying as ever.A great revival.
The X Files was created by Chris Carter, has music by Mark Snow and stars David Duchovny, Gillian Anderson, William B.Davis, Robert Patrick and Mitch Pilleggi. Regular guest stars include Jerry Hardin, Nicholas Lea, Steven Williams, Tom Braidwood, Bruce Harwood and Dean Haglund.When he was a boy, Fox Mulder (David Duchovny) witnessed his younger sister Samatha being abducted by aliens.Several years later he joins the FBI and there he starts a unit called the X Files that deals with cases of the paranormal and brutal unexplained murders. He works alone until the early 1990's when he is partnered with Agent Dana Scully(Gillian Anderson), Scully has been assigned to him and is supposed to find reasons why his work is not credible but she sees things that she cant deny and finds it difficult to discredit him.The two slowly become friends.They investigate seriously weird and frightening cases and meet some very twisted murderers. They also discover that their government and governments around the world know of the existence of aliens and are covering that fact up. These men are led by a mysterious man known only as the cigarette smoking man (William B. Davis), he and those who work for him are constantly trying to stop Mulder and Scully from finding out the truth. Mulder has a series of mystery informers, men and women who know the truth and want to help bring it to light, even if that means their own lives are at stake. My favourites of these are Deep Throat (Jerry Hardin)and Mr X(Steven Williams). Mulder and Scully also have help from a trio called The Lone Gunmen.In the last episode of season 7 Mulder disappears and Scully now pregnant is paired with Agent John Doggett (Robert Patrick) an ex marine and cop. I think their pairing is just as good as Mulder and Scully and plus John is such a cool character, really tough and so loyal to Scully.The first five seasons are the best, there is a realism to them that is lacking in later seasons. These seasons also contain some of the best Mulder and Scully moments. As the series goes on Mulder comes to care more and about Scully and she becomes the most important thing in his life. Throughout the series there was a sexual tension between these two characters and the audience was left wondering if they would become romantically involved or not. Creepy, suspenseful and thrilling The X Files is a series that really sucks you in. Filled with memorable characters and featuring some really disturbing story lines this is one to watch.My favourite seasons are 2,3,4,5 and 8. Season 2 contains some of the darkest and most disturbing episodes of the entire series, it's also the season where Scully ends up becoming really important to Mulder and he realises he never wants to lose her.
