Elizabeth Gaskell may have invented the concept of the North/South divide in British society - some commentators think so. The adaptation of her novel makes it clear that although the North is viewed as a scary place for young Margaret Hale as she is forced to move there, she eventually falls in love with the working people she meets and with a mill owner, John Thornton, played movingly by Richard Armitage. I hope that people will find the social message of Gaskell's story relevant for today even though many viewers will be caught up in the central love story. The story deals with the infancy of the trade union movement and for those of us who had ancestors in the cotton industry, is very important in its portrayal of the dangerous working conditions. Reading the book is well worth the effort because it provides more insight in to the motivations of the characters and explains why they eventually grow to love each other. This is a very enjoyable TV drama and is worth repeating - hopefully the BBC will do so!


                
I bought the DVD version for my wife; she liked the book and enjoyed the BBC version of Wives & Daughters. I've probably seen far too many BBC costume dramas, but we were both gripped immediately and watched the whole thing in one sitting - all four hours. The story is set mainly in England's industrial North West during the 1850s, a time when even the rich seemed on the verge of destitution.The hero is John Thornton (Richard Armitage) a self-made mill owner, who initially appears to be an aloof and brutal tyrant (Mr. Darcy with a Northern accent). The heroine is Margaret Hale (Daniela Denby-Ashe) a clergyman's daughter from Hampshire who finds it difficult to fit into northern society. Hale's family don't have a lot of money and seem out of place. She befriends the family of a union leader and causes controversy by speaking her mind about working conditions in the mills. The story is based on a novel by Mrs. Gaskell, and the central characters go through some hardships and misunderstandings before they reach the predictable happy ending. The BBC is very good at this sort of thing. The story was well told with excellent acting, especially from Armitage, Sinead Cusack and Tim Piggott Smith. The characters were articulate and the plot was both credible and absorbing. Overall, it was an enjoyable series.


                
While Jane Austen preferred her "little bit of ivory", and Charlotte Brontë her wild open moorland and "bonny beck", Brontë's great friend (and biographer) Elizabeth Gaskell combined both traditions, and yet contributed a something that was her own: an intense social consciousness based on actual experience. The themes of her great work "North and South" (an exploration of the emerging industrial North of the mid-nineteenth century through the eyes of the beautiful, stately Southerner, Margaret Hale) reverberate keenly today. England still has its 'north-south' divide; class and snobbery still prevail; unions still fight for the rights of workers.The BBC's adaptation did make me gasp at times in the slightly shocking liberties it takes with the text <U+0096> but it's missing the point to dwell too fiercely on this. I was glued to my TV as it appeared each week. It's great stuff, an intense love story and a fascinating glimpse into the industrial North. Heroine Margaret Hale's bruising contact with mill-owner John Thornton is wonderfully played out with great intensity by Daniela Denby-Ashe and Richard Armitage (mmm more please<U+0085>!) and I enjoy it for its own sake, in much the same way that the BBC's 90's "Pride and Prejudice" adaptation is hugely enjoyable as a thing quite apart from its source material. (Yes, I'm thinking of that frankly ludicrous 'wet shirt' scene.) Sinead Cusack's Mrs Thornton is absolutely outstanding but both Denby-Ashe and particularly Armitage deserve no less praise for their work. Incidentally, for those a little mystified by the somewhat harsh repositioning of Thornton in the early part of this adaptation as a beater-up of poor men, the helpful DVD commentary does explain that to modern readers, the Thornton of the book doesn't really do anything 'wrong' to deserve Margaret's wholesale disapproval: for the show his actions had to be a little more decided.Gaskell wrote "North and South" with the title "Margaret" in mind, and I can't help thinking that it's the truer title of this adaptation. It's her story. "North and South" has a great deal going for it, over and above its stars: beautiful background music; amazing sets <U+0096> in particular the very dramatic cotton mill reconstruction - and utterly fulfils the BBC's brief to both entertain and to educate. I agree with the reviewer from Australia: if you like this, watch the BBC's 1995 drama "Persuasion" with Amanda Root and Ciaran Hinds for perhaps the finest adaptation of a classic novel I've ever seen.


                
Powerful, brilliant, captivating adaptation of Elizabeth Gaskell's masterpiece. The casting is perfect. Each and every actor is where he/she is meant to be. The atmosphere, the spirit are delivered perfectly.Richard Armitage....well, there's no need to say anything. He is The One and Only Mr.Thornton ever :) He seems to step down from the pages of the novel.Daniela Danby-Ashe as Margaret is so breathtakingly beautiful, you can't take your eyes off her luminous face as if chiselled of marble. But her play even more so betters her beauty.And - by the way - the music is outstanding! Enchanting and beautiful, very genuinely creating the atmosphere. The only flaw of the film is that they - for some reason - cut out few of the most crucial dialogs/lines between the leading characters. Well, they are not cut out entirely, but thoroughly changed, and, though are pretty fine in their own merit, would be much better for them to be the exact quotations from the novel. For example the scene of the first proposal and the final scene of reaching the understanding between John Thornton and Margaret. These scenes were made wonderfully....but - if the film-makers followed exactly the dialogs as they were put in the book (especially Thornton's lines and expressive manner) - it would be by far more perfect and breathtaking than it already is. So, my vote "9", not "10" - for these little but crucial (from my point of view) alterations from the original dialogs of the book.
Have you ever sat down to watch something and found that the programme was not the one you thought it was? Well this happened to me. My Wife ordered North and South from a DVD rental service expecting it to be about the American civil war but instead we got this. It took all of two seconds to realise that we had received the wrong one but something stopped me from switching off. And that something was quality. From the opening scenes I could see that I was watching a quality piece of television, North and South is period drama set during the early industrial age of Great Britain showing us both sides of the industrial divide. The underpaid workers and their bosses and the young lass who like us sees both sides. The acting is excellent! The girl who plays Margaret Hale is a revelation. I say this because I know her to be an actress that has been in 215 episodes of a popular evening soap in the UK and sometimes it is very difficult to see these actors in other roles even when they do different things. However Miss Denby-Ashe manages this transition effortlessly and that is the mark of a truly great actress. As for the actor that played Mr Thornton, I have always believed that no one could match Colin Firth in the role of Mr Darcy of Pride and Prejudice well I believe Richard Armitage could be a good Mr Darcy and this is high praise indeed! I am writing this and I am only half way through this period drama. I have ordered episodes three and four and come pay day I shall purchase the DVD for myself.So if you like good TV, an excellent story played by exceptional actors you will not be disappointed by watching North and South based on the book by Elizabeth Gaskell. I should mention Ms Cusack who plays Mrs Thornton, another great actress who speaks the northern accent excellently. I have Just finished watching episodes three and four and all I can say is that I want more!! I am a romantic and the last scene was excellent but it ended all to quickly. I would have liked to see Mr Thornton and Margaret go back to Milton, get married and get the mill running again. That is what good TV does, it leaves you wanting more. Excellent TV and I will be ordering the DVD forthwith!!!


                
It is with no doubt different than an ordinary American love story as there are so many already- obviously you would say since it's from BBC. It is deeper, more subtle -subtlety: that's what's missing in today's American TV shows, and more real.In many ways I think this movie can be qualified as a good one: the characters do not completely change their opinions towards the factory although they do evolve. The love they have for each other doesn't make them change what they think or how they act, but more their ways of seeing thing: they both become more and more understanding towards the other point of view without totally refuting their own and that is new and refreshing in cinema I think. Also it shows a part of the Great Britain I hadn't seen anywhere else; and the way they contrast the ways of living in the south and the north is instructive, it shows how work can really shape a region.Moreover, I think that the cameraman's work is brilliant! The compositions of the scenes are so well done! And the way there's always cotton (this death kisser) around or snow (this pure lovely thing) is very interesting.Anyways I won't expand myself any further on the subject because I don't know if I can stop but good job to the BBC its movies are always so well done (from what I've seen so far) and so fascinating (here I go again, I really am stopping now).


                
I'm almost ashamed to say that I did not like N&S very much after first watching it. Back then I probably compared it directly to the eternal BBC "Pride&Prejudice" - my period-drama-gateway-drug. Maybe I also watched the (german)synchronised version and that's never as good as the original - I don't remember. So the DVD was ignored for years. BUT THEN one day I watched it again (and numerous times since ;) and was very surprised that I found it truly engaging and very, very romantic. So it may be worth to give it another chance and (to all Germans:) pleeeaaaase, whenever possible watch it in the English original. I think everything else is already said in all the other review. I only want to point out that E. Gaskells work can't and shouldn't be directly compared to Jane Austens work (which I LOVE!). Gaskell emphasizes strongly on social issues and the story is told from different points of view. I also read the book by now and found it a little difficult.It's not a mere love story but focuses also on the above metioned social issues.But once I got into that, I really enjoyed it. And I like the story especially for the fact that we also learn about how John Thorton feels and thinks. Still, I probably would not have read the book unless I had seen the series before. So I'm, glad I did....


                
This film was a real treat, a very intelligent piece of film-making. The script was colourful and intricate, costumes and sets atmospheric and cast flawless. The supporting actors were particularly good, presenting a believable mix of humour and pathos. There have been quite a few adaptations of famous English literature recently for film, with mixed results- this is one of the best. 'North and South' is interesting in that it is first a deep and provocative social commentary on 19th century Britan, and deals with themes central to modern life also. Secondly, it is a love story, but without the schmaltzy stereotypes so familiar in period drama. The leads give intriguing and human performances of the deeply flawed John Thornton and Margaret Hale. Thumbs up, BBC!


                
If you love pride and prejudice you'll probably love this.


                
What i really liked from this movie-adaptation was the acting. Then the characters. Ok, Margaret was a bit annoying at times. But at least, that is considered as the best Armitage role: John Thorton.
He was also great in Hobbits, Robin Hood, Into The Storm, Pilgrimage, Captain America and Castlevania. I guess in Urban And The Shed Crew too, but i have not seen it yet. Also, in The Phantom Menace, Cleopatra and Alice Through The Looking Glass. He is a gem with words. The only projects of him.i did not like were the awkard Sleepwalkers and stupid Berlin Station.


                
I enjoyed North & South because of a few things: the beautiful setting and cinematography and the fact that the characters are so believable! The actors are very good and Richard Armitage is fantastic! He is handsome, charming, he has that kind of authority that makes for a great leading male-role. Daniela Denby-Ashe is also worthy of her role, I like her modest, soft beauty, it goes so well with the century portrayed and her role, just perfect.I applaud the makers of this film, it is worth watching and enjoyable. If I am however to comment on something North & South is very much lacking... it is suspense. You just know from the beginning that Margaret is going to end up with Thornton, the whole thing is just postponing THE moment when they declare their love for one another. I would have expected a more intricate design. Too straightforward, you know where it is heading and once it takes you there there is no wow-moment.
