Every genre has to be judged by its own standards. To be good, a drama film should be interesting, a mystery film should be mysterious and surprising, a musical should have good songs, a horror film should be frightening, and more to the point here, a comedy should be funny. There. I said it. A comedy should at some point have some joke that is in some way amusing. This seems to me to be a pretty solid and logical test of quality. And going by it, Some Like it Hot is not a good movie. In fact, it's an utterly terrible movie. Don't accuse me of being unable to deal with subtle humor; I can. P.G. Wodehouse and Henry Fielding are subtle, and I really like them. This isn't subtle. This is really in your face and painfully, dreadfully unfunny. There seriously isn't one joke in this that isn't massively predictable and totally unamusing. And as for the acting? They're not brilliant performances. They're really, really annoying, and it made me happy when all three of the main characters just stopped talking. This is a comedy, and a comedy is supposed to be funny. This isn't funny, and so it's a catastrophic failure. I suppose I'm happy for those of you as can find something to enjoy here, but I really don't get what it is.


                
A film containing at least one of the best actors of the 50's and 60' Jack Lemmon. I feel he is the star of the film and carries to an extent some of the other performances. The film is well set in the 1929 period and faithful to the period detail. However I feel despite being a huge Jack Lemmon Fan that it has not faired well from the passage of time. With a lot of films of 40 to 50 years ago there is a tendency to view with rosy coloured glasses and not from having sat through it again and critically evaluated it. The humour is particularly dated and the plot with honesty thin. Okay it was a great film for its time, but films have improved in the 48 years since this was made.


                
Stands the test of time, does it? If the movie and its subject matter weren't so utterly tame by today's standards, perhaps this assertion would hold, but as it is, this heap is a relic of the deep dark past. There were two (and only two!) moments wherein I didn't actually laugh, but merely stated: "that was kind of funny..." that's it, I spoke the words, didn't actually laugh! The only thing that stands out about this "greatest comedy of all time" is the fact that Marilyn Monroe is so chunky! Not to condone our societies current body image ideals, but if Marilyn Monroe was even attempting to make it into movies these days, I doubt she would get her foot in the door... yet another counter to the "stands the test of time" statements. Additionally, neither of the two lead actors' performances even hold up to much of their other work... come on, tony Curtis was funnier in Spartacus! And Lemmon, as we know, just aged like a fine wine. At best, this is a really lame rated-G caliber attempted goof-ball romp that should entertain only very young children; but in reality, it is just an incredibly boring old movie that should not have survived past the decade in which it was born.


                
Milton Berle dressed up as a woman on the television of the early days. It was not funny and when transferred to the big screen, as in some like it hot, it still isn't. Instead of Uncle Miltie, we are treated to Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon in drag hiding from mobsters involved in the saint valentines day massacre. They play musicians on tour with Marilyn Monroe and oh it is so damn hilarious to watch the pair try to hide the fact that they are red blooded American males who would love to jump the blonde bombshells bones.Monroe looks good but both her singing and acting are quite ordinary. I have never been mesmerized by the whole Norma Jean cult which has always escaped me. Curtis and Lemmon try to hard and might as well be drag queens in a John Waters film. I love to laugh and I never did sitting through this bad comedy.


                
One other reviewer wrote: "Lemmon's Daphne is one of the most incredible and masterful acting jobs in the history of cinema." Such hyperbole pretty much says it all about this film. It's a wacky zany comedy. It's well written, so a good percentage of the jokes hit. Furthermore, the reviewers who noted that the film stands the test of time pretty well have got that right. It's still funny today.However, so are the Three Stooges.At the end of the day, this is a very good comedy. But, those who give it some sort of special or iconic status are doubtlessly seeing things through some Marilyn or other golden age colored glasses. The acting is not that much better than many other period films nor is the subject matter particularly differentiating (despite numerous claims otherwise in various other reviews, the guys-dressing-as-girls-and-getting-laughs idea was pretty well worn even by the late 50s.) Rather, good writing carries the day and makes it a great movie for a rainy Saturday afternoon.And nothing more.


                
After an hour of grueling agony, my wife and I had to turn this god-awful waste of videotape off.  There wasn't anything even remotely funny in it, and everyone acted like a moron, especially Monroe's character. In fact, Marilyn Monroe showed off genuine talent because it's not easy to act that stupid.  She played the quintessential DUMB Blonde. In fact, the only good thing in the movie was that the acting was pretty good.  But good acting can in no way make up for idiot characters and dialogue, a weak story and inept direction.


                
Some like it boring. But not me. This is a very boring movie. With a very boring story line. It is not funny at all. I do not knew people like it. How boring does a comedy have to be before people do not like it.


                
Marilyn Monroe wearing dresses that expose a lot of her breast and a dress that goes so far down she might as well wear nothing. This is awful for a movie made in 1959.Tony Curtis dressing up as a female, changing and his voice is not funny.The reason for the men dressing up as women is stupid and I don't think the reason the writers use is legitimate for dressing up men like women to escape gangsters.This is a movie transsexuals will enjoy. A lot of series with homosexuals are being put back on TV like: Frasier with 2 gays in real life but are his father and his brother on TV, Modern Family-gay fathers, Will and Grace-more homos, Murder she wrote has many homosexual actors, Ellen series she is a homosexual.Who is TV, Comcast and other trying to promote.TV makes me sick I am starting to hate TV


                
