Why a man would want to marry another man? asks Tony Curtis, Security! Jack Lemmon replays without missing a beat. Clearly he had put the question to himself before and had arrived to a perfectly sensible conclusion. Everything in this gem of a movie had been thought so cleverly and as it turned out so prophetically, that the world of our three characters, a world of prohibition and gang wars could be today and more than likely will be tomorrow. Billy Wilder analyzes human nature with an acid eye and a glorious panache for underlining our most endearing features. Our frailties. Marilyn Monroes is at her pick, the sadness in her eyes a startling metaphor in a comedy about wanting. Tony Curtis with an Eve Arden's pout is so beautiful, so charming, imitating Cary Grant and trying to be himself that, in my mind he'll be always be in a frock. And, of course, Jack Lemmon, throwing himself into the part, body and should. Only perfection can allow to end its course with a line like "Nobody's perfect"


                
Admittedly biased, "Some Like It Hot" can certainly stand on its own merit with or without my thunderous round of applause.  More than a decade ago, I had the privilege of performing both the Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon roles in "Sugar," the musical adaptation of "Some Like It Hot" which originally starred Tony Roberts, Robert Morse and Elaine Joyce on Broadway in the 70s. Though it hardly compares to the film's original (how could it???), the musical nevertheless is still a big hit with live audiences.  I can't remember ever having a better time on stage than I did with "Sugar," and it's all due to the irrepressible talents that instigated it all.In the 1959 classic, Curtis and Lemmon play two ragtag musicians scraping to make ends meet in Prohibition-era Chicago during the dead of winter who accidentally eyewitness a major gangland rubout (aka the St. Valentine's Day Massacre).  Barely escaping with their lives (their instruments aren't quite as lucky), our panicky twosome is forced to take it on the lam.  Scared out of their shoes (sorry), the boys don heels and dresses after they connect with an all-girl orchestra tour headed for sunny Florida.  Killing two birds with one stone, they figure why not go south for the winter while dodging the mob?  Once they hit the coast, they'll ditch both the band and their humiliating outfits.  Enter a major detour in the form of  luscious Marilyn Monroe as Sugar Kane, given one of the sexiest (yet innocent) entrances ever afforded a star. Snugly fit in flashy 'Jazz Age' threads, a blast from the locomotive's engine taunts her incredible hour-glass figure as she rushes to catch her train to Florida.  The boys, stopped dead in their high-heeled tracks by this gorgeous vision, decide maybe the gig might not be so bad after all. As the totally unreliable but engagingly free-spirited vocalist/ukelele player for the band, Sugar gets instantly chummy with the "girls" when they cover for her after getting caught with a flask of booze.  As things progress, complications naturally set in - playboy Curtis falls for Monroe but has his "Josephine" guise to contend with, while Lemmon's "Daphne" has to deal with the persistently amorous attentions of a handsy older millionaire.  What results is an uproarious Marx Brothers-like farce with mistaken identities, burlesque-styled antics, and a madcap chase finale, all under the exact supervision of director Billy Wilder, who also co-wrote the script.  Lemmon and Curtis pull off the silly shenanigans with customary flair and are such a great team, you almost wish THEY ended up together! Curtis does a dead-on Cary Grant imitation while posing as a Shell Oil millionaire to impress Marilyn; Lemmon induces campy hilarity in his scenes with lecherous Joe E. Brown (who also gets to deliver the film's blue-ribbon closing line).  As for the immortal Monroe, she is at her zenith here as the bubbly, vacuous, zowie-looking flapper looking for love in all the wrong places.  Despite her gold-digging instincts, Monroe's Sugar is cozy, vulnerable and altogether loveable, getting a lot of mileage too out of her solo singing spots, which include the kinetic "Running Wild," the torchy "I'm Through With Love," and her classic "boop-boop-a-doop" signature song, "I Wanna Be Loved by You."The film is dotted with fun, atmospheric characters.   Pat O'Brien and George Raft both get to spoof their Warner Bros. stereotypes as cop vs. gangster, Joan Shawlee shows off a bit of her stinger as the by-the-rules bandleader Sweet Sue, Mike Mazurki overplays delightfully the archetypal dim-bulbed henchman, and, if I'm not mistaken, I think that's young Billy Gray of "Father Knows Best" fame (the role is not listed in the credits) playing a snappy, pint-sized bellhop who comes on strong with the "girls."For those headscratchers who can't figure out why the so-called "mild" humor of "Some Like It Hot" is considered such a classic today, I can only presume that they have been brought up on, or excessively numbed by, the graphic, mindless toilet humor of present-day "comedies."  There was a time when going for a laugh had subtlety and purity - it relied on wit, timing, inventiveness and suggestion - not shock or gross-out value.  It's the difference between Sid Caesar and Andrew "Dice" Clay; between Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon and Chris Farley and David Spade; between "I Love Lucy" and "Married With Children"; between Lemmon's novel use of maracas in the hilarious "engagement" sequence, and Cameron Diaz's use of hair gel in a scene that ANYBODY could have made funny.  Jack Lemmon could do more with a pair of maracas than most actors today could do with a whole roomful of props.  While "Some Like It Hot" bristles with clever sexual innuendo, today's "insult" comedies are inundated with in-your-face sexual assault which, after awhile, gets quite tiresome -- lacking any kind of finesse and leaving absolutely nothing to the imagination.  I still have hope...Having ultimate faith in my fellow film devotees, THAT is why "Some Like It Hot" will (and should be) considered one of THE screwball classics of all time, and why most of today's attempts will (and should be) yesterday's news.


                
In 1929, in Chicago, the musicians and friends Joe (Tony Curtis) and Jerry (Jack Lemmon) flees from the night-club where they are playing during a police raid. Without any money, they seek a job position for saxophone and bass players in another band and they are invited to play in a concert for one night only in a distant town. Joe borrows the car of a former girlfriend to travel and when they arrive in the parking garage, they witness the "Saint Valentine's Day Massacre" led by the infamous mobster Spats Columbo (George Raft). The criminals discover Joe and Jerry hidden in a corner and when the killers are ready to execute them, they succeed to escape. Joe and Jerry disguise, dressing like women and they head to Florida by train with an all-girl band using the names of Josephine and Daphne. They get close to singer Sugar Kane Kowalczyk (Marilyn Monroe) and Joe falls in love with her but she believes he is a woman. Meanwhile the millionaire Osgood Fielding III (Joe E. Brown) harasses Daphne inviting her to visit his yacht. When Spats and his henchmen arrive in the same hotel where Joe and Jerry are lodged for a mafia convention, the two musicians feel that they are in a dangerous situation.Yesterday Tony Curtis died and I decided to watch "Some Like it Hot" again. This film is another masterpiece of Billy Wilder and certainly one of the best comedies of the cinema history. Jack Lemmon is hilarious and responsible for some of the funniest moments especially when Osgood flirts with Daphne. Marilyn Monroe performs the perfect dumb blonde stereotype. Last time I had seen this movie was on 18 August 2000. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "Quanto Mais Quente Melhor" ("The Hotter, the Better")


                
Some people still say this is the greatest comedy ever made in Hollywood. Who am I to argue? Even after 45 years, it's still very funny and not the least bit dated. It is one of the true classics in the history of film.I know one thing: Marilyn Monroe never looked hotter!The film is a wonderful combination of comedy, action, suspense and romance with great old-time gangster scenes played out first in Chicago and then in Miami Beach. George Raft and Nehimiah Persoff are just great as gangsters.The stars, though, are Monroe, Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis but you can also enjoy performances from famous known actors like Pat O'Brien and Joe E. Brown. The action scenes are in the beginning and end. In the middle, the bulk of the film, is the main story featuring comedy and romance. Lemmon has the best lines in the film and his facial expressions alone evoke lots of laughter.This film is so famous that there is no need going into detail, but for some younger person reading this, don't worry about this being an old-fashioned, boring black-and-white film your parents or grandparents liked but you would find boring. You'll have fun watching this, too, I guarantee it.


                
One of the all time great screen comedies, Some Like It Hot stars Marilyn Monroe, Tony Curtis, and Jack Lemmon at their best. Billy Wilder, one of the all time great directors, co-wrote and directed this fantastic movie.Set in 1929, Lemmon and Curtis are out of work musicians who witness the St. Valentine's Day Massacre. Fleeing for their lives, they disguise themselves as female musicians in order to get to Florida and away from the mob. This is where the fun begins.Renamed "Daphne" and "Josephine" they try their best to keep their secret. But when "Josephine"(Curtis) meets sexy ukulele player Sugar Kane (Marilyn Monroe) you know he's going to blow his cover somehow. While Curtis tries to woo Monroe by pretending to be her dream man as she has told him, Lemmon is courted by Osgood Fielding (Joe E. Brown). Curtis adapts a Cary Grant accent and pretends to be frigid in the movie's funniest scenes. Lemmon seems to forget he's a boy and has so much fun with Fielding and adores the things he buys him. Between the cases of mistaken and pretend identities, the mobsters come to Florida for their Opera Lovers Meeting. It all winds up with a hilarious ending.This movie is a gem from start to finish. Curtis, Monroe, and Brown are great in their parts. Monroe brings a funny and sexy vulnerability to Sugar and Curtis is great with his performance as "Josephine" and the stuffy millionaire who talks just like Cary Grant. Lemmon really steals the movie here. He invests Daphne with such enthusiasm that we can understand why he's falling for Osgood. He's having way too much fun and it's great to watch him. This is a true classic from start to finish. It's recommended for anyone who likes to laugh.Grade:A+


                
I just saw this movie for the first time and I'm kicking myself for waiting so long!! It's a rare film that makes me laugh out loud, but I definitely made some noise watching this one! Jack Lemmon gave one of the most hysterical performances I've ever seen; add Tony Curtis, Marilyn Monroe, and one hell of a script and you have the classic comedy that all others must try to live up to. I'd give this move a 15 if they'd let me.


                
I was never one of those kids who watched Star Wars over 100 times (actually just once or twice) and find that even the moves I rate in my top twenty can only bear watching a couple of times a year. This is the exception.Every time I watch this film, I notice something else that makes me laugh - I cannot think of a weak performance or a dodgy line.I love the fact that George Raft gives the impression that he was not told that it was a comedy and plays the chief mobster completely straight. Contrasting this with the silliness of some of his underlings is priceless stuff, though rarely slapstick (homage to Cagney aside).Ultimately it's the tight and witty script matched by an excellent cast that makes this film a pleasure for me.


                
...But there's more to 'Some Like It Hot' than just it's cross-dressing element. This is a terrific comedy farce that may just well be the funniest film ever made (AFI certainly agrees with me, naming 'Some Like It Hot' as the No.1 comedy of all time in their list).So many great gags and an unbelievably witty script filled with double entendres are just some of the reasons to watch this. Lemmon gives maybe his greatest comedy performance, in the deliciously over-the-top role of Jerry/Daphne. Lemmon's completely uninhibited performance in drag works well with Tony Curtis' more self-conscious Joe/Josephine. Today the modern viewer sees this film with many homosexual overtones, but the film-makers made a point to stress the pair's heterosexuality in this film. They are given a very good reason to be in drag- they are on the run from mob bosses after witnessing the St Valentine's Day massacre. Disguised as female musicians, they join an all-girls band and meet boozy singer Sugar (Monroe).Without Monroe's performance (difficultly elicited from her), this film would not be half the classic it is today. Her presence illuminated every film she was in, and her dumb-blonde demeanor belied a great acting talent. Marilyn certainly is great here as the floozy Sugar Kane who is lonely and on the look for love.Joe E. Brown has a lot of fun with his role as a rich millionaire who falls in love Lemmon's Daphne. He also gets the best line of the film. George Raft appears to be sending himself and his suspected gangster connections up in his role as Spats Colombo, the mob boss who wants Lemmon and Curtis fixed up.Very sexy dialogue, costumes from Monroe (pretty much see-through!) and the gender-bending turns from the boys combine for great fun, but some forget how Wilder achieved the great atmosphere of this film. He made a conscious decision to shoot in black-and-white not only to lessen the impact of two males playing women, but for authenticity. This is set in 1929, and Wilder wanted the gritty feel of the Prohibition-era. One is reminded of Hawks' 'Scarface' in a number of scenes (this could also be due to the presence of Raft), and there are many gags referring to the historical period. Watch the mentions of Valentino, Pickford, Fairbanks and Wall Street and you'll see what I mean.Loads and loads of FUN! 10/10.
A Comedy that has it all, and lacks absolutely nothing. "Nobody's perfect" may be an inherent truism, but "Some Like it Hot" is a definite somebody in the universe of cinema, thus it IS perfect in every sense. Swing, sex and slapstick, (three words that immediately come to mind when trying to describe it) , are a mix so delicious, so fruitful in its possibilities that one cannot imagine a film which can live up to them, and yet this one does. Marilyn, her trademark, displeasingly infantile voice aside, is a bombshell of thermonuclear dimensions, whose powers of titillation will not expire so long as there are hormones and/or Viagra. The sexual content, for socio-historical reasons cannot be as explicit as we've come to expect, but there's still plenty of it, from Monroe's see-through outfit to the double entendre worthy of the Farelli Brothers ("What do I do if it's an emergency ? - Pull the emergency break!" ), including overtly gay themes that have a cult following of their own. The Lemmon/Curtis duo operates with gleeful, unrestrained vitality that can only be likened to Chaplin in his heyday. Though not a Musical, the combustive energy of this movie is so stimulating it almost makes you get up and dance.


                
In 1929 Chicago, gangsters rule. Especially Spats Colombo (George Raft) who runs a speak-easy in the back area of a funeral home. That's where bass player, Jerry (Jack Lemmon) and saxophonist Joe (Tony Curtis) have gotten their latest gigs. On payday, though, the place is raided, with many folks arrested. J and J manage to flee, however, on the fire escape. Needing a car a day later, to drive to a job in Urbana, these two musicians unhappily end up at a garage where they witness the St. Valentine's Day massacre. Spats wants to gun them down, too, but they evade bullets and make it out when sirens approach. However, since Spats knows who they are, there will be nowhere to hide. That is, unless they disguise themselves as women and join an all-girl band on the way to Florida! Ha! Yes, Josephine and Daphne, in lipstick and heels, are reborn. Almost immediately, there are problems. Daphne's bosom becomes detached while the leader of the band, Sweet Sue, senses there is something different about these gals. However, worst of all, there is a gorgeous dame, Sugar Kane (Marilyn Monroe) who sings and plays the ukelele. Daphne has to keep saying "I'm a girl, I'm a girl whenever Sugar waltzes by while Joe is equally smitten. When they finally make it to Miami, Daphne becomes the object of affection for a rich millionaire, Osgood (Joe E. Brown). If Osgood succeeds in courting "her", she could become his ninth wife. Then, Joe, itching to romance Sugar, disguises himself at off hours as another rich boy, Shell Oil Junior, and uses Osgood's yacht to find some alone time with Miss Kane. What a tangle of emotions, especially when Daphne can't dampen Osgood's ardor! Also, before long, the mobsters hold a convention in, you guessed it, Miami, with Spats front and center. What are two guys, er gals, er whatever, going to do? This hotter than hot film has been ranked the best comedy of all time and with good reason. It is downright hilarious, with a clever script of great one-liners and much physical comedy. The cast is likewise topnotch, with Lemmon and Curtis, a duo of humorous hijinks, leading the way. Monroe, too, is funny, touching, and drop dead gorgeous. Brown turns in one the most memorable character turns ever while the Raft and the rest have the audience rolling, too. Sets, costumes, and the fresh direction complete a masterpiece of mirth. Hot, cold, or lukewarm, whatever the day turns out to be, if you need the lift of laughter, this is choice number one.
What a great cinematic experience it is to view Some Like It Hot. The movie provides you with a bit of everything from madcap action, screwball comedy, mob drama, and campy romance, along with a little sugar on top in sweet sensation, Marilyn Monroe. Despite the apparent weight-gain she looks visually stunning, and her close-to-home performance is worth noting as well. There are many subtexts that lie in Billy Wilder's masterpiece, including one that could very well do with Marilyn's character Sugar Kane Kowalczyk. Much like Marilyn, the lounge singing Sugar is searching for love with a decent somebody other than the player-type she often frequents (in the film's case, saxophonists). Perhaps men found this sultry misses too intimidating, making Marilyn's love-life in the real world just the same.
	Another suggestive undertone could do with the abundant `crisis of masculinity' shot off in the late 1950's. Two middling male musicians (Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon), all dragged out, seem to be granted opportunities they would never have had if remained as `men' (i.e. marrying a millionaire, accepting free trips and consolations, etc.). Is it femininity that gains all? Like Dustin Hoffman's Tootsie, it is apparent these `beauties' really weren't beauties at all; bosses-the mob and Sugar's-pick it up right away. Why the feminine gain? Do men make wiser women than younger girls?  	All rhetoric aside, Some Like It Hot's concept is a lot simpler: the men join an all girls band heading to Florida, evading the possibilities of being found as the witnesses to a gangland rubout (a.k.a. the St. Valentine's Day Massacre). Of course there are many complications for these `women' along the way, including their intense magnetism towards Sugar. Never is there a dull moment in Some Like It Hot, with quickly paced classical cutting, a wholesome variety of locations, and a brilliant screenplay much to the allure of Wilder's other treasure Sunset Boulevard. Not many movies over 40 years can hold up the laughter presented in Hot. In one of the funnier scenes, a relentless drunkard in the midst of a `funeral parlor' seize-up demands more scotch-filled decaf: `How <U+0091>bout another cup of coffee!' Classic, indeed.
5/5 stars


                
A comedy about cross-dressing is a surprising choice of subject matter for Billy Wilder, who is best known for his film noir morality tales. But his knack for multi-layered dialogue and sardonic humor work just as well here as in his more serious films. The premise of "Some Like it Hot" is absurd, and if there were no genuine laughs then the behavior of Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon's characters might easily come across as obnoxious and offensive. But there are laughs, and they come so rapidly and so often at the expense of the lead characters that these pitfalls are averted. Lemmon and Marilyn Monroe are so well cast that they are effectively playing themselves.


                
The great Billy Wilder directs, writes, and has a say in the screenplay of one of the really great comedies. Some Like It Hot is up there in the best five comedies...ever made. Marilyn Munroe, Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon are superb as the three leads in this risqué 1959 steam-roller. Wilder did everything to get up the noses of the censors, and was clever enough to get away with all of it. In 1959 men dressing and behaving like ladies...wearing ladies clothes...was dangerous ground to tread on. And the many sub-plots that this brought about were also "no go" areas. He succeeded just like the T.V. Classic Seinfeld...when they declared "not that there's anything wrong with that" when they did there great "sexual preference" episode. In the case of Some Like It Hot...we need to remember...this was 1959. Munroe was always difficult to work with...continually turning up late, and being obviously neurotic. In a famous B.B.C. talk show in the 1970s Curtis described Munroe as a "fruit cake". I am sure that was true, but she was wonderful in Some Like It Hot. The movie is a classic.


                
Some Like It Hot is a retelling of a West German tale titled Fanfaren der Liebe (1951) (Fanfares of Love) beautifully directed by Billy Wilder with an all-star cast including the eternal beauty of Marilyn Monroe, and comedy styling's of Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon. With a central prolific theme that has been told more than once and yet is just as prevalent today as it ever was or will be: What we want and what we need are often two separate things. However, under the expertise of Wilder, the pure star quality of cast and crew shine out all the more. The gags come thick and fast with almost every sequence either a set up for the next gag or a gag in the making. Some Like It Hot is a tale that begins with a bitterly cold February in Chicago 1929, which two musicians find themselves on the run from the mob, after witnessing the Saint Valentines Massacre. Our intrepid hero's Joe (Tony Curtis) and Jerry (Jack Lemmon) disguise themselves as female musicians Josephine (Curtis) and Daphne (Lemmon), and join an all-girl orchestra bound for Miami.Leaving behind a bitter Chicago winter, they meet the intoxicating Sugar Kane Kowalczyk (Marilyn Monroe), which Jerry remarks "Look how she moves. Like Jell-O on springs. She must have some sort of built-in motor. I tell you, it's a whole different sex."(Jack Lemmon Some Like It Hot 1959) Henceforth comedy ensues with the gags coming thick and fast, lightening reflexes with the dialogue between Joe, Jack and Sugar and perfect comedic timing between them. A testament to all that is womanhood, has yet to be a finer than Marilyn Monroe, seemingly poured into the gowns lovingly crafted by Australian costume designer Orry-Kelly, with neck lines and translucent qualities that would even have the censors of today raising eyebrows. With her classic solo of "I Wanna Be Loved by You." Albeit Marilyn does not have the best singing voice, which is superfluous when one considers the situation, a pretty girl standing in front of an orchestra and singing a song. Monroe and Wilder turn it into one of the most blatantly sexual scenes in the movies. Monroe wears a clinging, see-through dress, gauze covering the upper slopes of her breasts, the neckline scooping to a censor's eyebrow north of trouble. Wilder places her in the centre of a round spotlight that does not simply illuminate her from the waist up, but toys with her like a secondary neckline, dipping and clinging as Monroe moves her body higher and lower in the light with teasing precision.All the time Monroe seems oblivious to the effect of singing this song so innocently. To experience that scene is to affirm as to why no other actor since, male or female has more sexual chemistry with the camera.Underneath all the frills, bold sexual symbolism, and gender bending, the movie is ultimately about Joe and Jerry (Curtis and Lemmon) with truly outstanding supporting characters like Osgood Fielding III (Joe E. Brown) and Spats Colombo (George Raft). While Joe (Curtis) when not in drag introduces himself as the Shell Oil heir and wickedly parodies Cary Grant's unmistakable accent in brilliant fashion, so much so that when Daphne/Jerry (Lemmon) says accusingly "And where did you get that phoney accent? Nobody talks like that!" Jerry (Lemmon) gets the fuzzy end of the lollipop taking the selfless route and entertains a real millionaire whose yacht is being used by Joe (Curtis) in an attempt to seduce Sugar (Monroe). Daphne (Lemmon) is so unlike a real woman in mannerism as much as appearance that when real millionaire Osgood (Joe E. Brown) attempts to wine and dine him, it is hilarious that he cannot see behind Jerry's (Lemmon) disguise. With Osgood seducing Jerry (Lemmon) on the dance floor and Joe (Curtis) seducing Sugar (Monroe) on the yacht is both romantic and wickedly funny at the same time. The payoff happens during the following morning, when Joe returns to their room to find Jerry now engaged to Osgood. Keep an eye Jack Lemmon (Jerry/Daphne) during this scene; he is so energetic, so full of life, almost to the point of hamming it up with his castanets. Jerry/Daphne (Lemmon) is exquisite in this sequence. He is deliriously happy at finding his soul mate. He is so hilariously convincing that even when asked by Joe (Curtis), "Why would a guy want to marry a guy?" that we completely buy it when he answers, "Security!" Even though the violence in this gem of the silver screen is neither satire nor comedy but visceral and grim, which adds to the overall feel that the Hero's (Joe and Jerry) very lives are in peril and we joyously buy every gag and punch line that Billy Wilder expertly delivers to us. I do not believe I am alone in the opinion that Wilder was one of the greatest filmmakers of the 20th century. Escaping Europe before World War II, Wilder set about commenting on the world around him with a sensibility and awareness seldom seen in cinema today. Yet he could create a film that, yes has a darker undertone of the mob's ruthlessness, but oh so wonderfully light hearted and romantic characters that once they realized what they wanted wasn't what they needed, and that they needed no pretence to attain what they desired. Simply put Some Like It Hot is one of those timeless classics that are just as relevant and amusing today as it was when it was released. It captured one of those great moments in movie-making, where a film no longer is a simple representative of its period, but has transcended itself to become something that is truly timeless. Osgood (Brown) delivers the best curtain line in the movies. If you have seen the movie, you know what it is, and if you have not, you deserve to hear it for the first time from him.
Billy Wilder goes the limits in this outrageous and very funny comedy about two musicians going undercover as women to avoid the mob. It is a ridiculous premise, but Wilder and Diamond's script perfectly balances the comedy with scenes of love and romance. Curtis and Monroe have great chemistry together, and Lemmon is superb as the comedy relief in the "serious" scenes with George Raft. Even these are something to laugh at, but the film is not to be taken seriously; just to be laughed at. It has been almost fifty years since it was released and people still laugh at it. I have seen it three or four times and it is still as funny as seeing it for the first time. That is the true test of a comedy and Some Like It Hot passes with flying colors. A true comedy classic all the way around.


                
The Great Famous as well as the Great Infamous occurrences in a nation's history are and always will be looked upon as subjects worthy of a film treatment. Whether an incident were to be filmed from a story and its screenplay form written directly for the screen or an adaptation of a Novel, a Short Story or a Stage Play, they are an important element of formulating our image of our World. Right or wrong, it is a fact of life and one that we must learn to live with.A good example of just what we are driving at is the occurrences of October 26, 1881 in Tombstone, Arizona. Known as "The Gunfight at O.K. Corral", the incident is probably the best known single shoot-em-up incident in the History of the Old West. Countless references are made to it in our Western Movies, be they Major Motion Pictures or the "B" Picture Series of the Matinée & Bubble Gum Set.Equally as familiar to the movie going public and probably the best known example of Urban Gangster violence of the 'Lawless Prohibition/Gangster Era, "The St.Valentine's Day Massacre" has been given Film treatment many times. It is featured in the Rod Steiger's Starring Title Role as AL CAPONE (Allied Artists, 1959).Director Roger Corman gave us THE ST. VALENTINE'S DAY MASSACRE (Los Altos Productions / 20th Century-Fox, 1967); devoting the entire 100 minutes of screen time to the behind the scenes incidents leading up to it and to the Great Mass Murder.With Ben Gazzara in the title role, we had CAPONE (Santa Fe Productions/ 20th Century-Fox, 1975), also which had the Massacre and its preparation and aftermath as central events in the story.With the dramatic come the comedies, spoofs, comedians, the social commentators and the satirists. There surely would be a comedy that would at least make mention of the Massacre in passing.And it happened. Producer/co-Writer/Director Billy Wilder gave us SOME LIKE IT HOT (Ashton Prod./Mirisch Corp.-United Artists, 1959). To a hilariously great script, Directot Wilder added plenty of Hollywood Star Power in Miss Marilyn Monroe, Mr. Tony Curtis and Mr. Jack Lemmon. In supporting position, we saw the likes of veteran, old pros like Joe E. Brown (as Millionaire Osgood Fielding III), George Raft (as 'Spats' Colombo), Pat O'Brien (as Detective Mulligan), Nehimiah Persoff (as Little Boneparte), Joan Shawlee (Sweet Sue), Billy Gray (Sig Pokikoff), George E. Stone (Toothpick Charley), Mike Mazurki (Spats' Henchman), Dave Barry (Beinstock), Harry Wilson (Spats Henchman), Beverly Wills (Delores), Barbara Drew (Nellie), Edward G. Robinson, Jr. (Johnny Paradise), Al Brenamen (Bell Hop), Pat Comiskey (Spats' Henchman), Tom Kennedy (Bouncer), Paul Frees (Funeral Director Mozerella & "Josephine"-Voices), Joe Gray (Mobster at Banquet), Harold 'Tommy' Hart (Official #2), Ted Hook (Official #1), John Indisano (Waiter), Jack McClure (Spats Henchman), Helen Perry (Rosella) and Marian Collier (Clarinet Player, Olga) and Joan Fields, Mary Foley, Penny McGuiggin, Laura Mitchell, Colleen O'Sullivan (Band Members All).OUR STORY<U+0085><U+0085><U+0085>In a nutshell, its 1929, Prohibition is in full swing in a defiant Chicago. Two struggling and apparently over-sexed Musicians, Joe (Tony Curtis) and Jerry (Jack Lemmon) narrowly missed being arrested in a Police Raid on a Speak Easy run by big time Hoodlum, 'Spats' Columbo (George Raft). Obtaining a 'Gig' to play t the University of Illinois Dance in Champaign-Urbana, over 100 miles to the South of Chicago. Borrowing a Car from a Girlfriend of Joe's, they have the Bad Luck of being present at the Clark Street Garage when the mass killings take place.In order to escape being snuffed-out for witnessing the deed, the two masquerade as Women and join up with A Band made up of all Lady Musicians and (Woo, woo, woo, woo!) Singer, Sugar Kane (Marilyn Monroe). The Band is heading out of the snowy, Chicago Winter for the "safety" of Sunny, Florida. That is "safety", until 'Spats' and his Boys, show up in the Sunshine State for the Convention of "Friends of Italian Opera", which is code for the Crime Syndicate! The fun continues<U+0085><U+0085><U+0085>.The film is wild, fast paced and cleverly written. It has guaranteed laughs through-out. Mr. Wilder and Company, have constructed a sort of cross between the old James Cagney/Humphrey Bogart feature, THE ROARING TWENTIES (Warner Brothers, 1939) and a Mack Sennett Silent Keystone Comedy. They get us Laughing and keep it that way.The filming used the City of Coronado in Suburban San Diego, as the location doubling for an unavailable State of Florida. Both the beautiful Coronado Beach and the 1920's styled Coronado Hotel were put to use to great effect.And just one more thing before we signoff for now. Of all the veteran players appearing in the movie, it is the fine performance of Mr. Joe E. Brown which steals more than his share of the film. Joe E. Brown had his hey day in a series of comedies done I the 1930's and had been relegated to supporting riles since then. The role of eccentric Millionaire Osgood Fielding III, who finds himself attracted to 'Daphne', the Bull Fiddle Player (Jack Lemmon).And it is Joe E. Brown who speaks the memorable last line of dialogue, which is, <U+0085><U+0085>no, no! I won't tell! If you don't know, buy it or rent it; but see it! Don't wait another Day!


                
SPOILERS Each year a television executive ponders how to fill an evening's television. Rather than putting original thought into the process, one idea that he constantly comes back to is the "Top 10" list. Spending hours upon hours discussing the best horrors, the best musicals, the best number ones of the 1980s, these lists vary amongst a million different ideas. One of the most popular though is the Top 100 Films of All Time. This list tends to contain some of the all time greats and all too often it sadly has "Star Wars" at number one. One film which always features though, and remains perhaps the funniest comedy of all time is Billy Wilder's "Some Like It Hot". With magical performances and some of the greatest comedy moments of all time, it remains as fresh today as it did upon it's release.Joe and Jerry (Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon) are down and broke musicians in alcohol free Chicago. As the Mafia continue to fight between themselves, life goes on for our two heroes. That is until they witness a Gangland killing. Now on the run, they disguise themselves as women and hide in a female band troop. Relocated to Florida, the two spend their time keeping themselves hidden and talking to the beautiful, yet "not too smart" Sugar Cane (Marilyn Monroe).Unlucky to have been released at the same time as the Epic "Ben Hur", it might be one of the biggest travesties in Oscar history that "Some Like It Hot" never received a Best Picture nomination. It did however receives nods for Wilder's direction and Lemmon's acting. Lemmon in particular is superb as Jerry/Daphne, the more emotional of the two men, who finds himself being chased by the dozy Osgood Fielding III (Joe E Brown). With some of the best lines in the film, Lemmon thrives, and on a personal note, he's only outperformed this performance with "Avanti" and "The Odd Couple", the first of which being another Wilder creation.This film also has another treasure about it. In a time where Hollywood starlets are making a bit of a reappearance, it's amusing that one or two of them (most notably Scarlett Johansson) model their appearance on the biggest starlet of them all. Whilst noticeably more built up during this film (being pregnant at the time), Marilyn Monroe is beautiful from the first scene on the train station through to the end. Monroe simply oozes beauty and thrives in a role which she wasn't originally the choice for.Perhaps the crucial thing about "Some Like It Hot" is just how good the script is. With lines which just smack of sexual referencing, it causes belly laughs throughout. It never resorts to the sort of lowbrow humour of most of our modern comedy, and it demonstrates how light hearted comedy should be done. It's perhaps the finest comedy film of all time, and it should be mandatory viewing for any film fan.
A delightful cross-dressing comedy, this was one of the first of its type and it still is one of the funniest. It is very cleverly written, impeccably acted, particularly by Joe E. Brown, and features excellent chemistry between the two leads. There are parallels in the film to actual events and attitudes that existed in the 1920s, giving the film a historical insight as an extra virtue. The film works so well not just because of its historical parallels but also because it spoofs gangster films and not just the cross-dressing joke. Overall it is a wonderful film that sparkles along to its glitzy Academy Awarding winning costume design.


                
Back in the days when certain things were taboo in movies, there were always directors who were looking for ways to push the limits. Billy Wilder did this in "Some Like It Hot", the movie that may very well have been the best movie that he, Marilyn Monroe, Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon ever did.Curtis and Lemmon play Joe and Jerry, two musicians in 1929 Chicago who have to flee a speakeasy before a police raid. Now unemployed, they get a job to play at an out of town joint. While they are getting the car, they witness the St. Valentine's Day Massacre, when one group of mobsters murdered another group. Desperate to hide, they dress up as women and get jobs in an all-female band, using the pseudonyms Josephine and Daphne. In this band, they meet Sugar Kane Kowalczyk (Marilyn Monroe), the sexiest singer imaginable. When the band arrives in Florida is when the real nuttiness begins. "Daphne" gets seduced by millionaire Osgood Fielding III (Joe E. Brown), while "Josephine" pretends to be a millionaire named Junior, who seduces Sugar Kane. But then, the mobsters who were behind the massacre arrive.What is so great about this movie is how they push the limits. Before calling the all-female band, Joe tells Jerry that they're going to shave their legs. You must realize that back then, talking about legs was like talking about genitals. And just the idea of men dressing as women might be interpreted as saying that they're gay (Joe and Jerry are not gay). Finally, the last line in the movie is all about acceptance, no matter who someone is. But all in all, "Some Like It Hot" gets eleven out of ten stars in my book, as it is so damn hilarious and has some really good values. Splendid.


                
"Some Like It Hot" has to be one of the cleverest comedies.Billy Wilder's comic ideas were always a cut above. Two musicians, Joe and Jerry by chance go to pick up a car which just happens to be the garage where the St Valentine's Day massacre is taking place.How do you make a comedy on that idea? Talk about broad and brave.Tony Curtis as Joe and Jack Lemmon as Jerry are likable and brash.When they become women to escape the gangsters they become sensitive, vulnerable and extremely funny. They join an all girl swing band to get out of Chicago and travel by train down to Florida.Marylyn Monroe appears as Sugar Kane and the film becomes even more special.Not only is she sweet,vulnerable,sexy and funny -- she is the core to what makes the film great.There is no one to touch her.Talk about rehearsed spontaneity!They always talk about how she kept everyone waiting and how unreliable she was -- Well you can see from every frame in this film that Billy Wilder could not in any way have been easy to work for-- He expected perfection-- the comedy in this film is so precise bordering on genius.Joe E Brown is hysterically funny as Osgood -- and Jack Lemmon has a brilliantly funny transformation from harassed male in drag to goldigging future fiancé of Osgood after there passion filled tango.Tony Curtis has a difficult job as Joe , it is a generously straight performance.I especially liked his suppressed fierce reaction as he clambers out of the bath when riled by Jerry.This film is "perfect"
great laughs, great music, great acting I wont spoil it. its by far my favorite Marilyn movies other than Niagara, misfits, don't bother to knock, river of no return, gentlemen prefer blonde's, how to marry a millionaire, and that's it. if you want a great laughs and music and acting this is a movie for you. I love this film believe it or not it was my first Marilyn movie to watch in my life. jack Lemmon, and tony Curtis is fantastic make me laugh a lot you might think its dumb but no its not its classic just give a watch I tell you I laughed a lot and loved it. no doubt one of the best Marilyn movies, classics, and comedy by far watch it when you get the chance don't miss this


                
Having just enjoyed last year's 'My Week with Marilyn', where Michelle Williams plays Marilyn Monroe, the epilogue says that Some Like It Hot was her next film and how it was a huge hit.After the semi-scandalous shenanigans that occurred during the filming of that crazy, doomed film in question - The Prince and the Showgirl, it indeed would be very fitting to re-watch (the sixth, or seventh time?) this bubbly frothy classic, that actually starts out as a Prohibition- set gangster movie.Few films manage to instill one with excitable anticipation at a seventh viewing but this Billy Wilder scripted/directed one still does. It's more than mere comedy, it has literally everything with a perfect cast playing, well, perfectly, with Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis in drag (to fool the gangsters after witnessing a shooting) one of the most enduring double acts of all time. And, of course, the real shame is that Marilyn wasn't able to treat us to more of this sort that she plays so naturally - she really does shines and fizzes effervescently.It's indeed, the subtle but clever innuendo that is the icing on the cake - we don't need to be shown any more or hear anything stronger to know exactly what is going on. This helps makes it so timeless.Many know and love the film and cite it as one of their all-time favourites - it's to them that I say, sometimes you need the merest of an excuse to indulge, as you would with some special chocolates or fancy bottle of wine. Some Like It Hot is the perfect antidote to dark, wet and stormy afternoons, is non-fattening and actually very good for you, as laughter is indeed, the best medicine. It remains an essential DVD for every collection - sometimes only the best comedy will do!


                
A movie that is synonymous to the Internet jargon LOL(Laugh out loud) and ROFL(Rolling over the floor laughing). I must first shower encomiums on the out-of-the-world script. And what an actor Jack Lemmon is. This movie also established the long-term association between Jack Lemmon and Billy Wilder in making movies together.Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis gave one of the greatest performance by transvestites. While a luscious Marilyn Mornoe is there to seduce you, sing and shake and make you swoon, Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis provide unlimited rib-tickling humor.Oh, i just forgot to mention what a brilliant, funny writing it was. There are umpteen phrases that make you reiterate.AFI rightly placed it at the helm of '100 greatest laughs'.
Billy Wilder was best known for dramas DOUBLE INDEMNITY, THE LOST WEEKEND & SUNSET BLVD. but taste where changing and he added a new partner I.A.L. Diamond. And he wanted to get back to his roots when he wrote screwball comedies like BALL OF FIRE, NINOTCHKA and MIDNIGHT.Top 10 interesting things about SOME LIKE IT HOT<U+0085>1) This is actually the third version of the story after the 1935 - French film and 1951 - German musical version. Wilder and I.A.L. Diamond changed it to 1920s gangster/prohibition setting and added St. Valentine's Day like massacre plot and cast 1930's actors Pat O'Brien, George E. Stone and George Raft as gangsters. Look for Edward G. Robinson Jr. (son of the Edward G. Robinson) to jump out of the cake near the end of the film!2) Danny Kaye and Bob Hope or Frank Sinatra and Jerry Lewis where all considered to secure studio financing with Mitzi Gaynor as the girl. But when Marilyn Monroe heard about the film she wrote to Wilder asking if she could be in it after the success they had with 1955's THE SEVEN YEAR ITCH. So after she was signed for $200,000 and 10% of the gross Wilder was then able to cast the cheaper newcomers he really wanted, Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis as the male leads.3) Lemmon and Curtis were afraid of their young careers getting damaged, of the make-up & costumes not working and especially walking in high heels... they did hire a trainer but fired him after they realized walking like men in heels was funnier! 4) George Raft who started his career as a coin tossing gangster in the original 1932 SCARFACE was originally a dancer and taught Jack Lemmon & Joe E. Brown to tango so well, watch closely, they even pass a rose between their teeth while dancing!5) Supposedly when costume designer Orry-Kelly was measuring all three stars for dresses, he half-jokingly told Marilyn Monroe, "Tony Curtis has a nicer rear end than you," at which point Monroe pulled open her blouse and said, "Yeah, but he doesn't have a chest like this!" Film critic Roger Ebert notes: "she wears a clinging, see-through dress, with gauze covering the upper slopes of her breasts, the neckline scooping to a censor's eyebrow north of trouble." 6) In 2008, a Californian man (who found a little black dress in his closet) was stunned when appraisers for U.S. TV series "Antiques Roadshow" determined it once belonged to Marilyn Monroe. The frock - which Monroe was sewn into for SOME LIKE IT HOT (1959) - was estimated to be worth $250,000 7) Tony Curtis came up with the idea to having his character Shell Oil Jr. sound like Cary Grant, who upon seeing the film said "Nobody talks like that!"8) Marilyn Monroe was famously fragile, shy, insecure and often late. Wilder said a scene that would normally take an hour to shoot took 3 days to get right. It required 47 takes to get "It's me, Sugar" correct. Another scene required Monroe to rummage through some drawers and say "Where's the bourbon?" After 40 takes, Wilder pasted the correct line in one of the drawers. After Monroe became confused about which drawer contained the line, Wilder had it pasted in every drawer. When she finally does say it, she has her back to the camera, leading some to wonder if Wilder finally gave up and had it dubbed. The girls in the band tell the story of one day they couldn't get Marilyn out of her trailer so Wilder asked Monroe's stand-in to rehearse the song "Running Wild" with the crew. Before long Marilyn heard the music and someone else singing her song so she came out to see what was going on<U+0085> Wilder took one look at her and said, "OK everybody, now from the top<U+0085>" and Marilyn nailed it on the first take!SOME LIKE IT HOT director Billy Wilder was once asked why he put up with Monroe's nonsense. He famously replied, "My Aunt Minnie would always be punctual and never hold up production, but who would pay to see my Aunt Minnie?" 9) RECOGNITION: 6 Oscar nominations for Writing, Director, Cinematography, Sets and Lemmon for Actor (unfortunately that year it was competing with BEN-HUR which in my opinion is not that funny and Charlton Heston wears an even shorter skirt! Not fair!) SOME LIKE IT HOT only won only one Academy Award for Best Costume (FOOTNOTE: for strategic engineering under substantial and natural monumental obstacles, I'm sure.) Golden Globe wins for Best Comedy, Actor Lemmon & Actress Monroe; the Roman Catholic Legion of Decency awarded it a "condemned" rating (it's now considered PG-13) and finally in the year 2000, the American Film Institute listed SOME LIKE IT HOT as the number one greatest American comedy film of all time. What's number two? TOOTSIE...10) One last piece of trivia, about my favorite scene. When they previewed the movie they found a problem with one scene, the audience was laughing so hard they missed several jokes so Billy Wilder gave a pair of maracas to Jack Lemmon to shake between the punch lines and re- shot the scene to allow the audience time to get the laughs out of there system!
Two musicians--Joe (Tony Curtis) and Jerry (Jack Lemmon)--accidentally witness a gangland murder set up by Spats Colombo (George Raft). They disguise themselves as women (Joe becomes Josephine and Jerry becomes Daphne) and join an all girls band traveling to Florida. Also in the band is Sugar Kane (Marilyn Monroe) and both the men fall madly in love with her.Classic comedy. I've seen it at least 10 times and I laugh out loud at it each time. It's fast-moving with a hilarious script. When I first saw this I was afraid there would be gay jokes made at the expense of Curtis and Lemmon. There isn't one! The script beautifully side steps any offensive material. Even when Curtis asks Lemmon, "Why would a guy want to marry another guy" Lemmon says, "Security!" The acting is mostly great. Curtis and Lemmon are just perfect and play off each other very well. Curtis actually looks pretty attractive as a woman! Monroe is just OK. She hated making this movie--she kept flubbing her lines and looks overweight (especially during her big musical number). Raft is pretty lousy--very stone-faced. But he's barely in the movie so it doesn't hurt things. It's filmed in black and white which actually helps--I think Lemmon and Curtis would have looked pretty awful in color as girls. So--a classic comedy with plenty of laughs and a famous last line--"Nobody's perfect". Well worth seeing again and again. I give this a 10.


                
