Rubbish. Utter rubbish. About as humorous as getting an arrow through the neck and then discovering there is a gas bill tied to it. No redeming features whatsoever, unless you are one of the idiots who thinks that Monroe is anything other that average looking.


                
Perhaps I had to see it at the time it was released.  Having seen much better before seeing this film, it had a lot to stand up to, and it failed miserably.  Can I get an "amen" on CROSS-DRESSING ISN'T FUNNY AFTER THE AGE OF 12!!Aside from the hilarious Monroe/Curtis yacht scene, this movie not only failed to amuse me, but rather succeeded in annoying the crap out of me, mainly due to Lemmon's and Brown's insistence on laughing at all of their own punchlines throughout the movie.The gangster scenes were decent, and Tony Curtis was fabulous as always, but as soon as Jack Lemmon donned the dress, the movie was downhill.  I would recommend this movie only to people who still find men in makeup and skirts amusing.


                
Some like it Hot is a film that contains a blend of adjectives; humorous, seductive, ironic, pitiful, just to name a few. The plot of the film is rather funny as two men take on a journey in which they witness a crime which then shuttles them to an adventurous chase, (in which they are the ones chased). Marilyn Monroe's presence in this film makes every scene she is seductive, and as to Marilyn's talent; as an actress she is an amazing doctor.It is pitiful to watch this film reflect a view on women in the 50's, for the way in which they are all portrayed as gold diggers who lack the confidence in becoming anything else than a housewife. In this case Some like it Hot does a good job on demonstrating life back then. This film's popularity is solely due to Monroe's rising popularity as well. It is a bit ironic how Monroe's character has a weakness for men and turns to alcohol when her relationships tumble down. This is a very close portrayal to her real life, making the film all about Marilyn Monroe. Some Like it Hot should have been titled, Some Like Monroe, for the way in which she is made to show the typical blonde image  some people possess.


                
