Legendary comedy masterpiece from filmmaker Billy Wilder and IAL Diamond that Won Oscar and another 13 wins & 8 nominations . Immensely charming comedy set among Chicago and Miami , being starred by an all-star-cast . When two unemployed musicians witness a mob hit , the St Valentine massacre in Chicago carried out by mobster chief (George Raft) they flee the state in an all female band disguised as women and headed for Florida , but further complications set in. There appears a gorgeous singer , Sugar Kane (Marilyn Monroe) , who is object of pursuit by the musicians (Jack Lemmon , Tony Curtis) who cannot reveal their identity because are dressed as women in order to getaway from killer gangsters' retaliation . Rightly enjoyable and fun-filled , milestone comedy which neatly combines humor , mirth , entertaining situations and amusement . This noisy comedy is intelligently and pleasingly written to gives us lots of fun , laughters and smiles . Mordantly funny , though by time of premiere was rated as bad taste and some discomfort ; however , is todays considered a real classic movie . Billy Wilder kept the studio Paramount happy , the picture consistently made money and was hit at box office . Flawless comedy with a trio of sensational protagonists , including an unforgettable Marilyn who parades sexily at her best and more relaxed and enticing than ever . The hit of the show is undoubtedly for the fetching Marilyn Monroe who gives one of the best screen acting and sings marvelous songs as ¨Running wild¨, ¨I'm through with love¨ and the immortal ¨I wanna be loved you¨. Magnificent performances from Jack Lemmon as angst-ridden musician dressed in drag and sensational Tony Curtis as a philander young , playing his Gary Gray Grant impression . Furthermore , a splendid secondary cast , a variety of notorious actors who make sympathetic interpretations such as Pat O'Brien , George Raft , Mike Mazurski , Nehemia Persoff and , of course, smitten Joe E Brown , including his now-classic closing line . The motion picture was very well directed by Billy Wilder who includes several punchlines . Billy was one of the best directors of history . In 1939 started the partnership with Charles Bracket on such movies as ¨Ninotchka¨ , ¨Ball of fire¨ , making their film debut as such with ¨Major and the minor¨ . ¨Sunset Boulevard¨ was their last picture together before they split up . Later on , Billy collaborated with another excellent screenwriter IAL Diamond . Both of them won an Academy Award for ¨Stalag 17¨ dealing with a POW camp starred by William Holden . After that , they wrote/produced/directed such classics as ¨Ace in the hole¨ , the touching romantic comedy ¨Sabrina¨ , the Hickcoktian courtroom puzzle game ¨Witness for the prosecution¨ and two movies with the great star Marilyn Monroe , the warmth ¨Seven year itch¨ and this ¨Some like hot¨. All of them include screenplays that sizzle with wit . But their biggest success and highpoint resulted to be the sour and fun ¨¨The apartment¨. Subsequently in the 60s and 70s , the duo fell headlong into the pit , they realized nice though unsuccessful movies as ¨Buddy buddy¨ ,¨Fedora¨ , ¨Front page¨ and ¨Secret life of Sherlock Holmes¨, though the agreeable ¨Avanti¨ slowed the decline . The team had almost disappeared beneath a wave of bad reviews and failures . ¨Some like hot¨ rating : Above average , essential and indispensable watching ; extremely funny and riveting film and completely entertaining . It justly deserves its place among the best comedy ever made . One of the very funniest films of all time and to see and see again . It's the kind of movie where you know what's coming but , because the treatment , enjoy it all the same .


                
Any camera loved Marilyn the best<U+0085> In all her films, Marilyn dominated any photographer not just because of her ability with a script but ceaseless attention to the camera... More than anyone else on the set, she knew the importance of her sex appeal<U+0085>The 'fifties belonged to Marilyn, and in that decade it almost seemed as if the world belonged to her also<U+0085>Sugar is one of Monroe's most loved and memorable character... She presents herself as a sensitive woman quick to feel compassion or affection, sensual and readily impressionable which is Sugar Kane... It was her greatest role and certainly her greatest film... The film opens in 1929 Chicago during Prohibition, where Spats Colombo (George Raft) and his gang gun down seven men in a car garage<U+0085> A couple of small-time Jazz musicians witness it and flee<U+0085> To avoid the mob, Joe (Tony Curtis) and Jerry (Jack Lemmon) disguise themselves as women and attach themselves to an all-girl band<U+0085> Joe calls himself Josephine and Jerry calls himself Daphne<U+0085> The orchestra takes a train to play an engagement in Florida... On board, the two men have a hard time keeping cool with all the beautiful girls around, especially during a late-night pajama party in a Pullman sleeper<U+0085> Needless to say, Joe falls in love with the sensual Sugar (Marilyn Monroe), a luscious ukulele player and singer with the troupe<U+0085> Once in Florida, Jerry meets a really wealthy bachelor Osgood Fielding (Joe E. Brown). Of course, Jerry is still dressed as Daphne, and the seven time divorcée proceeds to pursue Daphne<U+0085> Joe wants to romance Sugar but knows that he needs a wealthy front<U+0085> The boys think they are safe until the gangsters arrive at the same Miami hotel to attend a gangsters' convention<U+0085> Marilyn sang three songs in the film: "I'm Through with Love," "I Wanna Be Loved By You," and "Running Wild."The movie's closing line is one of the most celebrated in movie history<U+0085>The film won an Oscar for Best Costume Design and was nominated for six Academy Awards<U+0085> Irresistibly funny this black-and-white shot comedy is a definite must-see!


                
This is the first Marilyn Monroe movie that I have seen and I must say that I thought it was quite funny. Monroe, though, doesn't have the screen presence that most people seem to claim that she has. In fact, I wasn't really sure if it was her when she first appeared. Okay, this movie is more focused on Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis, and they actually have more presence than she does, but she does stand out.Lemmon and Curtis play a couple of musicians, Joe and Jerry, who watch a gangland killing, and after escaping with their lives, they dress up as women, becoming Josephine and Daphne, and join a band going to Miami. On the way Joe falls in love with the singer, Sugar Kane, (Monroe) and Daphne ends up gaining the unwanted attention of a dizzy millionaire.The comedy in this movie actually has a lot of sexual innuendos, and in my opinion, is far superior to that of Tootsie. In a way the plot is similar, and the problems that the characters in both movies encounter are also the same, but the difference is that I feel that the comedy in Some Like it Hot is executed much better than it was in Tootsie. In a way, Tootsie seemed to be a comedy with a message that became far too preachy, while Some Like it Hot is a farcical romp in which two men try to hide the fact that they are not women from a lot of other people.
This is a wonderfully entertaining film that has to have one of the best final scenes in movie history--seeing Joe E. Brown and Jack Lemmon in this scene is truly delightful. However, I do wonder if perhaps, maybe, the film is a tiny bit overrated--especially since it is now ranked relatively high on IMDb's Top 250 list. It's an exceptional film...I just don't see it as quite THAT exceptional.Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon stumble upon a mob hit. And, since mobsters really DON'T like witnesses, they know they'd better hide--and quick. So they hit upon the idea of hiding in an all-ladies' band, as they, too, are musicians. There, Tony falls in love with Marilyn Monroe--and it's hard for him to balance his female persona with the bookish guy he also pretends to be to impress her. As for Jack, he becomes the focus of a rich older man's attentions (Joe E. Brown). So how do they both balance these relationships with a strong desire NOT to be killed by the mob? The film has some nice supporting acting by George Raft and Pat O'Brien-and it's nice to see them return to films. As for the acting, it's generally very good, though I think Curtis' acting is a bit broad at times--but oddly charming as well.Overall, there's a lot to enjoy and it's fun throughout.


                
Actually, it has been 54 years since this movie released. And I live in far away from United States of America. So, I think there are a lot of tolerance that I must have, so I can enjoy this movie. Yes, and I still elicit a smile on the some "spots" in the movie. The comedy, however, is everlasting. And the plot itself, is real amusing.I don't judge it from the beauty of the star, like Marilyn Monroe. What I can say is that every character act is well yet comical. They are very relax in did an act. Other actor also all-out in their acting. Very great, although after a half of century.The last thing, I must give an appreciation of the superb plot. It is a real tricky comedy, serious but straight comedy. I just can say, what a real fun!


                
Some Like It Hot is an American comedy film, made during 1958 and released during 1959, which was directed by Billy Wilder. This comedy made controversy out of its use of not very common themes in the cinema theaters. The use of themes like homosexuality, mafia and gangster difficulties, and alcoholism were all themes that were not common at all during the ages of the 1950s. The use of stereotypes as blondes symbolized as dumb and unconsciously acting women, gangsters as selfish and crude men, and musicians as poor and needy people make the movies way of description easier since just by getting to know the characters you know what they are and what they want. It all starts at an old 1950s Chicago, when Jerry and Joe, two musicians escape from the closure of an illegal pub. They run away with no where to go and look for jobs since they are almost money- less. The most valuable things they have are their instruments. They find out about a band who is leaving in tour and needs two musicians, but the problem is that the band is composed by all female musicians, so they reject the job. After looking for other jobs Joe and Jerry happen to become witnesses of a mafia murder so they run away again but this time away from the mafia. For them to get away from the area they finally take the female band tour and leave with the other female musicians as if they were women. Everything happens to go well as they pretend to be female musicians but someone intervenes in their plans, and that someone is Sugar, interpreted by Marylyn Monroe. She happens to be a really beautiful but dumb girl who is part if the band. They both fall in love with her. They finally reach their destination, Miami, Florida. They get there and another character appears, he is Osgood. He falls in love of the female version of Jerry, Daphne. The story goes on and Joe tries to make Sugar fall in love with a fake millionaire version of him, and it sorts to work out. Joe got the idea that Jerry should take Osgood, the money-abundant old man, dressed as Daphne out for a dinner to a Latin bar at the coast, while Joe dressed as the fake millionaire version of him takes Sugar with him into Osgood's yacht at the beach. The morning after it happened that Daphne and Osgood got engaged, Osgood without knowing that Daphne is in reality Jerry. Sugar is sad because her "new loved man" has gone. Jerry and Joe find out that the Mafia convention is taken place in the same hotel they are in. The gangsters happen to recognize both Jerry and Joe as women and look for them. They hide and happen to witness another murder but his time the murder of the gangsters who were following them. Now the new gangster follow them and Joe has this idea in which he could reveal himself to Sugar and take her with him and Daphne to Osgood's yacht where they left together as two couples, Sugar and the real Joe, and Osgood and Daphne, who in reality is Jerry. Osgood doesn't care he is a man. All of these events go around the themes I mentioned. Homosexuality is highlighted when Osgood doesn't care about Daphne's sex and when Joe, as a woman loves Sugar. Gangster and Mafia problematics when they witness and are followed by the mafia in both cities, Chicago and Miami. The story made controversy when it was revealed to the audience since they weren't used to themes of that big impact in society. In my opinion the movie has to fix some details as the cast acting skills and the short and brief ending. Everything else in the movie is mostly good. The settings, the music, the filming techniques, and many other characteristic that build a great movie.
Greetings again from the darkness. Billy Wilder's classic was the latest in the comedy series sponsored by Dallas Film Society and Dallas Morning News. It is almost always ranked as one of the top comedy films of all-time, and often the best ever. While that's a bit higher than I would rank it, there is little doubt that it has earned its enduring place in cinematic history. To fully understand the impact of the film, it helps to remind yourself of the times ... it was filmed more than 50 years ago. What we might call tame today, was incredibly risqué and daring for the times.What really stands out while watching the film is just what an incredible screen presence Marilyn Monroe possessed. It is quite challenging to take your eyes off her during any of her scenes. I am at a loss to come up with any other actor or actress who even comes close to this level of camera-cornering. Greta Garbo and Marlon Brando were great, but Marilyn is transcendent while on screen. Of course, the reports of her personal issues are legendary. Supposedly on this film, she was constantly 2-3 hours late, couldn't remember her lines and had to be coddled by all involved. Still, the final product is stunning and director Billy Wilder understood that no other actress could be substituted. Sadly, Marilyn only made two more films and was dead 3 years after this film was released.As wonderful as Marilyn is, this is really the story of Joe and Jerry, or Josephine and Daphne, or even Junior. Those five characters are all played with crackling comedy timing by Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon. Lemmon, as Daphne, is especially terrific as he tango's the night away with Osgood Fielding III (played by Joe E Brown). Curtis is at his best when courting Marilyn's Sugar Kane while sporting his Cary Grant impersonation and driving the boat backwards.There are so many classic comedy moments in this film, and though it is based on a 1935 French farce titled Fanfare d'Amour, Wilder and his co-writer and frequent collaborator I.A.L. Diamond made it their own by adding the gangster story line. Seeing notorious movie bad guy George Raft tied to the 1929 Chicago St Valentine's Day Massacre adds a dimension that many writers/directors would be unable to handle. Instead, Wilder adds his frenetic dialogue and mixes in some wild double-entendre's, a touch of Marx Brothers, and the sensuous singing of Marilyn to deliver a world class comedy.The Florida scenes were filmed at the historical Hotel del Coronado in San Diego, which remains a very popular resort location even today. Marilyn sings "I Wanna Be Loved By You" and "I'm Through With Love" in such a way that her character's naivety adds a dimension that breaks the heart of Joe (Curtis) and mesmerizes the viewer. Billy Wilder is certainly one of the Hollywood giants and delivered such classics as Sunset Blvd, The Apartment, Irma laDouce, and Witness for the Prosecution. His excellence spans numerous film genres, and we admire his patience and proficiency in juggling the issues required to pull off Some Like it Hot ... and avoid the fuzzy end of the lollipop.


                
I haven't seen a more perfect comedy and cast than this in a while.Watching this in 2012 and I still find myself laughing my heads off. Thinking, "So this is comedy cross-dressing is supposed to be." (that is looking at you Big Momma and Tyler Perry) Ranked as the greatest American comedy by AFI (as at Oct 2012), the movie is a remake of a 1935 French movie, Fanfare d'Amour and was meant to be shut in color but as the makeup of both Curtis and Lemmon was obvious it was then shut in black and white.Marilyn Monroe can carve a M in to a rock with her smile and her acting is so well done that you are intrigued to see her anytime. Monroe is known mostly as a sex icon, and this movie assisted in such claims as the dresses she wore were more too seductive to be classified as funny. To say she had the movie by the balls will be a statement men will agree to, when they are watching this flick.The plot is about two male musicians who will do absolutely anything for money as they are constantly broke. They were in the wrong place at the wrong time and witness a mobster performing his "executionary" duties. This made them run off while being shut at.To hide from their pending death, they took a job as musicians in an all-girl band. So to fit in they shaved their legs, wore makeup and wore a dress to pass as women.But things took a turn for the worse when Marilyn Monroe strolled by.The film was awarded an Academy Award for Best Costume Design. It also won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy. Marilyn Monroe won the Golden Globe for Best Actress in Musical or Comedy, and Jack Lemmon for Best Actor in Musical or Comedy.Billy Wilder the director is one of only five people to have won Academy Awards as producer, director, and writer for the same film (The Apartment). Tony Curtis has been in over a 100 films and he is the father of actress Jamie Lee Curtis.Lemmon is popular in these days as the actor in the movie Odd Couple.Some Like It Hot, is a movie I advise you watch over and over again. Like the last line of the movie goes "Nobody is perfect" I say I'm not the perfect comedy judge but I wanna know if you agree with me.www.lagsreviews.com


                
There is always a thing about Classics, even before you absorb the first frame; you are burdened with huge expectations. But, Some Like It Hot is one of those jet planes where you got to tight your seat belt and forget everything else to enjoy the joyride or you would fall off your seat.I feel casting in a movie is one of the most under discussed elements of movie making amongst general public but it plays a very significant role in the success of a movie and SLIH is the prime example of it. Apart from Jack Lemmon, none of the protagonists were known for their superior acting skills and they would not have made the cut for a Billy Wilder piece. But, in retrospect, who other than Tony Curtis who had a boyish look and at the same time possessed sharp features could have played a saxophone playing woman charmer who could cross dress to be a part of a woman band. You can only get a flawless performance from a bad actor only if he/she is playing himself/herself and that is the exact reason why Marilyn Monroe wows you in every scene of Some Like It Hot. She is playing a dumb, vivacious and vulnerable damsel who can sing, doesn't mind sleeping with a charming guy whenever she gets a chance and then dips herself in a whiskey bottle when left all alone with herself. Jack Lemmon with a broad muscular jawline was surely the one who had a better chance of getting caught as someone not in the right clothes, but that is very small price to pay, as an actor of his caliber was indispensable to the cause of SLIH. He has an amazing sense of timing when it comes to humor; he is almost chaplinesque when it comes to expressions and the confidence with which he delivers his lines puts him right at the top of stack.I am not sure when was the concept of black humor introduced in the world of cinema, but, SLIH has to be one of the better examples from the old times where black humor is integrated in the comedy. The black humor is there only to make its presence felt and nothing more. Other than that SLIH is a fun filled journey of Gerald (Lemmon) and Joseph (Curtis), two musicians on the run from dangerous Chicago gangsters who are after their lives. They find their safe house in an all-woman band that is off to Florida for a string of performances. This is where they meet the gorgeous Sugar (Marilyn) and try their luck on flattering her. It is all about how Joseph manages to get ahead in the race and Gerald like a true friend tags along without any explaining or pleading by Joseph. This is what makes SLIH sweet. The necessary salt is added to the movie by little moments like women having a party on train, Sugar hiding whiskey in her stocking, Fielding (Joe Brown) hitting on Dalphe (Gerald disguised as a woman) and further complications that set in because of these. What makes this classical comedy special is the fact that it makes you laugh at so many occasions without being slapstick or cheap or using the chaos technique. And when it doesn't make you laugh, it makes you smile. Most importantly, the movie stays with you.The manner in which the movie begins, it suddenly makes you wonder - that's too much of real car chasing and shooting for a black and white movie of 40's and then you realize it's done in 1959 and the movie was intentionally produced in black and white. The first scene itself is a cracker and will create a cocktail of emotions, with words like liquor, crime, party, death, music all floating around at the same time. There are plenty of scenes where the camera pans out from one object to another capturing multiple things with different moods and complexion in the same scene and that is a technique which I guess wasn't used quite frequently back then. Make-up job of Curtis and Lemmon is too good for those times and it would have been so important for that to have been correctly done as that is absolutely central to the whole plot. Marilyn's costumes are way modern and she carries them effortlessly.Some Like It Hot is without any doubt a classic but, probably in no other movie would have the last line played such an important role as in this. The finishing frames where Joe Brown utters the unexpected leave you pleasantly surprised and I am sure it would have had far better impact on the audience 50 years back.


                
Although you can still somewhat describe this movie being somewhat of a screwball comedy, it's also really a movie that has more hints of a more modern type of comedy in it. The overall comedy and approach of it all and the story feels more matured and seriously put together, as if it was a movie out of a far more serious and respected genre, such as a drama or a thriller. It makes me sort of see "Some Like It Hot" as the first 'modern' comedy.In essence this is actually being one very simple movie. It relies almost entirely on its main premise of having two guys who are forced, due to circumstances, to dress up as girls and to join an all female band, in order to get away from the mobsters that are chasing them and want to kill them. But of course lots of other stuff starts to happen and things get complicated more once they start the trip. They get themselves even in more trouble, which is of course all due to Marilyn Monroe.It's perhaps Marilyn Monroe's most iconic and memorized roles. She never was the best actress around but she still always had an incredible screen presence, which made audiences fall in love with her. It was of course not in the least due to her looks but also thanks to her naive, girl-like charm. Besides, her singing was also always great and she does some good singing in this and sing her most recognizable song 'I Wanna Be Loved By You' in this. But you really shouldn't forget about Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon. I mean, they are the ones acting in drag, mostly throughout the entire movie. They truly become almost unrecognizable, which is not just because of the way how they look but also due to their fine acting. I wouldn't imaging there were many actors at the time, fighting over a role to play a female character for almost the entire movie but they are the ones that simply did it and for that along they already should get a lot of respect.It's a pleasantly fast moving movie, that takes us to a lot of places and there is always something going on. The characters are great comedy ones and then I am of course also talking about its fine supporting cast, that also has some other quite big names in it from the past, such as George Raft and Pat O'Brien.One of the first great and successful 'modern' comedies.8/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
"Some Like It Hot" is hard to explain. The film, if you've never seen it, is going to feel like something you've seen a hundred times before. And you probably have, but they did it first. To be successful, two guys dress up as women, and then one falls for a woman (Marilyn Monroe) -- so how does he tell her without her hating him for keeping the secret? We have seen plenty of films where guys get close to women because of some trick -- usually innocently -- and then have to inevitably reveal the truth. And sometimes this involves cross-dressing. I think it's safe to say that "Some Like it Hot" was the first film to play this plot, especially with the cross-dressing.This film is funny, to be sure, and has a very nice innocence to it in that it seems pretty obvious to the audience that the women are men. The broad shoulders, the weird bumps while wearing a swimsuit? How the girls don't catch on is beyond me. And then to not recognize the guys while in male clothing... wow.


                
I pretty much walked into this movie completely blind but I did prepare myself in case this movie had anything in it that wouldn't age well in today's society, I mean this was nearly 60 years ago and times change. However, I wasn't only pleasantly surprised at a lack of anything of the sort but this still gets a laugh after all these years in places.The plot, in the late 20's, 2 musicians are out of luck when they barely have jobs and witness a mob execution. They get away and find the only place that needs their talents are specifically looking for females. They decide to go along with it and get into... probably the least convincing drag in any drag comedy I like (For the record I like 2 others, Tootsie and Mrs Doubtfire) and soon things get complicated as both fall in love with the singer (Marilyn Monroe) and try to keep hold of their new identities even when a rich millionaire has the hots for one of them, the other pretending to be that rich as a man to impress Monroe. Chaos ensues.I might say that while some things are played for laughs like the homosexual, transsexual and other kind of undertones or overtones in the movie I was surprised with it never really getting mean-spirited once. I can imagine how it would have been very different. I might also be reading a little too deep into the movie though but with today's eyes to me at least, I don't think you can look at ti without thinking all this. Either way, I will say it's probably the best you're going to get out of 1959 talking about this stuff.I'll also say I enjoyed the acting and some of the jokes do still hit the right notes today. I really do admire a comedy that is still funny about 57 years after it was released. Although I will say it does take a while for it to get going (namely when they start walking around in wigs and dresses mainly because while there were a couple funny lines beforehand it does get better) and I will say they did save the best joke for last, it does emphasize the right way to end a comedy.If there were any complaints with this I would say it's probably Tony Curtis' relationship with Marilyn. It's clear at the beginning that he's going to lie and pretend to be a millionaire it isn't funny and we can see exactly what's coming, pretty soon the cat is going to come out of the bag, although here Marilyn is perfectly fine with a female friend being both the "millionaire boyfriend" and also finding out she's perfectly fine with him lying to her as they're running away together.So, I would recommend watching it but I would also consider the time it was made for one thing. It still remains being funny and I will give it all the credit it deserves for still remaining that way for over half a century (and that's essentially what's important) and I'll say it is actually worth it but I'll also say I might have missed something. Either way, I recommend seeing it.


                
I was finally able to catch up with what many people call the funniest movie ever made, Some Like It Hot. This is now the first and only film I have seen with Marilyn Monroe as well as directed by Billy Wilder. The hype on these two seem to be correct and I look forward to checking out more from both. However, the real success of the film is the portrayal of our two leads by Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis. Both bring a fantastic comedic element to the story and play their roles to perfection. So many films afterwards have taken the general plot line<U+0097>two people see a gang shooting and run away/change identities to not get killed only to end up running into the mobsters coincidentally in the city they have relocated to, and remade it. None of them come close to the level of achievement that this one has, way back in 1959.Right from the get-go, seeing the thug/big-nosed Italians hiding in the back of a hearse in order to smuggle whiskey during Prohibition, we know exactly what we are in for. Wilder allows the story to play out on both a dramatic and comedic level, never straying too far into one to let the other fall away. Sure there are some laughs at the start, especially between Lemmon and Curtis in the funeral bar and a couple moments poking fun at the "coffee" code language, but only after the two go on the lam as women instrument players in Florida do the big laughs come. The two men are just so manly that looking at them in drag brings a smile to your face, let alone when they actually talk. Lemmon is brilliant as Daphne, the loquacious girl that likes to talk too much and have fun, slowly getting so good at being a female he starts to believe he is one. "Just keep telling yourself you're a boy." As for Curtis, he shines as three separate roles. He must be believable as the gambling, womanizing, sax player Joe; the millionaire, yacht-owning Shell Oil tycoon; and the best friend, Conservatory-trained musician Josephine. Each character is created and used to enhance all the others as he tries to con Marilyn Monroe's Sugar into falling in love with him.Monroe plays the flighty blonde to great success. She continually calls herself dumb and the words that come out of her mouth, as well as the believing of all the drivel that comes from Curtis' tycoon (some real funny lines), prove that fact. Being that I had always heard she wasn't too bad an actress, I wasn't quite sure what to expect since my impression of her was more model used to sell seats, not any skill at the craft. While she is definitely radiantly beautiful here, I have to believe she isn't just being the pretty face. Yes, she gets top-billing, but although she isn't in the movie for that much compared to her co-stars, she does well with the time she is given. I'm not sure how successful the movie would have been without her to have the boys play off of. The glowing smile and sex appeal are one thing, but her scene of depression upon being dumped shows a vulnerability and strength through tears, yet keeping a calm, collected voice, show that maybe there really was something there.Where the film really works is with the situations brought about by the duality of our leads. Their fighting with themselves and each other, sometimes forgetting what sex they are at the moment, let alone truly are, is priceless. Lemmon's fast-talking naïveté gets him to bring the biggest laughs, thanks in part to a wonderful supporting role from Joe E. Brown as Osgood Fielding III, but Curtis is right there behind him. His machismo, used to put Lemmon in line, contrasted to his gentility, when with Monroe, is spot-on, as is the accent of affluence used to win her heart. Credit goes to Wilder for one of the best scenes from the film involving all four characters. The transitional cuts between Curtis and Monroe, attempting to let him feel love again, with Fielding and Lemmon, cutting up the tango dance floor, are absolutely hilarious. The juxtaposition of Daphne's tall, muscular frame<U+0097>at times leading the dance<U+0097>with the small, thin, elderly Brown can't be viewed without some amount of giggling.It may not be the funniest film I have ever seen, but I can totally see where people are coming from when making that statement. Released just before the 1960's, this film can be seen as incredibly influential to the comedy genre and cinema in general. One-liners are present throughout and the acting is professionally handled at all times, bringing the laughs, but also staying grounded for those moments of seriousness when relationships are failing and death seems awfully close at hand. I hope to catch up with more work from all four principals here, to view some movies of an era I am not very proficient in, and to hopefully enjoy myself as much as I did here.


                
It's a funny movie but I'm a little amazed that it appears as the #1 comedy movie of all time with the AFI, and even at IMDB it's #50 (ahead of Chaplin & Marx Bros classics among others).  Yet compare the size of the "memorable quotes" page from "Duck Soup" to "Some Like It Hot."  The characters & love interests were all a bit shallow, and it wasn't a revolutionary film or anything like Chaplin & Marx Bros.  So I don't really understand what makes it a top-rated movie.  Is it a revolutionary film just because it had guys in drag in 1950's "square" America?On the other hand, to answer another critic here, it's silly to compare a screen legend like Marylin Monroe to a 90's plastic-surgery legend and non-actress like Pamela Lee Anderson etc.  They had actresses back then, not aerobicized bimbos who's best performances were with Tommy Lee on Internet-downloaded movie clips.   "Some Like It Hot" is better than most dreck put out nowadays but I can't really see giving it higher than an 8 of 10, 3 of 4 stars, B grade, etc.


                
A comedy classic from Billy Wilder which regularly comes in at the top or near the top of 'funniest of all time' lists, this feature has many assets. First, there's a sweet and infectious portrayal by Marilyn Monroe of the lonely singer Sugar, on the hunt for a rich man.  Then there is the chance to see Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis in drag for much of the movie - Lemmon, as daft Daphne, looks a fright but puts in a great, bubbly, comic performance as the girl who really does snare her own millionaire; while Curtis, as the overly made-up Josephine, sashays about with some style, while also appearing as a mock playboy who talks like Cary Grant (allegedly).George Raft is the gangleader the 'girls' are running away from; while Joe E Brown is great as Daphne's beau Osgood, a man who after lots of marriages to show girls will marry just about anyone!  The script piles on the laughs thick and fast, while Marilyn gets to sing songs like 'I Wanna Be Loved By You', 'Runnin' Wild', and 'I'm in the Mood for Love'.


                
This is a great script, funny, compelling, unexpected. Lemmon and Curtis are a great team, bouncing those zingers off each other like there's no tomorrow. But it's Marilyn Monroe who's luminous here. This movie, more than any other, proves why she was the object of so many people's fantasies. From the "I Wanna Be Loved By You" song to the scene where she bravely tries to kiss Tony Curtis into feeling something (still one of the most erotic scenes on film), she is a goddess. And the last line always gets a laugh. Check this movie out if you haven't seen it.


                
this is maybe a little bit weird now,but it's one of most funnest movies ever created.Marilyn Monroe,Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon. and director was billy wilder.Two Struggling musicians witness the St. Valentine's Day Massacre and try to find a way out of the city before they are found and killed by the mob. The only job that will pay their way is an all girl band so the two dress up as women. In addition to hiding, each has his own problems; One falls for another band member but can't tell her his gender, and the other has a rich suitor who will not take "No," for an answer.i recommend this movie to it.and yes Monroe was hot there.8/10.


                
I do not remember how many times I have seen this comedy and each time I enjoy it. When I want to sit looking at a good film, "Some like it hot" is a very good option. This comedy had real ingredients of the period of dry law in US, which gave a nice and reasonable plot. Marilyn Monroe and Tony Curtis were great, simply one of the best looking couple of the former cinema. George Raft acted in the role of gangster. I do not think that this role was difficult for Raft, someone that during the 50s was always working in nightclubs and casinos in Havana linked to the foreign and internal maffia at that time, so it was easy to him to do what he used to do in his real life. Pat O'Brien acted not as a priest as usual but as a good inspector-detective. But better than all this was the acting of Jack Lemmon and Joe E. Brown (whom we used to call "Big mouth" or "Bocasa" in Spanish), both gave the necessary ingredients to make this comedy one of the greatest of all time. The film is good from the beginning until the end, but certain scenes were simply the funniest, one of them when Curtis and Lemmon were having a chat with the nearly naked ladies in the train at night, the other one when Marilyn met Curtis in the yacht and Curtis showed falsely no feeling for kisses of Marilyn, but again the best came at the end when Lemmon told Brown that he was a man and Brown told him that it does not matter because nobody is perfect.


                
Hard to add anything that hasn't been said before. This is definitely one of the classics - in the truest sense of an overworked term - of cinematic comedy. Everything works in perfect synergy here - casting, acting, writing, direction, music, and the choice of black & white is absolutely correct. And the script! This movie is definitely a 'drag', and anyone who has not seen it is living a deprived life.


                
This show was great.  I like this show a lot.  She acted great in this old classic movie.  It was really funny also, especially when the two men dress up as women.  That was so funny.  I would recommend this show to every one, because it is a great family classical show.  I hope you can see it and enjoy this show as much as I have.  Have a great day and watch good movies.


                
This movie had three very different actors. All three thrown together to play on roles to captivate the viewers, that what it did for me. There were intimate scenes that made me feel warm and fuzzy. There were exciting scenes the kept me on edge. The comedy was classic, which kept me laughing the whole time. This movie showed a sense of respect and loyalty to the viewers to make them want to establish a close net friendship that will build long lasting relationships. Being in a dire situation with people you can trust helps you remember movies like this. Most movies do not display all this without vulgar language. This was a movie to help me watch over and over again.
This is not about just Marilyn Monroe. She does cast a spell with her sublime and appeal; no breaking news here! In addition, the movie is about a story of two musicians– Joe, the sax player (Tony Curtis) and Jerry, the bass player (Jack Lemmon). In the era of bootlegging in 1929, Joe and Jerry live in Chicago, struggling to make their ends meet. Small, infrequent performances and Joe's manipulative charm on ladies see them through the day's end, until they find a gold mine of an opportunity to perform in a hotel in an all paid trip to Florida. The only concern is, they have to pose themselves as women. Some disappointments, some rejections and 7 murders later they agree to take the job. And then, unrolls the bundle of fun, music, adventure, poolside frolics and a visual treat that is Sugar Cane (Marilyn Monroe). Joe and Jerry, both very nimble characters, bring to life a beautiful, comic camaraderie which drives the plot of the entire movie. Sugar is an innocent, aspiring singer who fits perfectly in the scheme of love, sensuality, comedy and chaos. Although having seen umpteenth similar comedies that came after this, 'Some like it hot' still seems fresh, witty, genre-defining and worth all the accolades it has gathered all these years. I watched it and understood why this movie is immortal- because it has been inspiring comedies ever since 1959.


                
This a laugh out loud film we can enjoy with our families.Now, again we have Billy Wilder at the helm as director and he turns Men into Women and makes a fun ride. Now, why this makeover, they need job and women are given job, so they turn into women, funny isn't it? Yes indeed this is a fun ride. This is a kind of movie that can be watched with a family or friends and can be laughed at. It's a great movie to watch with just that we have to keep our brains out.Billy Wilder had earlier debuted with a movie called MINOR OR MAJOR where a woman becomes a minor to get a ticket at half price, so these kind of funny things are not new in Billy Wilder movies, just that they get funnier here. We have the ever young Marilyn Monroe here and wow, the way she walks is worth a watch and only few can kiss like Marilyn does on screen. There is certain kind of enigma to her personality I think that kept her the highest paid actress then. The technical aspects of this film are good, just that we don't care too much of it because of the constant laughs we get. Yes look at the scenes between Josephine and Daphne (the men turned women) and they are the best. There is a certain kind of comic timing that is just so hilarious. There is lot of running around too, chases in vans, cops, mafia dons, women, music all come together in this film. Above all that, it's the dialogue that makes it more lively, the last scenes where Daphne says "I am a Man" to which his male supposed fiancé says "Well, nobody's perfect" and there is THE END of this film. I am going with 4/5 for a great fun movie. And as always Billy Wilder film is worth a watch and this one makes up more than that.


                
I'm usually not much for old comedies, although i have to say, this one was truly original, cheerful characters that created the comic impression throughout the movie, which made me grin all the way through. Tony Curtis is an entertaining actor to observe, pulling off three different characters in one movie is nothing more but impressive and shows that he is a very adjustable person. Marilyn Monroe who played 'Sugar Kane Kowalczyk', to me seemed to be very suitable for the character itself, she lived through the character as if it was a part of herself. Billy Wilder took such good care of this film, able to display excitement, love and comedy all together, the synchronization among all the cast on what could have been very chaotic couple of scenes if not done correctly, but manage to control this exceptionally. The shooting location and the backgrounds gave it a very comfortable awareness which made it feel like a cup of hot coco on a cold winter day. This classic comedy gives us a perspective about some of the joy and yet, the difficulty of being a women, it's displayed positively towards the audience.


                
Considered by many to be the best comedy of all time. It sits atop the American Film Institutes's list of Top 100 comedies. It one an Oscar for costume design, and was nominated for five others; Jack Lemmon got a BAFTA award, and director Billy Wilder got a nomination; it won three Golden Globes: Best Picture, Jack Lemmon, and Marilyn Monroe. With all that, you expect to be thoroughly entertained for the whole two hours.You can just imagine the hilarity as Lemmon and Tony Curtis don dresses and join an all-girl band to escape the mob. Add Marilyn in the mix and the laughs just keep coming.This is definitely one not to miss.


                
