"Movies should be like amusement parks" filmmaker Billy Wilder once said "People should go to them to have fun". So If Some Like It Hot was an amusement park: it would Thorpe Park, mixed in with Legoland, added with a dash of Disney land. Some Like It Hot is the granddaddy of comedies, the Godfather of laughs and the Mike Tyson of punch lines. Heck! Watching this film is like getting into the ring with Muhammad Ali, as you're constantly hit with fast paced gags. Even when you're least expecting it you're hit with a punch line so funny it leaves your side aching, or a piece of slapstick comedy that leaves your eyes running. Even the fade out line has been regarded as the funniest and most famous in history. Once you hear it, you'll guarantee never ever, ever to forget it. Trust me, it's hilarious! After playing witness to a routine gangland shooting, two penniless Chicago musicians, Joe and jerry decide it is the perfect opportunity, to remain safe and get paid a easy buck when they decide to take up residence in an all girl band heading to Florida, crossed-dressed as Josephine (Tony Curtis) and Daphne (Jack Lemmon). But with the only simple aim of getting paid and avoiding the mob, things soon get a little more tricky when a ditsy singer named Sugar (Marilyn Monroe) captures the heart of' Josephine' and a eccentric playboy millionaire falls for 'Daphne'.Some Like It Hot is one of those rare occasions, where everyone involved is at the very peak of their powers. Billy Wilder's directing is subtle but instrumental in loading every scene with comedic material ready to pop out like a wound up jack in the box. The writing is excellent, it constantly moves at a furious pace. Imagine Usain bolt on roller blades with jet pack attached to his back, and still that's not even as fast as how the dialogue rips through every scene. People may say that the comedy is too high concept, but for me that's the very reason it's so damn funny , as well a begin genius, because it means that the jokes will stand the test of time and span all generations because it's so easy to understand. Anyway who likes having jokes explained to them? No one! But you can't talk about Some Like It Hot, without mentioning Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon, who were absolutely perfect for their roles, each adding a feeling of assuredness to theirs, as well as bucket full's of originality with every facial expression as well as every line. Initially I was not convinced by Marilyn Monroe, as I felt she was slightly overrated, but in her role as Sugar, she brings a lot of composure to the role adding balance to the high energy of Tony and Jack, but still getting her laughs not through straight jokes but by simply being able to deliverer every air headed line with great delivery and timing. Whilst still being able to remain sweet, helpless and innocent, even as she plunges picks into a solid cube of ice with great fury, as she talks about her weakness for Saxophone players. Some Like It Hot it like a magician of comedy, you never know what to expect next, as with every new scene you so excitedly anticipate what piece of comedic magic it will pull out of its sleeve. For me Some Like It Hot is the funniest comedy film I have ever seen, even though it is almost 55 years old, its comedy is still so accessible and funny too!


                
What can you say about this movie that has not been said before?
A genuine classic, the basics run as follows... Marilyn Monroe, Tony Curtis and the ever-fabulous Jack Lemmon...... the boys do drag, Marilyn sings occaisionally, looks edible in practically see-through dresses AND acts well to boot...
Lemmon and Curtis play musicians accidentally caught up in the St Valentine's Day Massacre... they go on the run in the only band which will hire them - an all female band which means their only option is to drag up and bluff their way along - and meet up with marginally alcoholic and slightly unhinged Marilyn.. some chaos ensues as Curtis tries to woo her and Lemmon unwillingly finds a suitor for himself... The film is surprisingly touching in places but is basically a lovely silly comedy. It regularly appears in lists proclaiming it to be one of the 100 best movies of all time and quite rightly so. Marilyn - despite suffereing a miscarriage during filming - is on superb form, Jack Lemmon looks almost attractive in drag and Tony Curtis actually avoids being too slimy and annoying. The drag scenes are wonderfully underplayed and the classy use of black and white photography throughout helps make both the drag and the period setting look plausible.
Highlights include Tony Curtis's Cary Grant impression (for those of you uneducated in the fabulousness of Cary Grant check out Bringing Up Baby, also on this term), Jack Lemmon being romanced in great style - which leads to just about the best last line of a movie of all time - and Marilyn looking glorious of course.If you've never seen this movie you really really should; if you already have then I am sure you need no persuasion to see it again!


                
Some Like It HotSome Like It Hot is an excellent movie, which was made in 1959, and still today is one of the best comedies created. It is so good that the fact that it is made in black and white is completely forgotten. Billy Wilder directed the movie, and the cast included such stars as Marilyn Monroe, Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis. Also this movie won an Academy Award for the Best Costume Design, Black and White, the reason why it says black and white is because at the time movies could already be made with color, so the award were divided between color, and black and white.The movie is set in 1927, and it is about two musicians who find themselves unemployed, and go searching for a job. Both found a job on girls band and this made it impossible for them to take it, so they got another job, and while getting into the car both men Joe (Tony Curtis), and Jerry (Jack Lemmon) were witnesses of a murder committed by the Chicago mafia. Being witness of this incident both Joe, and Jerry must leave and hide from the mafia, which is looking for them because of what they had witnessed before. Joe and Jerry decide to take the job of the girl's band and disguise themselves as girls, so that they could enter the band without any problems. From the point where both men enter the train with the rest of the girls the rest of the movie is an extremely comic journey.The movie's main Characters were Joe, or Josephine, Jerry, or Daphne, and Sugar Kane. Joe and Josephine were both made by Tony Curtis and he fitted perfectly for both characters due to his personality, he was a very comic part of the movie and made an exceptional job. Jerry and Daphne were both acted by Jack Lemmon and he was also brilliant in the movie and fitted his role perfectly and in my opinion was more comic than Tony Curtis in the movie. Both Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon were vital in the creation of this movie; definitely the movie wouldn't have been the same without these two magnificent actors. Then, there was Sugar Kane which was interpreted by Hollywood star Marilyn Monroe, she was the perfect women for the role due to the fact that Sugar Kane was a very beautiful woman, the character of Sugar Kane represented in a way a very materialist and woman and with alcoholic problems.In my opinion on of the best scenes of the movie is when Joe is dressed as a wealthy man and is with Sugar Kane at the yacht while Daphne is dancing with a rich man names Osgood who is in love with "her", and doesn't really know she is really a he. A scene, which I didn't like, was at the beginning when Joe and Jerry are looking for jobs, I found that part of the movie kind of slow and bored me for a little moment.Some Like It Hot was a risky movie due to the fact that men were transforming themselves into women, and at the time to watch this was not very common. Curtis Hanson, a director, said: "It's a film about sex from the title to the final line. It's not just about sex as in people having sex; it's also about sexual roles, and of course sexual identity." The fact that both men dressed as women and all those problems came in was pretty funny and this movie was not only a romantic comedy because of the love between Joe and Sugar Kane, but it is also a screwball, and gangster movie. Screwball because of everything that happens throughout the movie, and gangster because of all the mafia issued shown in the film.I believe that this movie would be good for any kind of audience because it is a great comedy and it will make anyone laugh and have a great time. I really enjoyed this movie and wouldn't doubt of watching it once more. I would give this movie a 4.7/5This review was written by a sophomore who enjoys watching movies and loves anything related to comedy. This move review was written for an film appreciation class.
Some Like it Hot is a screwball comedy about two musicians somehow getting mixed up with a Chicago crime syndicate and their attempt to run away from them. They end up disguising themselves as girls in order to land a gig with an all girl band in Florida. Along the way, they meet an attractive, innocent girl, who has a tendency to fall for sax players, and attempt to charm her. Things get when complicated when the syndicate arrives in Florida for some other event and paths of the musicians and the gang cross again.Tony Curtis as the ever-optimistic Joe and Jack Lemmon as the frank and jocular Jerry were both delightful in their portrayals. Their on-screen chemistry constitutes the heart of the movie as they land themselves in awkward situations and wriggle their way out with the help of some cunning and fortune. Marilyn Monroe as the dim and naive Sugar Kane Kowalczyk, is the central character around which the plot rotates. It is almost impossible not to fall for her as she is ever so attractive and yet so innocent in character. There are times when one forgets about the movie and is enchanted by her presence on screen, her singing at the band's performance and the scene on the yacht being two of them. Joe E Brown as Osgood, puts in a hearty performance as the love seeking rich oldie who would go to any lengths to win Daphne's heart. He provides the fitting end to the movie with the iconic "Nobody's Perfect". The on screen camaraderie between Joe and Jerry, as they bicker along the way and yet never leave each other in times of trouble, is what makes this movie special. Joe as an esoteric millionaire who has a 'problem', Osgood has the doting lover infatuated with Daphne, and Daphne as the light hearted and carefree maiden who finds herself in perplexing situations , are three characters that give life to this brisk paced comedy. The most hilarious scene though has to be the post dates scene where Jerry's incredible contemplation of a love affair and future life with Osgood is discussed, leaving the audience in fits of laughter.Overall, Billy Wilder's Some Like it Hot is a wonderful comedy that has all the ingredients for an all time classic.
I went to see this because of Marilyn Monroe. Of course I was not disappointed. She is not as dumb as she describes herself is. And she sings well too. But it was Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis who make this comedy alive. You can sense the sparkles between them even when they first appear in the show in Chicago. Then, when they pose as women it was so amusing and pleasant! Yet their performance would not have been so engaging if not for the witty lines and intriguing plot. There is literally not a dull moment throughout the whole movie. The plot develops very well and the pacing was just right. Although the Osgood Fielding III character (Joe Brown) seems to be annoying in the beginning, he turns out to be instrumental in later part of the story and the heartily conversation in perfect tempo between him and Lemmon on the speed boat is so memorable.Some Like it Hot is perfect in all sense: acting, script, direction, costume (Oh how Monroe's dresses keep me gazing), music. It is such a classic that we will probably never have anything like this for a long, long time.
What a fun movie, I can't believe I never saw it before tonight. Somehow, I have seen "Seven Year Itch" more times than I need to, but this one seldom comes on, caught it in full on youtube, thank goodness.The acting is wonderful; was especially impressed by Tony Curtis, as I never thought he had such range. Jack Lemmon and Marilyn were at their best in this film. It moves very quickly, even though there are a few spots that go on a bit too long, i.e chase scenes toward the end. Marilyn's outfits were pretty eye-popping for 1959. I felt like I was watching a film actually made in 1929, as it was set, at times.All in all, very funny, the men as women were as funny and perfect as could be. Everything since, including "Tootsie" was playing catch-up to Jack and Tony in their roles, especially Jack as Daphne. I can see why he was nominated for an Oscar.
Strange in my 70 plus years I had no seen this delightful movie until yesterday. It entails two goofy characters in drag taking the old steamy night train from Chicago to Miami Beach California (cannot be Florida as mountains appear on the horizon).They are heading to the ocean for a variety of reasons, basically for survival. Plenty of laughs involved. MM was a really good comedienne but most just remember her full figure (not quite the ideal by early C21st standards but terrific for the 1950s though surpassed by France's less voluptuous but more sexy BeBe and Grace Kelly's superb cool beauty). Like Casablanca the best part of the film is the last sentence in the script "Well, no one is perfect".


                
With Billy Wilder's steady direction, the great casting, and Wilder/Diamond's sparkling script Some Like It Hot has become one of the most enjoyed comedies of cinema history. The story itself is pure comedy gold; the unhappy jazz-musicians Joe (Tony Curtis) and Jerry (Jack Lemmon) are witness to the St. Valentine massacre in 1929 and flees from Chicago with an all-girl-band who's headed for Miami, dressed up as "Josephine" and "Daphne". Soon both are hooked on Sugar Kane (Marylin Monroe), the band's lead singer - but things gets more complicated when arrived in Miami, Daphne attracts a elderly playboy and the gangster of Chicago arrives at the Floria-hotel to have a mafia-meeting.The work of the three participants in center is truly great; Marylin Monroe is at her most sexy and charming, Tony Curtis' brilliant control and Jack Lemmon is truly priceless at his peak. The movie paces fantastically throughout opening scenes of Chicago, onto the train-ride (features fantastically funny moments of brilliant comedy timing) and arriving at the hotel in Florida, and the situations that occurs with the band, with playboy Osgood Fielding III, Marylin Monroe and the mafia. And Billy Wilder shows his talent with keeping such a sparkling screenplay brilliantly paced and edited, never rushing itself - and Wilder sneaks in some fine moments of noir with the Chicago-gangsters brutality and cruelness. And the movie is a altogether different experience as a comedy than anything before it, the absurdity and quirkiness of Curtis and Lemmon in a transvestite-comedy is fantastically funny, and the final dialog between Osgood Fielding and Daphne/Jerry seemingly came out of the blue, and surprised me just as much today as it did back in 1959. Some Like It Hot is nothing less than a must-see in comedy, and cinema history.


                
Joe (Tony Curtis) and Jerry (Jack Lemmon) are musicians in 1929 Chicago. They witness a mob hit, and go on the run with an all girls act on a train to Florida. Then Marilyn Monroe walks by, and movie magic is made.Director Billy Wilder writes some great sharp dialog. Jack Lemmon gives a hilarious performance as he falls for the delicious Marilyn Monroe while fighting off the advances of wealthy Osgood Fielding III. Then he takes a left turn, and it becomes comedy classic. Meanwhile Tony Curtis plays triple roles. And there's nothing better than Marilyn Monroe singing 'I Wanna Be Loved by You'. She's more than her ditsy blonde bombshell persona.


                
Comedy set in the late 20s/early 30s features stereotypes of the era -- bombshell torch singer (Monroe, of course), hard-as-nails gangster boss (Raft, of course), and go-getter protagonists (Lemmon and Curtis, of course).  Everything is spoofed in a light way.  Very nice photography. Some of the jokes are flat, but the visual humor can't fail -- especially Lemmon in his crossdressing disguise, which he seems to grow more and more into until his final scene where he and Joe E. Brown seem to be "sailing into the sunset" together.  As Joe says "nobody's perfect."  But this movie's close.


                
It isn't the first time men were in drag on the screen and certainly not the last, but surely it must be the funniest example.I'll skip the plot and just make a few offhand observations. One is that the writers put a near-perfect polish on this script. They didn't simply throw gags and comic situations into the story hoping they would all add up to a funny movie. Instead they worked running gags into the dialog. Some of them are so utterly without symbolic -- or even sensible -- content that they become in themselves sidesplitting. "Type O blood." It must come up half a dozen times in outrageously irrelevant contexts.And one that took me at least ten viewings to catch. I will now spell it out in case anyone out there is as dull as I've been. Near the beginning, when Joe and Jerry are still Joe and Jerry, Joe pitches some woo to Nellie Wymeyer in order to borrow her car, a Hupmobile 1929. An hour into the film, long after this brief exchange has been forgotten, Josephine has cornered Sugar on "his" yacht and explains to her the origin of his impotence. It's an imaginative and tragic tale. It seems he met his only true love at the Grand Canyon. She was as blind as he was. They stood together on the edge of the highest cliff. He took off his glasses. She took off her glasses. He took a step towards her. She took a step towards him. "Oh, no!" cries Sugar. "Yes. Eight hours later they brought her up -- by mule." That's not the running gag though. The running gag is that while Josephine is improvising this blatantly phony yarn, making it up as he goes along, free associating, he mentions that the girl he loved was named Nellie and that her father was president of Hupmobile. Absolutely nothing more is made of the connection between Nellie Wymeyer's Hupmobile and this baloney Josephine is slicing -- in fact he skips rather blithely over it.I don't think I'll give away any other gags, which means I can't really describe the movie in any detail.But mention should be made of the score and the arrangements of the contemporary tunes, for which I guess Adolph Deutsch is responsible. They're wacky when that's called for and sweet in an old-fashioned way when ballads are required. "Stairway to the Stars" has never sounded so romantic, and "I'm Through With Love" more wistful. (Catch the key change after Monroe finishes singing.) The underscore is remarkable too -- a frenetic combination of bass and tenor saxophone. (What else?) Monroe seems a bit thick waisted but it doesn't detract from her sex appeal because she's so Hollywood gorgeous. That transparent dress she almost has on during her love scene with Tony Curtis doesn't dampen her appeal either.The two male leads give unimpeachable performances. I know Tony Curtis has often been criticized for his "mannerisms" and his accent but they fit his character well enough in the Bing Crosby part, while Jack Lemon couldn't be improved upon in the Bob Hope part of the continually hoodwinked, constantly cackling breathlessly. All the supports are just about right too. Sid Polyakoff -- "Spielt mit der PhilharMONic!" And where on this planet did casting find all those goons who play George Raft's companions. "These are my lawyers. All Harvard men." Those FACES.I can't find anything bad to say about the movie. It's funny from beginning to end. If you haven't seen it yet, you owe it to yourself to catch it when you have a chance.


                
Yep -- the poster, with Marilyn winking over the shoulders of Lemmon and Curtis, says it all.Sometimes, the whole is LESS than the sum of its parts. For there may be no more delightful PARTS in the history of film, than these scenes. Yet the whole, curiously, doesn't quite add up.Probably because the entire premise -- two male jazz musicians passing as women to escape the Mafia -- devolves into the notorious final, utterly improbable, line: "Nobody's perfect!" But by then any pretext at reality has been dropped. We are immersed in some Neverland of movie-making which, really, has never been attempted before or since.Namely, a thoroughly ridiculous vanity film for the director, writers, cinematographer and actors that remains utterly delightful nearly half a century later -- and always will.About halfway through, audiences realize they're not watching anything resembling real life. Instead, they're watching some of the best talents in the business having fun! And fun it is! The script is tight as a drum: the direction is flawless (particularly in light of the on-set problems with Miss Monroe): the cinematography is luscious (never has Monroe been lit and photographed so successfully; not even in "The Prince and the Showgirl.").Yet what we're given is scene after scene with two masterful actors -- Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis -- masquerading as women. And Marilyn Monroe -- masterful in her narrow range -- also masquerading as a woman.Let's face it: without her voluptuous body (and Orry-Kelly's jaw-dropping costumes), Miss Monroe would have been NOTHING had she been Kate Moss. Or any other actor. Imagine ANYBODY else "breathing" those lines and slinking around in those gowns and getting by with it.You can't.Every scene "works." Lemmon and Curtis are priceless -- particularly Curtis -- in female drag. Not for one second do they condescend to "playing" women. Sure, the plot demands it. But there's not a moment where they're "putting down" the "weaker" sex. That would have been an easy "comedic" choice back in the day. That nobody chose it says a lot about the talents and sensibilities at work here.Only Joe E. Brown could have been cast as Osgood, perhaps. So obliviously innocent is he that he makes his love for "Daphne" work without a hint of homosexual subtext.It may be a small miracle, in fact, that a film of this era, dealing with two men in drag, and an older wealthy man in love with one of them, has absolutely NO hint of homosexuality, much less anti-gay sentiment. The film is, truly, beloved in homosexual circles for precisely that reason.But forget all that. "Some Like It Hot" becomes a tour-de-force for everybody involved: a film about the joys of acting and pretending, rather than a film to be believed or taken seriously -- since it's so preposterous.One finally yields to the audacious conceit that Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon are "believed" as "Josephine" and "Daphne" and simply lets the deliciousness of their playing wash over audiences.The tidal wave that is Marilyn Monroe (though nearly impossible to work with, by this point: her lines being pasted inside bureau drawers and anywhere else on the set that couldn't be seen, because she couldn't recall even the simplest of them), is perhaps the ultimate in feminine pulchritude on screen. (Monroe was reportedly pregnant during filming, though she miscarried.) Forget that she's written (and plays) a woman as dumb as a post. She looks like nothing anybody ever saw before or since.So "Some Like It Hot" works, scene by scene. Yet, curiously, if fails in the end because it's so patently phony.No matter the era, when a man proposes to another man (thinking he's a woman), and that fiancée pulls off his wig and confesses, "I'm a man," the last line is NEVER, "Well, nobody's perfect." No matter how funny. No matter ANYTHING. By then we're in Neverland and all that's left is to relish the performers relishing performing.That, we do.
Billy Wilder's Some Like it Hot is a masterpiece.  Everything just seems to work in the film -- even forty years later!  Jack Lemmon plays the goofball brilliantly; Tony Curtis is a wonderful leading man; and Marilyn Monroe is an absolute joy to watch!  She's such a tease!!!Great fun for the anyone who loves to laugh!


                
''Some Like It Hot'' is the best movie with Marilyn Monroe already made! When I was deciding which movie from Marilyn's box I was going to watch, ''Some Like it Hot'' was the one which I payed less attention of them: the cover is not beautiful as ''Gentlemen Prefer Blondes '' or ''How to Marry a Millionaire'' and the fact that the movie was black and white made it less appealing to me. Anyway, I decided to watch and I don't regret it at all: I had a lot of fun with the story!:) ( And by the way, I saw how handsome Jamie Lee Curtis' father, Tony Curtis, was.)Joe and Jerry are friends and musicians. They two are broke and needing to pay their bills, so they go to almost all opportunities of a job they can get. One day, when they decided to take a job in a very distant place, they become witnesses of a massacre,leaded by Spats Colombo, a guy from the Italian Mafia. The problem is that Spats and his gang noticed that Jerry and Joe were there, and now they are hunting both musicians to kill them. Needing to hide, Joe and Jerry decided to cover their identity, and they both dress up like women: Joe becomes Josephine and Jerry becomes Daphne, and they get a job in a women's band. Once they arrive in Miami, many problems and confusions starts to happen, since Joe is using two identities (one as ''shell junior', the millionaire, to make Sugar fall for him)and Jerry is having problems with a rich old man who is in love with ''Daphne''.To make things worst, the mafia came to Miami as well.
After being sanctimoniously warned by Joe about his lust, why would Jerry help him woo Sugar by allowing Osgood to romance him, especially after blasting Joe for his Junior act?Sugar thinks Junior is loaded, but he's such a jerk, why is she so willing? How could Joe fit into Beinstock's clothes? How did he know what kind of clothes Beinstock had packed to begin with? How could Jerry fit into the bellhop's uniform? Why did everyone accept Joe and Jerry as women except Spats and his thugs? Despite the fact that Mulligan is there, and the hotel is a public place, Little Bonaparte orders a hit. Makes sense to me, too!How did Sugar know Joe had gone to the pier after he was chased out of the ballroom by Little Bonaparte's goons? And even if her bicycle was jet-propelled, there is no way in hell she could have gotten there before he, Jerry, and Osgood shoved off!But it's so terrific and so perfectly executed with its perfect cast, you're more than happy to forgive its many faults. While I loved Monroe's performance, this pup is Lemmon's all the way! The scene with Monroe in the train berth and with Curtis after their dates make me scream every time!
Brazen, rambunctious, lascivious comedy, expertly written by Billy Wilder (who also directed) and I.A.L. Diamond from a story by R. Thoeren and Michael Logan. High-spirited slapstick, with both sharp and soft edges, involves two luckless Prohibition-era musicians in Chicago who inadvertently witness the St. Valentine's Day massacre; they take it on the lam after disguising themselves as women, becoming part of an all-female jazz combo! Hilarious film still delivers the goods, from Tony Curtis' Cary Grant impression (to win over chanteuse Marilyn Monroe) to Jack Lemmon inexplicably falling for a wacky elderly millionaire (the priceless Joe E. Brown). Only in the more subdued seduction scenes between Curtis and Monroe does the film's pacing flag; otherwise, boffo entertainment. ***1/2 from ****


                
This film has held up over time and Marilyn always evanescent and intriguing, is fun to watch.By now most with any movie sense have probably watched this at least five times, so I will review some of the players, and scenes. Tony Curtis, pretending to be the cynical Shell oil executive is priceless. Sugar Kane (Marilyn) wants to meet a millionaire while on her musical tour, and thinks Curtis fits the bill.Jack Lemmon, Curtis' partner in crime, dressed as a female attracts a multi-millionaire (who assumes he is a woman) well portrayed by Joe E. Brown.There are a few nice scenes, as Marilyn singing the 1920's song Running Wild. Overall a fun movie. 9/10.


                
"Some Like it Hot" is Billy Wilder's classic farce about a pair of male musicians (Tony Curtis & Jack Lemmon) who join a female band in order to hide out from the mob. Naturally, complications ensue, not the least of which is the temptation presented by luscious fellow musician Sugar Kane (Marilyn Monroe). More than fifty years later the film is regarded as one of the finest American comedies ever and I concur.I was already well aware of Lemmon's comedic prowess but I had no idea that Tony Curtis could pull off a role like he did here. In my opinion, he steals the show although the three principle actors each have memorable moments and great chemistry together. Given the talent of Curtis & Lemmon, Marilyn's somewhat limited acting skills would seem to be the weak link here but she nevertheless fits in well, all the while oozing that elusive quality they call 'star power'.The script does a good job of blending high- and low-brow comedy. There's no shortage of snappy dialogue and farcical situations. Even gangland executions can't put a damper on the proceedings. Wilder's directorial style is crisp and follows the action admirably. The entire visual & aural package is attractive but the emphasis is firmly placed where it should be: on the comedy.So, there you have it. If you haven't seen it, do so; if you have, see it again.


                
Some Like it Hot is an exhilarating comedy that follows two struggling musicians that witness the St. Valentine's Day Massacre in Chicago 1929 and they try to escape the Mob. To get away from the Mob they joined an all women's band going to Miami but the only problem is they're both men. Joe and Jerry both pull off the role of women perfectly because they acted like women good enough that it fooled other people to think that they were women. I would say that the element of disguise is a good way to describe both of them. Both of their instruments played a pivotal role in why they got to Miami, Joe and Jerry play two instruments that the women's band needed. I would say that it provided Joe and Jerry with an escape and way to get away from the Mob and start a new life in Florida once they were done with disguising themselves and women.In the movie I believe that Joe and Jerry played the role of two women perfectly and it was good writing. They disguised themselves well enough to blend in with the band and become one of the girls. None of the women in the band thought that they were men. With both of the personalities that they were given in the movie as men, Joe and Jerry transferred it as women very good. For me this is the earliest movie of guys disguising themselves as women and during the time this movie was made, it was done very well. There are some things that come in pairs or grouped together in this movie. During that time that Joe and Jerry are women they both attracted to the same woman, Sugar Kane, who is played by Marilyn Monroe in this film. They both fall for her when they realize that she in the same band that they "joined". They also go on dates, but Joe dresses up as a rich man to impress Sugar, while on the other hand Jerry "attracts" a rich man named Osgood. Also there is an important shooting scenes that happened that can go together. In the beginning, Joe and Jerry witness the St. Valentine's Day Massacre, where the Mob leader, Spats and his men kill another gang in a parking garage. At the end of the movie the head Mob boss has a "surprise" for Spats. They had a cake for Spats but what he didn't know was that there was an assassin in the cake who shoots Spats and his men.From watching a few movies similar to Some Like it Hot I kind of knew that to expect, but there was some stuff that I saw that I didn't expect to see in it. I was surprised that the girls in the band wouldn't see the signs that Joe and Jerry could possibly be a man and that adds to the creativeness that they had to blend in like women. I think today it would be a lot easier for a girl notice that a guy is disguising themselves as a girl. Back in the late 20's, women really wore the same clothing and looked the same, so blending in with late 20's women society would be easier back then, than doing it today. All Cross dress runaway films are comedy. Some like it Hot is my MLK film, therefore it is a comedy.From watching this movie there are some new things that I learn. Even though this is the first time that I have seen Some Like I Hot, there are a few things that I recognized. It seemed really easy for Joe and Jerry to be like the women in the band because they just acted the opposite of their personality and they seemed to blend in very well. From what I also saw, it seems that women are still looking for the same type of men that women are today. Women would want the kind, gentle, down to earth gentleman that would treat a woman right. I saw that in the movie and I believe that is what women wanted in a man back in 1929.Some Like it Hot is an exciting Comedic film that follows two musicians that witness a shooting, who escape Chicago and try to restart their lives. Trouble is they have to dress up as women to join a band to get out, I guess cross dressing does work.
If films directors could be characterised as different types of beverages, then Billy Wilder would surely be the glass of sparkling champagne. To date, I've seen three of his films {the other two being 'Double Indemnity (1944)' and 'Sunset Blvd. (1950)'}, and every single one absolutely brims with class, a triumph of witty writing and procificient direction. Even though 'Some Like It Hot (1959)' was voted #1 in the American Film Institute's '100 Years<U+0085> 100 Laughs,' I didn't initially consider it the sort of film that I would enjoy. After all, who wants to watch a movie about men dressing up as women? Needless to say, I had completely underestimated the talent of both Wilder and his terrific cast, and 'Some Like It Hot' revealed itself to be a very funny film, indeed. Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon star as two jazz musicians who witness the Saint Valentine's Day Massacre of 1929 and are forced to flee Chicago posing as two members of an all-girls band. Comedic sparks fly when both men fall for sexy blonde vocalist "Sugar Kane" Kowalczyk (Marilyn Monroe) and, maintaining their female disguises, begin to fight for her affection.The most astonishing thing about 'Some Like It Hot' is that it never goes to where you expect it. The script, co-written by Wilder and I.A.L. Diamond {from a story by Robert Thoeren and Michael Logan}, is basically a romantic screwball comedy, but with flourishes of the film-noir and gangster genres, most noticeable in the scenes featuring hardened mob-boss Spats Colombo (George Raft). Not many comedies open the proceedings with the brutal, cold-blooded murder of seven men, but Wilder's film does, and it's executed in such a way that, somehow, the unexpected scenes of violence never seem out of place. At the very least, these sinister events provide the perfect incentive for Curtis and Lemmon to throw on a dress, a wig and some make-up, their facade wholly believable in the face of such an unpleasant alternative. Wilder filmed 'Some Like It Hot' in black-and-white, not only to evoke the appopriate time-period, but, more importantly, to obscure the unavoidable imperfections in the men's make-up. Though the end result isn't very convincing at all <U+0096> as a male, I certainly wouldn't make the mistake of approaching either Josephine or Daphne <U+0096> it requires a suspension of disbelief that we're more-than-willing to make.The comedic duo of Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon works extremely well. Curtis tends to appear rather self-conscious posing as a woman, finding more comfort as the multi-millionaire heir to Shell Oil, as whom to poses to win over Sugar Kane. On the other hand, Lemmon is entirely uninhibited as Daphne, exploding into feverish episodes of feminine behaviour that lead us to believe that perhaps his performance as a woman has convinced even himself. While Curtis' Joe (a.k.a. Josephine) spends his time attempting to woo Marilyn Monroe (whose character, self-described as being not particularly bright, absolutely oozes sexuality), Lemmon's Jerry (a.k.a. Daphne) finds that he has larger problems, as an obsessed old millionaire, Osgood Fielding III (Joe E. Brown), falls in love with him. Keeping the entertainment level as high as possible at all times, Wilder thankfully denies us the seemingly-inevitable, clichéd moral lesson that usually arises once the supporting characters discover the true identity of their girlfriends. Most legendary of all is the reaction of Osgood Fielding, in the film's final line, as Jerry admits that he is merely a man posing as a woman: "Well, nobody's perfect."
Set in 1929, prohibition and alcohol is definitely one of many undertones to this film. Two men, Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon are musicians with very bad luck and who can't seem to make ends meet. In the middle of winter in New York City the two men witness a mob whacking and now have criminals chasing after them. Their luck seems to change when they pose as women to play in an all girl band headed for Florida. As they meet their train for the job, they are dressed as women, and you can't help to think `those are two ugly chicks'. This film being made in the 1950's, is about cross dressers and a little hint of homosexuality, with Marilyn Monroe seducing her audience with her good looks, its hard to believe that people would stomach this film as a family movie while Leave it to Beaver is playing on the television at home.
Some like it hot ironically portrays Monroe's real life where alcohol is her first and only resort, and her trouble with men and love. Her role is the stupid blonde that can't really think or do for herself, and that women are just gold diggers. Even though her role is stereotypical she is a very convincing actress.Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon are great actors and a great pair for this film. Totally hilarious is an understatement as two men posed as women are fighting for affection of the same girl. The scene where they break their feminine characters are great.The music is great from hot Jazz to smooth classical, the right music is in the right scene at just the right time, which adds to the emotion of the characters.There is also some great action scenes in some like it hot. The most impressive is in the beginning as the cops are chasing a car full of mobsters, gunfire and car crashes fill the screen. Even though it's a 50's film it was just as effective as today.Some like it hot is a great family film, in which you will have fun just watching it. This film is highly recommended and a great piece to add to your home video library.


                
Some Like It Hot is not an incredibly artistic, graceful film with deeply significant themes of love and sacrifice - it's a screwball comedy.  Yet it is remembered as one of the greatest screwball comedies ever to hit theaters.  It is completely over-the-top, filled with unlikely situations, bizarre coincidences and quirky characters.  Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis, playing Joe and Jerry, two down-and-out musicians looking for work in Chicago just before the stock market crash of 1929 that would shove America - and the world - into the Great Depression. The two witness a killing by Al Capone's goons - part of the St. Valentine's Day Massacre - and desperately try to escape to where they will never be found.  Without giving away any details, they find themselves in the midst of a rather precarious situation (today, perhaps a comedy cliché - not so then), involving deception, unrequited love, and relationships with a startling number of combinations of genders.There is a great dynamic between the characters of Lemmon and Curtis.  They are in constant competition to win the heart of Sugar (Marilyn Monroe), a rebellious and decidedly naïve woman who has completely given up on men who are not rich enough to own a yacht.  Lemmon and Curtis are constantly bickering and wanting revenge, yet they are forced to cooperate lest they give away their secret to the onlookers.  Their story gets convoluted the point where it is difficult to remember which is which, with the story's extremely tight pace and the many twists along the way.One cannot say enough about the about the brilliant comedic acting seen here.  Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis are funny not merely because of their dialogue, but because of their wild energy.  They slip in and out of roles before they even realize what they're doing, going from complacent to angry to scared witless without missing a beat.  Joe E. Brown is sure to get under your skin as Osgood Fielding III.  And Marilyn Monroe - well, she mostly shows a lot of cleavage.Ultimately "Some Like it Hot" is a tightly compressed batch of hilarity. There is a reason why it is listed as the American Film Institute's #1 comedy (although this reviewer doesn't entirely agree with that claim). Modern movie-goers shouldn't be turned off by its black-and-white nature; it puts modern buddy comedies to shame.


                
In the scene (Transformation) from the film 'Some Like it Hot" 1959, directed and produced by Billy wilder, we see Joe (Curtis) and Jerry (Jack Lemmon) startled after they have witnessed a gangster murder scene that takes place in the 1929 Chicago. In an earlier scene the two musicians are looking for job and when they get offered an all paid gig in Florida they are very happy. However soon they will find out that the job is for women musician only. Here we have Joe looking frustrated and trying to come up with some other ideas while Jerry tells Joe what if they did it. What if they took the gig and pose as women. Now Originally Joe is against this idea and asks Jerry if he is out of his mind. But soon after, they find out that the gangsters are looking for them. Thus Joe decides to make the call and accept the gig in Florida. Now this is where it gets interesting. Here we have Joe, the alpha male making the call to accept the gig and as soon as he starts the conversation, he is able to switch his voice to a female voice on cue, without thinking about it. At the same time we have Jerry surprised and trying to copy and imitate Joe's voice and behavior. Next we get a cut to the next scene, were Joe and Jerry are dressed up as drag. In this scene they use (low angle tracking shot with top lighting) as they are walking side by side. Jerry is having a hard time walking in his outfit and his legs look more spread apart then Joe as they walk down the train station. Then we get another (tracking shot) and we see Jerry now known as Daphne, looking at Joe, now known as Josephine. Jerry takes one look at Joe as they are walking and he quickly turns around again to get a second look (POV shot). He seems confused as how easy it is for Joe to walk in that outfit so comfortably. He regains his composure and tries to imitate Joe. Once they see the girls boarding the train Jerry starts having doubts and tells Joe that it is no use and that "we cannot get away with this Joe." Joe reminds him that the name is Josephine now and tells him that, "wasn't this your idea?" Again, here we have the more masculine guy accepting his feminine persona more easily as the less masculine guy is confused and doubtful about his. For its time, this movie was revolutionary in my opinion. In challenging the hegemonic discourse of the time, or perhaps even now. Not only it challenged the idea of male masculinity but it also challenged heterosexuality and homosexuality such as (LGBT) politics. It renders the idea of biology mute and it instead creates a gray area of preference for sex. This is where we can apply the notion of queer theory. "queer theory challenges notions of homosexuality and heterosexuality within the mainstream discourse, and instead posits an understanding of sexuality that emphasizes shifting boundaries, ambivalence's, and cultural constructions that change depending on historical and cultural context." Adapted in part from Brooker, A Concise Glossary of Cultural Theory. To further help explain my point of view, in the next scene we have Sugar (Marilyn Monroe) walking towards the wagon in the train station. Jerry that is somewhat confused and having a hard time, signals at Joe and lets him know of her presence. (POV shot to Sugar, eye line match, low angle tracking shot to her legs.) In this scene Sugar is walking with the same confidence as Jerry, when he was walking down the runway in train station. They even have somewhat similar jackets with fur and they both are making the same duck face with their lips. Both guys are sexually attracted to Sugar. But in the end we have Joe, the guy that is more masculine and able to switch back and forth between his personalities more easily ending up with Sugar. Mainly because he is confident of his masculinity. Then we have Jerry who also likes girls but towards the end he seems like he does not mind if he ends up with a guy. When later on Jerry tells Joe that he is engaged, Joe says "congratulations who is the lucky girl?" Jerry replies "me." At this point Joe looks at him shocked and reminds him that he is a boy and to keep saying that to him self. After repeating it a couple of times, Jerry replies and says "I wish that I was dead." Keep in mind that Jerry is still attracted to sugar during this whole time. But it seems like he doesn't mind marrying Osgood Fielding III, for security reasons. Perhaps a reference to a though job market for guys during those time. Over all the film does a great job of challenging the dominant ideological hegemony and it leaves the audience guessing and wondering.
Montserrat Prada Analysis Some Like It HotSome like it hot is a unique comedy due to the time in which it was created. Throughout the movie two travesties ran away from a mafia group because they were present in a killing in a parking lot. Not only that but it contained revealing outfits of the girls of the orchestra which was not something well seen by the audience of the time. The movie contained many aspects that were not well seen and it sill was a very good movie which I believe make it a excellent movie. Some Like it Hot is a movie full of emotions that captures the audience for being so unique and entertaining. A important aspect that should be valued from the movie is that it is made in black and white and even though you cant see color, it still makes you imagine the colors and go deeper into the movie. Some like it Hot is a romantic comedy and has a gangster theme as well. A large part of the movie the girls struggle with their love life. When they get to the hotel several of them get involved with the rich man that are waiting for them in the benches. This makes it romantic because the audience experiences the tears and happiness of the character throughout the movie and romance is a important theme that takes place in the whole movie. Since the start of the movie when the boys decide to take the job with the girls there is a sense of laughter when you see them acting and looking as girls. They struggle being girls and its funny to see the way in which they experience the opposite of what a boy is. Some like it Hot makes you laugh through a big part of the movie due to the boy characters acting as girls. There is also a theme of gangster because in the movie the boys run away from a mafia group that is looking for the two of them. This contributes to the gangster theme and also creates a sense of fear and suspense to the audience. Some like it hot is a risky movie due to the aspects of homosexuality and woman exposure it involves but that is what makes it a more entertaining and funnier movie. The audio and the image makes the movie even more entertaining because eve though it is in black and white it still projects a good quality image and has a good audio. The costumes are something that calls the attention. The girls wear very elegant dresses while their staying in the beach. They wear, especially Sugar, very reveling dresses that don't cover up much. This was no something usual to see in the time. There is one famous scene in the movie in which Marylin Monroe is singing in the stage and the camera makes a deep focus on her face. The camera focuses from the chest up which makes her look as if she was naked. This is a very reveling seen and that is what makes the scene famous. My name is Montserrat Prada. I am and live in Costa Rica. I am in tenth grade at Lincoln School. I am currently in a film appreciation class where I can appreciate the beauty of films and can analyze them in a professional way. Some like it Hot is part of the movies I could see and I can describe the movie as a special and very good movie. Some like it Hot is a movie that make you laugh, feel suspense and even make you sad.
From a first point of view, `Some like it hot,' appears to be a story about two young musicians  who are looking for a job, while at the same time are in trouble with the mafia.  The two Musicians end up leaving  town for a job to pay off their debts,  but to find out exactly what happens  in this movie, you must see it to believe it. 	In the beginning,  a police chase is going on between the police and a mysterious car loaded up with a coffin.   The car out runs the police, and arrives  at a funeral home.  Two men  get out of the car  and unload a coffin that was filled with alcoholic beverages.   At the same time the police are plotting to crack down on a secret party in side the funeral home because they are serving alcohol which was illegal at the time. There is loud music and dancing going on inside the funeral home.   Jack Lemmon (Jerry) and Tony Curtis (Joe) are playing in the band while the police jump in on the party, thus ending their job as musicians in the band. The dynamic duo is looking for a job so they hear about an all girls band that is traveling down to Florida.  They were not interested, until they were caught witnessing a murder done by the mafia.  The two realized that they must get out fast.  They shaved their legs, grabbed their frocks and headed for the train to Florida.  Jack Lemmon's character from this point is a female bass player by the name of Daphne.  Tony Curtis' character is a female tenor sax player named Josephine.  Daphne and Josephine, meet Sugar (Marilyn Monroe) on the train to Florida.  They all arrive at their hotel in Florida. Daphne is carrying three instruments, when she stumbles and meets who is a middle aged millionaire named Osgood Fielding III, who has a perverted mind.   While Daphne and Sugar are playing with the girls on the beach, Tony Curtis dresses back up as a man so he can try and score a date with Sugar.  While they are performing, Daphne receives a bouquet of flowers from Osgood, and was asked to have dinner with him.  At the same time Josephine's male form Joe   is on a date with Sugar.  The next day, the mafia shows up to the hotel, for a convention of Italian opera singers. They suspect something is up when they see Daphne and Josephine.   They suddenly realize that the two women, were also the two men who witnessed the murder that they committed.   A couple men from the mafia began chasing Daphne and Josephine around.  Josephine escaped and was running  in to the ballroom where the band was playing.  While she was running, she tripped and landed on Sugar.  Everyone found out that Josephine was a man.  Right away she began to run  out of the ball room.  As she was running out, she met up with Daphne and Osgood.  The three started running for Osgood's boat.  After they all got in his boat, Sugar came running down from the dock, and jumped into the boat.  Josephine/Joe is upset and tells Sugar that she should go back, but Sugar still loves HIM.  At the same time, Daphne tries to convince Osgood that she is not for him, but  he doesn't buy it.  She then does something unbelievable! can't be said with out spoiling.  In other words I guess Osgood still likes Daphne/Jerry.  To the reviewer, this is a funny but sick ending. 	Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis do a wonderful job playing the two girls,  it is just as if they were trying to get in touch with their feminine side. Jack Lemmon's Character is silly and wild, while at the same time, Tony Curtis's Character is serious and smart.  The two make a great duo in this film. 	The Reviewer would rate this movie Five out of Five Gold Stars.  It is incredibly funny seeing two men dress up as women and pulling it all off, with out any one really noticing right away.   This movie is worth renting. Be sure to make room for this on your video rack!


                
