Speaking as an actual infantry veteran of Vietnam, I'd like to make two short comments about this film.The first half is excellent.  It is an authentic, though condensed, portrayal of basic training.  Obviously the presence of a real retired drill sergeant (Ermey) had a lot to do with that.But then Kubrick's faulty imagination takes over.  Starting with the climactic latrine scene and carrying throughout the rest of the movie, this film is total hogwash.  I was aghast at the skewed, completely erroneous, just plain wrong depiction of this platoon's actions in the war in Vietnam. Kubrick either had no advisors, or ignored them, when it came to the second half of this movie.  I have never seen such a load of tripe.See FMJ for the first half, and just rewind it and put it back in the box when you get to Vietnam.


                
Very odd, this seems like a very average movie to me, if not slightly less. It is brilliantly shot but, together with the performance of R. Lee Ermey, that's about the only redeeming aspect I found in the movie which consists of two separate parts. The first part covers the basic marine-training which, watching it in 2007, comes off like something I've see a zillion times before in dozens of other movies and series and it's not particularly gripping. After 30 minutes I got the idea and wished they could just get on with it. The drill sergeant is about the only believable character while everyone else seem to be just cardboard cut-outs. The general acting is staggeringly haggard and the screenplay is devoid of anything interesting and consists of little more than the Sergeant shouting. The boys make it through their training and end up in Vietnam. Oh, and the fat weirdo shoots the sergeant (what a surprise..), probably in the mistaken belief that it was actually the scriptwriter. So, one hour passed and nothing worthy of note happened. Nothing...Then we have the Vietnam-part.It opens with a bunk-scene where reporters of Stars and Stripes are bored and are making small talk to pass the time. At first I thought they were re-enacting some movie scenes from old films, it sounded pretty bad. But no, they were actually muttering their script lines. Then the camp is besieged. Some 20 Vietcong enter the camp through the main gate. Too bad for them they are being dropped like flies because they simply walk into several manned gun posts with no means of cover. Is that normal behaviour? Were the Vietnamese all suicidal? If so, how come the US didn't win this war during the first two months of engagement? The rest of the movie continues with even more completely illogical war scenes. Furthermore, the whole plot is altogether pointless. None of the characters inspire much sympathy and the story is frankly rather uneventful. It shows little more other than some war-reporters hooking up with a platoon with some guys getting shot because they are disobedient morons and who also seem to think that somehow a gaping hole in a wall will protect you from bullets.What was the message of this movie..that people died in Vietnam? That people are animals in war situations? That if you want to dispose of really dumb people, you send them to a war zone? Or that somehow in Vietnam concrete can actually burn? I'm sorry, but if this movie deserves an 8.3, then Apocalypse Now deserves a 38.35/10
the first half is cinematic brilliance. no-one has ever come close to capturing the boot camp experience the way this film does. it's gritty. it's real. it's disturbing. but then they ship off and suddenly the movie becomes generic war film fodder. it goes from what felt like a heart-felt story to a story a friend of a friend of a friend overheard at a party while chatting up the girl by the bar. the authenticity of the first half is completely lost in the ho-hum "been there, done that better somewhere else" second half. sorry, Kubrick disappoints again.


                
Sorry, guys, but this is numero uno for the single worst war flick ever made. Based on Gustav Hasford's classic semi-autobiographical novel The Short Timers, Kubrick's film version fails to get half the detail on screen. In spite of the fact that the novel is about 180 pages in length and mostly consists of expletives. The entire third act of the novel is missing, as are the death of Rafter Man (probably one of the most gruesome parts of the novel) and Joker's promotion to Sergeant.The fact that this abortion of a film has been voted into the top 250, and is being described as "the best" by so many IMDB users pretty much invalidates the entire concept of the IMDB. If you want a great film about war, go and see The Bridge On The River Kwai or Three Kings instead. This film is a sad joke that insults everyone who has read its source material. The greatest trick Kubrick ever pulled was convincing anyone that he had directed a masterpiece here.On a positive note, however, Lee Ermey puts in a great performance with the material he had to work with. Even though the best sequence of the book that involved his character was, not surprisingly, left out of this film, he grabs hold of the role and rides it like there's no tomorrow. Such a pity that the rest of the cast have no idea what to do with their lines, and the director couldn't make a decent film out of his source material if he even tried. This is easily the single most overrated blot on the history of Hollywood to date, although The Matrix gives it a good run for its money.


                
Full Metal Jacket is about the idea that war is not worth wasting our youth. It tries to prove this with two stories: the first is the marines training for deployment, the second is the marines in action in Vietnam.The first story, the marines training for deployment, is told with two external plots: that of the not so bright marine Pyle trying to finish boot camp and the second is the entire class of marines trying to graduate. The class of marines succeed in graduating, but Pyle does not. He goes crazy after the harsh treatment meant to harden him to become a killer and commits suicide. So this story gets to the point that preparing for war is inhumane and not worth wasting our youth.The second story is about the marines fighting to win the war in Vietnam. This is told with two plots: that of winning the war and the second of the declining morality of the marines. The war is not won, it ends ambiguously as the marines win a small insignificant battle and return to camp while the morality of the marines shows a constant decline and ends with our hero committing murder.The movie is a great testament to the anti-war movement and a visual essay on the meaninglessness of war. But it is not a very engaging story. The first half of the movie makes a tight dramatic point that training marines to be killer has some inhumane consequences and proves it with Pyle's suicide. But the second half doesn't have an overall story arc to hang its hat on. The status of the main external plot of winning the war is left ambiguous. So the moral decline of our hero who has to commit murder at the end doesn't create as much meaning since the murder doesn't get us any further in winning the war.One can argue that that's the point of the movie, is that these atrocities are senseless and meaningless. And that is true. But in terms of a dramatic story, the meaning of the action is lost because the filmmakers abhorred making winning the war into any resemblance of a real plot.In the first half of the movie, Pyle's suicide is juxtaposed with the success of class of marines all graduating. Thus it makes the point that his suicide is not worth it for us to successfully train marines. But in the second half of the movie, Joker commits murder but this action is not juxtaposed with progression of any other plot. So the action loses the chance to create meaning through a consequence for his actions. It feels like the movie was cut off without any real resolution, like another 15 minutes were missing.My Story Chart of the movie is at storycharts.ca
The only people with one screw loose too many more than Stanley Kubrick - who made this mess - are the ones who have spun it as some sort of intellectual triumph. Good grief! A Viet Nam war movie set not in Viet Nam (oh, no) set in an abandoned power plant in England. From there everything gets dumber and dumber, this despite having a truly excellent actor, Vincent D'Oniofrio, giving his best.Cutting to the chase, the ending reveals the Great Truth according to Mr. Kubrick: "The enemy is a woman." This is meant literally and figuratively. Of course it wasn't Ho Chi Mihn's men the Americans were fighting. It wasn't the Cambodians. It wasn't the Chinese Communists. They were fighting "a woman" and they fought her in England. Gag me with a spoon!
This Movie is a embarrassment to the film industry with horrifically awful directing and the most horrible acting ever seen since Star Wars.To give this film credit would be mocking everything the film industry means, the film is not art but plain rubbish made to scrounge up a few penny's. If this film has a good side you could buy it as a DVD and use the disc as a coffee mat. It would make you lose faith in the enjoyment of films watching this film with absolutely no creditability and no talent. It is unbelievable you guys liked this movie that deserves 0.5 out of 10!Overall: DespicableEmbarrassment Nothing but sewerage manufactured to be a very very bad film.


                
I did not voluntarily see this movie.  I was "trapped" on a ski-weekend bus and forced to watch, or more accurately LISTEN.  The plot, if there was one, made no sense to me.  Things happened for no apparent reason.  Characters were not sympathetic, so who cared what happened to them?  But most of all, the noise, noise, noise, noise.


                
