Though I've read only a couple of dozen of the nearly 500 comments on this film, I didn't see any from ex-Marines who'd had the Parris Island experience. I went through PI in 1957. The time period in the picture would have been about 1967, since the in-country sequence includes the '68 Tet Offensive. Little had changed in those 10 years except the switch from M1s to M16s. For the most part Kubrick got Parris Island right on the money. And why shouldn't he have, since his screen DI, Lee Ermey was in fact a real DI before he started acting (he played another DI in "The Boys of Company C," an earlier and lesser Vietnam flick)? He had a built- in technical adviser. The screams and insults and profanity and physical punishment were all part of the DIs armamentarium. When you're facing up to 75 young strangers you need to immediately establish absolute authority and hang on to it for 13 weeks. Furthermore, you want to break the breakable as soon as you can. My platoon had its Private Pyles and though none ended up as he does in "Full Metal Jacket," I remember that they simply disappeared from our ranks, never to be heard from again. Nothing Ermey as Sgt. Hartman does is exaggerated.Kubrick, however, does exaggerate. Speaking of Pyle's ending, it's almost impossible for me to imagine that a recruit could manage to sneak a clip of live rounds away from the rifle range. Every shooter at the range has his own rifle coach, and every single round is very carefully accounted for. Kubrick started the killing one scene too early.I've read that DIs nowadays are forbidden to use the time-honored f-word, and are not allowed to lay hands on recruits. I don't know if that's good or bad for training (I had my face slapped hard my first day of boot camp and that was just for openers), but then all of us old-timers like to brag about how tough it useta be!A final note: It's interesting to compare "Full Metal Jacket" to another attempt at a portrayal of Parris Island, Jack Webb's "The DI," made around '55 or '56. Webb tries for authenticity, but as I was to learn a year or so later, his PI was a boy scout camp.


                
The first third of Stanley Kubrick's take on the Vietnam War is as powerful and shocking as any film ever made about the military<U+0085> In the film's opening shots, we see close-ups of new Marine recruits getting their heads shaved at a military training post<U+0085> The next shot follows Hartman (R. Lee Ermey) as he strides through a barracks and completes the first stage of the young men's intimidating indoctrination into the Marine Corps<U+0085> The scene also establishes the measured pace that Kubrick maintains throughout<U+0085> Booming, gloriously profane, and imaginative, Sgt. Hartman is a force of nature that will mold these boys into killing machines<U+0085> At that point, most war films would turn to the young men, sketch out their pasts and then show their transformation into a cohesive unit<U+0085> These kids are names and archetypes who will react differently to Hartman's approach<U+0085>Kubrick makes Ermey such a mesmerizing force that one key early element is easy to overlook<U+0085> From the first moment we see him in the barber's chair, before we even know his name, it is abundantly clear that Leonard is mad<U+0085> He has that familiar vacant, smiling, dull-eyed expression of evil that Kubrick also uses to define Little Alex in "A Clockwork Orange" and Jack Torrance in "The Shining." The other characters do not see it, and so the inevitable confrontation between Hartman and Leonard is all the more horrifying<U+0085>The middle section of the film establishes Joker's role as a war reporter, working behind the lines during the Tet Offensive of 1968, and his desire for some "trigger time" with his old pals from basic<U+0085> That's where Kubrick shapes his view of the Vietnam war<U+0085> In the third part, a new sociopath named Animal Mother (Adam Baldwin) is introduced, and the focus shifts to a patrol searching through the bombed out city of Hue to root out a sniper<U+0085> That is where the filmmakers comment most pointedly on the war itself<U+0085> They see it as a dead-end that serve no purpose<U+0085> That's certainly a valid artistic interpretation of history<U+0085> Many other films have made the same points, often more eloquently<U+0085> But Kubrick isn't interested in eloquence, either<U+0085>The three sections are unmistakably separated from each other<U+0085> The first stands on its own though key elements are stated again at the end<U+0085>For the viewer expecting a "traditional" war film, the result is disconcerting, frustrating, and somehow unfinished<U+0085> Most Kubrick fans will admit that "Paths of Glory" and "Dr. Strangelove" are more enjoyable, but even if their man is not in top form, "Full Metal Jacket" is challenging, and repeated viewings reveal more details and connections<U+0085>
The first half of "Full Metal Jacket" is so intensely entertaining that director Stanley Kubrick can be forgiven for the slight come-down that follows. The opening scenes draw us into the strict world of "maggots" training to join the ranks of real men, otherwise known as Marines. We see the characters humiliated, yelled at like children, beaten and, in one tragic case, broken down. It's an unpleasant yet fascinating place to visit from the comfort and safety of our living room couches. Yet once the action shifts to the Vietnam War, when you would expect even better, something is lost. The characters seem less real and the atmosphere less intriguing. Overall, however, there aren't many faults to find with this effort, but be forewarned that it's certainly not for younger viewers.


                
Mr. Stanley Kubrick was not a prolific director. After 71 years walking this Earth he left us with only 16 movies among which some of the most powerful cinematic experience to date. `Full Metal Jacket' is part of Mr. Kubrick's list of masterpiece and was released 12 years before his last movie `Eyes Wide Shut' as War always precedes Denial.Having a total control on his Picture from the writing to the editing, what you see on the screen is what he wanted you to see<U+0085>and what we see is close to a perfect demonstration: One can learn to kill. Through this learning one looses his individuality. By loosing his individuality one can loose is Innocence and reach Madness and of course during all those steps something can go wrong<U+0085> To make this demonstration as obvious on paper as on screen you have to be methodic (as methodic as Stanley Kubrick) and you have to have the right actors and the right acting. Matthew Modine (Pvt Joker), Vincent D'Onofrio (Pvt Gomer Pyle) and R.Lee Ermey (Gunnery Sgt. Hartman) are a good example of how pristine the casting was. In order to draw a clear conclusion Stanley Kubrick used the chapter technique and delivers a 2 chapters demonstration.
Chapter One <U+0096> The building of a Corp. <U+0096> The Training. Here Mr. Kubrick shows us how a Marine Corp. is built, how one can learn to kill and how through this learning one looses his individuality. This building has to go through 2 major processes: Humiliation and Team building. The humiliation process consists in the destruction of your ego, because your ego is what makes you unique. If an organization breaks your ego then you are most likely to be just like everybody else. Private Gomer Pyle is the perfect example of how someone goes through this humiliating process: he is the most humiliated Private and we all remember this wonderful quote from the Gunnery Sergeant Hartman Drill Instructor (R.Lee Ermey):'Are you quitting on me?! Well, are you?! Then quit, you slimy *beep* walrus-looking piece of *beep*! etc<U+0085>' The second process in the building of a Corp., is in fact the team building process: It is an equally important process because at the end of this process each team member only exists through the team, alone each of them is `equally worthless' as our favorite Sergeant Instructor would say. Obviously something will go wrong because there is no such thing as invincibility (it's a chimer at best, a lie). The suicide scene is therefore the transition between the notion of individuality and the notion of Corp., between chapter one and chapter two. Admirably played by our 3 protagonist (Private Joker and Pyle and the Sergeant Drill Instructor) it emphasis the only true statement of the movie: `we live in a world of *beep*' and `the dead know only one thing: it's better to be alive'. Chapter Two <U+0096> Disintegration of a Corp. <U+0096> The War. This second piece of the demonstration (one can loose his innocence) is fueled with two dynamics: the desire of the killing and the reality of war. The desire of the killing is impersonating by Pvt `Joker', he is a combat correspondent who doesn't really understand the meaning of this War. At the same time he is `born to kill' and think that the combat will bring meaning to this absurdity. This contradiction is very well sum up in the following memorable quote from Pvt Joker: `I wanted to meet stimulating and interesting people of an ancient culture and kill them. I wanted to be the first kid on my block to get a confirmed kill.' As soon as Pvt Joker links up with Pvt Cowboy, Mr. Kubrick makes us dive in `the reality of war' and the disintegration of the Corp. begins: The lieutenant goes first with him the authority, one by one the Marines falls under the fire of a sniper. The climax of this chapter is the fugitive vision of the sniper. The platoon has reached the border of Madness, where `a day without blood is like a day without sunshine'. Did Pvt Joker found the meaning he was looking for? Can we control the dogs of war once we've unleashed them? Once again there is no lesson only one statement as the thoughts of Pvt Joker `drift back to erect nipple wet dreams about Mary Jane Rottencrotch and the Great Homecoming *beep* Fantasy.' He is `so happy that he is alive, in one piece and short. He lives in a world of *beep* yes. But he is alive and not afraid'. Innocence is lost forever<U+0085>left on the ground by the corpses and their `Full Metal Jackets'.
Spoilers herein.Since Vietnam, there have been a few competent films by Americans about Americans on the ground in battle. I think which one you like best (or appreciate the most) probably says a lot about you and how you look through the filmmaker's camera.Ready? `Red Line,' `Metal Jacket.' `Catch-22,' `Apocalypse,' `3 Kings,' `Platoon,' `Private Ryan.' Seven types of people. How would you rank them? Who are you? How do you see?I listed them according to my own ranking, which is heavily weighted on the degree to which the filmmaker mastered the art of filmmaking to do something to my soul that no one else could through any other art experience. Private Ryan was just a noisey Norman Rockwell. Platoon's war was somebody's fault, and we watch colorful and depictions as accusations. But Red Line weaved a mystical hypnotic internal narrative that put me in the mind (and incidentally the body) of a character swept by violent events. So very expert at understanding how to make us see war around us permanently on leaving the theater.But I rank this film high as well. Less visceral, at least at first. But there is so much style in the manner of the storytelling that it alone has more power than the story itself.The story is clever, however, concerned with framing the narrative. `Joker,' (an apt name if there ever was one) starts with a voiceover. We immediately know it is his story, but we don't know which character matches the voice for sure until the toilet murder scene. So we spend about half of the film, not in the story proper, but in a metastory which defines the narrator. And bingo, at the end, he is turned into a reporter.Then flash to a whore's butt and the story begins with a stolen camera! Immediately thereafter we have a whole different stance from Kubric's camera. Before, it was sterile, `outside' the action like most other films. Now it turns into a camera that is part of the group. It's internal to the gathering and travels with the men as a member of the party. And the camera is now less apparently controlled by the reporter than by the sweep of fate.We go through a middle section which sets up the `war story' proper, and this is framed once again by dickering with a whore. Then we are carried along with Rafterman's cameras. (And incidentally, Kubric's daughter with a camera at the burial pit.)And now to battle, and the style takes on a new Dantesque hue at the third layer of Hell. Just one example: that trio of sounds leading up to final encounter with the sniper are three metallic grating/screeching sounds that transmute to nearly identical violin sounds leading up to Joker's decision to shoot. Another: the sets in this third are transforming. I invite you to compare them to Spielburg's for a literal eyeopener. `Enemy at the Gates' had a similar battle-sniper-set style, clearly derivative of Kubric, but more stagey. Here we have carefully composed primitive shapes and fractal textures that suggest more than mere war: the destruction of civilization but the preservation of a more basic order. Another: the action is interrupted by journalistic interviews where the characters look you right in the eye to underscore that you are there -- you are the narrator; you have to decide whether to shoot or not.Kubric is a very personal filmmaker, and his personality is tied up in abstractions unique to the film narrative. I take war personally, so prefer this film above most of the others, except for Malick which is more personally abstract and therefore even more present.
A gritty, intense, no-holds-barred war film that grabs attention from the very beginning and holds it all the way through.  The only detriment to this film is the fact that the first half (Boot Camp) is so much more powerful than the second half (Vietnam). The film is basically about how war sucks the life out of humans and turns them into 'killing machines'.  The greatest performances in this film are of course R. Lee Ermey, the savage drill instructor, and Vincent D'Onofrio, his slow-witted whipping boy.  The viewer alternately laughs and cringes at the relentless abuse and degradation inflicted by the former on the latter.  And at the famous line, "What is your major malfunction?", the tension reaches an almost unbearable limit and the viewer ceases to move or breathe.This movie, like many of Kubrick's, is too graphic for many people, but I highly recommend it to those who can withstand its assault on both senses and consciences.


                
I first saw "Full Metal Jacket" in the summer of 1987, when I was 17 and the name Stanley Kubrick meant little to me. The Parris Island sequence absolutely stunned me, but I felt the Vietnam portion of the movie was a real let-down. I compared it unfavorably with "Platoon," which I had seen perhaps 5-6 months earlier.In the years since, I have returned to FMJ a number of times and had varying impressions of it. Certainly the boot camp sequence retains its tremendous power; Lee Ermey's portrayal of Drill Instructor Hartman has to be one of the most memorable supporting roles in movie history. Still, I feel the characters in this section are undeveloped. The implication is clear that Pvt. Pyle goes insane after (and presumably because of) the blanket party -- but would that event, traumatic as it was, be enough to turn a seemingly simple, lovable soul into a homicidal maniac? Pyle's transformation is way too neat, too clear -- one minute he's a simpleton who can't do anything right, the next he's the perfect Marine and a deranged killer. If this result could occur so easily, Hartman never would have survived the many years he had obviously spent as a D.I.I think there is a fundamental structural flaw in building the movie up to a powerful dramatic climax 45 minutes in, then completely abandoning it and starting all over as if the climax had never occurred. Neither Private Pyle nor Sgt. Hartman is ever mentioned again after the movie leaves Parris Island, and Pvt. Joker -- our ostensible protagonist -- shows not the slightest hint of having been affected by the traumatic events he witnessed in boot camp. I was very surprised to learn recently, from Matthew Modine's newly published "Full Metal Jacket Diary," that Kubrick shot the Vietnam portion of the movie (or most of it, anyway) first, and the Parris Island portion second. I think it would have been much wiser to do it the other way around; then the experience of the Parris Island scenes might have informed the performances of Modine and Arliss Howard, the two actors who bridge both sequences. I'm sure Kubrick intended there to be a jarring contrast between the horror at the end of the Parris Island sequence and the careless insouciance of Joker in Vietnam, but still there should have been some hint that what came before had resonated.Reading Modine's FMJ Diary was a shock because of the intelligence and insight with which it was written -- qualities that do not come through in his performance in this movie. Modine seems to find the wrong note in almost every scene. This is probably the fault of Kubrick, who seemed to seek the off-key and strange from his actors. Is it really plausible that Joker would mouth some John Wayne impression within the first few seconds of Hartman's Parris Island abuse? (The Wayne impressions get very tiresome.) I think Joker is supposed to seem intelligent and wry but he just comes across as a pain in the neck. Why is he so insubordinate to his commanding officer at Stars and Stripes? Why is he so eager to get "in the s***"? His character just doesn't ring true. This is disappointing because several other actors -- Ermey and D'Onofrio, and Adam Baldwin as "Animal Mother" -- give outstanding performances.The final battle with the sniper is brilliantly staged. Kubrick's daughter (under a stage name) provided a haunting electronic score. Visually the film is impressive, with Kubrick using many long, evocative tracking shots (such as of Hartman pacing up and down in front of his recruits as he screams at them). One particularly remarkable tracking shot -- evidently done by Steadicam -- follows an attacking Marine platoon entering the city of Hue for nearly a full minute. On the other hand, Kubrick uses a dolly in or out only once or twice in the whole movie (even in 1987, when the zoom had become very outdated, he used zoom shots more than dollying in or out). He seems to have loved tracking along with the action, retaining always the same distance and perspective on it, but unlike Spielberg or Hitchcock, he did not have the taste for using the dolly in to focus or dramatize the audience's perspective. (One notable exception is a very slow dolly in on a circular entrance to some kind of ruined temple when Joker and Rafterman first meet the Lusthog squad.) Certainly this is a fascinating, thought-provoking movie. The lack of an engaging central character, however, as well as the return to square one after the high drama at Parris Island, blunts its emotional effect.
A gentleman (from France, I won't hold this against him), wrote a comment about the ironies and callousness of the characters of FMJ. I would like to politely disagree with him on several points. As a former marine myself, I went through boot camp at Parris Island, SC, where we were taught to be killers. I was fortunate to never have to do so. In 1998, I was deployed to Japan as an electronics technician with an aviation unit, and prior to deployment, my squadron received several hundred hours on Japanese history, culture and tradition, in addition to the requisite safety, security and terrorism briefs that occur when deploying to a foreign nation. The process was the same when I deployed to Saudi Arabia in 2000. As for the Mickey Mouse at the end, they were not being callous (as a group, individuals are another story), but the battle depicted in the movie was Hue (pronounced WHEY) City, and one of the bloodiest of the war, and were all trying to remember a happier, simpler time in their lives. I have been through the training that Joker, Cowboy, Sno-Ball and Gomer Pyle went through, and I would like to think that I became a better man because of it.


                
This is Stanley Kubrick's vivid and harsh portrait of the Viet Nam War, as seen through the eyes of soldiers, trained to change their attitudes and twist their moral fibers in reluctantly fighting a complex war. Basic training to the battlefield, your only choices are survive or die trying. This movie's realism rivals that of PLATOON. Outstanding cast includes Matthew Modine, R. Lee Ermey, Vincent D'Onofrio, Arliss Howard, Ed O'Ross, Adam Baldwin and Kevyn Major Howard.This movie can be very riveting and agonizing; but for sure, it is one you will have trouble forgetting.


                
I finally got around to watching this for the first time. The first half is a 10/10, the second half is a 7/10 and falls apart into what seems like every war movie's clichés, even though it's good enough. The first half is a masterpiece of filmmaking- there's almost no flaws, the pacing is perfect, the acting great, it has an instant classic type experience to it you'll never forget. The second half is good, decent but it doesn't rival the first half and its perfection. That makes its let down even more pronounced. So overall, I give it an 8/10 because you can't overlook the drop in quality of the second half. 8/10


                
Stanley Kubrick's Full Metal Jacket is a film of two parts. The first part deals with the basic training of the Marine Corps being built to become killers. R. Lee Ermey gives one of the best performances i've seen as the intense drill instructor. For most of the first part, his speeches and training tactics are very funny, but soon you realize that he does not care about these men's lives and only wishes for them to be killing machines. We realize this when he asks the trainees about some famous snipers, like Lee Harvey Oswald, who was trained to shoot in the Marines and how he respects that man for getting in so many shots in such a short amount of time and hitting his moving target twice. He truly honors Oswald. He dehumanizes them, especially a fat private by the name of Pyle (Vincent D'Onofrio). Pyle makes a few mistakes, and soon we see that the Sergeant is out to get him and seems to want the rest of the trainees to dislike him. And this Sergeant knows how to hold a grudge. There are a few spectacular scenes, and the first ten minutes are the best opening minutes to a movie I have ever seen. I was into every second of the basic training scenes, from the opening montage to the disturbing but brilliant last scene, the final confrontation between a few main characters.The second part to this movie, however, is much different. It is about life during the war. The main character of the movie, Private Joker (Matthew Modine) goes to fight with his old friend "Cowboy" and his men in the city of Hue. I did not like this part of the film nearly as much as the first for many reasons. First of all, there was a feeling to the first part that just doesn't seem like it was there in the second part. I really felt for the characters during the training, but when they were fighting I felt less attached to them. Most of this part of the film is the men hiding behind walls and getting shot. While it is interesting, I felt that I had had enough after a little while. There is one very good part to me, when the men are being interviewed by a documentary crew. You get to see how different people saw the war, and it seemed to remind me of the dehumanization process the war brings as well as some comedy from some things the men said when answering the questions. The opening scene to the second part is also kind of amusing. Besides that, I don't have much to say about the fighting in Vietnam. Because, after all, there just isn't that much to it besides guns and blood.Basic Training: 10/10 Vietnam War: 6/10 Final Grade: 8/10
Some of the most realistic looking boot camp scenes I've ever seen. The sarge was a vile, filthy mouthed individual; glad I never joined the corps. After going through all the boot camp crap, a group of fresh new jarheads go off to the jungle in Viet Nam to put their lessons in war to good use. Realistic acting made me feel that I was watching a real war. It showed all the grimy brutality, waste, boredom, and horror of what war really is. Forget all the Rambo stuff; if you want to see the genuine article, see "Full Metal Jacket". Killer film.


                
First,let me state,that this is without question the nastiest movie,in terms of language,that I have ever seen.I am normally a person,who, though I rarely use bad language myself,am able to tolerate it when I hear it.With this film,however,I found myself blushing at the language used by Gunnery Sergeant Hartman (they could not have picked a better actor to portray this man than R. Lee Ermey,by the way).Not only is war hell,preparing for it can be just as bad,if you don't have a healthy state of mind to begin with.This is the case for Pvt. Pyle (Vincent D'Onofrio,who really packed on the pounds for this role).You can almost feel him cracking throughout the first portion of the film,leading to a violent showdown with his tormenting commanding officer.The second half of the film is a basic display of the horrors of war itself,and very well done.Excellent direction by Stanley Kubrick,who always seemed to have a knack for not repeating himself a director,in terms of the types of films he directed.This was his "war" film,and it's an absolute masterpiece.Must see film.


                
Ah, Stanley Kubrick. The man has directed two of my favorite films, Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb and Paths of Glory. So I took it upon myself to watch another one of his that I haven't seen yet. Full Metal Jacket is both a funny and disturbing look at the effect of the military on those that serve in it, at least, as far as I can tell.One thing that I always particularly liked about Kubrick films is they have a wonderful grasp of black humor. Kubrick's direction is always so cold and controlled so that we're always just observing moments. When the funny hits, he doesn't "do" anything to indicate the funny, but rather coolly and dryly observes the absurdity of the moment therein. You can see this frequently in the training sequences where we observe the soldiers repeating the absolutely ridiculous rhetoric of their drill sergeant as though it were nothing. Another way that Kubrick likes to throw in humor in this piece is his often clashing use of old pop songs, which are placed up front in the mix so that they're loud and clear. The songs are clearly non-diegetic since there is often no place for the music to be coming from and the mix indicates it and yet somehow, even though the songs often don't fit lyrically, creating an effect that somewhat distances us from the image, somehow they also all fit together with the image such that you can't actually imagine the film without the music.The sound mix on the film is also fantastic. It's not fully immersive: there's some element of the mixing that, like the music and the coldly observant camera, that leaves us a little detached from the film, creating a little reflexive space. It works so well with the rest of the elements of the film. It's strange because you'd think the distance created by Kubrick's overall direction would cause you to feel detached from the film, but it actually doesn't... we just watch everything a little differently. The one time that the film's music becomes diegetic is when the soldiers march on after a horrible incident--singing the Mickey Mouse show theme song. Again, a wild contrast of innocence in a place of horror.I praise the direction, but I can't do the same for the story. It's a bit of a wandering mess. First of all, the structure of the film is basically two separate stories joined together by shared characters. The first half of the film deals with the recruits and their training under a straight-faced angry and somewhat unhinged drill sergeant. We watch as the new recruits are stripped of their individuality and become real Marines. There's a real drama in the relationship of the drill sergeant, "Joker" and "Gomer Pyle", but the story doesn't really seem to go anywhere. When all was said and done with the first half, I just stopped and had to wonder, "So?" The second half deals with the Marines in Vietnam. Here we see the military interact with the local populace, including some disturbing moments where the Marines treat the Vietnamese as sub-human. But because of Kubrick's direction, we actually don't side with them but just watch them and find ourselves in horror. You can see this a little in the Marines' interactions with the prostitutes as well. The fact that everybody finds it okay to bargain over how much a sex act costs and the relative ease of soldiers all sharing the same prostitute draws up a little recoil, at least in me. We also see slices of the hell of war, as people die unexpectedly. Again, many of the deaths are shown without dramatic effect, until near the end. As authority figures die, it's done without any of the expected slow-motion glory-deaths, but rather matter-of-factly. It gets really eerie near the end though, when a Vietcong sniper lies dying and the Marines are observing her. Suddenly, Kubrick steps into the picture and makes us think about the Marines and their enemies by lingering in the moment of her suffering, after she had killed a number of Marines.But for all the moments that the film puts together so well, it still leaves you with a bit of "so what?" Kubrick observes a lot in this film, but it's hard to find his voice. This might be true of many of Kubrick's films, but it makes me wonder what I'm supposed to take from what I see. Full Metal Jacket, then, to me, is more about the story of the dehumanizing nature of both the military and the war. Joker, our protagonist, stands as our human character, who struggles to stay human in such awful conditions. At the same time, in the end, was there a lesson to be learned? Or are we all just supposed to sigh and continue on like we can't help ourselves? Or maybe that's what we were supposed to think all along? Either way, I found Full Metal Jacket to be quite impressive, even with all of its flaws. There's a lot in it. Good stuff. 8/10.
Stanley Kubrick is hit or miss with me and this one is a hit. The 1st half of the movie when they are in basic training is an easy 10 stars but once the movie transitions to the Vietnam War itself, it falls flat at times. The movie is a quote machine especially from R. Lee Ermey's iconic drill sergeant character with stuff like:"Your ass looks like 150 pounds of chewed up bubble gum""5'9"??? I didn't know they stacked sh!# that high""Give your heart to Jesus but your asses belong to the Marine Corp"But the quote that would be his demise was the infamous "What is your major malfunction numbnuts?" The rest of the film is following Private joker as he photographs the war. I see it as anti-war film with Kubrick showing how the military turns people into killers and then just the brutality and horrors of war. He does all of this this with a kind of twisted sense of humor.


                
"Full Metal Jacket" tells the story of a few young men who join the military, get their drill by a merciless instructor and finally reach Vietnam, where they find themselves in the middle of a nasty war.In its dialogues, the movie finds a good balance between more humorous parts and the seriosity that is needed to deal with such a topic. The situations feel very plausible and you soon begin to develop empathy for the young men. The soundtrack sometimes didn't underline the actions perfectly, but that is just my personal opinion, I know that some find it very suiting. It is not the kind of movie that leaves you destroyed but it quite skillfully portrays how senseless people are willing to kill each other.All in all this is not the best of its genre for me but it is a beautifully produced question, that lets its audience search for an answer. Maybe not something you must have seen but it sure adds another perspective to this topic.
Stanley Kubrick was already a legend when he made Full Metal Jacket- a war movie. The film is divided into two parts. The first focuses on a bunch of new recruits in boot camp and the other takes place smack in the middle of a warzone. Full of images that stick in mind and some great use of music Full Metal Jacket is Kubrick through and through. From the long takes to the nihilistic overtones there is a stamp of authority of the master filmmaker. The acting, as is the case with every Kubrick film is sublime especially Mathew Modine and Vincent D' Onofrio. If you want to see an auteur at work Full Metal Jacket is a film you should check out.


                
Stanley Kubrick was already a legend when he made Full Metal Jacket- a war movie. The film is divided into two parts. The first focuses on a bunch of new recruits in boot camp and the other takes place smack in the middle of a warzone. Full of images that stick in mind and some great use of music Full Metal Jacket is Kubrick through and through. From the long takes to the nihilistic overtones there is a stamp of authority of the master filmmaker. The acting, as is the case with every Kubrick film is sublime especially Mathew Modine and Vincent D' Onofrio. If you want to see an auteur at work Full Metal Jacket is a film you should check out.


                
7.5 for clarification.One of the film's strongest attributes is it's cinematography, which is exceedingly good throughout. Kubrick seems intent on utilising music at ever opportunity, though I would cast doubt on how effective this decision was. The cast as a whole deliver moderately impressive performances. Kubrick certainly intended to showcase how war dehumanizes the individual, and this allows for the highlight of the film: the magnificent scene in which "Private Pyle" commits suicide. The film claims to provide dark humour, however If there was such any I failed to observe it. However, I simply couldn't understand the psyche of protagonist "Joker", as he is such a contradictory figure throughout the film. Is this another effort by Kubrick to demonstrate the dehumanizing effect of war, or a metaphor for the duality of man?
Full Metal Jacket exposes the futility of war - more relevant than ever for the world today given the incessant wars being fought by the US around the world as I write this review.The movie adds a human touch to a war essentially fought in the Cold War chessboard of the 1960s and 1970s. The movie humanizes the suffering of death and raises legitimate questions about the purpose of the war; or indeed most wars.Living in Southeast Asia and having visited Vietnam several times the movie helps one to understand one of the darkest periods in the region's history. No doubt, there were many silent global supporters of the war but still one recognizes the burden of history which contemporary Vietnamese are attempting to shed.The movie is a must watch fictional recreation for anyone interested in understanding the human aspect of war. Stanley Kubrick is a master film maker and Full Metal Jacket will not disappoint even the harshest of Kubrick's critics.


                
The director's intention was to provide an image of a Marine's daily life. The scenes that helped the director's intentions was a specific scene in which the marines were sitting around talking and bidding on a girl while the rest of them were fighting and another scene where the soldiers are lounging around while the tanks are blasting. Also, when the general pushes them to their limits leading to mental breakdowns. This scene supports my claim because the movie illustrates the marine's life of how they fight and protect our lives while risking theirs and suffering at the same time. The plot of the movie is how all the privates graduated to be marines except one that killed himself and when they became marines they fought in the Battle of Hue in Vietnam. The main plot in the movie fails because someone kills himself and at the end three marines die. The acting felt forced but also authentic. The actors did not show their full potential but authentic because you would always hear a general screaming. Cinematography is an important aspect of this movie. The cinematography helps the director's intention of a marine's daily life, but the particular shots that made it worse were the shooting animated blood and fake props. I rate this movie 7/10 because I really like how the director made a movie based on a marine's life and made it interesting and fun. I also believe that the acting and plot was not executed perfectly and needed more potential and the action is more waiting and not enough suspense or thrill. All in all the movie is great and I encourage you to take some of your time to watch this.
This is an excellent movie, for a while. R. Lee Ermey gives a riveting performance as the arch typical drill instructor, Sgt. Hartman. Ermey's performance should have earned him an Academy Award. In fact, it can be argued that Ermey's presence makes this movie special. Out side of that, the movie falters. Sgt. Hartman states clearly at the start that his order is weed out those who cannot hack his beloved Marine Corps. That means finding the bad apples. Yet, despite all his threats and abuse and blustering, nobody gets weeded out. The story line contains huge holes. First, regarding Gomer Pyle. Pyle fails at everything, yet Hartman does not flunk him out. Instead, he employs terror to try to get Pyle, a hapless screw up, to comply. Nothing helps, yet Pyle makes it. Boot camp has taught him only one thing: how to kill Hartman. Second, the story abruptly switches to Vietnam. The troops are cynical, demoralized and dysfunctional. They lack unit cohesion and esprit de corps. However, the story fails to explain the cause of their malaise. Joker, another bad apple from boot camp, is still in the Marines. Third, the character Animal Mother. His presence in the story is seems to make no sense, except that he is yet another bad apple that the Marines never weeded out. He's just more overtly anti-social. This entire movie depicts the military as a sham. Tell that to those who actually serve.


                
One of the many characteristic aspects of Kubrick's cinema is the deliberate lack of humanity and intimacy. He made it a point to keep the viewer at a distance from the characters and the circumstances. 'Full Metal Jacket' is divided into two specific parts. The first part involving the basic training in the boot camp, benefits immensely from Kubrick's emotionally distant filmmaking. This first part is a brilliantly directed, shot and acted satire on the dehumanisation of young boys in the army. We see the innocent and honorable masculinity of these boys who want to do themselves, their families and their country proud, get replaced by toxic masculinity which involves killing your identity and your humanity, equating the lust for sex with the lust for violence, keeping all your emotions suppressed and in the end becoming ultra-aggressive, remorseless, animalistic killers. R. Lee Ermey pretty much single-handedly carries this first part of the film through sheer verbal aggression. The character of Sergeant Hartman played by Ermey is pretty much the devil just like the character of Terence Fletcher played by J. K. Simmons in 'Whiplash'. Just like great satire, there are numerous sequences and moments in this part where the audience will feel like laughing and then within a few seconds feel disturbed and disgusted for laughing at something terrible and reprehensible.While Kubrick's emotionally distant filmmaking is beneficial to the first part of the film, it actually to some extent becomes a weakness in the second part. In the second part, we move to Vietnam where we see the soldiers having to execute everything that they learnt in boot camp, at the real battlefield. Now there certainly are moments in this second half that I love like the sequence of the talking head interviews of the soldiers which further underline how pointless this war was and how clueless even the soldiers were about their missions and the general purpose of their temporary existence in Vietnam. I also especially loved the extended situational set- piece that the film ends with as it provides a devastating and perhaps a sorrowful conclusion to the arc of the character of Sergeant Joker played by Matthew Modine who for the major part of the film remains the voice of reason, logic and humanity. However apart from these aforementioned scenes, this second half of 'Full Metal Jacket' lacks a sense of cohesion. It feels like a random collection of vignettes, some of which aren't very interesting. The reason why some of the vignettes seem uninteresting is Kubrick's refusal to allow us into the mental state of the characters that are introduced in the second half or give us any insight into their psyches apart from some surface level behavioral tendencies. There are many scenes where we see the soldiers talk to each other and spend time together, but those scenes rang hollow to me and felt somewhat forced and artificial. This inability to completely appreciate the second half of the film on my part could be completely subjective. Since I loved the first half so much, maybe the change in setting and tone that takes place was always going to make it tough for the second half to measure up when compared to the first.Technically 'Full Metal Jacket' isn't as showy and attention grabbing as some of Kubrick's other films, however it still retains a lot of his characteristic visual touches like the use of one-point perspective and the use of steadicam,etc. The urban, ground level combat scenes are very well staged and directed. The production design has to be admired a lot for those scenes too. From an acting standpoint, I have already mentioned R. Lee Ermey for his brilliant performance. I think Matthew Modine and Vincent D'Onofrio deserve special mentions too for coming up with contrasting, yet equally compelling performances respectively.In conclusion, I'll say 'Full Metal Jacket' doesn't quite achieve greatness due to the flawed second half of the film. But it's still an exceptionally good movie that comes close to greatness due to the incredibly brilliant first half which I think is as good and as powerful as anything Kubrick has ever done in a visceral scene. It's a film that can be directly connected to 'Paths of Glory' and 'Dr. Strangelove' in terms of Kubrick's criticism of institutional authority, dogmatic patriotism and toxic masculinity. It's most certainly worth recommending.


                
I have to say I am not the biggest Kubrick fan. Not really against him or anything, but I have actually seen very few films by him. In fact, other than this one, the only other film of his I have seen is "The Shining" so of these two my experiences have been mostly positive. This film starts out great in my opinion with a well organized basic training section. You get to meet new recruits as they get their head shaved, then you get to see what a Marine has to go through to be a Marine and suffice to say there is no way I could do what they do. Not only do you have a crazed Sergent constantly yelling at you and demoralizing you, I just could not handle the sleeping quarters and all that comes with basic training as I have social anxiety problems so I most likely would try to get away or off myself. I would not do what the one guy does here though. The second half of the film is a bit weaker and not as strong plot wise as the first part. This may have been done on purpose as to depict the Vietnam war as disorganized and chaotic and if that is the case it is done well. Just not enough plot structure for my tastes in this section of the film, still good, it just can not quite rise to the level of the first portion of the film. The acting is even though throughout the movie so that helps in the rather uneven Vietnam section of the movie.


                
This is not an epic movie. There are no heroes, no legendary feats in this movie, it's no band of brothers, it's a Kubrick film. And it's a fantastic one. Kubrick never did in complex scenarios, the plot in this movie, is simple, a group young Americans being trained to join the marines forms the first part, which to me is the main one. You can see Kubrick's work at its best in that first part. Seargeant Instructor Hartman, what a character! He is in your face from the first minute of the film, and those scenes at the camp were wonderfully shot. Close ups to bank on actors' performances and add intensity to the scenes, and intense they were. The humiliating and degrading treatment imposed by the Sergeant Instructor to the whole group, especially to Pvt Pyle, is frightening. The star performer in that first part to me has got to be Pvt Pyle. The scenes are shot in a succession of defining events, so that your eyes are scotched to the screen.The second part takes place in Vietnam, a Vietnam ravaged by war. Now I have to admit here that there have been better war movies shot in the heat of battle if you are looking for spectacular, rapid, grandiose fighting. Apocalypse Now would be a superb example. But here Kubrick, offers a more intimate view of fighting and always keeps it simple but pleasing on the eye. Many will say that the first part is of higher quality than the second, it could be true. But I think that the second part had to be shot in this way, nothing too over the top, a plot so simple and intense, so that it is difficult to forget. Do you remember most of the scenes in saving private ryan? No matter how much you prepare for war, how well trained you are, you can never be ready for the real thing. At the camp, the guys were subjected to the worst kind of treatment and yet in Vietnam, the war is a different proposition. Each war is different, the Vietnam war was not the same as the second world war when you knew what you were fighting for. It is certainly different to what is going on right now. But the films treating the subject of Vietnam war will be rarer and rarer, Apocalypse Now, Platoon and Full Metal Jacket are the best three films on Vietnam war. Therefore, Kubrick's work here should be a collector's item even if as an adrenaline junky, you could see better war films.


                
