A smug-faced Parisian pixie with a tenuous grasp of reality decides she is going to influence other people's lives whether they like it or not. Amelie has got to be one of the most annoying characters in recent cinema. She is mousy, meddlesome, mean, and manipulative - and these characteristics are supposed to make her lovable. The film operates under the concept that quirky equals charming. The narration is supposed to be cute and funny, but is grating instead. The plot rambles on pointlessly. The director repeatedly uses zooms and weird sound effects to convey some sort of whimsical film-making but manages to simply be distracting. It's unbelievable that this won an Oscar.


                
This movie tries WAY too hard to be quirky and cute. The first ten minutes are pleasant enough, but dismay sets in when one realizes that the smirks are going to continue for almost two hours more. Perhaps I was expecting too much, given the reviews this film has received. But - people - there is no content here, only style. And the style gets old very quickly. I'm a great fan of romantic comedies, but Amelie doesn't even fit that genre well. The few plot twists (for example, the traveling gnome) are not set up well, leaving the viewer wondering what is going on, rather than being a participant in a delicious secret. Romantic comedy should involve several intertwining plots, which the viewer is aware of but the characters are not, with the plot 'intersections' generating sparks that can be both anticipated and savored by the audience. 'Sliding Doors', which I happened to see shortly after 'Amelie', was so superior in this respect that I cannot understand the higher regard in which the latter seems to be held. 'Amelie' is strictly linear; there are side-stories, but they involve no surprises and they have absolutely no impact on the main story. (I suppose the resolution of the traveling gnome mystery and the nature of the repeating photo-booth customer could be regarded as minor surprises, but they were revealed in a strictly linear way, and had no impact on the main story line). Rated at 5, and only that high because it's technically well done, and Audrey Tautou is indeed cute.
i have seen this film a few times but have never really been drawn to the storyline, i find the story predictable and boring, how ever i find the filming of the movie is eye catching and very cleverly done. the films major downside is that it is in french, with reading the translation below the screen you miss half of the story and the main events of the film.the film is about a young lady called Amelie who finds a box in her bathroom, and starts her search to return it to the rightful owner, along the way he imagination brings even the little repeated event to be blown into a huge per portion.with watching the film numerous times i have now picked up on the camera work and the magnificent colours, with noticing in the first time i watch Amelie the fantastic camera work and special effect which bring the film to life and help tell the story with out the translation, the camera work has defiantly made up for the storyline in Amelie and you notice something every time you watch the film.the colours also help the film and always give your eyes something to notice.i dislike this film but at the same time i love it, Jean-Pierre Jeunet has made up his story line with fascinating camera angles and shots which have even made the biggest movies look dull.i would recommend this film to other media students who would like to look at good camera work and fantastic colours but not to someone who would like a good storyline.
I hated everything that I'd seen by Jeunet to this point.  I thought that Delicatessen and City of Lost Children were that annoying kind of 'art' film that had more in common with music video than cinema, preferring eye popping visuals to genuine filmmaking.  And Alien Resurrection, his foray into Hollywood sellout was the lowest point in a series long past its sell by date.  Amelie, when compared to these previous films, feels like a breath of fresh air.  Jeunet still prefers camera tricks to camera style, quick cuts to mise-en scene, and digital effects to photography.  And while the plot here shows quite a bit of invention, it relies far too much on its omniscient narrarator to inform us just how charming everyone and everything here is. But for the first time, Jeunet seems to want to put people in front of the camera instead of phantasmagoric setpeices.  The photography, when it is coherent, is often stunning.  The model here seems to be classic Hollywood musicals like Singing In the Rain, and Jeunet fills the screen with a stunning array of colors, and every shot simply sparkles.Of course, I still find Jeunet's visual style rather oppressive and tiring. But this very style will probably recommend it to the college students who will make this a big hit for a few years.  And it's nowhere nearly as godawful and overwrought as Oliver Stone's similarly stylized Natural Born Killers, which is what all the pretentious kids were watching when I was in school.


                
Having no sense of direction in her life but to do everything in the most desperately quirky way possible, main character Amélie (Audrey Tatou) sets out on a quest looking for something she cannot define, and does some cute good deeds and helps people along the way, even acting as a matchmaker. So goes the storyline of French romantic comedy "Le Fabuleux destin d'Amélie Poulain", supposedly the 29th best film of all time. It appears this is one of those films you either love or hate, but I'm hesitant to go to such extremes with Amélie. For being a French quirky romance story, this is a decent accomplishment with a few memorable scenes and performances (the ongoing garden gnome joke made me laugh). But somewhere along the line, Amélie transgressed the line between being this low-key Parisian comedy and became widely praised as art all over the world -- something that I find simply cringeworthy. The "Oh, it's French and about romance and it makes no sense! Therefore it must be magical and full of deeper meaning." -attitude totally sickens me.This film is so saccharine-sweet and cutesy that I find it is too much to take in one viewing. There is little or no magic in it, other than forced attempts to be whimsical which instead end up as desperately quirky. In short, Amélie is a romance story that tries too hard. Maybe I'm easy to please, but I find more romance in unlikely, simple everyday situations than cute-overload romance crammed into a picturesque Parisian café setting. It's too cliché.4/10


                
On the whole as a film amelie if you were to look at it and base your judgements about it from the plot you wouldn't be very impressed at all. The plot is speradic and full of loose ends it also has random unnecessary scenes of a sexual nature in, for example she in the film wonders how many people at that moment in time were having orgasms.Although the plot is crap they style of filming and camera work is beautiful, they put it together so that it is almost artistic. There is a scene in which amelie is throwing stones into a canal and the camera goes from the canal gate and loops over her in a way that makes it look very painting like.And so all in all i didn't enjoy the film personally but for a person who is a fan of artistic filming this would definitely float their boat.


                
Amelie was a beautiful movie with a quirky storyline. I saw the movie on recommendation from my father when he told me that the main character reminded him of Audrey Hepburn. He was correct; there is something sweet and innocent about Amelie that makes you like her on a level greater than the plotline, something wrapped in the details. I enjoyed that her hobby was cracking the hard, carmelized shell of creme brulee.Then why give the movie only a 6? Like Amelie's character, there is something unexplainable about the movie as a whole, and that something put me to sleep in the theatre. In fact, that same something put me to sleep in two other movies by Jean-Pierre Jeunet -- Delicatessen and The City of Lost Children. Many of the characters have interesting personalities, but the interest stops there. The characters do not feel real, and I cannot be drawn into the movie. If you want to see Audrey Hepburn, I recommend the real thing, but if you want to see an average movie that will fade from you in time, I recommend Amelie. Just don't forget the caffeine.


                
I don't really understand why so many people say that this is one of the greatest films.  It is actually a pretty film, with an excellent style. Jean-Pierre Jeunet is a good director and the film is not boring at all. However, is it a "wonderful film" as some say?  I do not think so.  The actors are (of course) good, but Jeunet shows us Paris as a marvelous place. And yet, I know what Paris is like, since I live in that city.  And I can say that it is not the same thing at all.  I do not say to jeunet to be realistic (and anyway he could not be realistic), but just to be fair with this place, which is not a real wonder.


                
Not a bad movie, but I found it somewhat uninspiring and trivial. Sure you could watch worse movies, but it certainly doesn't merit the hype associated with it. Perhaps it's an accessible foreign-film for the masses - trivial enough to fit seamlessly alongside the generic hollywood nonsense.Not bad - not great 6/10.


                
I think I'd heard to much positive things about this movie before I watched it. I thought it was ok but couldn't see the hype around it


                
I have seen the other two films by this director, and I really enjoyed both of them, especially the City of Lost Children, which I thought was one of the best pop sci-fi films since Star Wars.  But this film was a real disappointment, loaded with treachly sentiment and annoying characters, not the least of which is the title character who spends the whole movie tormenting people when it's really none of her business and then the director thinks he can show a wide angle overhead shot of her smiling and we'll suddenly like her.  Well, I don't like her character at all, and the films moments of joy are little more than tired imitations of Truffaut or Goddard.  Let's get Jeunet and Caro back together again so this guy can make some good exciting movies.


                
I watched this movie a long time ago, but from what I remember from watching this movie I didn't care for it. Like it was just boring to me, and nothing of interest ever happened. And maybe it's just me as I can't STAND live action sex scenes in movies due personal reasons, but were those scenes really necessary; It's like they were just added for no other reason other than to make the movie not a disney movie honestly. About the only good thing I can say about this movie is at least amelie was a decent, and likable character; other than that this movie was a pass to me.


                
"Amelie" is a feel-good movie to take away your concerns about the war in Afghanistan. Perhaps 25 minutes too long, but otherwise this film will make you laugh, smile and cry. With nods to the likes of "Matilda" and "Rear Window" this is a film with style. The opening 20 minutes are one of the funniest for years.  Catch this gem.


                
