Rating: ***1/2 out of ****What a fun film! From the moment it begins, "Amelie" bursts with joy and energy. It's a fable of sorts, a love letter to a Paris fondly dreamt of by many. It may not be the real world, but it is such a delightful fantasy that it doesn't matter how unbelievable some of it may be. "Amelie" is the rare romantic comedy that has both the romance and the comedy. It isn't very surprising that this has been a hit in France for a while now, and I have no doubt it will find the audience it needs in the States as well.
Amelie Poulain (Audrey Tautou) is a nave girl working at the Two Windmills Caf. When she was a child her mother and teacher was an innocent victim of a suicide gone awry. Amelie stayed with her father until she was old enough to leave and lead a life of her own. One day she finds a small box of treasures behind a tile in her wall, she decides to return it to her owner and become a natural do-gooder. Later on, she catches a man groping for lost photos under a photo booth (Nino Quincampoix, played by Mathieu Kassovitz), and it's love at first sight. She decides to go on a quest to find this man and help anyone she can along the way (including her father and co-workers).
I said before that this film was a love letter to Paris, it is also a love letter to Amelie herself. Jean-Pierre Jeunet (director and co-screenwriter) conjured the film like a dream, as if Amelie is his dream girl and he is trying to save her and bring her to a happy ending. It's not hard to want everything to work out for her and her friends. Amelie Poulain is the kind of person who you wish was your best friend, your neighbor or your sister. She bounces along with good grace and whimsy living life to its fullest, yet keeping a mischievous grin. She has her own idea of justice that isn't very disagreeable. The tormentors must in turn be tormented; the lifeless must be brought to life. The film is like a non-musical "Bells Are Ringing", with our heroine bringing so much life to those around her but neglecting her wants and needs.After seeing Audrey Tautou as Amelie, I can't possibly imagine anyone else in that role. She embodies Amelie like no one else could, she is a rare find that pulls off the job of breathing life into Amelie in spades. Wait, I take that back. She does not just breathe life into Amelie, Tautou makes her jump off the screen and pull the audience into the story. It would be a crime for her not to get a Best Actress nomination for her role.
Magical is the world that Amelie lives in, where photos and lamps come alive to aid her quest, where TV shows are showing nothing but her story. The story this setting surrounds is pretty standard, and presented plainly could have just been another machine-processed romantic comedy. Is it too sappy? No. On the contrary, the film takes quite a few steps to make sure it doesn't become tacky or conventional. The rich, storybook setting and a witty screenplay (asides are taken to deepen our connection each character, little things that each likes and dislikes) make the film all the more a delight to watch. The cinematography, crafted by Bruno Delbonnel, does wonders for "Amelie". The camera captures the action with an eye of a child in a candy store, beautifully bringing about each shot as a new discovery.
With films like "The Widow of Saint-Pierre", "With a Friend Like Harry" and box-office hit "Brotherhood of the Wold", French cinema has had quite a year. It's a delight that we round off the year with "Amelie", a fresh, funny journey that could have easily just been more Meg Ryan-esque romantic comedy fodder. If not for anything else, see it for Tautou's performance, but prepare to be smothered in a dream world.


                
If ever I needed a movie dubbed, this one would be it. Normally, I prefer subtitles, but the visuals in here are so incredible that trying to read the subtitles distracts me from taking in all there is to see.Man, there is a lot to see: brilliant, beautiful colors in scene-after-scene. They alone make this DVD worth owning. The story is decent, pretty interesting but nothing super. The humor is "French," meaning different from what we normally laugh at in North America. The story also, to be honest, gets frustrating after awhile, as Amelie goes on too long with her charade. If you've watched it, you know what I mean.However, this is so uniquely and beautifully filmed that I can put up with a so-so story. As the lead actress, Audrey Tautou, is cute and fun to watch and the addition of humor to the romance story helps. There is almost no profanity in here and a few very quick nude shots which must be the reason for the "R" rating, otherwise it would be an easy "PG." In summary, a pleasant film that is a feast for the eyes.


                
Spoilers herein.I avoided this film for ever-so-long because of what I had heard about it. One would believe that this is a well-photographed simple sweet story. That somehow it has something to do with the adventures of a sweet girl-woman. Well, it is. But it is so much else, and that `something else' not only makes the sickly sweetness tolerable -- it completely undermines it. That's because every film rests on three threads that connect between it and us the viewers. The first thread is the story, which many people -- even filmmakers -- would have you believe is either all there is or at least that it is paramount. The second thread -- more visceral and immediate -- is the cinematic presentation. This filmmaker has wisely chosen to make the visual space coincide with the fondly imagined nostalgia of a simple past. All is simple, clean, abstract, sweet. Even Paris, whose primary products are dog poop and meanspirited grafitti.But that third thread is the most important -- even more powerful, perhaps because of its subliminal nature. And it is here that this film is rooted, and the rooting is superb, intelligent.That root is George Perec, probably France's most influential writer. Not the most known or best loved, he directly approached a problem of the French character: that they were once an important people artistically. How does one be creative in a land populated by dead, giant saints? You build metastructures of the structures already there -- you build stories about stories. The component stories can be as trite as the public demands, but the assembly -- the structure of which eludes the casual viewer -- can be as clever as you wish.In 1978, Perec published a large book called `Life, a User's Manual.' It is a wonderful work which every literately educated person should encounter. It answers the question `what can a writer do after Robbes-Grille?' (which is roughly the same question as what can a French filmmaker do after the `new wave?') This film is very closely based on that book in both form and content.The book is a collection of several hundred stories, many of the type `at this precise moment, Jacques was removing sand from his toenails (the location of the beach perhaps being a setting for the previous story) and recalling the sand on the photographs he took of his honeymoon in Chartres where Jeanette first saw his feet and said she fell in love with them alone...' All these stories are triggered or anchored in some physical detail, like a box left by a child in the wall, or a torn photograph on the floor of a train station., or a lamp in the form a character.  Most of these stories involve unnecessary losses, small decisions of great consequence or attempts to represent and/or assemble the other stories in a personal context.The book's central organizing device was an apartment building in the same location in Paris as the film. There are so many characters and stories that the book provides diagrams.Elements from the book in the movie (as I recall): images that are torn and reassembled, a painter painting the same scene over and over, a found child's treasurebox, a simpleminded son, a `glass man,' images from all over the world, a funhouse, a fine meal disguised. Minor mysteries solved (the image is of a repairman), characters who are recorders (the jealous boyfriend with his tape, the painter with his VCR, the maintainer of the photobooths, the stewardess who photographs the gnome) characters who create reality (the girl who imagines both reality and films on the TeeVee, the man who is the `designated mourner' for reconstructed images, the painter who is reinventing Amelie).The wind caused two glasses to dance; the important thing here is the wind, not the glasses. If you have not seen this, please do. But see the story as deliberately facile and trite, intended to only be pieces that should be assembled by you to make a real picture. Anyone who thinks this is a just a sweet story should have their license to view films revoked.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4: Worth watching.
A movie that pays attention to details and love. We follow the life of a young and introverted shy woman named Amélie, living in France, and it's a beautiful journey.


                
"Amelie", a critically heralded and immensely popular film, tells of the antics of a spritely young French woman who sets about to alter the lives of a handful of people including herself with her own special brand of good hearted mischief. The film is a wonderfully creative shoot with great personality, charm,  and a devilishly clever story. One of those few films which just about everyone can enjoy. (A-)Note - Don't let hype and popularity buoy your expectations beyond reality. After all, "Amelie" is just a movie.


                
Amelie focuses on the young woman Amelie and her story as she tries to influence the lives of people around her by making them even a little bit better or worse. The film is narrated throughout and has a very warm feeling to it, not only because of the orange colour tint, but also because of its heartwarming mood.The film has its' own unique style. It becomes a rare piece of art in the eyes of the audience, as so much is put into it. The story is uniquely complex, but at the same time it is completely simplistic and gives the viewers immense pleasure in the little encounters that we can all relate to. It has various themes that are meant for adults as they are relatable, as are the characters in the film.Shot in over 80 locations in Paris, the film shows the romantic city atmosphere and the busy life of its' residents. It is well shot, well-structured and most importantly - it keeps you interested until the very end, telling you about how beautiful life is.


                
Nothing - neither the hideous-looking trailer, not the favourable reviews, nor the unfavourable reviews, nor Jeunet's past work, nor Jeunet's expressed opinions, nor what I knew of the subject matter - gave me any reason to believe that "Amélie" would be anything other than two hours of torture.  It turned out to be a pleasant, pretty damned good movie.  It's certainly better than "City of Lost Children" (if not "Delicatessen").  Without the contribution of Jeunet's former co-director (and inspired production designer) Marc Caro, it doesn't LOOK nearly as good as it ought: too many sets and effects are merely digital (the single worst digital effect: at one point, when Amélie is excited, we pan down to a revolting X-ray image of her beating heart), only a third of the cutaway gags have anything going for them, and every single shot has an unattractive yellow colour cast - doubtless an attempt to capture the warmth of old Technicolor prints, but all it does the film look sallow.  Still, the charm is real.In its way.  Most of the time Amélie is a lovable neurotic, but Audrey Tatou has but to look at the camera - or even GLANCE for a moment in the rough direction of the camera - and the character instantly becomes arch and knowing and insufferable.  It's as if she knows she's in a film starring herself.  Amélie (like most of the others) is only worth knowing so long as we can think to ourselves, "My god, she's really like that"; the moment we suspect she's putting it on, she's lost us.Those who think this is one of the best movies ever made (or the best French movie of the past decade, or some such) can't be getting out much: it's a sweet trifle, no more, no less.  What surprises me is that nine out of ten of those who loathe the film, no less than those that adore it, do so for the wrong reasons.  Amélie's little schemes are NOT the work of an angel: they're not motivated by altruism, most cause at roughly as much misery as they do happiness, one comes to a bad end and another of them was just plain nasty.  That's the POINT.  The film's mostly happy ending is meant to come across like the happy ending to "Emma" - good fortune rather than good management, and more than the heroine deserved.About the "McDonalds" criticism: Yes, no doubt the real Montmarte has McDonalds outlets in it.  That's no reason at all to put such things in the movie.  They don't make Montmarte any better and they wouldn't make the movie any better.  This is an important point.  When we find ourselves tolerating the presence of McDonalds outlets even in our fantasies, the battle against them will have been lost: what we have trained ourselves to tolerate in fantasy we cannot help but tolerate in real life.


                
Due to a sheltered home life and a misguided father who believed his daughter to have a heart defect, title character Amelie (Audrey Tautou) grows up lacking self confidence and an inability to express her true feelings. However she can work magic in other people's lives by doing anonymous good deeds on their behalf, and the joy she receives by these acts are an inspiration to her. What Amelie needs is a guardian angel of her own, and that's provided by the wisdom of Raymond Dufayel, the Glass Man (Serge Merlin), who has painted the same picture over and over again for two decades. He just can't get the face of one of his characters quite right, because he's attempting to capture a fulfilled and happy Amelie, and she's just not cooperating, though not for lack of trying.Ultimately, this is a warm and joyful film, and the performance of Tautou as the main character is charming and graceful. I rather enjoyed the subtle twist provided by the early mention of how the death of Princess Diana changed the life of Amelie forever. But it's not what one expects. Her discovery of a former tenant's collection of childhood mementos leads her on a mission to reunite him with his lost treasure. Seeing his reaction has a profound effect on Amelie, and sets her on a mission that brings happiness and joy to friends and co-workers.But what of Amelie herself - does she not deserve some happiness of her own? The film takes some clever turns on it's way to fulfilling Amelie's quest. The picture works I think, because so many people find themselves relating to her character, anxious on the one hand to make a move, and afraid to do so because of possible rejection. One never knows unless that risk is taken, and as Amelie shows, the risk is often worth the effort.
Is your Girlfriend or ol' lady bugging you to watch Amelie? Then don't be a fool and watch it.I was a bit hesitant about watching Amelie, but I am very glad I did. The whole damn thing is super cool.Colourful photography, neat little angles, very creative editing..All the actors convinced me in their roles.After witnessing the effects on pulling someone else's strings, Amelie is on a mission to do the right thing, and help steer local friends and acquaintances into happiness..it's all very nice. A gentle film that really makes you root for the protagonist.Amelie played by Audrey Tautou is just the absolute perfect girl-next-door, sweet as the sugar on strawberries.~Paul Browne.


                
From the moment Amelie begins you can be certain whether you are going to like it or not. The quirky sense of style and directing fulfil the screen in a way that it is almost impossible not to like! But because it is so different, I can totally see why people might not "get it" because you need an imagination.The thing that stood out for me the most was the marvellous directing. It was so quirky and Tim Burton-esque, making the film look incredibly beautiful throughout. "Amelie" is a visual treat! There is some incredible cinematography in there, so if you're a fan of a good looking film, you've found one! Films that look good, usually use style over substance but I can't say that with "Amelie" the screenplay is ferociously original with a fast pace and some really well crafted characters. In fact every character we see actually has there own individual character! This is incredibly refreshing to see, after countless cardboard characters we've all gotten used too! "Amelie" really is a beautiful film, it's quirky, original, and truly a one off! "Amelie" manages to balance style with substance to make it a memorable experience. And even though at times I did get lost through the fast paced dialogue and directing, I "got it" in the end and it was really worth seeing.


                
I liked Amelie a lot, even if it needed a bit more discipline in the tasteful stakes and tightening up on the running time. A film that opens with sperm and a live birth, continues later with the 15 orgasms blossoming in Paris at that moment, and is blasé in that true little shop of horrors, a porn shop, is not really my idea of a feel-good film. There's too many witty uncomfortably cynical moments in Amelie for that.Having said that, it's an extremely confident, stylish (French style), expertly colourful and cleverly directed comedy movie, where life's daily eccentricities are totted up and trotted out as being meaningful by their mundaneness. Par example, are you one who hangs the toilet paper top rolling outside or in? Have you always put your left sock on first to ward off toothache? Then get these concepts out there in digital widescreen and make people feel good they're not alone!An engrossing and pleasant enough two hours, but ultimately the feel-good movies I know I'll going back to include It's A Wonderful Life, Greyfriars Bobby or, as my daughter pointed out, Pollyanna!


                
It's very well directed, the editing gets you going and it's very artistic with a funny/cute plot. The director is always using strong colors all over the places. Although it's not the movie style I love, I still have to recognize it's a pretty good movie.


                
Amélie is such a gorgeous film. Its powerful, innocent, and romantic. The music in this film is phenomenal. I cant watch too many movies more than once but this one is on my list of goodies.


                
It's a feel-good movie... It's a piece of candy... It's the sweetest and most delicious movie ever made! (8.5/10)


                
With a sweet and original introduction to what would be a great film journey through the great story of Amelie and its different stages or ideas as we thoroughly explore her personality, her ideas, her being and his journeys.I can say that cinematography is something special throughout the film, from the camera angles to the special techniques it uses, both abstract and simply creative, it seems to me something unique that captures me a lot about this film.Of course we can not leave behind the simple joy that causes watching the 2 hours of this movie, because it shows us a simple life, a simple life that any of us could have, it also shows us what unites us all and the different relationships that We can have together, from romance stories, joys of childhood, health problems, love fights, unforgettable memories, etc.A movie with a simple idea that takes it to incredible levels, simply beautiful.


                
In this movie, there are a lot of experimental FXs shots. I'm learning the skills, so I was so excited while watching this movie. Especially, the main character Amelie was kind of mystery person to me. Her way and behavior are so impressive and adorable. I think, with FXs and strong story, the mix could make powerful work.


                
but it has a great style and finesse. Even if the director did try a little too hard to make it stylish, so it seems more Ally McBealish than anything else. All this to hide a rather basic story of childish love.It's *extremely* whimsical - so you have to be in the right mood - but the characters and acting are pretty spot on, and it half makes me want to live in Paris. Or at least the Paris in Amelie. Now if only someone would do the same sort of film about London or Cardiff.


                
um...wish I new more french, because I didnt get the whole story (well the finer details of it) However, it is still darn good...make sure you watch this one and Lagaan (the other internation movie nominated for an Oscar)...make you wonder what is wrong with Hollywood....all the good movies (with good plot lines) are international


                
After all the brouhaha made over here, i just had to see what all the fuss was about and if it was justified. It is not.For a while though, the first 30 minutes, i really thought this movie would be special all the way till the end. It has that dreamy nostalgic atmosphere which makes us reflect on our own personal lives, and draws us in the movie. But the plot is just too thin to live up to the unique and magical visuals. I looked at my watch several times at the end because the love story just dragged on and was absolutely void of any content / context : hollow. This completely destroyed the movie for me, which should have made this love story the epicentre of its plot and yet seemed to relegate it to the miscellaneous thread. It felt rushed and unpolished.This film still is a rare (too rare) burst of genius from a french director. Lets hope more follow.


                
Amelie personifies the childlike insecurities and idealism that we all possess but do not express outwardly except on rare occasions. Her quest to bring happiness to all those in her life is uplifting and inspiring.
Jean-Pierre Jeunet cinema graphic style was both unique and refreshing.A far cry from the crude romantic style of Hollywood. Amelie is a truly enjoyable viewing experience.


                
I loved the movie.  I expected I would.  But, as much as I did, I have to say that I was disappointed.  (please don't throw anything at me yet, let me explain)  I'm a big fan of Jean-Pierre Jeunet - even Alien Resurrection, I was with him all the way on that.  But after seeing Amelie and getting over that giddy feeling it gives you, I noticed  what one might call crutches. Amelie is great at disguising it's huge plot holes with Audrey Tautou's and her character's world cuteness but nevertheless, no matter how camouflaged, they are still there.  I won't explain further by giving away plot things but this movie makes a lot of assumptions on the audience and the characters.  One (vague) example is the introduction of a very key character very late (in my opinion) in the story and a connection with that character and Amelie that, even in this fantastic world, is not believable and just comes across as an example of slackness in the screenplay.  There are very many more instances like this but I won't get into them.However, I still gave the movie an 8 because Jeunet is the god of visuals and LUSCIOUS is a nice adjective to describe the look of the film.


                
This is a inspiring film. Very new-creating and it tells the story like if it was a fairy tale. It starts when Amelie is a child and her "family" is not so funny to live in.Then Amelie grows up and if you meet her I am sure she will change your life!.Technical this film is fantastic, I mean the editing,direction and the cinematography is great.And Audrey Tatou is magnificent as Amelie.Both very cute and she also does a superb performance.I recommend this film because it´s a very worm and funny film.It should not be placed #13 in the top 250.It´s a film that will be remembered but still I would not place it in any top 100 lists.****½ (out of five)


                
The world of Amelie Poulain(very good Audrey Tanton, who captured the essence of her character) is weird. She see herself as someone who help people. Sometime she helps someone to find love, fulfill a dream or just help to solve a mystery which involve photo's and if needed she take revenge on someone who is too cruel to someone els. And all the time she is also looking for love for herself. If it sounds weird to you wait until you see the film because the film is presented through the eyes of Amelie and if you liked her you would like the film. If, however you did not like her, you would find the film very irritating. And that is the strong point of the film and also its weakest point. Director Jeunet liked Amelie very much. He sympathize with her and embrace her point of view fully. That is not a bad thing because in doing so he make us identify with her and with her action. I liked the film but there are viewers who will find the film too annoying precisely because there is no distance between them and the main character. There is no judgment at all on what she does, there is no moral judgment of right or wrong. Her actions are accepted with no questions. There is another point that for me was a big plus. I like the way Jeunet present Paris in the film. Paris is very much a part of the film. It seems that the film could not have taken place in another city. At the end of the film I wanted to go straight to Paris.Yes it is a weird film and yet I have found myself enjoying it. It is nicely done, Paris looks great and you do go out from the film with a smile on your face. What more can we ask from a film?


                
Audrey Tautou has a great screen presence and it's a delight to see her throughout the film, where she's the center of the action. Amelie is just an exception in a world full of self-centered and unhappy people. She's willing to spice those lives she comes in contact with. The jumpy style of director Jean-Pierre Jeunet sets the right tone for this modern day fable set in the Montmartre of today. More than anything, the director has used this beautiful actress in ways that others wouldn't have dared. At times she keeps reminding us of another Audrey, Hepburn, with those expressive eyes of hers. Long live Amelie and Audrey too. Let's hope other directors will use her too and very soon too!


                
Amélie Poulain is a young woman living above a cafe in Paris where she works. Warm-hearted and imaginative but introspective, she spends her time dreaming up good-natured tricks to play on her neighbours and colleagues. However, when one day she falls in love, can she overcome her shyness and use her charming schemes to capture happiness ?This delightful movie is brimming over with zesty energy, both in its visual dynamics and its breathtakingly bittersweet story. Written by Guillame Laurant and Jeunet, it is packed full of exotic characters and intriguing little tales which interlace into a rich comic tapestry of love, regret, enigma and serendipity. The events hurtle past, leaving you gasping, but all are playfully fascinating; my personal favourite is the globetrotting gnome which confounds Amélie's father. Even better are the visuals - the movie is crammed full of wonderful images (the cloud photos, the nightlight piggy, the shot where Amélie literally melts, many others) and extraordinary montages. Tautou is hypnotic in the lead, with her graceful neck, cute bob hairdo, innocent smile and wide eyes, but everyone in the cast is good, particularly Merlin as the reclusive Glassman, agonising over his delicate recreations of Renoir's masterpieces, and Dussollier, the clipped, matter-of-fact narrator. Yann Tiersen's piano-accordion music is incredible and, like all great scores, adds so much atmosphere to the film, enriching both the comedy and the melancholy manifold. Stunningly directed by the gifted Jeunet; this being his first movie without his previous writer-director-partner Marc Caro (Delicatessen, La Cité Des Enfants Perdus). Shot all over Paris, this is a wonderful, life-affirming fable to charm all romantic souls everywhere. English title - Amelie.
