Just finished the entire series. This was such a good watch!! At first it didn't sound interesting enough, but after a few episodes of seeing bits and pieces while my husband watched, I was hooked.I won't give away any spoilers, but this show basically did the amount of investigative research that you'd hope police detectives would do (but apparently, in this case, didn't). Jarecki and his team did a wonderful job... I don't know how this could have been any better. Also love the scenes and music in the beginning credits (Fresh Blood, by Eels).The last two episodes are just breathtaking. I don't think anyone expected the outcome of this show when they first watched (or started filming)!This show definitely deserves some Emmys next year!!


                
I don't typically watch documentaries and many I often find boring. I also don't typically write reviews. The Jinx however, is the most compelling and dramatic thing I've ever seen. On one side it has the feel of a featured film murder mystery like Gone Girl. Almost seeming written, and even features an amazing intro and theme song similar to True Detective. On the other side you acknowledge this is actually a documentary, and the interviews from the man himself are chilling. For lack of a better comparison , It's like an episode of Dateline NBC on super steroids and 10 times more interesting. I love how it was broken into separate episodes rather than a lengthy one piece.This gives them the ability to leave cliff hangers for the next episode and that makes you want to binge watch(which I did). This series also leaves you wanting more, and you'll find yourself searching the internet for other details about Robert at the case itself. This puts anything else that calls itself "reality television" to shame. Overall, I find it to be more powerful and dramatic than anything I've ever watched in a feature film or on television.


                
This is one of those movies\docs, that you'll find yourself waiting and crying for more and more ...still, you'll have the chance to drown into six episodes of a pure crime and suspense gem. I am I fan of shows such as True Detective, Fargo, etc, but this one, you'll have to see with a different eye, the eye that allow you to see through the detectives, director and, the killers eye ! Something that I do believe was never done before and that's what keeps this show one (or a thousand)steps further.Every time i do the shows review is because i do believe some shows are more than just good or great, they are imperative to watch,because we cannot pass through life without paying attention to some things that are really worth to be noticed, a lot of rubbish is dumped on TV ,but a lot of art is also available , you just have to make a choice,and i really want you to chose this one here ;)


                
Almost perfectly done, this documentary series has a solid base on its impeccable research and in the interviews with Robert Durst, the man with a disturbed personality who is, at the same time, incredibly charismatic. Episode by episode, we dive more deeply in the mind of this troubled man and also in the doubt that surrounds his actions. Producer Andrew Jarecki knew how to "feed" the spectator with the information in the correct pace, without spoiling the upcoming revelations and lead a true investigation that enlightened things that happened 30 years ago. If you like crime stories, you most definitely should watch. You'll not believe this is a real story being portrayed on the screen!


                
I don't write reviews that often,but i had to say something about this.It made me literally jump out of my skin,the whole time i was watching it.I can't even begin to explain what i liked the most.I guess i'll begin with the authenticity.It was like watching a fantastic crime TV show,but without the great looking actors.Imagine watching a TV show that combines True Detective,The Killing,CSI,Twin Peaks and all your favorite crime shows of all time(But,the most disturbing part is that this is 100% REAL).Secondly,the storyline was so well constructed.Began very slow and then it got more and more thrilling.I don't wanna say too much about the documentary,because i want you to experience it for yourself and just think about the whole case and draw your own conclusion.This is a must-watch.


                
I started watching "The Jinx" one night, hungover and tired, and fell asleep within 10 minutes. Two days later after finding myself in another alcohol induced state I decided to watch it - this time it was a slight hangover with a more tired effect. After watching the first episode I was enthralled and curious to find out what happened next - what's the hurt in one more episode, right?... 6 hours later, I found myself finished the entire series with my mouth to the floor.Without giving anything away, this is a crime documentary that goes above and beyond what the genre will dictate. After finishing, and finding myself reading review after review to try to find some sense in what you have watched - there is a moment where you stumble on the comparisons to different crime documentary genres - such as: Serial, Dateline, the entire ID Network. This, however, is incorrect - being as the only comparison is the genre."The Jinx: The Life and Deaths Of Robert Durst" should be seen as one of the crowning achievements of television. A gripping drama about the grey lines of our society, the dark individuals that slither in between these lines, and the big money that turns its cheek in the sake of continual prominence.
It was 11pm last Thursday night and i'm up for work at 7.30am Friday morning. I put on the 1st episode of the Jinx before sleep because i'm thinking it might be good as it was recommended to me by a reliable source who's never let me down before and is very very selective about recommending anything. 5 hours later i finish watching the lot and am amazed at this story. I won't explain what the story is about just in case it ruins it for anyone and also because i'm too lazy. I will say it is fabulous television and a must see for everyone. It should appeal to pretty much everyone. Give this a shot, it's brilliant!!!!!! Huge well done to everyone involved with the making of this documentary. And a huge thanks. Just wish i could watch it fresh again........


                
I cant believe i haven't heard of this case before and i follow most true crime events its very intriguing, its one of the best true crime documentaries I've seen in my life really good entertainment, especially the parts that he doesn't know his microphone is still turned on, i'm watching the movie "all good things" at the moment and i saw "the jinx" documentary first. and after watching the documentary i think the movie is very underrated considering what really happened, I've done no research into Robert Durst after the Documentary came out and the conclusion, but both of them are worth a watch if your interested in the true crime mystery genre, My personal views are i really don't know what happened, either this guy is one of the smartest killers or he is the most unluckiest men, even the parts when he talks to himself are interesting because i can relate to such things myself, this documentary and the movie combined are defiantly worth a watch.
I started watching this 9PM, Saturday night after feeling discontent watching the euro vision.I have completed watching it today, Sunday.It's the best 'crime' documentary I have ever seen and the first of it's sort and style.It's also the first review I've written on IMDb. I felt so hollow after starring at a black void during the final moments of this film. So much so, that I felt desperate to gain some sort of closure. I found myself scanning articles, information and comments about Hurst hoping that i'd be able to create closure for myself..This film is a masterpiece. I experienced a range of emotions such as anger, sadness, pity and even sickness (especially during the last scenes).THANK YOU...Andrew Jarecki for giving us a glimpse into the mind of a psychopath and showing us danger in it's most feeble form.The only criticism I do have is the credit opening. I do love the choice of song and the scenes. However, I feel caution is necessary when dealing with a sensitive documentary such as this. I feel it should stay true to the nature of the documentary and remind us that we're watching a documentary about a cold blooded murderer. Basically, I feel the opening credits it's something that you'd see from TV drama's such as True blood, damages etc etc...
Having just finished the show, I'm astonished, this may be my 2nd favourite series of all time. I was never into real crime documentaries but this had me completely captivated from the word go. Highly would recommend to anyone


                
An amazing series you have to watch, if you love crime and crime series! Exiting from the get go and its hard to stop watching butik its done. A must see if you ask me!


                
I'm not one for hyperbole. I'm not one for 'best eva' nonsense. But after almost half a century on this planet, I developed a taste for documentaries. On a personal level, there is no better crime documentary than Morris's 'The thin blue line', but 'The Jinx' is not a movie, it's a series.I watched this after the massively overrated so called 'whodunit' 'Making a murderer' (he did it, obviously!). I was blown away. I think the last time a documentary series dragged me in like this was with 'The Staircase'. Is this better than that? i would say, 'yes' ,but only just. This will have you on the end of your seat. I watched this with a few friends one night and I've never heard a room go so quiet once it got going. It will utterly absorb you. We planned on watching one episode but ended up watching the whole series in one go until 3.am. With work the next morning no less! Whilst I do not recommend that, I recommend getting hold of a copy and watching it.But make sure you start in the afternoon, because you won't be able to wait for the next part. For me, the master of understatement, I would say that I can't think of a better documentary series than this.


                
Firstly, I do not understand why the likes of Amazon Prime have not picked this up as a feature, maybe the release date technically prohibits this, but with Netflix garnering so much attention from 'Making a Murderer', this would be the ideal documentary to blow that out of the water....And it does!All views are of my own opinion, just to be clear! I enjoyed Making a Murderer, I thought it was well thought out, maybe sometimes a bit too scripted in terms of 'cliffhangers', but overall it gave insight into what some feel is a miscarriage of justice, and others feel is well overdue, for a possibly sadistic murderer/s. For what is a true documentary, however, or should i say but, it was based on circumspect, it was based on fallible evidence and differences of individual opinions, and ultimately, whilst the cold hard facts were there, there were also reasons, excuses, possibilities etc that could explain them. In fact the focus was very much, have the cops done wrong, or did they do right?!The Jinx is not in that realm, in fact it is far above it, and the only reason for this is, they took the case to the heart of the issue....The 'possible' killer. Though woaaahh, they don't just stump up outside his home and ask him, they use the best possible style and technique, they ask questions, they probe his thoughts, his emotions, his feelings, and they ask the difficult questions, in a way only a late night talk show host could hope to do! This is a documentary of cat and mouse proportions. You will see reviews about the accused, and his interview techniques, each has their own opinion, my only opinion on this was what an insight into a sociopath and possible murderer...If not true serial killer. It is rare to get an insight into such an individual person, yet I would hazard a guess that if Phil Spector was to face similar scrutiny, we would experience a similar documentary!This is what your CSI, Law and Order, Criminal Minds etc, interrogations are about, except they don't shout and demand and have it done within 10 mins, they simply ask with subtlety and let the 'subject' do the rest, albeit over an extensive time period.I did mention earlier about Sociopaths, in my opinion, Robert Durst is one of the most intelligent Sociopaths (which technically I guess brain docs will tell you they all are!) to ever (so far) get away with murder, that's maybe because he didn't do it as one jury has decided, or maybe because he balanced his need for attention and accreditation, with need for solitude and time out from the limelight of his actions, I suppose it remains to be seen, but then, have you heard of Robert Durst?!? :-)


                
