The Jinx is a great show. I am not American, and I had never heard about the case nor the Durst family before this show. Going in knowing nothing led to some of the revelations being really shocking. The fact that the show is so exciting is at least partly due to the case itself being absolutely bonkers on many levels.But what makes it more exciting is the wealth of information, people and footage they got access to. You really felt that you were thrown into the middle of an investigation, and saw the case unraveling in front of you. And Robert Dust is a compelling figure. It's difficult to place him as either an eccentric evil genius, or a lucky loony. Probably he is somewhere in the middle. Some of the stuff he does seems more like a bumbling fool than an educated criminal, while other things seems really well thought out. It keeps you on the edge of your seat. His mannerisms and just his character in general is also perfect for a show like this. Because despite everything: He can be pretty funny.So, as entertainment it was really good. That said: I did not like the reenactments. It felt cheap and out of place, and was not needed for the documentary. There were other parts that should have been left out as well, like when they start annoying a man working security in one of the Durst buildings.But I guess one of the more important questions to ask yourself here is: should journalism go more in this direction? Because this was, have no doubt about it, made to entertain. Here's my initial thoughts: Except the literal victims here, there are no other victims of this show that I can think of. The friends and family of both victims and others involved seems to have gotten their say, or at least had the chance to. The producers did a really good job researching and investigating the case, and the presentation seems truthful enough. The focus on Robert never turns him entirely into a movie character. Througot the series you start to understand him more as a human being. Or at least the producers impression of him. For now I am in the position that journalism is probably going to go more in this direction, but it is a dangerous path, for it can very easily focus too much on the entertainment and to little on the responsibility of a journalist presenting a case.


                
I didn't want to watch it, for fear of seeing some gory tale of murder upon murder. However, on a cold Sunday, my other half could not tear himself away from it, so I was stuck under his arm and found myself enthralled.We watched it in a marathon, and I'm still confused, did he or did he not kill?! The wife is gone, the friend is murdered, the neighbor is in pieces... but, they can't prove anything he doesn't admit to. He even testifies, but his matter-of-fact tone leads one to believe everything he says. What is going on?!So interesting... the journey, presentation of information, the direction, delivery... simply well done. Watch it and decide for yourself.
A 4.5 hours HBO investigation/court documentary split into 6 episodes (or chapters).This is a fascinating documentary by Andrew Jarecki, who also directed "Capturing the Friedmans (2003)" - one of the best court documentaries I've ever seen. It also tells the real life story of the man on which the movie "All Good Things (2010)", also directed by Jarecki, is loosely based.Like in two other amazing investigation/court documentaries - those about serial killer Aileen Wuornos and the West Memphis Three - this is another example where the filmmaker finds himself getting involved in the story and having a direct and major affect on the case.If you haven't heard about this in the news, you might want to avoid reading about the case before watching the documentary - although I did read about it (and then recalled the news several months ago) and it didn't spoil the fascination of watching it.The documentary follows the life of Robert Durst, who is the son of the late Seymour Durst, one of New York's richest real estate investors and developers. For years Robert has been suspected of killing 3 people: His wife, his female friend, and his neighbor. However, he always managed to "walk between the drops without getting wet".The film has tons of material, showing old footage, evidence, interviews with the people, reenactment of events, actual footage from court,and amazing of all - interviews and full cooperation from Robert Durst himself.Each episode focuses mainly on one thing. Starting from episode 4 you'll be glued to your chair. Episode 5 is where the filmmakers themselves are getting into their own documentary and becoming a part of it. I don't want to "spoil" anything for you, but episode 6 is simply amazing. You can't invent stuff like that. The very last minute is simply something that is taken from the movies.


                
Really compelling stuff here, never a dull moment. As someone who was too young to remember Durst being in the news, I found myself on the edge of my seat for nearly the entire 4+ hours. Incredible turn of events within the documentary itself, something seldom seen within documentary filming.


                
Wow this is really creepy! By the end I was shocked! Wish they would make a second series really enjoyed it was bone chilling! Some crazy people out there!


                
