In a recent biography of Billy Wilder, Agatha Christie is quoted as saying that this was the best adaption of her work ever done on the screen. I can't praise Witness for the Prosecution any higher than that.Tyrone Power in his farewell film plays Leonard Vole who befriends a dotty old widow played by Norma Varden. She even rewrites her will leaving him the bulk of a very large estate. When she's murdered, Scotland Yard arrests Power.Power's solicitor Henry Daniell retains a dream team for defense of John Williams and the recently recovered Charles Laughton. Laughton is recovering from a heart attack and against medical advice plunges into the case. Laughton also has to deal with the efforts of his assigned nurse Elsa Lanchester to keep him following doctor's advice.The original play this was taken from concentrated completely on the Power character and the machinations of his wife. Wilder built up the character of the nurse and barrister Sir Wilfred Robards so that they almost equaled the screen time of Mr. and Mrs. Vole. So much so that Charles Laughton was nominated for an Academy Award in 1957, but lost to Alec Guinness. Marlene Dietrich plays Mrs. Vole. She's a war bride over from Germany and she's got her own agenda going. Her performance and what her character does is the key to the whole film. Dietrich probably would have gotten an Oscar nomination herself, but due to the fact that if her performance was hyped up for Academy consideration, the element of surprise would have been lost in the film. Wilder in fact apologized to Marlene for that.The Anglo-Saxon legal system's goal is justice. Justice is served though not quite in the way it usually is in Witness for the Prosecution.


                
This is one of the best "trial movies" ever made. It's an outstanding film that is just as good today as it was almost 50 years ago when it was released in the theaters. The shocking ending caused quite a stir back then, too.The only part of the movie I thought looked dated and unrealistic was Tyrone Power's character being able to interrupt the trial with outbursts and not be reprimanded for it. There is no way that would be tolerated, at least today.Otherwise, it's a pretty solid film with a good cast that includes two fascinating characters played by actors who know how to entertain: Charles Laughton and Marlene Dietrich. Laughton, who plays Power's defense attorney, grabs the spotlight in the story but Dietrich almost steals the movie in her role as Power's wife. Laughton's dialog is terrific throughout, bringing a number of laughs to this serious film. He's just a joy to watch. Dietrich is even more riveting but just doesn't have anywhere near the same amount of screen time as Laughton.Not to be overlooked is Elsa Lanchester, playing Laughton's nurse. She, too, demonstrates her comedic talent and significantly adds to the fun of watching this film.If you like some fine drama, storyline twists, a little humor thrown in and great acting and dialog, this is a classic film to check out.


                
To see "Witness for the Prosecution" for the first time in 2008 is a jolting surprise. Nobody could do it better than Billy Wilder did in 1957. A man accused of murder, Tyrone Power, the weakest link in this terrific chain. Sir Wilfred is called to defend him, he is played by the extraordinary Charles Laughton, but he's just out of hospital - he wasn't dismissed he was expelled - and due to doctor's orders he's not to take any criminal cases. He finds Power charming and personable enough but he's not going to risk his life to save his until Marlene Dietrich makes her entrance - and what an entrance! How marvelous that what amounts to a bit of Agatha Christie's usual fare becomes such an entertaining and at times right down riveting piece of film-making.


                
I love it when a movie captivates me, carries me along, then surprises me at the end. This is a masterpiece of human maneuvering. It has outstanding acting and a plot to die for. This is a fairly pedestrian Agatha Christie short story. I'm not saying it's not a wonderful story, just that it doesn't come to life like it does on the screen. Charles Laughton is the wonder barrister who is taking the case, even though he is in poor health. The murder case seems a relatively simple one until we begin to trip over the many layers left lying on the path. Marlene Dietrich does a masterful job in all her roles (I won't say anymore than that so I don't spoil the ending). Tyrone Power is able to balance his pathos and his potential guilt. The beauty of the movie is that it never takes itself too seriously. There are some modestly funny subplots and a great deal of careful investigation. I guarantee you that once you start watching, you won't be able to turn it off.


                
I first saw this movie about 15 years ago and loved it.  I just watched it on VHS and was captivated all over again.  Agatha Christie's story, Billy Wilder's screenplay and direction, and the four main leads all get it right. Charles Laughton is absolutely superb, and Elsa Lanchester is a perfect foil.Agatha Christie's story has more twists and turns than a roller coaster and this provides a strong foundation for the movie. But the actors give life to the characters. I haven't seen the 1982 version, but I'll admit to a bias for Marlene Dietrich.  She and Tyrone Power pull just the right punches.It's a mystery, of course.  But a top notch one. So if you want only to dabble in the genre, this is the one to try. (If you like mysteries, it goes without saying that you must see it.) Moreover, this is one B&W movie for people who don't like B&W movies.


                
I have no idea why I'm writing this review. There are already 125 other reviews here, and that odds that anybody's even going *see* mine are slimmer than an already-slim person on a severe diet.What's more, I don't have anything new to add. I just finished watching the movie for the first time, and I thought it was just magnificent. Wonderful cast, wonderful performances, and a completely engrossing and surprising plot. And even some charming humor on the side to keep things from getting too grim. I was able to foresee some of the ending but definitely not all of it.So anyway, the main point I would want to make is just this: If you have NOT seen this movie, do NOT read any reviews with spoilers! Just see the movie!


                
Witness for the Prosecution is one of the most entertaining courtroom stories of all time, written by the crime mistress herself, Agatha Christie. Charles Laughton completely owns the courtroom, starring as a famously brilliant barrister who's supposed to be taking a break for his health-but he gets drawn in by a truly compelling murder trial. Tyrone Power, in his last movie, has been accused of murdering a wealthy older woman. While all the evidence racks up against him, Charles doesn't give up hope and tries to win the case, all the while trying to crack the very hard nut Marlene Dietrich. Marlene is Tyrone's wife, and it's impossible to tell what she's really thinking or feeling.I love this story, and I love both versions of the film, from 1957 and 1982. It's incredibly suspenseful and interesting-and also quite impossible to talk about without giving spoilers. If you've never seen Witness for the Prosecution, add this one to your list of classics to rent. The acting is fantastic, and the timing makes it a very entertaining old movie to watch. There are no boring bits in this drama; and I guarantee you'll still sit on the edge of your seat the second time you watch it.


                
Naturally, the most popular Agatha Christie movie ever made, "Witness for the Prosecution" (1957), although it looks as British as Big Ben, was actually filmed in Hollywood. Thanks to its great cast - Tyrone Power and Una O'Connor in their final movies, Charles Laughton, Marlene Dietrich, Elsa Lanchester, John Williams, Henry Daniell, and stage actor Francis Thompson as the judge - and the clever way the writers have opened out the stage play, this "Witness for the Prosecution" really grips and holds the interest even for those members of the audience (like myself) who know the plot backwards. Billy Wilder's direction is as adroit as ever, but on this occasion, it is skilfully impersonal, allowing players and plot to adroitly command and dominate center stage. This movie is currently available on an excellent 10/10 M-G-M DVD.
Yours truly has never been much of a reader, though with one notable exception: the work of Agatha Christie. I absolutely, positively worship this brilliant woman and try to read as many of her novels, short stories and stage play adaptations as possible. "Witness for the Prosecution" is a genuine classic, and although somewhat atypical for Christie, it is undeniably one of the greatest stories ever penned down. There's one major disadvantage about having read all of Christie's whodunits, of course, namely that you can't experience the same astounding twist-in-the-end twice! I would really have loved to be overwhelmed by the climax of this film- version, especially because Marlene Dietrich and Tyrone Power give away such fabulous performances. The story, with its fascinating characters and dazzling plot twists, does remain the movie's biggest strongpoint, but there are a number of more reasons why "Witness for the Prosecution" is righteously considered as one of the most massive milestones in cinematic history. Billy Wilder's surefooted direction, for one, and the stellar performances of the entire ensemble cast. I mentioned Dietrich and Power already, but there's also the downright phenomenal Charles Laughton (arguably the most shamefully neglected actor/director in history) and an appealing supportive role for Elsa Lancaster. But do I daresay that the ultimate success-factor of this stage play adaptation is the masterful re-creation of the court trial? The bombastic settings and decors, the echoing acoustics, the powerful monologues of confident (and arrogant) barristers and the intimidating gowns and wigs are largely what make "Witness for the Prosecution" not only the first but also the mother of all courtroom dramas. This may just be the opinion of an avid fan, but practically ALL great courtroom-dramas that were released from the sixties until present day ("To Kill a Mockingbird", "Philadelphia", "Devil's Advocate", "A Few Good Men"<U+0085>) were clearly influenced by "Witness for the Prosecution". In fact, I only have one minor complaint: *** Spoiler **** the film version adds one more final twist that I didn't find 100% plausible.


                
Let me explain.The best book on music I've ever read is "The Classical Style: Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven", by Charles Rosen.  (Read it, it's fascinating.)  One of Rosen's claims is that the classical style was the offspring of two impulses: the desire to surprise, and the desire to be formally perfect, to sound "right".  In the decades before Haydn's maturity there were composers who startled and composers who satisfied; Haydn was the first to startle and satisfy in the same breath.Detective story writers have the same ideal as classical composers.  The solution must surprise us; yet the "shape" of the story, to those who know the solution, must be beautiful.  And, as in music, it's hard to surprise and satisfy at once.  If you must go one way or the other, much better to satisfy.  One can see the denouement of a Thorndyke story by R. Austin Freeman a mile off, but it's always perfectly crafted, and that is enough. Too many modern detective stories startle us by having the murderer turn out to be one of a dozen characters when it could so easily have been one of the other eleven and nobody would have particularly cared because there's little beauty in the story whoever it turns out to be.  But Agatha Christie ... not for nothing is she called "classical".  Her solutions are almost always surprising - she may have been better at misdirection than anyone else who ever lived - but they always, in a way that's hard to describe, make perfect dramatic sense.  -Okay, so she's not the world's best mystery WRITER.  But I often think she attracts undue criticism because she so obviously writes less well than she plots, while the literary defects of writers who can't plot either pass unnoticed.For all these reasons I'm surprised there aren't more first-rate films based on her works.  (I can understand, though, why "The Mousetrap" has never been filmed.)  Looking through the IMDb list of twenty-eight cinematic Christies, I'm surprised how many of the ones I've seen fall short of their potential. And twenty-eight isn't really, when you think about it, that many, especially when so many of them are remakes of earlier ones.Still, most are worth watching, and this particular one is excellent. Faithful to the play, it has the usual finely crafted, classical, Agatha Christie twist.  Wilder made it at a moment in his career when he could do no wrong.  It must have taken him all of two seconds to decide that Charles Laughton would make the perfect Sir Wilfrid; then, perhaps, another fifteen minutes to settle on Marlene Dietrich as the title character.  Just as "Double Indemnity" is set in a black-and-white California, "Witness" is set in a black-and-white England - it makes me wonder if it's a mistake filming Agatha Christie in colour.  You'll enjoy this, trust me.


                
Charles Laughton is absolutely hilarious and superbly witty as barrister/solicitor in this film, in fact- I cannot recall any courtroom lawyer who has a better grasp of language cadence and tone and pitch as the great Charles Laughton which makes his courtroom defence posturing unlike any! Further, outside of the court, Charles has such a finicky and droll humour that I was so tickled by his badgering of his nurse (who happens to be his wife in real life).Marlene Dietrich is superb as well. She just commands the screen and that wonderful German accent is spellbinding.Tyrone Power is a powerhouse but I found that he somewhat over-acted just a tad for my liking; however, this does not deter the quality of the entire movie.This is a terrific movie with a great little twist at the end, so stay with it right to the very end!


                
Leonard Steven Vole finds himself on trial for the murder of a wealthy widow from whom he has inherited a fortune. Top barrister Sir Wilfrid Robarts takes up the defendants case, but he, along with everyone else, is stunned when Vole's seemingly loving wife Christine turns up to testify against the defendant.Based on Agatha Christie's successful 1953 play, Witness For The Prosecution benefited from fine tuning from master director Billy Wilder and writing partner Harry Kurnitz. Here the dialogue becomes razor sharp and the characters are fully realised with quite wonderful results, but chiefly the masterstroke here is not letting a court room drama become just that, a court room drama. The film plays out with no wasted scenes, no moments of boredom, and it has such vim and vigour you sometimes forget that there actually is drama in the story.The cast here are wonderful, Wilder had wanted to work with Charles Laughton for some time, and it's obvious that both parties here are getting the best out of each other. Laughton is a pure delight as Robarts, a sharp tongue, all bluster and cheeky into the bargain, his interplay with Miss Plimsoll (Laughton's real life wife Elsa Lanchester) is quality, and it's another testament to Wilder's genius for putting them together. Tyrone Power, in what would be his last completed film before sadly passing away, is devilishly smart as Vole, whilst Torin Thatcher is great as the gruff prosecution barrister Myers. Yet as good as they all are, they all sit in the shadow of Marlene Dietrich and her turn as Christine Vole, wonderfully sultry and femme fatalistic, it's a sizzling performance that crowns this delightful film.It occurred to me overnight that it's probably the closest film that Wilder got to being Hitchcockian, and I'm pretty sure the big master of suspense himself would have enjoyed this one. It's a mystery that is dramatic, it's a thriller that is also funny, it's pretty much a multi genre classic. 9/10


                
My 9 rating is due primarily to Laughton's wonderful performance, but the whole film is immensely enjoyable and has been so completely reviewed here that I would only like to express some long-standing feelings/questions about it at this point: 1. The big problem the film has is a padded-out quality, and I have felt this every one of the 25 or more times I've seen it since 1957. If the flashback scenes showing Power and Dietrich first meeting in an early post-war and near-bombed-out Berlin are not gratuitous, they are close. They do not appear in the original Christie story or play, and would seem to have been added to the film in order to more or less 'equalize' the roles of Power and Dietrich with that of the real protagonist of the film, Laughton's Sir Wilfred. Without those flashbacks, both leads are almost subsidiary characters; even with them, Laughton remains the focal point of the entire film. One can almost see Wilder devising these added scenes as an inducement to get two major stars to accept roles in what he must have immediately recognized as a "Laughton film". The other flashbacks added, of Power and the murder victim, at least serve to make that otherwise unseen victim a bit more human to the viewer, and she is wonderfully, even lovably, played by Norma Varden (who also came close to a permanent end at the hands of Robert Walker in STRANGERS ON A TRAIN). But the flashbacks do impede both the continuity and the forward motion of the film.2. From my first viewing, I have remained unconvinced that that is Marlene Dietrich as another character whom we see meeting Laughton to sell him some much-needed evidence. And even if it is, it is certainly not Marlene's voice delivering the cockney lines the lady emits. Later on, towards the end of the film, when Dietrich goads Laughton with a repeat of her "Want to kiss me, Ducky?" line, she is very obviously being dubbed. Dietrich was a solid (if somewhat limited) actress, but this part of what is supposed to be her performance is quite simply beyond her abilities. If this is so, I wonder who the actress was who actually did it, and how much they had to pay her to keep her contribution to the film totally, and seemingly in perpetuity, anonymous? If this had been a Hitchcock film, this would surely have been addressed and solved by now, but we don't look as deeply into Wilder films, even when one like this is about as close as he ever came to doing a Hitchcock film.3. Due to the movie Code in place at the time, where one simply could not get away with murder, the original and excellent twist ending of the Agatha Christie story and play had to be changed for the film, but in this case Wilder came up with a double-twist (almost a triple-twist) ending that was more exciting and dramatically satisfying than the original's, while still fully meeting the Code's standards. A dozen years earlier, a similar situation involved the movie version of Christie's classic AND THEN THERE WERE NONE, and in that one, too, the movie people came up with an ending quite superior to the original. And if you know Christie's writing, she was the absolute mistress of twist endings, and to outdo her twice in this area speaks well for what the imposition of an often ill-advised Code could achieve when properly thought out.4. The Laughton role in the original play was played by the great Francis L. Sullivan, but he died before the film version was made. It would not have mattered, I suppose, because Sullivan's drawing power in films would not have been a tenth that of Laughton's, but it is fascinating to imagine what he might have done with it. (While on this subject, I might add that in the 60 years I have been reading Nero Wolfe novels, and seen or heard him impersonated by Edward Arnold, Walter Connolly, Sydney Greenstreet, William Conrad and Maury Chaykin, the only actor I have ever envisaged as Wolfe was Francis L. Sullivan - along with a young James Garner as the perfect Archie Goodwin - but that it now occurs to me that Charles Laughton might well have passed muster as the mercurial Mr. Wolfe. Too late now for all concerned!)
One of the most suspenseful movies I have ever seen, many people confuse the director for Alfred Hitchcock the master of suspense, in fact this brilliant marvel of a movie was directed by none other than Billy Wilder one of the most bewitching director and writer of early Hollywood. The movie is a beautifully scripted courtroom drama with comic, dramatic and suspenseful elements based on the play by Agatha Cristie. It brings you unprecedented acting by Charles Laughton and Marlene Dietrich. The role of the accused was played by Tyrone Power who delivers a very inspiring performance that manages to capture the sympathy of the audience. The simple set of the movie (The courtroom, The judge's house etc) indulges the audience to focus more on the actors and their astounding performances. The sole reason this movie left me in complete and utter awe is of course the twist ending, classic with Agatha Cristie plays, that I will not reveal for obvious reasons. I usually figure out movies with twists but I must say this came to me as a surprise, as I thought the movie was over. Summarizing, this Agatha Cristie courtroom drama gives us profound acting performances and delivers us a story with tremendously suspenseful cinematography and one of the best twist endings I've seen. Thus I give this beautifully wonderful movie a 9/10.


                
Hollywood legend Tyrone Power, in his final completed film role, plays Leonard Vole, accused of the murder of a lonely rich middle aged woman, Mrs. Emily Jane French (Norma Varden). They'd struck up a friendship, and he continued to see her in the hopes that she'd finance the inventions that he wanted to market. Now she's dead, and all evidence points to him being the killer. Taking his case is the irascible, witty barrister Sir Wilfrid Roberts (Charles Laughton, in a delicious, Oscar nominated performance), who's recovering from a heart attack.This viewer shouldn't relay too much about the plot, but, as adapted from Agatha Christies' play, it's riveting stuff. While it obviously derives from a stage work with so much focus on dialogue and performance, it's the crackling, often funny dialogue and superior acting that makes this so effective and seemingly quickly paced for a film running just under two hours. The script, written by Harry Kurnitz and the well regarded director Billy Wilder, obviously takes great delight in the twist laden scenario. "Witness for the Prosecution" is often throwing surprises at the audience, and while more savvy folk may be able to predict a fair deal, the ways in which characters and viewers alike are manipulated is nothing short of masterful.There's a great deal of humor to be found in the relationship between Sir Wilfrid and his nursemaid Miss Plimsoll (Elsa Lanchester, a.k.a. Mrs. Laughton). She's annoying in a lively, endearing way, and his reactions to her are simply priceless. Lanchester was also Oscar nominated for her scene stealing, comedic work.There are no slackers here, especially when you realize there are performances within performances being given here. Power is quite engaging, and Marlene Dietrich is highly striking as the German woman whom he took as a "wife". Wonderful support is provided by John Williams, Henry Daniell, Ian Wolfe, Torin Thatcher, Ms. Varden, Una O'Connor (that scenery devouring player from some of the Universal horror films of the 1930s, cast here as the housekeeper), Francis Compton, Philip Tonge, and Ruta Lee.The filmmaking is slick without calling attention to itself, with Wilder and company completely trusting the source material. The result is a smashing entertainment that deserves to be rediscovered.Nine out of 10.


                
Greetings from Lithuania."Witness for the Prosecution" (1957) is a definitely very entraining picture for those who love good court room dramas where everything is at stake and at the end they say "guilty / not guilty" and more is revealed at the very last end with double schemes and etc.There are some silly moments mostly involving Miss Plimsoll character. But the film is very entertaining, it features great performance by Charles Laughton and fun to watch performances by Marlene Dietrich ("Damn You!" - what an acting! :)) and Tyrone Power. Directing is very solid, script is involving and picture is wonderfully paced - at running time 1 h 53 min it never drags and is involving and entertaining from start till finish.Overall, "Witness for the Prosecution" is very entertaining mystery and court room drama. Acting is electrifying, although it features some silly and in my opinion unnecessary scenes with Miss Plimsoll they don't harm the overall experience which is very positive.


                
Witness for the Prosecution is one of the great courtroom dramas on par with Anatomy of a Murder, 12 Angry Men and To Kill a Mockingbird. It is also the finest adaptation of a Agatha Christie novel.In large part, credit has to go that brilliant writer-director Billy Wilder, who gave cinema so many other noir and comedy classics. This is a thriller with a good bit of comic relief in the verbal sparrings of real-life husband and wife Laughton and Lanchester as a Barrister with a heart condition and his erstwhile nurse respectively. Both give brilliant performances in their own right.The dialogue is brilliant, the plot twists are very intelligent, surprising yet believable. Marlene Dietrich also has a sizeable role with a minor love story thrown in. Tyrone Power, who I never liked is his usual wooden self.A highly recommended film classic for all ages. Do not miss this one!


                
This is a movie that makes me believe that cinema is timeless, because it is, in this case.
The plot is intriguing with a top notch ending and the actors and actresses makes believe we are really in a court room.


                
WITNESS FOR THE PROSECUTION is a great courtroom drama that contains elements of thriller, mystery and dark comedy. The film is based on the short story and theater piece of the same name by Agatha Christie. A poor innovator was arrested for the sensational murder of a middle-aged and wealthy widow. The old and respected lawyer, despite ill health, can not resist this seemingly hopeless case. The case is further complicated when the wife of the accused agrees to testify against her husband...This serious courtroom drama is "mottled" with tense and comical dialogues at the same time. This approach, in addition to the standard tension, is causing a good mood. Mr. Wilder has managed to create an atmosphere where emotions are literally burning. This claim is justified by an explosion at the end of the film.Charles Laughton as Sir Wilfrid Robarts the senior counsel is stubborn, witty and determined patient or lawyer. He is an extremely charismatic and dominant character. His appearance is very funny in this movie. Marlene Dietrich as Christine Vole/Helm, the accused's wife is a key character in the story. I thought that this is another example of a femme fatale, but I was wrong. Ms. Dietrich is something special and it is a privilege to enjoy her appearance and performance.Tyrone Power as Leonard Vole, the accused is somewhat inconclusive. Maybe it was a deliberate spoof by Mr. Wilder. However, his laid back approach and mixed emotions during the trial seem unconvincing. Elsa Lanchester as Miss Plimsoll, Sir Wilfrid's private nurse is the nicest protagonist. Mr. Laughton in the fight against his wife for a cigarette and a glass of brandy. I would describe their relationship as a kind of story in the story.John Williams as Mr. Brogan-Moore, Sir Wilfrid's junior counsel in the trial remained in the shadow of his mentor. Humorous interruptions are also lacking. Una O'Connor as Janet McKenzie, Mrs. French's housekeeper and a prosecution witness has through small role revived some of my memories. I just enjoy every time while watching the little "chatterbox".Changes in mood and tempo, black humor that is ubiquitous, interesting and tense "fire" in the courtroom and excellent characterization are the advantages of this film.Simple, classic.


                
I am not going to discuss the plot... look elsewhere here for information on that .. and on information about the production... but it a film that is graced by fabulous performances.Laughton blusters and puffs but his character has a mind like a razor. Dietrich is just extraordinary.. I defy you not to watch her every move. Elsa Lanchester is marvelous as the not quite so foolish nurse. Tyrone Power is all easy smoothness... he may be innocent but is he? (There is a lot of unfair criticism of Power's performance here... I think people miss the point and Power is actually precisely what he needs to be as Leonard Vole)The film is a masterpiece of direction, of writing and acting.Perhaps a little dated in style but breathtaking in its mix of drama, comedy and thriller.BUT for me above all else it is the acting not only of the principals but the whole cast (even the lovely Norma Varden as the victim is a delight) that brings me back to watch this film again and again.


                
The film is based on Agatha Christie's story with the enormous twist not on the last page but on the last line. Billy Wilder's direction is perfect and all actors get it right. Charles Laughton is absolutely superb; he has the best lines and scenes and he brings the wit, intelligence, and the heart to the film. Marlene Dietrich is perfect playing not one but three roles, convincingly transforming from one character to another, from the present to the past. This is not just a good mystery but a classic of the courtroom genre and a very enjoyable film even after you know the ending. "Witness for the Prosecutionis" is one of my favorite Agatha Christie's screen adaptations.9/10


                
I, myself, am not a fan of Agatha Christie's or of any of her followers; I rarely find the strength to keep up with all the clues and the various witnesses, lawyers, cross-examinations and objections which all lead up to the inevitable conclusion that, well, The Butler Did It. I can certainly understand the appeal in this kind of puzzle-movie; it just never appealed to me. To me the main problem with this kind of stories is that usually, more emphasis is put on the clues than on the characters <U+0096> and so, when the real murderer is finally revealed, I say: "well, how about that?" <U+0096> I simply don't care.But in every genre there are always some creations that transcend the genre. Witness for the Prosecution stands as a true masterpiece among the Whodunit murder mysteries, one that will be pure ecstasy to fans of the genre, but is also a fantastic creation on any level and in any standard. This one proves just my point, that a clever story with a lot of characters and a lot of clues and misguiding clues just isn't enough; Christie's play is masterful, of course, and the twist at the end is one of the great classic shockers of cinema, one that matches modern classics like The Usual Suspects and Memento, if not transcends them; but it took more than the story to make that ending work. The reason it all works so well is because the characters are so captivating. That is thanks to two elements <U+0096> first, Billy Wilder's (Some Like It Hot, Sunset Blvd., The Seven Year Itch) masterful direction, and an ensemble of fantastic actors, all of whom bring their characters to life; Charles Laughton is beyond brilliant as the aging, ailing, wily solicitor, and Tyrone Power is electrifying and fascinating as his client. Most of all the diva Marlene Dietrich grants a truly show-stopping performance, and steals the show from the rest of the cast <U+0096> proving just how great she really was.By far the greatest trial drama ever made, and one of the greatest murder mysteries, it took the combined talents of Christie, Wilder and the fantastic cast to create such amazing drama in the courtroom alone; Witness for the Prosecution is basically an ensemble piece that is no more than a theater production, but Wilder uses the full powers that he has at his disposal as a film director <U+0096> close-ups, music, cinematography, lighting <U+0096> to their full potential; and thus once again it is proved that he is one of the most underrated directors in history. This is a classic that deserves to be remembered with the very best films of all time.


                
Just watched this film for the third time and it still made for a very entertaining viewing. The story progresses smoothly, without any complications (despite the rather unnecessary flashback sequences), and there are enough plot twists to keep the audience interested. Even if you're not too keen on courtroom dramas, you should take a look at this one.Marlene Dietrich gives a surprisingly impressive performance as the seemingly deceitful wife of the defendant, played by Tyrone Power, who is effectively sympathetic in his role. However, the real gem of this film is Charles Laughton's marvellous portrayal as the grumpy old barrister, whose banter with his energetic nurse (Elsa Lanchester) adds a nice comic touch to the proceedings.


                
The superb adaptation of Agatha Christie's play is evident in this movie of 1957, which, by the way, it's still interesting to watch today, as it must was in the theater. The film was greatly helped by the direction of Billy Wilder who was able to achieve great performances all around from his cast.Of course, this film belongs to Charles Laughton's brilliant performance as the barrister, Sir Wilfred Robarts. Mr. Laughton's genius was evident in his body of work, but with this role, he excels. Charles Laughton was one of the best actors of his generation. This courtroom drama packs a lot of surprises. One of the most pleasant ones was Marlene Dietrich. She played the German wife of the man accused of killing the widow he seduced for ulterior motives. Ms. Dietrich who was one of the coolest actresses of her era, shows a range not seen before. Her character is seen at different times of her life and she is totally convincing to be that person.The weakest link in the film is Tyrone Power. This actor was getting over a heart attack and he shows that illness had not been kind to him. His interpretation of Leonard Vole is a puzzle, at best. He is supposed to be an Englishman, but his American accent was something the director, or the studio didn't care much since Tyrone Power was one of the greatest stars in the business. His portrayal of the accused man robs the film of authenticity. This role should have been played by a British actor.The incomparable Elsa Lanchester makes an appearance as Sir Wilfred's nurse, a role that was not in the original play. Ms. Lanchester was an wonderful actress who could steal films from leading stars. In this film she is fabulous as the meddlesome nurse who wants the best for her patient. Also good in the film, Una O'Connor as the maid, Janet McKenzie who can smell a rat when she sees one. Norma Varden as the widow, Emily French was delightful. The English cast is excellent.


                
Charles Laughton (surely one of the finest actors who has ever lived) put on an absolutely superb performance in this movie as the aging and well known defense attorney Wilfrid Robarts, who is hired to defend a man accused of murdering an elderly widow he had befriended in order to gain her estate. Laughton manages to combine comedy (he's at times very funny, particularly in his exchanges with his nurse, played by Elsa Lanchester) with great drama and he does it seamlessly; everything about this movie flows absolutely perfectly. His client is Leonard Vole (played by Tyrone Powers.) Powers also seemed to me to capture the essence of his character - sleazy looking enough to make you wonder if he's guilty, but also angst ridden enough to make you doubt that he's guilty. Of the main actors, I wasn't especially taken by Marlene Dietrich as Vole's wife Christine. I haven't seen a lot of Dietrich's work, but from what I have seen I have to confess that she's never really turned my crank; she's no different here. Something about her performance (here and in other bits of her work that I've seen) just comes across as artificial. I can't explain it any better than that. Having said that, one performance that to me was sub-par (and her performance here probably suffers mostly in comparison with Laughton and Powers) can't detract from an excellent courtroom drama that keeps you guessing right up to the very end. The last twenty minutes or so especially are full of so many twists and turns that your head is spinning by the time it's over. I also appreciated the look at the inside of a British courtroom and its procedures, since most of the courtroom dramas I've seen are American. (As an aside, it was interesting to see Ian Wolfe as Robarts' valet Carter. Wolfe had a very long career in movies and television, never from what I can remember as a star, but as a supporting actor or guest star in everything from great movies such as this to TV shows like "Star Trek" or "WKRP in Cincinnati." What was most interesting about him was that from the time this movie was made in 1957 to his later work in TV he doesn't seem to change. He's immediately recognizable.) As for this movie, it's a truly excellent piece of work. 9/10


                
