There never was ,is or will be anything greater than BR Chopra's Mahabharata on Indian TV ..... As Mahabharata is the king of epics,this TV series is the KING of TV SERIES. All credit goes to splendid production value,out-of-the-world dialogs (by Dr. Raza........may his soul rest in peace), superb acting,great action and a very 'real'casting. Every character has played his /her part so well that we can' imagine anyone else playing them now.... . Incidentally ,Mahabharata is the longest epic in the world 4 times longer than 'Odyssey'.It is supposed to have been written by Lord Ganesha and dictated by Ved Vyasa.Its historical proofs are scattered all over northern India.


                
This reminds you of how you should live and how the world is so different and corrupted from before. Back then they had so much respect for their elders and even when wars were fought the enemies were respected nowadays all of that has disappeared. This is my favourite TV series of all time and I'm Canadian born too but this just reminds me of how life should be especially karn. You'll never find a person like him in this world. For a series made 18 years ago, its an awesome series and if this did happen then i wish i was living back in that time not during the war but i mean in general with all the respect and honour. This is our history don't forget it.


                
The T.V. Series Mahabharat produced by B.R.Chopra is the most popular t.v. series ever showcased on Indian idiot boxes. The extent of influence the series commanded on Indian population can be gaged from the fact that during the time of its broadcast streets would get empty, and it would be impossible to find a single living soul at the busiest of the town centers. People who were fortunate to own a television would play hosts to all the less fortunate neighboring families. Even passers by would get a place in ones living room.The series though technically lousy, and made with cheapest special effects, ended up doing full justice to the sentiments with which Ved Vyasa compiled the greatest of the epics. Its 93 episodes take you through every possible sentiment, every possible emotion, every possible relation that a human mind can fathom. People not familiar with Hinduism might find this series a perfect introduction to Hindu way of thinking, and its deep rooted beliefs and the social structure of the Hindu society.Series does full justice to the complicated intertwined stories and their sub plots. The story of Mahabharat is narrated by Time ("Samay") which was kind of nice concept and helped in rushing through the less important details. Baring a few, most actors did full justice to the characters they were portraying. The portion of "Bhagwat Geeta" (the divine song) was also performed with great gusto and in its true spirit. If you want to feel the true essence of Mahabharat, then this is certainly the right thing for you. However the technical aspects might disappoint you. Highly recommended to everybody. By far the greatest story ever told, nothing in this world can ever come close to it.


                
This is was made in late 1980s and I watched it as I was young in India. But when I bought the all 16 DVDs. It was amazing...the special effects may look old but the acting is superb...the acting done by the leading cast is unbelievable..this epic is about the meaning of life and Bhagavad Geeta spoken by Lord Krishna looks so real and understandable. Highly recommend this version..I know there are many versions but this is the best and the original. I think everyone in life should either read this great epic or watch it...it's not about Hinduism its about your Dharma (Duty) as human being. And if you are interested in great story telling you won't be disappointed.


                
Simply WOW. No words exists in any language.I think i have seen more than 10 times .I bought the VCD collection and i saw all 64 CDs fully.Each and every dialog is amazing.Especially Karna,Beeshma,Vidura and all ...I am really ..really... no words really.Thanks to Chopra and his team.Please see this serial before you die ...Especially the conversation of Karna-Krishna and Karna - Kunthi and all, is truly great.I think god came to earth and taken this serial in the form of Chopra.Every body perfectly matched with their roles. Thats the special about it.Please Please Please watch this Mahabharath Serial (all 64 VCD) at least once in your life.


                
The great thing happen rare time in the world , and Mahabharata is one of those great things.All of the character had played very well, and It's a result of their respective work..I have already told that history can't be repeated, means even though same people Try to do work with their all ability they can't do same like they have did, so it's a time dependent story. I like the all characters but among them the most that I like is a Krishna, because of his speech, and elegant behavior.Thanx.


                
It is simply "the greatest TV series ever created"!!!!! Perfectly created!!!! First of all, adapting the legend of Mahabharatha is itself a monumental task since it is the greatest and the biggest epic ever written on earth. BR Chopra has done a magnificent job of adapting it onto the small screen. What clinches the score is the casting, dialogues, screenplay and direction.1. Casting - Everyone!!!!!!! No mistake in even a single character, be it even a small one. The best of all is Mukesh Khanna as Bhishma and Nitish Bharadwaj as Krishna. People used to literally call them as their characters even in their personal lives. 2. Dialogues - A single man, Dr.Rahi Masoom Raza. Despite being a Muslim from Ghazipur, UP, he was well-versed in Sanskrit. The dialogues were top-notch and incomparable to anything else. One of the main reasons for the popularity of the serial. 3. Screenplay and Direction - It is the magnum opus of BR Chopra. Each and every scene was perfectly created. Performances were terrific. Costumes, sets are truly reflective of Dwapara Yuga.I will not delve into the details of the plot since it will result in me over-running the prescribed limit of IMDb message space.Overall, this is a masterpiece of a TV serial and it will be a Herculean effort to remake. Several rumors float around like Muslim gullies used to be empty during 10-11 AM on Sundays, i.e., during the running time of the serial. Even shops used to be closed because shop-owners themselves used to watch it. I personally remember that every newspaper in South India used to print the dialogues in native languages beforehand for the convenience of the public to understand the Hindi language. I can confidently assert that there are not more than 5% of people who haven't watched this legend. And they are unluckiest of the Indian citizens!!!!!!


                
this is to all people associated in the movie business i request producers from bollywood along with the major Hollywood studios like sony,warner brothers,fox movies to recreate the epic "MAHABHARAT" for the big screen.You will do a great favour to mankind as there is none nor there will be another epic as "THE MAHABHARATA" which teaches values and ethics which were relevant not only in the past but are very much relevant in today's time.Hire the best of talents from across the globe with special effects teams from India and abroad and with the epic divided into 3 parts which can be modelled just as the matrix series or the lord of rings trilogy.Mark my words "A FILM MADE ON THIS EPIC WITH THE COMBINE TALENTS OF Hollywood AND Indian FILM INDUSTRY WOULD BE A GREAT SERVICE TO MANKIND AND WOULD GENERATE REVENUES THAT ARE UNIMAGINABLE!!!".


                
Mahabharat,the battle for Bharat,now the modernize India is the grandest and greatest epic serial i have seen in my whole life.The war that was fought for all the rightfully reasons.For some the greed,for some the revenge,for some the pride,for god just to show his divine power.This is the best we see from the Indian Television Cinema.B.R Chopra,what a proud man he would be after portraying us the grandest and biggest unforgettable epic ever to see.A startling insight of the life of God Shri Krishna,making of many legends like Bheem,Karana,Arjuna & Bhishma ,also one of the most ferocious and epic battles you will ever see.This battle was fought for various different reasons.A thousand reasons may be.All characters are just perfect.Bhima looks definitive Bhima,Karana looks remind us of how in that period Karan would have looked like.Casting of Krishna is perfect.It can't get better then this.You should just see Shikhandi and Duryodhan for the perfection matter.Fabulous.Casting hits the top in Mahabharata with Beautiful Draupadi taking most of the lime light.Fight scenes are gruesome.Lot of blood but truly in those ages war would have been fought like that only.Lot of divine and magical stuff.Some battle scenes are emphatic.Just try and remember the fight between Bhima and Jarasandh.Also,fight between Arjun & rest of the Hastinapur known as Virat Yudh.The fight scenes of Karna and Arjun are a sight to see.Bhishma too with Abhimanyu lives up to be the most emphatic battles you would see.And the breaking of the Chakarvyu by Abhimanyu was simply amazing.Death of Abhimanyu and the arrival of Ghatotkatch.I can remember every scene till the end.The 94 episodes get to you.But still every episode is unique in its own and portrays different attributes of India at that time.We are all fascinated by wars but this is grand,more than a war.Some scenes like Krishna taking the divine form and Bhishma vow are just astonishing.Krishna and Karna talks just seem endless.We cannot forget the Samay(meaning time) here who narrates this fascinating epic story to us.Nor can you forget the game of dice neither the Draupadi harassing scene.The soundtrack is surely divine.The voice of Mahendra Kapoor on the start of each episode just sets the mood to watch it even more.I am not sure if i will see a better Indian epic serial then this.This is Indian Cinema at its zenith.Even if God would see this serial he would surely bow and applaud the commendable work done by B.R Chopra.I can't stop applauding him anytime.The dialogs and all,they still echo in my ears.Starting from King Bharat to Krishna to Arjun to Bhishma to Shikhandi to Shakuni to Karana to Bheema to Duryodhan to Balram to Parshuram.I feel i have already touched the feet of God.That's only because of this.I can't stop watching this.Its just my moral now that does not allow.Geeta Saar still echo's in my ears.The beautiful visions of Shri Krishna truly comes in front of me every time.This is grand.This is magnanimous.This is class.If God could walk on earth ,surely it is due to this epic serial only.I cannot say more.I am lost for words.


                
Mahabharat directed by B R Chopra, is the Best TV Series Ever Produced on Indian Television.A serial like Mahabharat had neither been produced in the past & can never be produced in Future also.. It has got all the crux of the ancient epic Mahabharat & does full justice to the epic. Don't bother much about the special effects, if you really want to gain some knowledge & wisdom and really want to know the true meaning of Life,Culture,Values and DHARMA, listen carefully to the Dialogues ,they are the best, simple yet worthy, to the point & very interesting. And I assure you that you wont get bored for a single moment in the entire journey spanning 94 episodes of 45 minutes each. Mahabharat has more than enough content to keep you occupied & mesmerized by its contents,its story, its amazing screenplay & dialogs & spectacular performances by Most of the actors.. The actors which deserves special mention are those who played Shri Krishna, Bhishma, Arjuna, Duryodhna, Karna, Vidur & Dhritrashtra.After looking at them, you'll feel that real Krishna, Bhishma etc would have been looked like them only...All actors have made the characters alive. To sum up my review, I would say that that if you haven't seen Mahabharat yet ,then you really have missed a very important & worth watching TV series in your life. I have already seen it twice & seeing it again for the 3rd time & every time I see, I learn a new aspect of Life, Religion & Dharma.. My Vote 10/10.......... :-)


                
This production is the brainchild of Mr B.R Chopra,which provides a amazingly good insight into Ancient India,the way it talked,walked.....It is a must watch for any human,not just any Hindu or an Indian for that matter.....It inspires one to lead his life in such a way that he/she gets the most out of life and gets to know how life should be spent on this earth...It contains all the emotions that a human can feel..surpassing all the other literatures of the world.......it would suggest everyone to watch it from the beginning although one can watch it from the middle as it succeeds in striking a note even at a very short notice.....


                
Well, the plot is as complicated as life. The problems tackled can be compared to the most complex ones in today's world. Thats Mahabharat for you, worlds longest and greatest epics. And putting it in a format that will capture the hearts and brain the world over, simply demands the best of the class title. The gem of it is Geeta, and Chopra has sprinkled its wisdom throughout the script, not only when it was explicitly recited. Mahabharat as an epic deserves much more then currently its getting not only in Bharat (India) but the world over. And Mahabharat as made by Chopras is an ideal way to begin with. I'd easily and highly recommend this in its pure format to general human in general and budding ups in particular.Other's comments say it all!! get a copy of it and entertain, enlighten and educate yourself. the sheer volume may take a few months to complete if watched a few hours a week, but its simply worth spending that much time and effort!


                
No one can do a better job then this seriously. You can cast these roles in their prime if they looked like these people and spoke their lanugague. You can cast Robert DeNiro Al Pachino Christen Bale Edward Norton Tom Hanks Leonardo Dicaprio Ben Kingsley Have the greatest producer The Directors- Steven Spielberg, Hitchkock, and Scorescese and this TV show will be a complet waste of time and boring crap compared to this TV show. The Mahabharata in its entirety was just perfect from every angle. The acting is better than The Godfather. The directing better than Phsyco. The drama, emotion, and complexity better than Schindler's List. The enthuisasm better than Star Wars. Forget the visuals and this TV show crushes the others and makes them feel like a childish, and immature movie. To make the Mahabharata is the toughest of all Steven Spielberg would die trying to make it and if you say he would then you are wrong considering the fact that SPielberg probably has never written 1.8 million words in his life. I do not need to explain how good this is based on this.


                
What matters for epics of this sorts when made in serials, is how much justice done to the substance by the script, characters and most of all direction; screenplay is critical as you are expecting viewers to follow this for over ninety episodes, and there Mahabharat won't command anything less than a complete 10. Full marks to the casting and acting, every actor including the not so important ones, have done absolute justice to the character, nowhere you see an actor taking over character; which is rampant in remakes reason enough they fizzle out in first five episodes.Mind you, this is a long story going over 90 full episodes, but not even a single episode is tacky or boring. Mahabharat is a very complicated plot to narrate because of the number of important characters involved in the epic and so many other stories running in parallel, but all this was directed and presented so tactfully and stylishly that it never lose the pace. Every subplot was placed and shown where it became important, rather than going by tricky flashbacks or a chronological screenplay. We can argue endlessly about this being technically not up to the mark but that's not important as this is the beauty of substance if used properly it can definitely make an everlasting impression just like this one. I have watched the complete series twice but even now whenever I watch any episode again, it is as good as ever.


                
Hi,I don't have words to describe this series. This series is very good directed and acted. I recommend everybody to watch this once in their life. After watch this, everyone will realize the meaning of life and what is the purpose of life. This could be the most viewed series ever made. The dialogs are great and supported by incredibly talented actors. It's rating shows,how favorite it is. It was first seen on Doorderson, and people still thanking to doorderson for this greatest epic.Thank you. excellent.excellent.great.great.great.very.very.very.very good.10+/10 excellent.


                
I was too young at that time. Around 6-7 years. Live in a joint family of 7-8 people and shared a single TV at home.I still remember 9 am on Sunday morning, it was a time when India became lifeless and explored its very own roots.Mahabharata has always been the largest epic in the world. Converting the same into TV serial would have been some task and congratulations to Chopra's for doing such a wonderful job.The other day I saw all three parts (extended editions) of Lord of the Rings Trilogy and thought how complicated it was. But when I actually started to compare it with Mahabharata I realized how simple LOTR was, how many complex characters, scenarios, emotions were portrayed in Mahabharata.In fact the actors who portrayed those parts did such a wonderful job, and were so much convincing in their roles, that they were etched in public memory, that barring one or two, none of them have been successful in other ventures on Screen.I must have watched it numerous times and end up enjoying the same every single time.There are no words enough to describe the epic, but as someone else said earlier, make sure you watch it before you die, it will change your life.


                
This is the best Series Indian television ever made.. Watching GOT,and find so much similarity..


                
A true event took place 3500 years back was sculptured and written by famous writer and poet Ved Vyasa. B. R. Chopra has directed in a best way. Must watch making of Mahabharata in youtube and one would admire the efforts put in making it. It is a wonder that how the Muslim Guy play Arjuna's role and the script is written by Muslim writer. Everytime you watch it it will delayed the hard work of each artist and Director producer. This teaches us the path of Shreemad Bhagwat Geeta along with the inculcations of our old society. This should be the number one series ever made in TV history. Shree Krishna teaches us the motive of our life i.e. Karma and Dharma. Must watch


                
B.R Chopra's Mahabharat is the most popular epic in India. This is easily the most watched TV series ever in India. This version is perfect in almost every aspect. The screenplay , the star cast everything was just too perfect. There are other versions of this epic available none could hold water against this version. Its not an easy task to make such a big series. The animations are at par with that time's technology especially in India. This is the series you must watch at least once in your life you are an Indian.


                
I remember watching it as a kid.We would wait every week for it. Everything was put on hold for it.It's very old school and effects aren't good but it's brilliant nonetheless.Totally recommend watching it. A fabulous series based on an extraordinary epic.


                
This is the best adaptation of an epic ever. Nothing has ever been as emotionally provoking as this series. It is one of those rare works that makes you understand that there is something beyond perfection. Every episode of this series is full of lessons for us. Every episode has been carefully crafted from a philosophical, aesthetic and emotional point of view. The performances never felt like performances, but like actual lives unfolding in front of us. Mukesh Khanna as Bheeshma, Sure draft Pal as Drona, Girija Shanker as Dritharashtra,Nitesh Bhardwaj as Krishna, Gajendra Chauhan as Yudhisthir, Firoz Khan as Arjun, Rupa Ganguly as Draupadi these names are legendary. Nobody can ever take their place. It is apparent that these actors have breathed their characters for the show. I watched this series on YouTube,and I remember watching 4 or 5 episodes back to back unable to wait for another to watch another episode. I had no words to admire the visual scenery, the outstanding camera effects, the poetic moral lessons, the heart wrenching Bhajans (Sabso unchi prem sagar, Kripa Krishna ki, samay Bada Balwan, yeh dharmayudh hai), the powerful narrative and meaningfuly edited episodes. I think every aspiring filmmaker should understand the process of getting the very best of the industry together and getting the best out of them. Despite these uncountable positives, what stands out for me the most is the viewpoint that the series has taken. The victory of good over evil, the need for peace, the end of unfairness...all of these are the need of the hour. Ravi Chopra was bold indeed, not fearing to present the right as the right and the wrong as the wrong. He did not make a series to please character fans. He told the story as it was, without the use of gimmicks. Pure authenticity was his key. And that is what makes this series a masterpiece. If there's one thing you must do in life, it is to watch this series. True, you could read the epic instead. But then you will never know what you have missed.
Mahabharat is the finest story in the history of Hinduism and India (then known as Bharat), and one of the finest in the world. It teaches us so many things - family, friendship, love, patience, truth and truth amongst a few. Regardless of your religion or culture, it is something every individual should have the chance to experience. A key factor to the success of Mahabharat is the characters that have been chosen. You really struggle to find someone who doesn't suit their role. The obvious stand outs are Nitish Bhardwaj as Krishna, Mukesh Khanna as Bheesma, Feroz Khan as Arjun, Virendra Razdan as Vidhur and Pankaj Dheer as Karna but every single character plays their role so well. They are all power houses in their own rights! I feel bad to leave out the likes of Gajendra Chauhan as Yudishtir, Roopa Ganguly as Drapaudi, Puneet Issar as Duryodhan and Gufi Paintal as Shakuni, but the characters mentioned were just above everyone else in terms of their performances. My favourite scenes (in chronological order): - Vasudev walking across river Ganga with baby Krishna - Pandavas and Kauravas exhibition - Draupadi Swamvyaar - Gambling game - Arjun's meet with Lord Shiva - Krishna going to hastinapur as peace messanger - Krishna virat roop - Kurushektra entrance song - Arjun and Yudishtir returning Bheesma's blessings - Bheeshma's falling - Arjun and Karna fight scenes - Karna's death The attention to detail is brilliant too. Little things like Krishna, Drona and Draupaudi were known to have darker skin tones - this was shown. Unfortunately there is a lot of major stories that were missing, but it's understandable that not everything can be shown. For instance, Arjun's marriage to Ullupi and Chitrangda were not shown (although were shown in Mahabharat Katha) and Karna's marriage (also shown in Mahabharat Katha). I know there has been many remakes of this epic - Sanjay Khan's version, Ramakant Sagar's version and the more recent Star plus one but my god they're all miles away! Visually this Mahabharat isn't fantastic - in the late 80s they wouldn've have had such visual skills available to them but they've still managed to achieve a lot. The focus on the story, character choice and the acting is more important, and that is something this Mahabharat will always have over the other versions. I've watched Mahabharat endless amount of times so I pretty much know the story off by heart now. It's amazing and something I will always watch, and hope my kids will enjoy too. I would love to meet the actors to listen to their stories and what happened behind the scenes.
This is my second review after 2009 and even after almost 25-30 years this classic interpretation is absolutely spot on and does absolute justice to almost every character.Really this is something we absolutely miss and God Bless Late Shri BR Chopra,Late Shri Ravi Chopra and all those people associated with this timeless classic.I really believe the Indian Film Industry should make efforts to bring this on big screen.Now is the time for a joint collaboration with Major Hollywood Studios to develop this epic.Till then this will remain be the only source and interpretation of an epic every Indian should and will be proud.....


                
It is a must watch TV Series with a lot things to learn. Each Episode is very interesting and brings a new twist ,which makes it more interesting.I enjoyed watching this series about epic war in old Indian times.The story itself"MAHABHARATA" deals with DHARMAS and KARMAS of a human. NOT A TAKE A OATH WITHOUT GIVING IT DEEP THOUGHT. HOW A warrior dies to complete his oath. HOW a man kills his family to complete DHARMA. GEETA a complete bible of dharma by LORD KRISHNA. EKLAVAYA who learned "dhanurvidhya" just because of his passion to it and gifted his thumb to guru as "gurudakshina". every moment learns a new moral. .if you have the time to watch it consistently, and give it your attention. This is a very demanding piece of work-- there are many characters, and many plots going on simultaneously. Stop watching for a few days and you might just forget what was going on. Nevertheless, this is an amazing piece of work, incredibly moving, and affecting like very few works before it. I can't overstate how incredibly emotional the experience of watching it from beginning to end was; the ending, in particular, is a extremely powerful.
Hats off to Dr. Raahi Masoom Raza, the great soul responsible for the sheer intellect and creativity imbibed into the show. All the credits in the world would not suffice, to describe the genius of the show and man.
Unparalleled direction by Dr. B. R. Chopra.
Rest in peace, both the great souls.


                
