I seldomly rate movies with just the one star. However there's no other way to grade this film. The plot is plain and boring, the acting is quite stale, the script is slow, it's long, uninteresting and has most definitely not stood the test of time. I love films from the 20's, 30's, 40's and 50's but this has got to be one of the most hyped films in the history of motion pictures. Naturally it does not deserve a place in the IMDb top 250, but since that list in itself as quite heavy on the Hollywood side, that doesn't surprise me in the least bit. What does surprise me is the amount of people giving the film such a high grade, the whole thing has "the emperors new clothes" feel to it.


                
I watched this film after years of seeing it placed on best lists and list of classic movies, well let me tell you this movie was very dull and had dull actors from start to finish, the basic premise of this film, a bunch of morons walking around a theatre trying on coats and stuff. This film is painfully outdated, it's better sitting there watching paint dry. You will probably will get more enjoyment. There are so many characters who all look very similar so it can be difficult to figure out who's who or why we are even supposed to care about the main character or the outcome of the film. Watch this film if you want to fall asleep.


                
It doesn't seem fair that when a movie is a classic, people are put down when they don't like it.  There are exceptions to the rule like "Citizen Kane" or "Star Wars" or "Breathless", among many others.  There are some films that are important, maybe not amazingly good, but still important for what they did for the industry or in the advancement of film.  But when a film is a classic because it is apparently just good, one should be able to dislike it.  "All About Eve"  is just plain boring.  It was on AFI's 100 Greatest Films and won multiple Academy Awards, including best picture, but it is one of the hardest movies to sit through.  It is supposed to be a satire on the theater world and ultimately acting in general, but it isn't funny.  It is slowly paced, which isn't necessarily bad, because "A Man Escaped" is very slowly paced, but it works for the tone.  But in a comedy-drama, the pace should be an in-between.  Comedies are usually fast paced and dramas are usually slower, but "All About Eve" can't really find it's zone.  Which again can be brilliant, as in "Pulp Fiction". Two entirely different films, yes, but similar in that they don't have a distinct genre.  Regardless, "Eve" will be forever etched in film history as a wonderful movie and it doesn't matter what anybody really thinks now.  But it still seems unfair that there are some movies that people HAVE to like, just because they are staples, and if they don't, there is something wrong with them.


                
Taking a second look at a picture I found to be a dreadful bore in 1950 when I was 12 years old is even more boring after 56 years of life experience. Why waste over 2 hours on a movie about a bunch of stuffed shirt snobs and their irritating pretenses? There are better things to do with your time, such as watching virtually any other movie made by Darryl F. Zanuck during the great golden age of 20th Century-Fox.Anne Baxter is the main character, and she was a joy to watch in dozens of superior Fox movies such as "Swamp Water" or "Yellow Sky" -- to name just two. These were entertaining pictures which could be watched over and over, still enjoyed. In Eve she plays an overambitious cutthroat aspiring actress, who is oh so dull to watch.The entire boring mess is about Broadway, its stars and creative talent. Taking a cue from Walt Disney's Thumper, who said, "If you can't say something nice, don't say nuthin' at all." Here it goes: There's not one homosexual in All About Eve. If you see a Broadway play in 2006, just try finding a play or musical WITHOUT a homosexual theme. Of 20 current ones, not so many as 5 are non-homosexual. And this year's Tony went to a play that advocates homosexual teachers preying on their minor students. Oh, they don't tell you about that until after you buy the ticket.Off subject, sorry. "All About Eve" was hands-down the worst picture to win an Oscar during the 1950's when some really great films were made. Avoid this dud at all costs.


                
I am so tired of hearing about how good this film is. It was not good when it came out. Bette looks every mile of her age in this one. My goodness the only thing good about this silly movie is her Safety Belt line. The rest of the film is crap. The story is silly. The award that Eve wins is just too much right from the start. And the car scene, give me a break. Turning on the heater of a 1950 car without it running after it ran out of gas. As well, turning on the heater and leaving the head lights on. When the guy came back with the gas, the blasted car would have had a dead battery.Couldn't Bette found a better pair of gloves for in the car. Her hands in those gloves look like a cartoon. And of course Her things hang way to low.Her things seem to sit on her waist. I have always found that odd about her. I went to this film when it first came out, and it was a bore then too. George is a bore in this. But then he was always that. Fasten your seat belts you are in for a bore of a film waiting for the greatness, it never comes.


                
