I'm afraid I'm not going to join the gush parade for this movie.The performances are good, Eve and Margo are well-done characters, and the ending is like something out of the Twilight Zone, but the movie also has a number of shortcomings.It's very talky -- nothing but talk, hardly a moment of silence. The dialogue seems more stagey than natural. The characters don't converse so much as declaim or emote. The dialogue doesn't seem witty as some have claimed, just bitter and cynical (for the most part).The visuals aren't very visual. The shots are mostly ordinary shots of whoever's talking at the moment. There's little character movement. This could easily have been a radio play.The relationship between Margo and boyfriend seems contrived. There's no apparent reason why they should be so attached to each other. It doesn't come across. In fact, they seem quite unattached to each other initially, but the movie changes its mind abruptly in midcourse.I'll confess a bias against actors acting about acting. It's the kind of self-referential, self-reverential stuff that bugs me, like news reporters reporting on each other instead of the news, or playwrights writing plays about plays. It smacks of taking oneself far too seriously. (Okay, it's a pet peeve, but there you go.)But despite these shortcomings, it's still worth watching to the end.


                
I had never watched this "Best Picture of 1950" until a couple of years ago because it just looked like one of those 1950s melodramas (translation: soap operas) that I can't stand, and it starred an older Bette Davis, who was only appealing to me in her youth in the 1930s. However, after hearing and reading so many rave reviews of this, especially on the IMDb Classic Board, and the fact it was out on DVD, I decided to check it out.I was glad I did. I liked it, thought it was entertaining and worth the 138-minute investment. I still didn't find it as good as advertised - at least for my tastes - but it was still a pretty involving story with good acting. How it could have been up for so many Academy Awards - 14, I believe - is beyond me, however.Neverthess, it's main attribute, as advertised, is the dialog which sparkles with "intelligence," as the Liberal film critic-elitists like to refer to it. It's a "smart" comedy, they say from their ivory towers. Make no mistake: the dialog is good, but I've heard just as good from some film noirs and other movies. Movies put more of a premium on that sort of stuff back in the days before computerized special-effects and limited attention spans took over.The best dialog came from George Sanders, playing a sharp-tongued theater critic. Davis was next, which is no surprise. Her career, thanks to her own real- life efforts to get good roles, was doted with characters that had good dialog. This role kept her Hollywood career going as it had been fading as she approached 40 years of age. She was beginning to look older than her years and many times that spelled "death" to an actress, but she was not the average actress.The only character in the film I couldn't stand was "Eve," by Anne Baxter, not for her role but for the way she delivered her lines. Baxter didn't do this at first, but as the film went on she kept finishing sentence after sentence with a whisper. It was extremely annoying and affected. People don't talk like that!Overall, for a film dominated by dialog for almost two hours and 20 minutes, it did a great job of holding one's interest. I only found one part that really lagged. It's a good movie - a well-crafted story - but putting in almost-mythical status as one of the greatest of all times, as some have, is a bit exaggerated.


                
I am now on about my fourth attempt to watch All About Eve. I find it a very hard slog. Each time I manage about 20 minutes, and then I have to find something else to do. The acting is mechanical and stagey. There is no reacting here, only people waiting to give their next witty riposte. An occasional witty remark is fine. It gets tiring when everyone is witty. This has nothing to do with the period. The wisecracking in 1940's His Girl Friday or 1941's Ball of Fire, for example, is much more natural and believable. There is no doubt that a lot of the script is great, and the premise is groundbreaking for its time. But a lot of the lines are clunkers or non sequiturs, and these are delivered with the same smugness as the good ones, which adds to the impression that the characters are not thinking about what they're saying, but just reading the text and the stage directions. Celeste Holm gives the closest to what I would say is a believable performance.Bette Davis is the biggest disappointment. Whether she's playing happy, sad, or angry, it's always reined in, without any real emotions getting through. My 7 is for the script alone. If I had to score the acting and direction separately they would be less.


                
This is one of those movies most old film fans have already seen. I finally watched it last night even though I knew it wasn't quite my style. I wanted to know what all the fuss was about.The first thing that I noticed was that many of the cast were later on episodes of the TV series "Perry Mason", which was a surprise. I didn't expect to see TV people in such a well known film. Even Bette Davis was on "Perry Mason" once, so perhaps they all had the same talent/casting agent, or the network was owned by their studio.Secondly, Anne Baxter, who I knew from "Columbo", seemed... well... fake though most of the movie. Near the end I understood WHY... she was acting as a woman acting! When she finally shows us her real self, her real intentions, you are surprised as you begin to hate her.George Sanders I watch in anything just so I can hear that voice of his. Celeste Holm did a good job, as did Thelma Ritter. As for Bette Davis, her style of acting isn't my cup of tea (way too much dialog) but she did a really good job of being the aging actress, obsessed with the idea her boyfriend will tire of her as she grows even older.So, in short, not my usual type of film, but I see why it is a classic.


                
It deals with the novice exceeding the star in the theatre. Yet "Eve" isn't just a reflection of any particular genre of show business. We don't see it happening, but the wisdom of people like Eve keeps sneaking up on us all the time...and bringing us down when we least expect it. Therefore, "All About Eve" still couldn't be extended to be just the entertainment industry, although the movies and "Sunset Boulevard" seem to take it all in their stride. It remains a wonder how a film made half a century ago still can retain a lot of its thought content value. THIS is a movie about the throes of human nature...and all in disguise of film epitome glamour, other lives and Bette Davis. At the time of release, it was viewed as provocative. In other words, Hollywood, still in the Hayes Code era but heading dangerously close towards the end of the Golden era, basically didn't like the truth. "Eve" is not made in the obscene sense of being provocative, but it is perhaps more for Joseph L. Manckiewicz's crisp writing and direction. "A Letter to Three Wives" is my personal favourite of his films, but it was that film which paved the way for his glory days at the FOX studios. It is not my favourite Bette Davis movie, but deserving credit, she brings home her strongest performance here by stealing the show. Anne Baxter, George Sanders and Celeste Holm, some of the strongest FOX studio supporting actors, all turn in respectable performances. Finally, Marilyn Monroe features in a small role, but noticable role, pre-exploitation period.
Despite this, the film dipped a fair way short of my expectations. It has been more than a year since I viewed this film, and since it was during the period of early classics days, I could provide a better judgement of the film. This could be an indication that "Eve" is a film that I should have another viewing of. Perhaps bitchy soap opera type films don't always entice me...or perhaps "Eve" still pales to a more compelling "Sunset Boulevard" which remains more worthy of taking out Oscar's top golden statuette for 1950. Rating: 7/10


                
Good dialog, very good acting (particularly by Davis and Sanders), but a premise that isn't all that realistic; Baxter runs off from some small town with stolen money, then plans to get close with Davis by seeing all her performances in a play! Once that is achieved, the extension of the plan is to study and brown-nose Davis and play a goody-two-shoes innocent until her big break arrives as an actress. And the far-fetched thing is that it all works! We aren't even sure that Baxter has any real experience in acting. It would be one thing if she made it overnight in a movie, but in theater?? Sure, she knows the lines by heart, having seen the play a zillion times, but to be so good the first time in a major role?! Quite far-fetched, especially for a drama.As one can plainly see, the plot is very much Hollywoodized in the moronic old-school sense, but the theater setting is a good idea as it presents a variety of characters and twists. Some twists aren't very credible; 1) Baxter's blackmail plan doesn't hold much weight, but it seems to be enough for Holm; 2) Sanders's blackmail of Baxter has much more weight admittedly, but since she is planning to make it in Hollywood wouldn't her native town folk recognize her and thereby force all the filth in her past to swim up to the surface? But okay, the latter blackmail, all in all, has plenty of credence.Though interesting throughout in spite of its length, the movie is universally overrated. So much so, in fact, that one famous salivating male film-critic even praises Monroe's acting! To actually mention HER performance, what with all those other good actors and the much more relevant characterizations, is to truly get carried away with the male hormones. ("Yes, yes...! Even the extras are great! The way that man walks down the street in scene no.235 in the lower-left corner of the screen... Amazing!") Monroe's appearances are few and brief, and her affected acting is totally out-of-place. She is a feather-weight among heavy-weights. I have to add even that as far as looks are concerned Monroe is totally overshadowed by Baxter's beauty. Even Davis's charisma overshadows Monroe's looks. Monroe is no beauty here, probably due to the fact(?) that this movie was shot before she had all that facial surgery. If you'd like to read my "biography" of Marilyn Monroe, contact me by e-mail.
As much as I do like a lot of things about this movie and I like the movie itself overall, I don't quite understand its exalted status among classics. Perhaps its mostly Davis herself, such a commanding screen actress who so rarely received a role worthy of her talents. In this one they came really close, but she was let down to some extent by Mankiewicz's direction and by her co-stars.Joseph Mankiewicz wrote the thing as well as directed it, and he's a bit too much in love with the stuff on the page to let the film really breathe. Baxter in particular is undermined by a rather literal interpretation of the script that robs her character of ambiguity, ultimately. As far as Gary Merrill, I haven't ever really seen the appeal of the guy as a leading man but this is a pretty good character for him. He feels like an afterthought, and George Sanders really steals a lot of the movie. Of course it's ultimately Davis' film, but Sanders is there soaking up every leftover scene, which is a more suitable exposition of what the story is actually about than anything going on between Baxter and Davis on screen.The film does an excellent job of evoking the majesty of Broadway stars in their glory years, and it was brave for Davis to take on a role with the explicit element of her aging out of younger roles -- many male stars were said to have turned down the similar role in "A Star Is Born" in various productions over the years. Obviously for her fans, this film is a must. It also offers some impressive moments of grandeur from Sanders. Baxter however doesn't have the presence to imply that she could be a replacement for Davis, and she doesn't effectively transition the character into the latter phases of the film. Celeste Holm's character is interesting as well, and she gives a self-effacing performance worthy of her own stature.There's a lot to like in the movie, but to me it could have been even better if the characters hadn't become so explicit and delineated by the end of the film. Addison DeWitt in particular seems to stop resembling even a human being by the end. He and Eve Harrington become self-consciously fascinating characters to the point where the humanity in the character drops away, and only Sanders' extreme ability keeps the whole artifice from becoming too obvious. Margo Channing is not only more sympathetic but also more believable; a rare combination in film indeed.
I recently watched this movie again and there are some things that bother me about it.  Without giving away the ending it's hard to make my point, but I'll try.  Eve and Margo reveal their true selves slowly to viewers and to the other characters, but they become less believable to me as the movie draws to its end.  I don't blame the actors: they are consistently excellent.  The writing is good and enjoyable to follow.  It's the character development that is weak.  Eve, Margo, and the others are sharply defined at the beginning of the film even though as viewers we have to wait for motivations to become apparent.  Unfortunately, the basic dynamics of the characters don't remain true through the film.So even though I admire the acting, this film is not one that I will want to return to again and again.


                
No doubt about this being a great movie that gets better with age. Conniving, gossip spreading, backstabbing and blackmailing are just a few of the things it takes to make good on the stage. That is at least what young aspiring actress Eve Harrington(Anne Baxter)stoops to, to get her taste of fame.Miss Harrington is taken under the wing of the stage's grand dame Margo Channing(Bette Davis)and becomes her understudy. She convinces a critic (George Sanders)that her undeveloped talents are still better than that of the aging Channing; and she deserves to take the lead in an upcoming play being developed with Channing in mind for the lead role.Incredible script from director/writer Joseph Mankiewicz. This may be Miss Davis' best role. Baxter is charming and devilish. Sanders is stuffy and always on his 'high horse'. Something he has always done well. Celeste Holmes and Gary Merrill get caught up in the scheming and dirty dealings, but on the other hand just want to keep the peace. Marilyn Monroe saunters in and almost steals the show with her small but memorable role. Also in the cast is Hugh Marlowe and the veteran actress Thelma Ritter.This film ages like a fine wine and brings you the equivalent pleasure. Bravo and on with the show, again!


                
All About Eve is all about Bette Davis and Anne Baxter. One an outspoken and uninhibited diva with a kind heart. She's always honest, even if it might hurt feelings, not in the least of herself. The other an innocent and naive wallflower that can turn into a skilled devious witch in the blink of an eye. The male leads are somewhat interchangeable, alike in looks and behaviour. Exception is DeWitt, who is slick, distinguished and amoral and therefore a rather interesting character. The scenes in which he confronts Eve are among the highlights. Marilyn Monroe has a small part, and, though we all know of her, eh, average acting abilities, she has a radiance about her that has future stardom written all over it. Oddly enough, for a movie about the theatre, we hardly see any scene in which theatre performances are shown. These scenes might have been left at the cutting table, but more likely it has just been a matter of indolence or incompetence. For a story about two top theatre actresses it must be quite a challenge to deliver these stage abilities on the silver screen, but quite essential too. It's nevertheless an enjoyable movie, where the interesting plot and acting power of the two lead actresses will keep you in your seat.


                
All About Eve is one of those films that you can tell got a special treatment from the Academy and possibly a little push because of it's subject matter. It's a film about the business. We just saw Birdman this past year win Best Picture and Eve was no different. Not to say it doesn't deserve it, but I think the Academy has a soft spot for those type of films. With that being said, All About Eve is a really good film. In fact, as far as I can remember this was the first major female driven film that won a ton of Oscars, though I don't think any of the actresses won their respected categories.I really loved the way the story was told. You see where it ends up, with Margo being disgusted of Eve for some reason, and Karen being somewhere in between. How did the relationship become so sour? And how does Eve, an unknown actresses, get honored? Well it's all so wonderfully told in the next few hours. I have to give major props to all the actresses. Whether it was Bette Davis' Margo, the heart and soul of the film and gives the performance of a lifetime. Or Anne Baxter, the sweet but manipulating Eve Harrington. Or even Marilyn Monroe who has a small role but is great as Miss Casswell. You can already start to see her charm on screen. The Margo-Eve apprentice storyline didn't become apparent to me till the it did for the actual characters. But it all made sense once it did, and you probably see this type of thing happen in real life more than you may think. George Sanders, who plays Addison was the major standout for the guys, but also because of that Shere Khan voice.This sort of story is timeless. The beloved actress is overtaken by someone much younger and more fit to the part, while behind the scenes issues ensue. It's funny because the story is about a play, but the story could really bode well for a play. It's also a very satisfying story. Especially when Barbara Bates' Phoebe rolls around towards the end. It's an all time classic film that stands the test of time and gave us some terrific female performances.+All performances +Unique narration style +Timeless story +Young Marilyn 7.8/10


                
<U+0091>All About Eve' is enjoyable for it's great script and terrific performances. The story is compelling and the characters interesting and there isn't a weak performance anywhere. That said, it is too long and could easily have lost another twenty minutes and this could have been done by speeding things up and dispensing with the monologues which are mainly voice overs of scenes with static players. Davis is great as Margo Channing and Anne Baxter is a sly as a snake in her scenes. The wonderful Thelma Ritter has some great lines but disappears halfway through the movie without explanation. If you love the theatre you will love this movie but it's certainly not for everyone because it's very talky.


                
Overall I think this movie was good. I think the plot kind of dragged on. Ten minutes felt like one hour and on top of it all, the film was very long<U+0085>about two hours and twenty minutes long. This was a very bright film; black and white.One editing glitch I did notice was when the two ladies were sitting in the car waiting for the man to get help after the car after it stopped working. In one shot Margo is sitting up playing with the radio, then the next shot is of Karen, then it goes back to Margo. This time the camera angle was completely different than the original one. This was a very obvious mistake. I love the end of the film when Eve gets called out on all her wrong doings. It completes the film. I love how Margo grows up, gets married, and realizes that she doesn't need the younger kid, which she and Eve were fighting over, parts anymore.
This was my first time seeing this movie, but I heard when it first came out in 1950 it was a commercial success. Along with box office success, the movie had a record 14 Academy Awards nominations. Director and writer Joseph L. Mankiewicz really did a great job, and I enjoyed this piece of work.The scheming and back stabbing done by Eve Harrington to move up the change to success is very common even in today's practice. Women and men who want to rise to the top of their professions and anyone who reaches the top work force by whatever it takes.The real strength of the film lies in the script, it was so well written. Bette Davis and George Sanders are superb in their acting performance.
The film is a rarity in that it was praised at its release, and has never critically waned. That, however is not the rarity I refer to; the rarity is that the film is deserving of the praise. It won many awards at many festivals, and was nominated for fourteen Oscars- a record tied only by the abysmal Titanic, in 1997- a film that represents an almost polar extreme from this film, in that it was all glitz and special effects, and had a terrible screenplay- one that dates Titanic, made almost a half century later, far more than All About Eve. This film garnered six Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Best Director (for Mankiewicz), Best Screenplay (for Mankiewicz) and Best Supporting Actor (for Sanders). Yet, despite all that, and my admiration for Mankiewicz's great writing, All About Eve is not a flat-out great film. It's close, a near-great, but the fact is that, for all of its stellar writing, it simply is not a deep film. In a sense, it recapitulates the shallow values all its lead characters embrace, in varying degrees. That, along with its rather pedestrian cinematography by Milton Krasner, as well as bad rear projection, in a scene of Eve and Addison walking in New Haven (even if its minimal soundtrack, by Alfred Newman, is commendable), are just enough to keep the film out of the pantheon of all time greats. Despite that, All About Eve is a great way to spend a few hours, and a shining example of classic Hollywood at its best (nearly).
The ambitious Eve Harrington (Anne Baxter) gets close to the great and temperamental stage artist Margo Channing (Bette Davis) and her friends Karen Richards (Celeste Holm) and her husband, the play-writer Lloyd Richards (Hugh Marlowe); her boyfriend and director Bill Sampson (Gary Marrow); and the producer Max Fabian (Gregory Ratoff). Everybody, except the cynical critic Addison DeWitt (George Sanders), believe that Eve is only a naive, humble and simple obsessed fan of Margo and they try to help her. However, Eve is indeed a cynical and manipulative snake that uses the lives of Margo and her friends to reach her objectives in the theater business."All About Eve" is a magnificent timeless tale of ambition, manipulation and betrayal, and certainly one of the best classics ever. Everything perfectly works in this movie: the direction is very precise and tight; dialogs are very acid and intelligent; Bette Davis, Anne Baxter, George Sanders and Celeste Holm have awesome performances in very powerful characters; the dramatic story is amazingly good, showing what an evil person can plot to reach fame and success. I believe this movie will always be among my ten favorite movies ever. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "A Malvada" ("The Wicked")


                
All about Eve would have been stellar on 'Suspense Radio', not to forget, presented by 'Roma Wines'. It has the supremely raspy and volatile voice of Bette Davis and a very cynical and intriguing plot, quite unusual for a film of the 50s. There are plenty, and I really mean it, one liners which can be remembered after the film, most of them spoken by Davis, Thelma Ritter and George Sanders. This would've been the one of the most successful radio play in USA. But AAE is a feature film, having everyone perform, from Bette Davis to well, everyone. And how did I like it? Well, let's say, I enjoyed it despite its unsympathetic characters and plot and its wholly disturbingly cynical ending. It's a different thing to watch in on screen than to hear it on the radio, I guess.All about Eve is probably the perfect title for the film, and the main poster itself is very smartly made, with Ms. Davis in the foreground and Anne Baxter behind. There will be confusion as to who the main character is here – I understand why both Anne and Bette were up for Best Actress. As Addison DeWitt (George Sanders) put it '<U+0085>More about Eve Later. All about Eve, in fact", Anne Baxter's dominance over the film is gradual and calculated. The movie begins with an award ceremony to felicitate distinguished theater performers and their plays – we hear the deep narration of Addison Dewitt, who stays away from the stage itself, but is an integral part of the theater- he is a critic and commentator. He mordantly remarks about the people surrounding him – a playwright's wife, Karen Richards (Celeste Holmes), who according to him, would've not been closer than the fifth row had she not married her famous husband, and Margo Channing (Bette Davis), a phenomenal middle-aged actress. Both women seem indifferent to the awards ceremony; Channing seems to smoke cigarette after cigarette, staring at the main table where a prestigious award has been kept. Then enters Eve, the most sought after actress, to accept the prize; the scene freezes just when she is about to take the trophy, and we are taken back in time to see how she managed to receive this honor. The co-narrations along with the critic are Margo and Karen. Eve first acts as alacritous fan of Channing who gets to meet her through Karen, Channing's best friend. Channing is the typical petulant, larger than life, effervescent and slightly obnoxious and over-dramatic actress who is not exactly malicious but very proud and ambitious. She is touched by Eve's story and employs her at her home. When Eve begins to overshadow her and somehow create strife between Margo and her close ones, Margo, who holds high opinion of herself but is vulnerable within, grows suspicious of Eve. Eve's meteoric rise to super stardom is laced with lies and deceit, as we begin to know more of her intentions.The film was hard to watch, because it is imbued with bitterness and sin – a woman, in order to reach the very summit of fame blackmails, lies and turns emotionally sterile. The acerbity in the script is highly concentrated; I never expected such coldness to come from a film of the 40s. The women here are the highlights, with Bette Davis taking charge for most of the part, This is probably a film in which she played herself; just reading some of the quotes of Davis regarding her co-stars, such a Celeste Holmes, it is not surprising that this role is tailor-made for her. Her director had told her that she was to 'treat a mink coat as it were a poncho' and god she does it well. She possesses all the excess that is required of her character – her self-indulgent and over-the top behavior or rather antics work well here. Some of her childish outbursts are hilarious, and I have encountered actresses and actors with such temperaments. But to certain extent, I felt that in all her fireworks, she never released a fire-lantern that would have caused a spectacle and shown a different side to her. In all her scenes, she was sassy – I wish she had just toned it down a bit to elevate her personality. Anne Baxter's Eve is a despicable fox – her obsequious nature in the beginning garnered some reserved sympathy but when she turns heel, she bears her sharp fangs, becoming an icicle. It is very interesting to observe her body posture in the beginning; her shoulders are always towards the front, as if she is waiting patiently to pounce.The other ladies are luminous in their roles. Celeste Holm deserves accolades for bearing Bette Davis, whom she found rebarbative after an incident with her. To actually sympathize with Margo and settle herself in the story which has her play a more relatable character in a circus called 'theater' is a difficult task. Thelma Ritter as the crass but trustworthy assistant is a scene-stealer, giving great effect to her one liners, especially during the green room scene. Marilyn Monroe was embarrassing though, clumsily spitting her dialogs and blotting the otherwise well-penned scene. No wonder Davis barked at her. There was only one man worth mentioning in the film – M. George Sanders, brilliant in his role. The other two men were unjustly ignored; I wish they had been given more space.The foremost reservation I had regarding the film was about Eve's intentions, which although executed with Machiavellian skill, seemed questionable. Why did Eve have to do all this when she was, according to all, a brilliant actress? It's not as if she had a grudge against Channing, so her intentions seemed unclear. Many evil characters usually do have reasons for their wrongdoing; Eve didn't. That's puzzling about Eve.


                
The cast in this film is great. The women do a fantastic job. Bette Davis does a great job at playing a very successful aging star. Soon she finds that her assistant is more talented than she had imagined and may have hidden motives. This film is full of deceit. Eve gains the acceptance of Davis's crowd and begins to work her way up. Once the aging star begins to see that she is trying to steal her light she acts out. This only lets eve know she is feeling threatened. What is the price you are willing to pay for fame? This film questions if your dignity is worth the fame. Like other movies from it's time it shows the behind the scenes of the theater. The ending was very well made. Eve letting a stranger into her home and trusting that person was the mistake that Bette had made. Everyone is after your fame. It showed how egotistical people are when the idea of fame is involved.
All about Eve reminds me of today's society, not just Hollywood society but also our society as a whole. In the film Eve's main concern is to get ahead. I feel as though many people could relate to this because in many cases in order to get ahead in your own career it is necessary to con your way in. People in today's society scheme their way into jobs they don't deserve. Many like Eve purposely sabotage others in order for them to have their big break. I found it a little ironic that for a while Eve was able to keep the act of a good assistant, showing her true talent for Broadway acting without really knowing it. This movie is very good, and despite its negative reflection on society it was a movie that I enjoyed. Bette Davis although she was a supporting role was incredible, her presence was very commanding and my eyes went to Davis whenever she was on screen.


                
