Spoilers herein.I admit, I find the story of the Mankiewicz brothers to be one of the most interesting in all filmdom. Part of the allure is their experimentation in narrative perspectives and the nature of fabrication.Here, the fabrication is extra sweetly dimensional. We have a movie about movies, actresses portraying actresses with resonances among all these four elements.And we have the character who fabricates a character (Eve), who incidentally is as much a written object as the characters of the movie are. And of course she believes otherwise just as Bette's character does (and, we presume Bette herself did).The writing is pure genius, aided presumably by psychotropics as was the later 'Cleopatra,' which was begun with similar aspirations. I found the acting superficial, but again that's part of the fun I guess.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.
A realistic drama about show business and life in the backstage of Broadway and New York theater. It was nominated for fourteen Academy Awards, more than any other film in history, until "Titanic" caught up half a century later. It has won six Oscars, among which are those for the best movie and the best screenplay, but all four nominated actresses have lost. The role of Margo Channing is considered the best performance in Bette Davis' career.8,5/10


                
The dialogue alone in All About Eve makes this film worth watching. This movie is full of witty banter and clever quips. The acting is also very well done - making you believe these are real people and not just players on a stage. And the story is dramatic and compelling. It's not hard to see why this movie got nominated for so many awards.


                
Well-deserving of the six Academy awards (including Mankiewicz for his accomplished direction and screenwriting) and eight nominations (including Davis and Baxter for their fine acting), "All About Eve" (1950) is an undying classic, still very impressive.
/Mårten Larsson (Twitter: @7thArtShortRevs).


                
Great movie with rich dialog and acting. The movie was kind of predictable the way that it started. You know the outcome of the movie from the beginning and the curiosity will drag you down till the end to figure out how that happened.This movie shows publicity and fame within theater and movie are the main nature that drives some actor and actress and they are willing to do what ever it takes to reach to the top using all people as a means to become celebrity.


                
It isn't a perfect film. In fact, it starts rather slowly, in a fairly predictable way. Sometime around the party scene it takes off, and never looks back. Do not give up on this film after twenty minutes.Nor should you stick around for the plot, which is acceptable but nothing special. This film is made brilliant by superb actors and by dialogue you could shave with. The main focus is on Davis, and she's excellent. But so is Baxter, and Holm is probably better than either. Addison's performance is career-defining and a well-deserved Oscar. Monroe's cameo shines like a girl's best friend and Ritter is spot on. In this environment, merely good performances like Merril's get swamped.It's astonishing that a film with acting this good could take six Oscars and only one for its acting.


                
'All About Eve' won best picture for 1950, and its two stars, Anne Baxter (Eve) and Bette Davis (Margo), were each nominated for Best Actress. Davis was 41, had been in movies for almost 20 years, with almost 60 to her credit, and this movie certainly gave her middle-age career a needed boost. Baxter was in her 20s and compared to Davis really was just getting started. Marilyn Monroe also has a lovely but small role, during the birthday party scene, here 3 to 4 years before she started to hit it big. 'All About Eve' does not come across as a great movie today, 50+ years later, but is a very interesting 2+ hours. Eve has acting in her veins and seems to be willing to do anything to become a star, even selling her soul to the devil.
SPOILERS follow, please read no further, OK!?What Baxter did so well here is convince us right away that 'Eve' was an actress, and as we see everything anyone ever saw was part of her act. The movie begins and ends with a ceremony, where Eve is receiving an acting award, and the narrator tells us how all this came about. Eve's entre' is her apparent worship of established star, Margo, but she really simply had designs on Margo's life, her men and her roles, first insinuating herself as Margo's understudy. When the equally shrewd person, writer Addison DeWitt, finds out what she is up to, in the end he threatens to expose her series of deceptions, effectively destroying her budding career, unless she 'gave herself' to him, totally. She does, because ultimately her career is the most important thing. She sells her soul, to all the fans and all the media, and DeWitt is the personification of all that.
From Oscar winning, and Golden Globe nominated director Joseph L. Mankiewicz (Guys and Dolls, Cleopatra), I didn't know much about this classic drama, but with a good cast list, I was willing to try it. Basically ambitious Eve Harrington (Oscar nominated Anne Baxter) is very fond of actress Margo Channing (Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Bette Davis), and manages to get close to her boyfriend, and her friends Karen Richards (Oscar nominated Celeste Holm) and her play writer husband Lloyd Richards (Hugh Marlowe), director Bill Simpson (Gary Merrill) and producer Max Fabian (Gregory Ratoff). All the big shots, except for cynical critic Addison DeWitt (Oscar winning, and Golden Globe nominated George Sanders), believing she is only a naive and obsessive fan of Margo's, but Eve is much more cynical, manipulative and conniving than that. Using the lives of Margo and her friends, all along she planned to become an actress, and she achieves her goal of Broadway stardom, leaving a trail of unhappiness for everyone behind her. The end sees her accepting the highest award for any stage performer, and another fan wanting to see the now famous Eve, and it seems, this naive girl may have the same sneaky plans. Also starring Barbara Bates as Phoebe, then rising star Marilyn Monroe as Miss Casswell and Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Thelma Ritter as Birdie. Baxter may not be the conventional wicked witch/bunny boiler/psychopathic bitch villain, in fact, she may not even by the right person for the role, yet even with a few appearances, she is a good light villain. Davis is very good as the emotionally wrecked actress, then little known Monroe makes the most of her few minutes, same goes for Ritter. I can see why critics complained about it being too chatty, and yet it is this, being witty and cynical, that makes the film very watchable. It won the Oscars for Best Picture, Best Costume Design, Best Sound and Best Writing, Screenplay for Mankiewicz, and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Cinematography, Best Film Editing and Best Music for Alfred Newman, it won the BAFTA for Best Film from any Source, and it won the Golden Globe for Best Screenplay, and it was nominated for Best Motion Picture - Drama. Eve Harrington was number 23 on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains, Bette Davis was number 45 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, she was number 2 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Women, and she was number 17 on The World's Greatest Actor, she was also number 2 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Womem, "Fasten your seatbelts. It's going to be a bumpy night." was number 9 on 100 Years, 100 Quotes, the film was number 30 on Film 4's 50 Films You Must See Before You Die, and it was number 16 on 100 Years, 100 Movies. Very good!
My Rating : 8/10'Sunset Blvd.' is the better film if you ask me though 'All About Eve' has a pitch perfect blend of sly wit and rueful wisdom with a talented cast.Follows the story of an ageing stage actress and her growing envy of her new ambitious young assistant Eve who wants to walk, talk and act like her.Bette Davis and Anne Baxter have an interesting chemistry and definitely worth a watch!


                
A quite fascinating incite into literally backstage performances of actors and their careers.They say "write what you know about", and I'm sure the whole cast & crew that made this film, could relate to at least some parts of the story. Very character based and subtle in parts, a great study of the politics, inner workings & motivations of people and their careers.Anne Baxter manages to eventually dominate this film, even though persistently giving a meek, almost irritating performance, cleverly masking her ultimate intent.I guess Davis seems to be pretty much playing herself, still there's plenty strong indications, signs and a genuine empathy from her part. I also liked the party scenes which managed to give another dimension to another type of "performance" from all involved.At least 5 or 6 characters juggle the required balance to this film, all seeming individual and understandable which I think must be very hard to achieve.There's a lot to this film and I'll probably see more into it if I watch it again, it's so full of intricacies. Not a full on macho-action flick, but an absolutely gripping plot & character based study into the ultimately changing position of people within their careers.A brilliant example of a very well made film from people with a clear understanding of how to do their bit best, for the greater cause.Watch out for an early appearance from Marilyn Monroe.
Broadway legend Margo Channing (Bette Davis) is studied intently by newcomer Eve Harrington (Anne Baxter) who manages to worm her way into the inner circle of Margo and her friends. Although I really think that "Sunset Boulevard" should have won the award for Best Picture that ultimately went to this film, this is a compelling humorous tale of egotistical, conniving, back-stabbing bitches (well I could have merely said 'women' and got to some meaning across, just kidding ladies). This film is pretty well acted and I never felt bored with it in the least throughout it's 2 hour+ running time.My Grade: B+ Studio Classics DVD Extras: Commentary by actors Christopher Mankiewicz & Celeste Holm and author Kenneth Geist; Second commentary by author Sam Staggs; AMC Backstory: All About Eve; Bette Davis & Anne Baxter Promos; 4 Movietone News Shorts; Restoration Comparison; Theatrical Trailer; and trailers for "Gentleman's Agreement" & "How Green Was My Valley"


                
I have to start by saying that I absolutely love older movies and this has become one of my favorites. I saw "All About Eve" like 10 years ago, but as I am only 24 years old, well, you do the math. Suffice to say, although I liked it, I didn't quite understand it the way that I do now as an adult.....and I imagine I'll understand it even more in another decade and so on and so on...Bette Davis is MAGNIFICENT in this film. Though I am a Bette Davis fan, I am also a very tough critic, as I am a writer of screenplays and novels. I cannot say that I agree with all of Bette's Oscar nominations, in that a good few of them were given based on the popularity of the film and, well, because she was Bette Davis. I can't say enough about her performance in this film though...I think that the character of Margo worked so well for her because it hit so close to home. She was 42 and Margo was 40, She was a talented aging actress and so was Margo, etc. etc.... I love that the film is equally dramatic as it is comedic and Bette captured it so well. I don't want to spoil the film by any means, but look for the equally heart-breaking and hilarious scene titled "Coming Unglued" on the DVD. This is still during the time in the film where Margo is the only one that is on to Eve's plan. Just look for Bette, standing on the stage and swinging her purse back & fourth, screaming at the play-write, "You may change this star any time you want, for a new, and fresh, and exciting one, fully equipped with fire and music. Anytime you want, starting with tonight's performance." It is amazing!! Anne Baxter as Eve is amazing as well and I just live for the moment in the film where she stupidly laughs in Addison's (George Sanders) face and he slaps her back into reality...LOVE IT! Celest Holme is also great. Her performance is very real. I don't think that she get the credit that she should, as she never over-acts, but still gets her point across...It's a wonderful film with wonderful performances, but to me, it's "All about Bette"...
This is one of those many old movies that I am glad I finally got around to viewing. "All About Eve" seems to bridge the gap to some extent between the old, slick movies of the '30s and '40s (where you always knew you were watching entertainment) and the grittier, more realistic material that began to appear more and more during and after the '50s. The performances are incredibly good all around (particularly Betty Davis, Anne Baxter and George Sanders,) a fact that is obviously enhanced by such a strong script.I still have not seen Billy Wilder's "Sunset Boulevard", which is allegedly the one of these two Hollywood on Hollywood commentaries that stands up better to time, but it is on my short list!


                
This is a fine classic film, and despite it's age is indeed ageless. The stars are impressive and include Bette Davis as well as Anne Baxter. Even Marilyn Monroe has a small role in this film which must be one of her earliest appearances in cinema. There is an acting award involved in the beginning of the film, and indeed both these actresses received accolades for the movie. One should pay close attention to the theme. The direction is outstanding, and the acting is superb. No one can argue with the success of the performers in this film, and the DVD is a clearly superior one. It should be in our treasure chest of great films.I recommend it highly. Don't miss the chance to see this classic. However, one cannot consider it the greatest in our collections.


                
I was astounded at the high level of acting in this movie, which I sort of considered a sleeper.  Betty Davis really becomes the ambivalent Margo character and that final scene with Anne Baxter at the banquet is fantastic. However, the movie also has the feel of an inside joke between bitter artists and is too close to solipsistic to be completely fun.  A great movie, but not a great tale.


                
An ingénue insinuates herself in to the company of an established but aging stage actress (Bette Davis) and her circle of theater friends.The problem with this film is that it received 14 Oscar nominations, which would lead you to believe it is possibly the greatest film of all time. It is not. While still a great film, it pales in comparison to many other films, and many of those never got nominations (or won the awards). Not sure what that says about this movie, but it sure says the Academy is not always right.What I learned from this picture: having Bette Davis eyes is not a compliment. Maybe Davis was attractive at one point in her career, but clearly by 1950 she was not. How much longer she remained a star I am not sure... but it is more than a tad ironic that Davis' star seemed to fade here just as Marilyn Monroe's was rising. (And Anne Baxter clearly steals the show, but that is to be expected.)


                
All About Eve is dated in its appearance but it couldn't be more modern in its treatment of human nature. People haven't changed. A classic? Yes but not in the top 100 films of all time. The acting was good but I wasn't overpowered by any scene. I didn't sense romantic chemistry between the various couples, for example, and didn't buy it when the characters managed to forgive each other after each outburst. I found that the narration was unnecessary. Everything that happens on stage is hidden from the viewer... we hardly get a feeling that we're in the theater business, so rarely do we see theatergoers. And on a totally wild note, does anyone besides me think that Anne Baxter looks like Kathleen Turner?Despite these minor flaws, the pacing was good, the story captivating, and there's a great ending.Who should see this film:-- Anyone curious about classics but worried about being bored, this one's safe. Note, however, that it's in black and white.-- Theater vixens fighting their way to the top. And see "Working Girl" and "Heartbreakers" too.I believe that old films should be rated for how they play today, not originally. But All About Eve still packs a punch. I'll give it an 8 out of 10.


                
Nominated for a staggering 14 Academy Awards, out of which it won 6 including Best Picture, All About Eve is a classic amalgamation of brilliant direction, excellent screenplay, sophisticated production, outstanding performances & sparkling use of humour and covers the themes of ambition, betrayal, self-interest, fame & fate in the world of show business.All About Eve tells the story of Eve Harrington; an ambitious young woman who maneuvers her way into the life of Margo Channing, a prominent but ageing stage actress & her circle of theatre friends, to pursue her very own interests on Broadway. Hiding her true nature with a well-worn mask of modesty, Eve's well-planned schemes ultimately lead to the downfall of Margo's career.Written & directed by Joseph L. Mankiewicz, All About Eve opens on an interesting note by cleverly introducing all the relevant characters to the viewers before flashing back a year to portray Eve's meteoric rise from an outsider to the newest & brightest star on stage, which in turn also adds a sinister tone to the devious means she used to get on top. And the script is just as good as Mankiewicz's direction.The screenplay brims with sharp dialogues, terrific use of humour, fleshed out characters & wonderfully layered storyline and the entire plot is smartly narrated from start to finish. The greyscale photography & fluid movements of the camera keeps a safe distance but patiently observes every character's actions. Editing is skilfully carried out but the last act feels a bit stretched as its runtime is slowly realised in those final moments.Coming to the performances, All About Eve features a marvellous cast in Bette Davis, Anne Baxter, George Sanders, Celeste Holm & others plus we also have Marilyn Monroe in one of her earliest roles here. Davis plays Margo with remarkable finesse and her performance only gets better as the story progresses. Baxter is equally fitting too as the manipulative Eve and this film is mainly her story, while the supporting cast chips in with strong contributions.On an overall scale, All About Eve packs in all the ingredients that one can find in any great feature, is a rivetingly told drama that's about women in entertainment industry & their men, and from its opening moments till the final shot, maintains a firm grip on viewers' attention. Living up to its legacy, exhibiting an irresistible charm throughout its runtime, and powered by captivating performances from Davis & Baxter, All About Eve is an absolute delight that comes thoroughly recommended.


                
Humdinger of a "backstage" movie, featuring writing, acting and directing of the highest order. Made in 1950, this is a new type of movie for a new decade...if that sounds fanciful, well, perhaps, but certainly the biting realism and surgical-like exposure of the needs and greeds of the theatrical fraternity (and sorority) transcends anything I remember coming from Hollywood before this.Like the very best page-turning novel, this movie compels you to watch, no make that witness, so caught up does the viewer get, scene succeeding scene as you absolutely can't wait to see just where the plot goes next, how the characters end up and even just for the next great line - they come in waves, breakers at that! Davis is magnificent, now fuller of figure, her looks fading - the 50's were not a great time for her as fashions changed in favour of "method acting", but she gives a fabulous multi-layered, almost valedictory performance, starting out as the caustic queen of all she surveys who's checkmated by the machinations of on-the-make not-so-innocent waif Anne Baxter in a career-defining role.In truth it's all about Margo and Eve, but there's great support too from the whole ensemble, particularly George Sanders as the lewd, vile critic, who brings Eve to heel and Celeste Holm as Margo's devoted friend who fails to see the wolf-in-sheep's-clothing until said wolf has come between not only her and Margo, but even her and her husband. You could cut yourself on some of the barbed remarks delivered here, so sharp is the dialogue, every word a weapon, fitting for a movie about the theatre-world.The only thing that didn't work for me in this otherwise brilliant piece was the tacked-on ending when Eve learns that turnabout is fair play as her own little "Eve" appears on the scene, much as she did her own "girl from nowhere" entrance herself with Margo - this despite the technically superb closing image where mirrors imitate art literally! The scene itself though is such an artificial comedown after the climactic showdown between Sanders and Baxter, where they act their socks off as they sock it to one another.On reflection, if only one of the three Oscar-nominated main players (Davis, Baxter and Sanders) was to get the award, (Thelma Ritter deserved hers too in support - shame she disappears about half-way through the film), it's right that it was Sanders who won. Perfect practice for his later vocal outing as "Shere Khan" in Disney's "Jungle Book", he is the sleazy, easy serpent who destroys Eve's self-made Eden as he snakes his insidious presence into every nook and cranny.An epochal film then, with endings (Davis' career) and beginnings (Baxter and Marilyn Monroe in a telling early role). Say goodbye to Hollywood indeed - things got a lot bumpier in TinselTown after this mould-breaking feature.


                
I saw this again recently, after many years. In this site there are many who proclaim this the best film ever, and wax ecstatically about Bette Davis, and on and on - but I'd submit that its fascination, especially now, lies elsewhere.George Sanders is a delight to watch and hear. He is the "Babe Ruth" of filmdom at playing ego-maniacal, smarmy, unctuous characters. In more recent times, Dabney Coleman and G. D. Spradlin have served to carry-on this type of characterization.Watching Celeste Holm's character could turn even the most hardened chauvinist into a rabid proponent for women's lib.Baxter's Eve Harrington can be excused for trying to hasten her supplanting Bette as Broadway's leading light. However, one can't help but imagine even such a ruthless individual biding her time a bit longer, and perhaps accomplishing her goal with everyone's influential support, and without the inevitable besmirching of her reputation among theater insiders. But, we should forgive her haste; she needed to get something done before Bette chewed ever available piece of scenery in sight.Gary Merrill and Hugh Marlowe acted like a pair of narcoleptics; one wondered which one might nod-off first,Nonetheless, this is an enjoyable representation of the post-war, 1940's - early 1950's melodrama, enjoyable as much for its lapses as its virtues. I found myself enjoying further just picturing (and wishing they'd included) a scene where Celeste Holm - mink coat, high heels and all - drained the gasoline from their auto, so Bette would be prevented from catching the train to New York, miss her performance, and permit Eve's making her understudy's debut. (Celeste's having drained the auto's gas tank of a full tank, was clearly explained in the film, and was the event which led to Eve's big chance, and some of the subsequent double-dealing. However, I would have loved to see her actually accomplishing this feat. It could have been the best part of the flick.)


                
"All About Eve" follows the life of Eve Harrington, from being practically nothing to becoming a superstar. Her devious schemes matched with the sweetness of her smile and her "I'll get what I want no matter what it takes" attitude makes her the woman everyone would love to hate. Everyone, that is, except for those who strive to be like her (me, included).It's a timeless classic with a great cast, great costumes, a great plot, not to mention an unforgettable ending. (What goes around comes around after all.)Although I was born waaaay after this movie was made, I must say that it is one movie you shouldn't miss!
If the Eve's aim wasn't like that and she wasn't introduced to Addison DeWitt, it would be an ordinary film for me and I would never hide it as a part of classicals archives. Yes, this is the main reason that it proves itselfs. I appreciate the staff of film so. Eve acts her amazing role skilfully and the others of course, too. Marilyn Monroe suits her role but I think she would be a good choice to play Eve.To the story, Margo Channing is a well-known theatre player whose staff contains her darling also the director Bill Sampson, her writer Lloyd Richards and his wife Karen Richards. Eve is a peculiar girl who meets Margo Channing by means of Karen Richards. I said peculiar but at least she introduces herself as she is like that. She fools everybody and starts to serve Margo Channing like a servant. Nobody doubts this condition except for Birdie Coonan who is the assistant of Margo Channing. Then the time goes and Eve's aim appears spontaneously. Eve wants to substitute Channing but she displays such a modesty that makes everybody pity for her. After that Eve goes forward desiring to take Bill from the Margo Channing.I think the film must be separated into two parts. In the first part, that makes you ask the question "I wonder What will Eve's end do?" and more exciting from the second part, in the second part which is more boring but also completing the puzzle you'll find the character of Eve, all about Eve.This film is an impressive example for the people who wants to be a star and do anything to became a star.
From a technical standpoint, this film is a masterpiece. What incredible performances, especially from Baxter who goes from being an angel to a devil convincingly. Ironically, this is exactly where the film fails: we are to believe that someone would go to incredible lengths to pose as a fan of the Bette Davis character in order to trample all over her? No film has ever be based upon so much paranoid cynicism which makes it impossible to take "All About Eve" seriously. (8 out of 10)


                
One of the most popular and lasting movies of all time among movie fans All About Eve is a story about the New York theater life and it's backstabbing, manipulating Broadway acting community. Based on a magazine story by Mary Orr and written for the screen by Joseph L Mankiewicz as a satirical look at infighting among self-centered stage actors as strive to achieve and hang on to stardom. Mankiewicz was an important figure in the Hollywood studio system staring as a screenwriter in the 1920's and become a successful producer of major films beginning in the 1930's and branching out into directing films in the the 1940's he worked for Paramount, MGM and Fox and succeeded in everything thing he did weather it was producing, directing or writing. Often working with large ensemble casts he assembled a great one here with Bette Davis, Anne Baxter, George Sanders, Celeste Holm, Thelma Ritter, Gary Merrill, Marilyn Monroe, Barbara Bates and Hugh Marlow among the cast. This was nominated for 14 Academy Awards including an amazing five cast members in Davis, Baxter, Holm, Ritter and Sanders. Sanders won Best supporting Actor in his first and only nomination and win. Baxter and Davis were nominated for Best Actress and Celeste Holm and Thelma Ritter were nominated for Best Supporting Actress but in both categories they split the vote and canceled each other out and came away with no Oscars. It won the big prize as Best Picture and also Best Director and Best Screenplay for Mankiewicz in addition to Costume Design for Edith Head and Best Sound. It was All About Eve vs. Sunset Boulevard at the Academy Awards for 1950 with 25 nominations between the two films and Eve winning six to Sunset's three. This is a fine film and holds up well but it's a little too melodramatic and too much of a soap opera for me in it's bombardment of dialog. I would give it an 8.5 out of 10.


                
I am a major film junkie and have been amused by the variety of comments and the wit of the blokes and birds reviewing "All About Eve." I do feel that this film is quite good but also over-rated. I would give it a 7.75 out of 10.The good:1. Outstanding performances, especially Bette Davis, George Sanders and the under-rated Celeste Holm2. A witty and erudite screenplay3. outstanding direction4. A rich and in depth character study 5. An excellent blend of comedy and dramaThe bad:1. Anne Baxter gave a stilted, and affected performance2. Eve Harrington's ability to fool these sophisticated show business people so quickly and so convincingly was unbelievable.3. The theater crowd surrounding Margo Channing accepted Eve Harrington without any questions or reluctance immediately and without reservation.4. The playwright and his wife seemed to have a real solid marriage. It was improbable that he would leave his wife for Eve.5. Gary Merrill, whom I like as an actor, was about as over-the-top in his acting style as one can get in the opening scenes. He was gesturing as if he were Peter Finch's character in "Network."6. The ending was not believable when the young actress was about to repeat the cycle using Eve this time.The ugly * All of the smoking on screen gave me a psychosomatic asthma attack.


                
