What a movie! It's the cinematic ideal, the standard by which subsequent films are judged, at least in terms of acting and dialogue. Maybe the camera, which does nothing but sit there as the actors act, could have been made a little less static. But the story screams stage play, which implies lots of talk and not much "action". The film doesn't pretend to do all things. But what it does do, it does extremely well.As Margo, Bette Davis gives what I would consider one of the best performances, if not the best performance, in any film I have ever seen. She truly becomes Margo, that "fixture of the theater", so beloved yet so insecure. And as Eve, "the mousy one, with the trench coat and the funny hat", breathy Anne Baxter proves adept at subtleties that allow her character to change gradually over time.Then there's George Sanders who effortlessly slips into the role of witty, urbane, pompous Addison DeWitt, columnist magnifico, a man whose high opinion of himself allows him to declare to us, as viewers, that he is "essential to the theater". Celeste Holm and reliable Thelma Ritter give topnotch performances as well.And the Mankiewicz script, which tells the story of a group of theater people, is heavy on dialogue, but it's totally believable, as characters talk shop and interrelate, by means of suitable verbal conflict and subtle subtext. Even more than that, the dialogue is witty and clever, with tons of theatrical metaphors, like when Bill (Gary Merrill) angrily tells Margo: "And to intimate anything else doesn't spell jealousy to me, it spells a paranoid insecurity that you should be ashamed of." To which Margo just as angrily spits out: "Cut, print it, what happens in the next reel? Do I get dragged off screaming to the snake pits?"One of my favorite scenes has several people sitting on a stairway at a party. A curvaceous but bird-brained Miss Casswell (Marilyn Monroe), "from the Copacabana school of acting", desires another drink. "Oh waiter!", she yells out. Addison schools her: "That isn't a waiter, my dear; that's a butler." To which she fires back: "Well I can't yell 'Oh butler', can I? Maybe somebody's name is Butler". Addison then concedes: "You have a point, an idiotic one, but a point."I'm not sure I really like the characters in this film. Generally, they're self-absorbed, vain, haughty, and backbiting. They're not all that likable. And that would be my only serious complaint.Otherwise, "All About Eve" is a film that excels at great language and great acting. If ever there was a film that deserves the status of "classic", this is surely it.


                
I had read comments about the quality of the writing in this film but I really had no idea to what extent this would elevate the experience.  The fact is, it leaves me with no other choice than to give it a perfect 10. Unless you see this film, I don't think you'll have the necessary frame of reference with which to to base any expectations on.  It's an incredibly engrossing, moving and often comedic experience, but time and time again what knocks you over is the absolute finesse with which this script was crafted.  The fact that the acting and direction are flawless and surprisingly natural-seeming (most old movies usually seem stiff or people seem to "act" too much) only enhances it that much more.  With this film, you can really imagine the *people* the actors are portraying."All About Eve" shows some similarity to one of my other favourite 50s films "A Face in the Crowd".  Both are studies of fame and celebrity.  Eve shows how a person will corrupt themselves in order to attain it, whereas A Face's premise is that fame corrupts those who find themselves in the spotlight. Both have themes that are perhaps even more resonant in our celebrity-obsessed culture now than when they were made. Interestingly, Eve predates A Face by several years.And possibly most interesting of all is the honest and often raw way in which women are portrayed, the strength of their character and the power they wield.  The male contingent is practically relegated to the back seat. One might be hard pressed to find a movie quite so "liberated" today.  So what more can I say?  If you love movies and you haven't yet seen it, you've suffered long enough; don't wait another day.


                
"All About Eve" is the kind of movie that blows your mind, not because of special effect or something like that, but because of what movies are all about, a great direction, a great screenplay, and great acting.Stage star Margo Channing(Davis) is friend to playwright Lloyd Richards(Marlowe) and his wife Karen(Holm), in love with director Bill Samson(Merill), and the idol of Eve Harrington(Baxter) who becomes her secretary-aide. Eve begins to dominate: she sends Bill Margo's birthday wishes and arranges a party for him, at which point Margo explodes. Eve becomes Margo's understudy and, when Margo misses a performance, critic Addison DeWitt gives her rave reviews while making acerbic remarks about aging actresses like Margo.In it's first scenes, you can see an unusual style in this kind of movie, and it doesn't look old, even nowadays. The plot is not very entertaining, but the dialogues and the acting grabs your attention, and some quotes leave you speechless to describe how good they are, and it's memorable scenes, like the dialogues between Eve and Bill about the theater, and the last scene, which is probably the best one, are awesome.The acting is almost perfect by all it's cast, except for Marilyn Monroe's short appearance, that with three or four lines, can show that she is not in the same acting level of the rest of the cast. Bette Davis is what really stands out (Although George Sanders as DeWitt is almost as good as her), she's funny, and know where to show her emotions, and when to hide it.Verdict: Almost everything works, and it's a classic that should not be missed.


                
Maybe, stretching a point, this movie could have been called 'All About Actors'? There've been a number of films that explore the passion for success on the stage: Stage Door (1937) and A Star Is Born (first made in 1937 and made several times thereafter) being two of the most notable. And, other films have also taken an introspective look at the machinations of the acting profession <U+0096> The Player (1992) and even the goofy, but entertaining, Get Shorty (1995).This one, however, is the definitive voyeuristic analysis of why actors will do anything to get to the top, for three reasons. First, it has a script that is flawless in its construction, logic and plot development; to use a hackneyed phrase <U+0096> it all hangs together seamlessly, showing <U+0096> and telling, with three different voice-overs <U+0096> the depths to which some go to reach the heights of narcissistic glory. Second, such a film required a strong hand to keep the actors in check, to prevent it from descending into farce, and that's why Joe Mankiewicz was needed; well, it was his script, anyway <U+0096> so who better to direct, with his fine record of films? And, third, the main protagonists: never before, I think, has a script followed so closely the juxtaposition of a true star (Bette Davis) in her waning years, playing an actress in her waning years, and being challenged by a relative newcomer (Anne Baxter), playing a newcomer challenging the aging star. Such delicious irony, I think, is rare to see on screen. Add to that, a collection of actors (George Sanders, Gary Merrill, Hugh Marlowe, Celeste Holm, the irrepressible Thelma Ritter) of the time who ably and professionally flesh out a drama about the reality of life in fiction.Perhaps even more interesting than the actual film would have been a documentary filming the action on the sets, as the film was made... One can only dream, I guess, to have been a fly on the wall.A word about the dialog: checking the above link for Quotes, I see that all of the lines I rate as some of the best I've heard, all show up in the list <U+0096> which is, also, one of the longest list of quotable film quotes I've seen. If you're hesitating about seeing this film, just scan through those quotes to get a sense of what is in store.As implied, the direction from Mankiewicz and the acting <U+0096> particularly Davis, Baxter and Sanders <U+0096> are riveting. Bette Davis is the personification of diminishing self-confidence as the onset of age dominates and depresses; Baxter is almost sociopathic in her portrayal of naked ambition disguised as sycophantic concern for one and all, but particularly for those who will advance her ambitions; and George Sanders does give the performance of his career and deservedly received the award for Best Supporting Actor. Other actors (Dick Powell or Claude Rains, for example) could have played that role, for sure; Sanders, however, does such a good job, it's a though the character of Addison DeWitt (what a play on word sound <U+0096> Addison, the wit and critic, given a name that sounds like a New Yorker's disparaging put-down. Was Mankiewicz having a bit of fun at New York's expense?) morphs into George Sanders completely. And, vice-versa...So, treat yourself to a filmic experience that you'll never see repeated <U+0096> for obvious and sad reasons. But also, this type of narrative is long gone from the Hollywood scene: talky movies are box-office death these days, as we all know <U+0096> unless you're in a Phone Booth (2002) or on a Cellular (2004).One can only hope that nobody attempts a remake of this masterpiece. Highest recommendation...


                
All About Eve is written with a consistent attention to stylization and lyrical perfection given to its dialogue. Whether it is truly realistic or blatantly theatrical is not a decision between a flaw and a pro, but between the nature of dialogue that is normally striven for by a logical writer and what could be beyond that nature and perhaps some new, inventive little flare, something to keep the audience determinedly on their toes. The film is loaded, and neatly limited modestly at the brim, with powerhouse scenes of dialogue, be they fiery arguments between infamous flamethrower Bette Davis and a co-star who dares to match her or dangerous, hardly predictable scenes tossed with threats and lies between others. To me, beyond the cast, beyond the direction, beyond the atmosphere of the scenery and cinematography, director Joseph L. Mankiewicz's script is what makes this movie the powerful light-refracting gem that it is.I will admit that this is my first Bette Davis film. I had never seen a performance by her before this film. I believe she has a mixture that always turns me on to an actor actress, a mesh of an extroverted, active, dynamic quality that allows them to act upon people and surroundings extremely quickly and with no inhibition and an intuitive, deeply emotional characteristic that may even negate the shallow emotional characteristic of the aforementioned quality, revealing a penetrating insight into people. Davis conveys this in the least challenging and most entertaining way, which is by playing herself, which is perfectly fine by those who judge that sort of thing because that is truly what was required of the role. She is not the light-refracting beauty one expected from a star actress in the silver screen era, but I believe she was still an untouchable star not only because of pure confidence but confidence so solid that one like Joan Crawford who would attempt to tamper with it would be thrown back as if it were a forcefield. What presence she has.Anne Baxter plays the title character, a character who is supposed to be Bette's match. As an actress, Baxter could never match Bette. Where Bette is completely natural in every way on screen, Baxter is not at all. Baxter looks and feels staged to us, because she endlessly stares off into nothing whenever she is speaking, and no matter how interesting she makes her monologue, she still unrealistically stares, and sometimes leans, into space. However, her saving grace is how beautifully she executed the very difficult and tricky role she played. Eve is a person who can never appear to be doing what other characters suspect that she's doing, and even more, she can never appear to be the sort of person that would ever feel inclined to do what they suspect that she is doing. She is the most secretive sort of mysterious personality, quite insightfully captured by the screenplay, which I once again complement, and also fleshed out very effectively by Anne Baxter, who despite her hopeless overtheatrical habits completely becomes Eve.The cast is consistently great. Celeste Holm as a playwright's housewife, a very honestly written character, is very effective in her fleshing it out. Gary Merrill, Hugh Marlowe, and Gregory Ratoff are all very entertaining and likable. The doosie is Marilyn Monroe, who even with her few minutes on screen is very wooden. The outstanding man in the film is George Sanders, who plays theater critic Addison De Witt, one of the most intelligent and refreshingly practical and analytical characters I've seen in a movie. He is introduced as simply another one of the many people we will be seeing in the social circle of the film's main characters, even through the story he is partially narrating. Yet he slowly grows to be something more, and we are surprised to see the full extent of what his character is significant for. Sanders has a scene where he is disturbing and vindicating to us at the same time.All About Eve is full of what so many people don't seem to realize can be the most satisfying and fascinating quality a movie can have, in its writing, in its actors, in its direction, in its detail, and that is a razor wit to wield. It has all different brands of smarts, and we need more films like it today.


                
In the early 50s, as the old studio system fell into decline, the producer-directors and writer-directors began to muscle in. All About Eve, written and shot by Joseph L. Mankiewicz, was one of the first major triumphs of this new breed of filmmaker. Although it is about actresses, in it writers and directors are cynically lauded as those who "construct a tower so that the world can applaud a light which flashes on top of it", while stars are dismissed as "pianos" who ought to realise "they did not write the concerto". But upon seeing the performances in All About Eve, all one can say is what lights... what pianos! Let's begin with the skillful turns of Bette Davis and Anne Baxter. The styles of these two players, like their characters, are mirror images of each other. Davis, true to type, projects a callous and world-weary exterior, and yet I am struck by the depth and sincerity of her emoting, for example as she listens to Eve's sob story in the dressing room scene, or the tenderness she clearly feels for Gary Merrill. It's a depth that it is essential for her character, and yet sensibly she doesn't allow it to dominate, just letting it shine through at key moments. Baxter by contrast is a model of girlish innocence and boundless altruism, yet beneath the surface shows herself to be a treacherous, cold-hearted lizard of a woman. And like Davis's inner warmth, Baxter only reveals that in brief flashes. Hidden depths are something of a running theme in the acting here. Celeste Holm is ostensibly a naive and trusting figure, yet she expertly lays bare the strength of her character in later scenes. Even George Sanders's trademark suave veneer cracks once or twice, giving way to that sharp end of his cynicism which he normally masked.And yet, these supreme talents of the acting profession have been carefully orchestrated by one who has certainly styled himself a builder of cinematic towers. Mankiewicz was a brilliant arranger of motion pictures, and this was far and away his best effort to date. His direction is subtle on the surface - clear, direct shot compositions with no fancy tricks, an "invisble" camera which only moves to follow the actors - but Mankiewicz himself has hidden depths, and the shooting of All About Eve is in truth a work of considerable complexity. Although his aim was to draw attention the players in the foreground, his work is all about backgrounds. Take the opening scene at the awards ceremony. When we are introduced to the central figures, look at how unnaturally still the extras in the background are. It is the equivalent of shooting these principle players against a blank wall. When Eve goes to accept her award the tactic is reversed. The crowd claps excitedly while Davis et al remain eerily motionless. At other times Mankiewicz's use of backgrounds becomes a direct commentary on events, such as the shot of Davis next to a sign saying "Handle with Care".And so Mankiewicz is a true "tower constructor" of the type described in All About Eve. He is not a show off, and his work though elaborate is all about highlighting the performances and the characters. But it would be doing a major disservice to this wonderful cast to deride them as mere flashing lights, for to quote another picture concerning performance and production, even the most skilled conjurer cannot pull a rabbit out of a hat if there is not already a rabbit in the hat (That's from The Red Shoes, by the way). All About Eve may be shot through with pessimism about the dramatic arts, yet it is the very smoothness of its collaboration - the skill of the tower builders and the brightness of the lights, if you will, both of which are equally important - that make it an engaging and enthralling piece of movie-making.


                
Neither Bette Davis' character with the cerebral genius of a speeding, biting wit nor the sweetness Eve whose innocence could be an act fooling all but 1. Then 2. The star's fear of aging too quickly for her younger forever partner (and director) and the inevitable jealousy that follows, made that much more frustrating when met with scorn and accusations of paranoia that ignore an acute awareness that we too may share that something's just not right with miss sweetness and light ....it's a theme that retains its intrigue because we can't really know who's what. Until we do. I love this movie. It doesn't complicate the simple things like ambition and betrayal or weaken the beauty of the loyalty of karma that survives.


                
I've watched this movie twice, and now I know all about Eve. I know about her intention, passion, and personality; all I need to know about a movie character.The best word for describing the screenplay is the word "Fantastic". You would be surprised how in the middle of the movie the storyline transforms from a simple classical story to a complex psychological situation. The rivalry among characters with distinct personalities has made the storyline excellent.Eve, herself, is the most complex and fascinating character in the drama and somehow the film is all about Eve! In the first third of the movie, Eve presents herself as an innocent, loyal, and passionate girl who is so kind and sweet. The audience feels compassion and sympathy for her, also shortly she will find a warm place within every heart. In the second third of the movie, Eve begins to do some sort of behavior that can be assumed malicious or immoral; but the audience can't believe that the vicious side of Eve exists, so, she or he supposes that there must be a reason that Eve did such sort of thing. Finally, in the late third of the movie, Eve starts to relive her pure herself, furthermore the audience starts to accept her true personality.This movie is all about Eve, all about psychology, moreover all about fame. A movie that you can't have a single actress in both the good role and the bad role.


                
This movie is really good. I love Bette Davis and Anne Baxter. Great acting!!


                
When I think of a great drama film, this is just about what comes to mind. A shy and naive theatre fan Eve (Anne Baxter) gets the chance of a lifetime to meet her idol, Margo Channing (Bette Davis). Through a few happy coincidences she ends up as Margo's assistant and proverbial lady-in-waiting. But slowly Margo starts to feel jealous towards this quiet and unassuming young lady with many hidden talents.All About Eve is above all else a beautifully acted film. There's only about ten characters in the whole film, but the group's inner dynamics, frictions and squabbles make the two and a half film feel at least an hour shorter. That's how interesting, dynamic and engaging the story and the characters are. Baxter and Davis are both brilliant in their role, although I do like Margo's character arc a bit more. She starts out almost as a Disney villain, lounging on a divan and smirking at Eve's sweet urge to please. But slowly something shifts and you start looking at her with sympathetic eyes. Whereas with Eve the journey is almost backwards.In general All About Eve is one of the better character studies I've seen in a while. To think that they manage to create two such complex women and make their individual journeys so fulfilling, believable and mutually supporting. Not to say the rest of the characters aren't good - they are - but this is clearly Baxter and Davis's show.Not really anything more I'd like to say. It's such a good film that the only thing I can say is that you should see it.


                
One of the best movie I have seen. Really really good stuff.Movies related to Hollywood careers and young people's passion for it is often portrayed in movies, but this one is totally awesome. Movie start a little slowly and takes up a gradual progress and eventually becomes really interesting. There is something in this movie that keep you interested. Script and Dialogues are well written and best played. Apart from enjoyment there is something to learn also. Careers in glamor world aren't a piece of cake. There are all about guts you got other than your talent, and thats All about Eve. Watch it fellas!!Also see this Movie 'Todo Sabre Mi Madre' if you like this one.-Vishy


                
1950 was quite the year for movies and it was All About Eve that came out on top at the Oscars. Personally, I would have to agree... strongly. This movie is phenomenal. Not only is it a solidly great film for its time, it's just a purely good film out of any sort of time context. It's witty, intelligent, charming, funny, and exciting. It's the story of the acting world and the colorful and competitive people who inhabit it. Eve, played by Anne Baxter, is a young girl who has huge aspirations for herself on the stage. Aging stage star Margo Channing takes Eve under her wing, only to discover that Eve is a conniving little girl who tries to steal Margo's job as well as her husband. The film is loaded with laughs, all perpetuated through rapier wit dialouge. The film is an excellent dramady with plenty of style and poise, rich and vibrant, gleaming with life and excitement.The best scripts are those that keep at a consistent cadence that never falters and never loses your interest. All About Eve has one of those scripts. There is a very gracious flow to the dialouge in this film, and it is also at a level of intelligence much greater than the average script. It is loaded with double entendres, parallelism, and witty metaphors. It's the kind of dialouge that works so smoothly and every transition and every exchange between characters is so seamless and perfect. Every scene provides some new element of excellence to the poignant dialouge. Sometimes it's sincere and dramatic, full of sophistication. Other times its very light hearted and airy, bringing about a lot of laughs that come from the heart instead of being just mindless entertainment. Then other times it combines the two. There are those scenes in the film where the characters go on rants and tangents, insulting each others intelligence and social ability, and it is all done so eloquently and is delivered without missing a single beat that you can't help but laugh in esteemed approval of the masterful wordplay unfolding before your eyes and ears.Of course where would a near perfect script be without excellent actors to deliver it? Nowhere. So its a good thing All About Eve has some of the finest actors of the era performing their most sincere and dedicated roles ever. It all starts with Bette Davis as Margo. Her performance is nothing short of stellar. The sharp wit of the dialouge flows so naturally from her mouth its as if she wrote it herself. You believe that she believes every last word she says and at no moment do you believe this woman on the screen is anyone but Margo Channing.The male roles of the film also shine, each in their own unique way. George Sanders plays Addison DeWitt, a prominent figure in the performance world who speaks with a sort of slow, well thought out sophistication to his voice. He adds a lot of the sarcastic wit to the film, but delivers his best effort in one of the most important scenes of the film, and it is astounding. Gary Merrill and Hugh Marlowe play the husbands of Margo and her friend Karen, and their performances are hilarious. They continue to further the profound development of the story and its statement on the acting world. Anne Baxter is the weakest link of the films cast as she doesn't have all of the presence necessary for the character of Eve. She's an undoubtedly interesting and is obviously an important character because if not for her we would be nowhere. In her final scenes of the film she is fantastic, but the build up to it makes it seem odd. Regardless, the film does not falter because of her.Films with this amount of fast paced brilliance to them just don't come around as often as you would hope. This film is a staple of the golden age of American filmmaking and rightfully so. It's got everything you need to make a truly great film and it not only satisfies but excels in all aspects. It is a truly remarkable film.


                
"All About Eve" was the Big Film of 1950. It was a critical and commercial success and was nominated for a record 14 Academy Awards, a feat which has since been matched (by "Titanic" in 1997) but never bettered. Of those fourteen nominations it won six categories, including Best Picture. And yet it is a film completely different in style to anything likely to win Best Picture today. It perhaps illustrates the changes in film-making which took place during the second half of the 20th century better than any other Big Film of its era. Indeed, it is very different to most other Best Picture winners of the 1950s. It is not a light-hearted musical like "An American in Paris" or "Gigi" or an action film like "The Greatest Show on Earth", "Bridge on the River Kwai" or "Ben-Hur". It is made in the "filmed theatre" style of cinema, the sort of film which was shot in the studio and concentrated on dialogue and character development rather than physical action. (Such films were usually, although not always, made in black-and-white rather than colour). This was the sort of film which had dominated during the thirties and forties but which began to lose favour in the fifties as the studios demanded more in the way of spectacle. The film is set in the world of the theatre and reflects the mutual antipathy between Hollywood and Broadway at this period, something also referred to in "Singin' in the Rain" from two years later. Both leading characters are female. Bette Davis plays Margo Channing, a leading Broadway star- hugely popular, but beginning to show her age as she approaches forty. (Rather pointedly, her current play is titled "Aged in Wood"). Anne Baxter plays Eve Harrington, an obsessive young fan with theatrical ambitions herself. After Eve is introduced to the older woman, Margo befriends her, and offers her a job as her assistant. Eve initially seems well-intentioned and helpful, but it soon becomes clear that she is using Margo to further her own ambitions. "All About Eve" remains the only film ever to receive four female acting Oscar nominations. (Besides Davis and Baxter for Best Actress, the others went to Celeste Holm, who plays Margo's close friend Karen Richards, and Thelma Ritter as her maid Birdie for Best Supporting Actress). Despite this galaxy of female talent, however, the only acting award it actually won went to George Sanders as Best Supporting Actor. Sanders plays the gossipy, spiteful and sarcastic theatre critic Addison DeWitt, who both acts as the film's narrator and also plays an important role in the action. "Addison DeWitt", actually, sounds a much more plausible name for an American than for an Englishman- Sanders makes no attempt to hide his British accent- but the name seems to have been chosen symbolically, "Addison" being a reference to the eighteenth-century critic and "DeWitt" presumably a pun on "the wit". The role of Margo has become so closely associated with Bette Davis that it seems strange to think that she was not the first choice for it. Claudette Colbert was cast in the role, but had to withdraw with a back injury, and several other actresses were considered. Davis, however, was precisely the right choice to play the ageing Margo. (Coincidentally, "Sunset Boulevard", probably "All About Eve" 's closest rival for "Best Picture", is also about an ageing actress). In her youth in the 1930s, Davis was considered a beauty, known for her large, limpid eyes, but by 1950 her looks had faded although she was only in her early forties. (Colbert was five years older but looked much younger). She delivers what has become a legendary performance- arrogant and bitchy, yet also vulnerable to Eve's scheming in the battle of youth versus age. The film did much to re-establish Davis's career after something of a slump in the late forties. This film changed the way in which I regarded Anne Baxter. I had previously seen her as primarily a supporting actress, someone who only achieved leading lady status in films like "I Confess" or "The Ten Commandments" where the emphasis is much more on the male characters. Here, however, she emerges as a real star in her own right and gives a great performance as the cunning, manipulative Eve. (She also look stunning with that short, boyish haircut, something not all actresses could have pulled off). I can well understand why she insisted on being Oscar-nominated for "Best Actress", even though she might well have won for "Best Supporting Actress". In the event she and Davis both lost out to Judy Holliday in "Born Yesterday"; as I have never seen that film I will not comment on the wisdom of the Academy's decision. Holm and Ritter are also very good, and there is a brief but vital contribution at the end from Barbara Bates, an actress I had not previously come across. I will not enter into the controversy about whether both Eve and Addison are supposedly gay, except to say that this was not an interpretation that occurred to me, and that Eve's predatory designs on Margo's boyfriend Bill argue against it. There are films from this era, such as "Caught" and "Strangers on a Train", which strike me as having a possible homosexual subtext, but this is not one of them. "All About Eve" is not, officially, a comedy, but it has a brilliantly witty script, written by director Joseph L. Mankiewicz, with far more wit and humour than many so-called comedies, and manages to combine that wit with a gripping psychological drama and some first-class acting. It is a long time since I last saw "Sunset Boulevard", so will not attempt to compare the two directly, but both must count among the finest films not just of the year but also of the decade. 9/10


                
"All About Eve" is like a theater stage drama. The film does not rely on cool camera techniques or editing, glamorous costumes and set-decoration, or a thunderous/dramatic score; it is made by the brilliance performances.I loved all the performances in the film, ranging from George Sanders Oscar-winning performance as the cunning Addison DeWitt to the captivating works of Bette Davis and Anne Baxter as Margo and Eve. The cast, particularly these three thespians, turns a typical Hollywood story of gold digging, betrayal, paranoia, and lust for fame into something worthwhile. At times, the movie gets slow, but overall it is a feast for the eyes on superb acting. "Fasten your seat belts, for it is a bumpy ride." 9/10


                
Joseph L. Mankiewicz made his masterpiece here with All About Eve, a smart, sassy and completely captivating film about the life behind the curtain of the theater world that may in some instances mirror the world behind the film industry. Bette Davis resurrected her career with a tour- de force performance that is nothing short of exemplary. Anne Baxter is perfect as the sneaky, conniving Eve trying to do all she can to get ahead. Gary Merril, Hugh Marlowe, and Celeste Holm also give fine performances to complete the ensemble. Nevertheless, George Sanders gives the finest performance as the smart and sinister Addison DeWitt, an influential critic who has a major role to play in this event.Above all, the script is what makes this a classic film in its own right. Mankiewicz, just like he did in his previous film A Letter to Three Wives, perfectly balances the transitions between all the main characters. There isn't a dull moment here and by the end, it is a surprise as well as a satisfying look at backstabbing and deceit. This is a near-perfect movie that gets better and better with each viewing. Great acting, solid direction and perfect writing make this a true classic of the Golden Age.


                
Another AFI film off the list. Watching All About Eve, lots of things I'd heard over the years clicked and made sense. I heard the classic line, "Fasten your seatbelts, it's going to be a bumpy night" I finally saw a Mankiewicz film, who I'd heard about for quite some time (Although I may have seen The Virginian) And last but not least, I realized why All About Eve was listed AFI's Heroes & Villains list, and deservedly so.Anne Baxter put in a near-perfect performance as the title character, playing Eve with just the right amount of subtlety and charisma. I also really liked Bette Davis in the role of Margo Channing. I was reminded of Gloria Swanson's chilling performance as Norma Desmond in Sunset Blvd. Both characters are obsessed with their own stardom and have a desire to control their surroundings. (Both films also have similar beginnings as well) Ironically, both films were released in the same year.For a film that relies <U+FEFF>predominantly on dialogue between the many characters to tell the story, I was surprisingly engaged throughout. This is proof that you don't need action to tell an entertaining story.All About Eve also has another ending that I really liked and fit the story perfectly in a circular manner. This is definitely a film worth watching.


                
For me, thismovie is satirical but I cannot easily identify if it is a comedy, a dramedy, a cynical social comedy or an outright femmefatale drama. Maybe it is all of them in meticulously calculated quantities.It must be pointed out thaat Mankiewicz' dialogue is visibly but not unbearably overdrawn, pompous, full of grammatical twists and exaggerations and theatrical mannerisms and expressions but for the most part they are mixed well with the performances. It is though one weak point of Mankiewicz pictures. You can notice it even more grotesquely in Cleopatra (1963).All performances are very good, but I distinguish Anne Baxter who I think stands a little higher even than Bette Davis in this film. Baxter's voice, face, exressions and lines are filled with fake docility, fake humility and yet a spark glows constantly urging for ambition. She is even scary sometimes. Within her role, she easily passes from deference to cruel manipulation, lying and b;ackmailing on a whim! It is quite unfair that they couldn't puull out a four-way tie at the Academy and award Davis, Baxter, Swanson and Holiday equally the statuette. Baxter deserved to be in the Best Actress category. I don't believe she stole enough votes from Davis to strip her of the win but she contributed. I have not watched Eleanor Parker's performance who was the fifth nominee, but the other four were equally worthy of the award. Sentimentally, I woud like Davis to share it with Swanson. Obectively it should be a four-way tie at least. So, Baxter is a major driving force for the script. She is 40% of the picture and Davis gets the same percent for me. The rest is divided between George Sanders, Celeste Holm and Thelma Ritter. It is no miracle that film received four female acting nominations. It is the only film to have achieved this. Davis also plays brilliantly tthe bored, alcoholic and insecure fading star who has to transit from ingenues to older roles.The sets are austere and not elaborate but they are perfect for this movie and you can get a glimpse of how Broadway theatre worked in the mid-20th century.
The second weak point I can sense is a slightly urefined progress of Eve Harrington. I think Margot gets the truth behind her character quite too early and she starts loathing her before her friends do and this important for the plot but I will spare you a spoiler by not revealing why. It would be even smoother and more realistic if Margot slowly interacted and saw things and then pieced the puzzle together about Eve's true nature.In general, male performances except Sanders' are weak and do not play a large part in advancing the plot. Any actor could have played Gary Merrill's role or Hugh Marlowe's and be quite the same.All in all, I rate it with 9/10 and I have probably omitted some details, though I have expressed most of my thoughts.


                
Recap: We begin at the end, were the young actress Eve Harrington is presented with a prestigious award. There, the cast around her remembers how it all came to this moment. How they found Eve around the stage door, apparently the devoted fan. They took her in, gave her a chance and she used it to all it was worth. Although being in the company of prominent theatre professionals, and despite given an award for a play later, Eve gives the performance of her life to play all angles, to rise to the top, quickly and at all costs. Only writer Addison DeWitt sees through her, but instead of revealing her he gives aid with small advice, as another little project of his.Comments: I find it is prudent to be careful when seeing old dramas, even when they are lauded and awarded as All about Eve is. They might be anything, a stellar classic or a boring slow movie that is just beyond me how everyone thinks it is so great. All about Eve is close to be the former, it is great, despite being quite long at 138 minutes (I believe). It is one of those movies where the sum is greater than its parts.First off, and most important always, is the groundwork. The story. It is complex, intricate and not too apparent. It carefully examines its main characters, but not too quickly, it reveals small tidbits here and there, gives a small hint. It is a drama but seem to lend a lot of qualities how to develop a story from the genre of mysteries or crime. But also there is a hint, small but always there in the background of humor. A witty one-liner or remark or the behavior of a diva. It is a splendid story, keeping at least me in its grip during the entire run.Second, there is the cast. Cast is nothing without a good story, but a good cast can let a story shine. This cast does. Anne Baxter is splendid as the coldly manipulating but oddly passionate Eve. Bette Davis is almost better, in part due to the more manic character of Margo. Supported by a good cast of Celeste Holm, Gary Merrill, Hugh Marlowe and, in my opinion (he did get an Oscar for it), especially George Sanders who plays the devious, equally manipulating, Addison DeWitt.Not to mention Marilyn Monroe. She got a small role, really not very important to this story. She could have been excluded and not be missed. But with her looks, and her delivering her few lines it is apparent, at least in hindsight, that she would be a future star.And everything just fits together. This is a true classic, a gem that is one of those you should see.9/10
I won't follow many people's opinion that say Bette Davis is the best actress ever, but I must say she was brilliant. To be honest, I have only seen three movies with her: "Jezebel", "Of Human Bondage" and "All About Eve", but it was enough for me to conclude she was fully talented. Here we have the chance to see her in the best performance of the three ones I have cited. The film itself is really interesting. The story is good and the cast is just great! Anne Baxter, George Sanders and Celeste Holm also brought beauty and talent to this movie.  My rate 9/10


                
If you haven't heard about ALL ABOUT EVE, what planet are you living on? It's one of the most referenced films in history; it sneaks into single-white-female films ever after; it has a brilliant cast and script and direction... and, oh yes, it scored 14 Oscar nominations (equalled only by the not-as-witty-or-worthy 'Titanic') and 6 wins. Even if you haven't actually *seen* the film, you just can't consider yourself a movie fan if you haven't at least heard of it.There is so much to dwell on with this film--the direction, the script (zingers flying so thick and fast it would take years and about 100 viewings to get them all straight, much less memorise them!), its clever themes. What makes it stand out, though, really is the cast that was assembled to bring it to the screen. Bette Davis never gave a finer performance than her Margo Channing here--at times shrewish and a harlot, at others vulnerable and little more than a child. Who could have pulled it off but her? Ann Baxter too does fine, subtle work as the Eve of the title: it's a difficult role to pull off with the proper complexity that will allow for varying interpretations of the character. Baxter manages it. The supporting cast is fine as well, Celeste Holm (almost unrecognisable from her turn in 'High Society') as the gullible good friend Karen; Gary Merrill playing Margo's paramour to great and believable effect; and yes, the Oscar-winning George Sanders as the ultimate slimeball, Addison DeWitt. And who could forget Marilyn Monroe in her small part? She glitters--all "fire and magic"--even in the ten minutes of screen time she has.A fine, fine film--one of the best of the backstage films Hollywood was so fond of producing. Brilliant writing, with the story told through interspersed different points of view. Great observation, as well, of some of the things that make women, especially career women, tick. Yes, it *is* somewhat sexist, with the claim that whatever career a female has, she must ultimately work at being a *woman*. It's not a belaboured point though, thank goodness. In the final analysis, ALL ABOUT EVE is definitely a classic film that truly deserves the label of 'classic'.


                
I could use thousands of beautiful words to describe this movie.Unfortunately, I am not allowed to use more than 1000.EVERYONE IN THE CAST WAS INCREDIBLE.Bette Davis, Anne Baxter, Thelma Ritter, and my adorable Celeste Holm should have won the academy awards.Anne Baxter made a wonderful performance as an envious bad poor girl which goal was to be famous.Bette Davis,the star in the fiction and in real life as well, was an excellent actress with a very bad temperament, but good person and very professional.Thelma Ritter had a worse temperament than Davis, but she was as good person as Davis was.And celeste Holm was the best.She made a memorable performance as Davis' best friend in this movie. She was credible, her expressions, the tone of her voice, her friendship to Davis,everything was perfect.Congratulations Mrs.Celeste Holm!!!!!!!! I am 30 years old and I suggest you to see this unforgettable movie.


                
This film is a masterpiece, full of great acting (hurrah esp. for bette davis!) all around, and a wonderfully written script. The background info is given subtly and gradually (e.g. Margo's relationship with Bill, the critic's reputation, etc.) and the dialogue is sharp (always) and witty (where needed). Wonderful poetic justice tale and not-the-usual romance relationships. A real bite of life throughout.  A true classic.


                
"All About Eve" is set in a vanished world, the glitzy "Golden Age of Broadway." But, remarkably, the film doesn't seem dated. This classic tale of ambition and manipulation features characters real enough that you can imagine the same story happening today. Scheming Eve Harrington insinuates herself into the life, and eventually the career, of aging actress Margo Channing. A vivid array of theatre types either help or hinder Eve as she rises to fame; they include Margo's younger boyfriend/director Bill, famous playwright Lloyd and his wife Karen, Margo's sharp-tongued maid, and influential critic Addison DeWitt. The characters are well-drawn, with many foibles; nearly everyone behaves stupidly or cruelly at least once.The screenplay for "All About Eve" was based on a short story, and at times the film feels too literary or talky or stagy. Scenes tend to be long, as they are in stage plays, rather than short, as is usual in the movies. The camera work is fluid and competent, the lighting is bright and professional, but they lack that cinematic spark. Still, though, it's hard to say exactly how to change the screenplay<U+0097>it's full of witty observations about life and the theatre, which would be a shame to lose.Bette Davis deserves all the praise she gets for this role, and the movie loses a lot when she's not in it (especially toward the end). I was struck by how she conveys Margo's larger-than- life personality, the "actress who can't stop performing," while also showing us Margo's real human needs. George Sanders is excellent as Addison DeWitt (was there ever a more perfectly named character?), gradually revealing the slime beneath his cultured persona. Thelma Ritter and Marilyn Monroe are great fun.The character of Bill is supposed to be 32 years old, prompting 40-year-old Margo to fret about how she's losing her looks and dating a younger man. Gary Merrill acts the role of Bill well enough, but he looks at least as old as Bette Davis, making this plot line somewhat unbelievable. Celeste Holm and Hugh Marlowe, playing Karen and Lloyd, are unremarkable. And I still can't decide how I feel about Anne Baxter's performance in the major role of the manipulative Eve.Though "All About Eve" has its flaws (I'll admit it, I prefer "Sunset Boulevard"), it's a smart movie, with an excellent script and some wonderful performances. Cynical and entertaining, it will make you wonder whether you know any modern-day "Eves".


                
Considered to be THE show business movie, and for good reason!! Anne Bancroft and Bette Davis just act the dickens out of this movie, and they got all the accolades they deserved for this.Margo Channing is the crème de la crème of Broadway actresses. She gets awards, trophy husbands, and legions and legions of fans. As a matter of fact, one fan, one Eve Harrington, has seen every performance! Rather then shoo her away, her friend (played by Celeste Holm) encourages the two together. Soon, after a hoary sad-story about her husband dying and starting to go to the theater and discovering Channing, Channing decides to put the girl into her circle. But the warning signals soon come up, first from Margo's assistant, then Margo herself. But Eve is either too kind, or too manipulative, you're not really too sure for Margo to do anything about it, because she always seems to be two steps ahead of everyone else, again, you don't really know if by accident or by purpose. So this is all fun, Bette Davis is pulling her hair out over this, and Baxter is literally saying "What? What? What did I do?". Again, you're never sure if she's THAT naive or what, and that's what makes this film so much fun.


                
This story provided an excellent opportunity for the people involved in this film to turn out a Grade B soap opera with a theater setting. Instead they came up with a near masterpiece.Two things make the difference: (1) the gongoristic script, and (2) the glistening performances.You've never heard such dialog. "You're maudlin and full of self pity. You're magnificent." But a thousand examples wouldn't do the script justice because it's all of a piece. It was written -- some might argue aptly "overwritten" -- by Joe Mankewitz and directed by him as well. For a few years he was all over the place, but he never turned out anything else like this film. Nobody could. It's unique.All of the performances are adequate and most of them are more than that. I had a little trouble with the Eve Harrington character, played by Ann Baxter. She seemed out of her depth somehow, which was a shame because she's one of the central figures. She's a likable and attractive woman and the grand daughter of Frank Loyd Wright or somebody, which is all for the good, but her breathlessness limits her range. Hugh Marlowe is better than usual. Marilyn Monroe is indescribable and has some of the funniest lines. The rest of the cast is superb. Gary Merrill's baritone is reassuringly masculine. Bette Davis gives a Saturday Night Live imitation of Bette Davis with her broad gestures and husky voice projecting to the balconies. Celeste Holm is so damned sweetly likable without being a stunning beauty or a bravura actress. Her devotion to Davis is solid without being stolid, just what the role calls for. Perhaps best of all is George Sanders. Great name for the character too -- Addison DeWitt. Addison, as in "adder." Twice he's referred to as "venomous." Okay, the dialog and performances are overblown, but unashamedly overblown -- "I am once again available for dancing in the streets." Almost every line is equally juicy and ripe.In a way, "All About Eve" is what used to be called a woman's picture -- all that jealousy and backstage intrigue revolving around publicity, age, beauty, and men. Davis has a rather lengthy stint of monologue in which she discuss womanhood as a career. And the men are, frankly, all dummies except for Sanders who may or may not be gay. I only mention the possibility because he's the only man who really understands what these babes are up to. The other men -- even the reassuringly baritoned Merrill -- are as manipulable as Play-Do, but not Sanders. He smirks with his secrets throughout the movie until he cashes his knowledge in at the end. Actually, without wanting to be accused of stereotyping, the movie should have a good deal of interest for the gay community. It's got all the icons. Bette Davis at her bitchiest, the fear of aging and losing one's beauty, the skewering insults, the toughness under the froth and lace.I do kind of wish that Thelma Ritter hadn't disappeared half way through the movie, like King Lear's fool. I missed her a lot.It's curious that the agents of social control objected to a scene in which Betty Davis smokes a cigarette in bed. It sets a dangerous example. There was some static too over Gregory Ratoff's eructation after a glass of baking soda. Presumably, this might set a bad example as well. Before you know it, everyone will be burping and even children will take up the filthy habit. And of course married couples had to be shown in twin beds. Curiously, there was never a peep out of the censors about the brutal beatings and lethal shootings that were everyday fare in films of the period. Smoking is out, but killing is okay.Anyway, see this. There's nothing else quite like it, especially now, when the art of speech seems to have been pretty much lost in American movies. I can visualize it now, Mankewitz presenting this literate script to a committee of MBAs and having them brush it off -- "too talky."
