Can you imagine? Me, a film lover since the age of six, hadn't seen "Singing In The Rain" until last night. I had read and heard so much about it over the years that I knew I was going to be disappointed. As a musical I've never seen anything so perfectly "in tune" I can see how many directors have been influenced by the soul of this gorgeous movie. I've seen even Federico Fellini here. The tap routine with Gene Kelly and Donald O'Connor is so energizing that I wanted to see it again and again. The fantasy number with Gene Kelly and Cyd Charisse is breathtaking, breathtaking! How extraordinary to see Debiee Reynolds going through the contagious (Good morning!Good morning!) I had seen her a few nights before as Grace's mother in "Will and Grace" She hasn't lost her zest. I'm sure I'll be seeing this movie many times and I intend to show it to very young people from the post MTV generation and I'm betting with myself that they're going to love it. Greatness is timeless.


                
Don Lockwood (Gene Kelly) and Lina Lamont (Jean Hagen) are a famed Hollywood duo, making films at the tail end of the silent era. The studio has been issuing PR suggesting that they're a romantic item. In reality, they can barely stand one another. One night, while on the town with his best friend Cosmo Brown (Donald O' Connor), Lockwood has to run to escape fans who want a piece of him badly enough that they'll literally rip his clothes to shreds. He hops over a number of moving vehicles and ends up in the passenger seat of Kathy Selden's (Debbie Reynolds) car. Lockwood seems immediately taken with her, but she gives him the cold shoulder. She says she's an actress with a love of theater, and she looks down on film acting. Later, Lockwood discovers that she was inflating the truth a bit, as he sees Selden performing as a cute song & dance girl at an industry party he's attending. She runs out of the party and Lockwood chases after her, but he's too late. While he tries to track her down, he, Lamont and their studio have to deal with the changing nature of film in 1927--made much more difficult by the fact that Lamont may look glamorous, but she talks more like Fran Drescher in "The Nanny" (1993).Aside from the more serious aspects of the plot, Singing in the Rain is a great success as a romance and a musical. It also has an astoundingly rich Technicolor look, and it is charmingly humorous. Kelly and Reynolds click on screen, even if offscreen Kelly, who also co-directed and co-choreographed, was famously difficult to work with--he drove Reynolds so hard (she was a much more inexperienced dancer) that her feet literally started bleeding at one point. The songs are great, they're worked into the story well--which is perhaps surprising given that most of them weren't written specifically for this film--and the choreography is impeccable, frequently jaw dropping and always aesthetically wondrous and sublime. If for nothing else, the film is worth a look for its often-athletic dance numbers, which can resemble Jackie Chan's showy martial arts stunts as much as dancing. It's also imperative viewing for cultural literacy in the realm of film.But the more serious aspects of the plot are fascinating as well. In a significant way, Singing in the Rain is about film technology. Film technology is the hinge of the plot, after all. The climax and dénouement are decided by the advent of synchronized sound in the film industry. We see studio head R.F. Simpson (Millard Mitchell) demonstrating sound films at the party where Lockwood sees Selden for the second time, providing two big turning points at once. There are sequences of actors heading off to diction coaches, as happened in reality once sound entered the scene, and also in reality as in the film some actor's careers were jeopardized by having to suddenly master a new skill.But Singing in the Rain is about technology on another level, too. Kelly and co-director Stanley Donen go to great lengths to ensure that the film is an exemplar of state-of-the-art film technology in 1952. For example, the beautiful Technicolor cinematography is emphasized by the fabulously colorful costumes and production design--they're showing off cutting edge color. The sound is as good as it could be in 1952, and the fact that this is a musical helps show that off. The sets and effects are complex and an attempt is made to show them off as well.Donen and Kelly often play up the artificiality of the sets and effects to emphasize artistry and technology. This is clearly shown in the "Make 'Em Laugh" sequence (and surrounding events) and the extended "Broadway Rhythm Ballet" sequence with Cyd Charisse. Showing off this artistry and technology also occurs very subtly, as with the rain in the "Singing in the Rain" sequence. Even today, rain machines are frequently employed in a way that it appears to be raining on film, but in reality, it's just enough coverage to produce the illusion. In the "Singing in the Rain" sequence, they make sure that you can see the whole area is getting flooded, and they use Gene Kelly's umbrella, as torrents of water bounce off of it, to emphasize that no matter where he goes, "rain" is pouring down on him.While there are many musicals I like as much as Singing in The Rain, this is one of the better-loved examples of that genre, and for good reason. Any musical lover has surely seen this already, and if not, they should run out now and pick it up on DVD. If you're relatively unfamiliar with classic Hollywood musicals, this is one of the best places to start.


                
The transition from the silent film era to the newly arrived technique of the 'talkies' proved to be the ruin for many well established stars that were great on the screen, but who had no professional training in the theater, or otherwise, and had horrible speaking voices. Thus, a star of the magnitude of Lina Lamont, suffers a hard blow to her career and ego.That's the basis of one of the best movies about old Hollywood of all times: "Singin' in the Rain". The film is one of the classics it is because of the marvelous direction of Gene Kelly and Stanley Donen, two men who knew a lot about musicals. The screen play is by one of the best people in the business, Betty Comden and Adolph Green.MGM was the studio that employed all the stars one sees in the film, and what a cast they put together: Gene Kelly, Donald O'Connor, Debbie Reynolds, Jean Hagen, Cyd Charisse in a dancing part, Millard Mitchell and Rita Moreno. As if those names weren't big enough, there is the fantastic musical numbers that even, viewing them today, have kept their freshness because of the care in which this film was crafted."Singin' in the Rain" is one of the best musicals of all times. It's right up there with the best of them thanks to the vision of Gene Kelly and Stanley Donen and it will live forever as more people discover this wonderful example of entertainment.


                
Singin' in the Rain is one of the best movies ever made. The film is beautiful, tuneful, and loads of fun. While it pokes fun at Hollywood it also does so with great love. Little bits and pieces of Hollywood lore find their way into this great film and it's a pleasure to get the joke or recognize the real star they're referring to.The star trio is just perfect: Gene Kelly give a funny performance as the hammy silent actor; Donald O'Connor makes the most of his "second banana" role; Debbie Reynolds is perfect as the ingénue trying to break into films. The three stars perform many memorable numbers, including Kelly's "Singin' in the Rain" classic; all three in the "Good Mornin'" number; O'Connor's "Make 'Em Laugh"; and Kelly and Reynolds in "You Were Meant for Me." The masterpiece however may be the "Gotta Dance" production number with Kelly and Cyd Charisse<U+0097>just perfect. Also great fun are O'Connor and Kelly in "Fit as a Fiddle" and "Moses Supposes."There are of course other production numbers, including the montage that shows Hollywood's race to transition to talkies, a scene that ends in the "Beautiful Girl" number featuring Jimmy Thompson. Jean Hagen (as Lina Lamont) won an Oscar nomination and steals the film in a classic comedy performance. Also good are Millard Mitchell, Douglas Fowley, Rita Moreno, King Donovan, Kathleen Freeman, Mae Clarke, Julius Tannen, and Madge Blake.The great trick to this film is that while Reynolds is supposedly "lip syncing" for Hagen, it's really Hagen's voice that Reynolds is miming to as in the "I Would, Would You" number. The final miming act is Hagen mouthing "Singin' in the Rain" is really Reynolds. It gets so confusing you can't tell who is lip syncing whose voice.Lots of Hollywood lore retold in this film. Hagen's Lamont character is a veiled reference to Norma Talmadge, who supposedly failed in talkies because of her New York accent. It's also a reference to Louise Brooks, whose talkie debut in The Canary Murder Case was all dubbed. When Kelly screams "I LOVE YOU" it's a reference to John Gilbert in is talkie debut flop. His Glorious Night. Kathleen Freeman's diction coach character is a reference to Constance Collier, who returned to Hollywood as a coach. And on it goes.A great film!


                
This isn't my all time favorite (that goes to "Meet me in St. Louis") but this is definitely in the top 10. This is a fictitous musical comedy of the 1920s when silent films became "talkies". It chronicles how it affects Don Lockwood (Gene Kelly), his leading lady Lina Lamont (Jean Hagen), best friend Cosmo (Donald O'Connor) and Lockwood's new girlfriend Kathey Selden (Debbie Reynolds). Problem is Lina has a voice that can cut glass and doesn't like lockwood falling for Selden...This movie has one highlight after another. Almost all the numbers are great--the title tune, "Make 'Em Laugh", "Beautiful Girl", "Good Morning" on and on. My two favorites are two short ones: "Fit as a Fiddle" which has incredible dancing from Kelly and O'Connor and "Would You?" at the end. Kelly isn't that good acting (he never was) but his dancing is superb; Reynolds (only 19 when she did this) is beautiful, energetic and full of life; Hagen is uproarious as Lamont (she was nominated for an Academy Award--she should have won!) and O'Connor is just great as Cosmo (his "Make Em' Laugh" number has astounding dancing). It's hard to believe that Reynolds and O'Connor hated working with Kelly (he was obnoxious, VERY demanding and a tyrant)--it's a credit to their acting that it never comes through.I only have one (small) complaint--the big, elaborate production number with Cyd Charisse in the middle. It LOOKS great and colorful--but it brings the film to a screeching halt and is way too long. After it ends I have trouble remembering where the film left off! Still, that's a small problem. This remains one of the 10 best movie musicals ever made. HIGHLY recommended!


                
One thing I noticed in reading the comments of this movie is that nobody recognized the screenplay by Betty Comden and Adolph Green. Without their screenplay the movie does not get made. It is a great script that was made better by Gene Kelly and Stanley Donens' fluid direction. Everything in this movie glides effortlessly. Throw in dancing by Donald O'connor, Debbie Reynolds, Cyd Charisse and of course Gene Kelly, Great songs and the willingness of producer Arthur Freed to let the creative people to do their thing and you have a classic.


                
Gene Kelly and Stanley Donen have produced the best musical written directly for the screen. They have used the period in film history during the transition to sound movies and embroidered it with the wonderful songbook of Arthur Freed and Nacio Herb Brown. The icing on the cake, of course is the choreography of Kelly and Donen. From the first moment, the movie takes flight as Kelly relates the tale of his rise as a silent film star with his sidekick, the incomparable Donald O'Connor. Watch the flying feet of O'Connor and Kelly in the "Fit as a Fiddle" number. It doesn't get much better than this. Everyone is familiar with the classic "Singin' in the Rain" sequence. Donald O'Connor's hysterical "Make 'em Laugh" number is probably the funniest musical three minutes on film. Even the Broadway Ballet is a kaleidoscope of color and movement, with a minimum of the highbrow balletic choreography found in the later "An American in Paris."What makes "Singin'" such an entertaining classic is its superb integration of comedy and music. Jean Hagen gives the performance of her life as the vocally challenged silent film star, Lena Lamont. Every scene she's in is a comic gem. Her "fingernails on a blackboard" voice and massacre of the English language make her a figure of ridicule. However, in the end when she finally gets her comeuppance, one can't help feeling a little sorry for her.This delightful film has been given its due on video. On VHS it can be purchased with the complete remastered soundtrack on CD. The laserdisc versions include one with commentary by film historian Ronald Haver (Criterion) and the film-only version from MGM/UA Home Video with a restored Dolby Digital stereo soundtrack., Last,but not least,is a masterful rendering on DVD with, unfortunately, no supplementary material to speak of.This is truly a film for all time that can be watched just for its entertainment value and studied as probably the apex of the Hollywood musical in its Golden Age.


                
I'm going to confine my comments about "Singin' in the Rain" to the "Broadway Rhythm" sequence where Cyd Charisse steals the movie without saying a word. In my view, Charisse, who is still gorgeous at 83, was the quintessential movie dancer of the 1950s. Her height, elegance, aloofness and those impossibly long legs -- along with an uncanny ability to match her style to that of her partner -- makes watching her dance a mesmerizing experience.Many have said that the two numbers in "Singin' in the Rain" that feature Charisse probably belong in another movie. I don't know<U+0085> as the flapper in jade, she sexes up Kelly's rube character to a steamy height unusual in movies of that era. In a dance full of wonderful moves, my favorite comes after she's left him with her cigarette holder. She sashays away from him, blowing on her nails in studied boredom. She's gotten some distance away, and as she tosses her right hand back, he throws down the cigarette holder, grabs her hand and brings her flying up to his chest, where she proceeds to slide down Kelly's thigh to the floor for one of several prone positions she takes during this duet, from which she returns to a standing position with amazing grace. I'm not wild about dances that rely heavily on props, but this one does so very effectively: they're amusing and they reinforce character.And thank heaven for the artistic control that allowed Kelly to keep the "crazy veil" number in the picture. Charisse has discussed that dance, where she got to show off her early ballet training, most charmingly for a "Word of Mouth" feature on TCM. She and others have noted over the years that the wind machines required to keep that impossibly long veil moving and undulating between and above her and Kelly made filming a nightmare. But it looks effortless, on a set that is a subtle optical illusion<U+0097>not as deep nor as sloped as it appears to be.Both dances end the same way. Whether she's a cheap gangster's moll in garish green or a Grecian goddess in white, less obviously in a mobster's sway, Charisse is invariably lured back to reality by proffered baubles and menacingly tossed coins. But at the end of the crazy veil number, she's the one tossing the coins.Wonderful.


                
Singing In The Rain is to me the greatest musical ever made, sure many others push it close, The Wizard Of Oz for one will always be a 10/10 movie in my opinion, but Singing In The Rain is a film that has no flaws, it is a perfect movie.Don Lockwood is a star of silent movies but his life is boring, then talking movies arrive and with them he eyes an opportunity to greatly improve his life. A chance encounter with dancer Kathy Selden will further shape his destiny, and along with best pal and partner Cosmo Brown, their respective fortunes will hopefully dovetail towards fulfillment.Where do you start? The film is a homage to happiness, be it film making or love, or friendships and honour, the film is pure and simply joyous from the first reel to the triumphant last shot. Featuring stunning choreography, Singing In The Rain doesn't cop out by merely having characters plodding thru a script and then bursting into song occasionally, each song furthers the characters and fleshes out the story unfolding to keep the plot lines tight and crucially, important.Make 'Em Laugh, Good Morning, and Singing In The Rain are just some of the brilliant songs and dance routines on show here, with the latter a now legendary piece of cinematic history that speaks volumes for the joyous nature of the film, whilst the finale sequence of the 'Broadway Ballet' is magic & elegance personified. The cast are uniformly excellent, Gene Kelly, Donald O'Connor & Debbie Reynolds interplay together like they were hatched from the same egg, and the joint direction from Stanley Donen (along with Kelly) is seamless.Full of hat tipping and self-referencing winks, Singing In The Rain regularly hits the top ten lists of critics and movie fans alike, so lets not beat around the bush about it...it flipping well deserves it. 10/10 in every respect.


                
This is one of those handful of films that is universally loved and respected and I have to join the crowd on that. For over 50 years it has been considered the best musical ever made and I can't argue with that, either, especially with the newly- restored DVD version that came out a short time ago. The film never looked and sounded better!In a nutshell, the reason for the high praise, I would think would be: 1 - Likable lead characters (Debbie Reynolds, Gene Kelly, Donald O'Connor); 2 - Excellent song-and-dance numbers, capped off by one of the most famous of all-time, the title song "Singin' In the Rain," featuring Kelly; 3 - Very good humor throughout the film, aided by Jean Hagen's dumb blonde imitation, which may be the best ever put on film; 4 - Spectacular color (please get this latest 2-disc DVD), and 5 - of course, simply a very entertaining film start-to-finish.A few side comments: Kelly gets the legacy with his title song dance but O'Connor's dancing in here is just as good. In fact, one of his solo routines reportedly exhausted him so much he could not work for five days. A nice bonus is seeing Cyd Charisse in here, showing off her dancing skills and great legs.


                
Spoilers herein.This is a nearly perfect film from my perspective: It feels naturally improvised. Its episodes are radically discontinuous, but feel like fluid transitions. It has some great numbers, including the incomparable Cyd Charisse.But what really puts this on my `must see' list is the deep self-reference. Superficially, it is a movie about a movie, but actually the folding is a whole lot more complex, even psychedelic. The narrative structure is flashbacks, flashforwards, about the movie, IS the movie, about the fooling behind the movie (oddly, Debbie's non-movie songs were dubbed by someone else!). It has nested abstractions, and encompassing ones. It has several manner of annotative features. And the internal movie itself grows while we watch to have internal nesting of different types: the original costume drama becomes a vision from a modern newcomer whacked on the head. And further, there is the Charisse number which is another abstraction.
There were precessors: `Kane' (41) introduced the use of many parallel narrative devices, `Children of Paradise' (45) had conflated reality and performance: `Red Shoes' (48) took it to dance, and those are must see as well. But here, the technique becomes visual jazz improvisations on reality. Thrilling.None of the people involved ever came close on other projects. Odd.Ted's evaluation: 4 of 4 -- Every visually literate person should experience this.
It has long been thought that the musical era was born out of pure enthusiasm over the ability to put sound on film.  And while the case holds water, it is not entirely correct.  As `Singin' In the Rain,' so eloquently shows; comedy, charm, music, and dance can all be featured successfully within one film.`Singin In the Rain,' is also generally known as the greatest musical of all time.  Roger Ebert, the late Gene Siskel, Leonard Maltin, and many other prominent critics agree with that opinion.  The plot was born from a song and used others that had been around for many years, ever since `the talkies' were born in the late 20s.  The screenplay was written according to the songs.  Although the cast had been cast,  and re-cast several times; the end result was one of perfect chemistry.  The combination of the ever-so talented Gene Kelly (arguably 1 of the 2 best film dancers ever) and Debbie Reynolds worked very well, despite complications that arose off the set. And Donald O'Connor was born for his role as Cosmo Brown, the best buddy to Kelly's Don Lockwood.  His wit keeps the film fresh and funny.  If you took a drink for every smart remark he made, you'd be drunk, before Lockwood gets the girl!All the characters in this film are dynamic, save Cosmo Brown and Lena Lamont (played by Jean Hagen).  This was perfect for what was called for, for this film to succeed.  This helps the film `move,' where other musicals fail.  This is where the irony enters; since this film was written in reverse of this philosophy.  Being able to incorporate quality songs into a quality storyline is a skill no studio has ever mastered, even to this day. Even, MGM, which was known as `the king of the musicals', failed more often than it succeeded.  To this day, no one has mastered it; although Disney has almost reached MGM proportions with its animation department.As the film opens, the premiere for one of the famed `Lockwood/Lamont' films is taking place for `The Royal Rascal.' As the stars arrive, one by one, Cosmo Brown arrives.  A bit later Lockwood and Lamont arrive. Lockwood tells a `story' of how he and Cosmo get to stardom.  To celebrate the release, there is a party at the studio's producer's house.  But to get there, Lockwood must go by a different rout than everyone else, finding Kathy Selden (Debbie Reynolds) in the process.  After a few cute surprises and accidents, Don gets a conscience attack.  After finally finding her, he realizes that he cares for her.  Meanwhile, Cosmo Brown keeps up his antics and funny nature.  The comic relief is never amiss in this film.  Lamont soon learns of the romance and is up to something, but what?  What do you think she is, `.dumb or something?'The co-director (also co-directed by Gene Kelly) Stanley Donen called the `Moses Supposes' dance sequence with Kelly and  O'Connor, the best dance sequence ever.  I agree that it is in the Top 3, but not the best, that's in another film; which Donen directed, for another review.  All numbers in this film are memorable, where most from other films are not.There is only one detraction in this film.  It is the `Broadway Melody' sequence.  It begins with another interesting and amusing song and dance number by Mr. Lockwood, trying to convince his producer of something.  But the scene becomes too long and unnecessary.  Cyd Charisse is an amazing talent, but the dance number she has in the film, should have been deleted. It is mesmerizing, but is out of place in this film.  This 13 minute sequence should have ended at about 7-8 max.  Still, this detail is so minute, that it isn't a bad detraction. When this film was released in 1952, it opened to luke-warm reviews and average box office receipts.  It wasn't until it's `10th Anniversary,' that people began to notice that `Singin' In the Rain' was special and has been known as such ever since.  The AFI, when it released it's list of `The 100 Greatest Films Ever,' ranked this film No.10, to put it at the highest mark for a musical of any era and place Ms. Debbie Reynolds as half of the only mother/daughter combination on the list*.  `Singin' In the Rain,' is always fun to watch, the film has also been recently released on DVD with tons of extras.  As enduring as Mr. Kelly's lamppost lean is, so this film echoes Mr. Lockwood's sentiments of nothing; nothing but pure joy that is.Personal Rating: 99 on a 100 point scale*Note-Ms. Reynolds' daughter, Carrie Fisher appeared in AFI's No. 15 film, `Star Wars.'


                
"Singin' in the Rain" could be considered on the top of movie musicals... It is fresh, imaginative and enjoyable...Arthur Freed wrote the lyrics to the songs and they were excellent, specially the title number "Singin' in the Rain" which Stanley Kubrick repeated it in his black comedy "A Clockwork Orange," in 1971...But the mysterious power of "Singin' in the Rain" remains in the script, written by Betty Comden and Adolph Green whose sprightly adaptation were also shown in musicals like "On the Town," "It Always Fair Weather," and "Bells Are Ringing." The film is a brilliant musical, the best picture by far of Hollywood in transition...It is a gentle satire on the movie modes and manners of the twenties, put together around the problem that faced several actors and studios in their transition from silent films to talkies... This transition is in reality horror and shock to several film stars who failed for not having enough way of speaking, effective word order between image and voice..."Singin' in the Rain" is the story of a wildly funny sex goddess played by Jean Hagen who steals the classic as an aggressive no-talent squeaky-voiced silent-screen goddess forced to use blackmail to keep her star in the Hollywood sky<U+0085> Jean was in love with Kelly who wanted to substitute her by the talented chorus girl Debbie Reynolds.. "Singin' in the Rain" is rich in the brilliant way in which it is written and done... Its three production numbers are extraordinary, illuminating the picture with different forms of entertainment and bright colors<U+0085> The big number 'Broadway Ballet,' is a surrealistic extravaganza filled with magic, huge cast, spectacular use of light, color, costumes and sets, plus a marvelous ballet danced by Kelly and Cyd Charisse...Gene Kelly became legendary as a choreographer and director... With Stanley Donen, in addition to "Singin' in the Rain," he made "On the Town," and "It's Always Fair Weather." Taken all together, they are constituent element to surpass most of musical achievement...
A perfect movie in every sense, 'Singin In The Rain' has rightly gone down in history as the best musical picture ever. But it is much more than that. A sparkling comedy, with a cast that is 100% perfect, and one of the best movies about movies ever made too.Gene Kelly's genius has never been more apparent than in this movie, but, as always he never steals the show, in fact here practically having the show stolen from him by Donald O'Connor's gravity defying 'Make 'Em Laugh' and Jean Hagen's unforgettable Lina Lamont. Kelly's title number is the epitome of carefree nonchalance. The guy's in love and he isn't going to let a little rain get in the way. This 'classic' scene is possibly the feelgood moment to beat all others. I defy anyone not to succumb to the Kelly's Irish charm during this number, if you haven't already been won over.But a musical is just a musical without a decent story. That's where Comden and Green's pertinent screenplay comes in. Using Nacio Herb Brown's songs from the era in which the movie is set we are taken back to Hollywood in transition, a time when silent movies were ousted by the talkies. For what is generally regarded as just a light-hearted song and dance movie 'Singin In The Rain' takes a pretty accurate line and takes a satirical swipe at the studios and the gossip mongers of the day. There were stars, like Lina Lamont, whose careers disintegrated on the advent of talking pictures, and others, like Kathy Seldon, whose stars were beginning to rise. For a while, there weren't enough voice coaches to go round! The race to match the success of 'The Jazz Singer' was truly chaotic, with studios churning out potboiler after potboiler to cash in on the talking picture. It was also a time when MGM itself started it's reign of the musical genre with epic production numbers, and casts of thousands. In a sense,'Singin In The Rain' both lampoons and celebrates it's own ancestry and place in cinema history.Exhilarating, exuberant, and mesmerising. Still, in my opinion, the most entertaining, and the best, movie ever made!


                
Singin In the Rain is arguably the best movie musical of all time, not just because of the music but because of the entire package - the premise, the comedy, the characters - everything here works together to make you feel better any time you sit down to watch it. It's ironic that this movie was thrown together quickly to capitalize on the success of "An American in Paris", since the improvisational feeling of the movie is one of the things that makes it so much fun. Although this film is number ten on the top 100 films of all time as compiled by the American Film Institute, it wasn't nominated for best picture the year of its release, 1952. Although it did well at the box office, it would be over twenty years before people would look back and realize just what a great motion picture it was. Perhaps that was because the 1970's were such bleak and cynical years, with movies that largely matched that mood, that people were eager to rediscover the fun that a motion picture viewing experience could be.The movie focuses on that period of time in which the entire motion picture film industry was in nervous transition from silent to talking pictures. Although the movie compresses time in this respect - the transition actually took about three years - it does accurately describe the technical problems of that era along with their comical aspects. There was an overabundance of musicals in the first batch of talking films, many stars did have heavy accents that made their speech undecipherable or voices that came across like nails on a chalkboard like Lina Lamont (Jean Hagen) and saw their careers ruined, and early sound technology itself was so fragile that you would often see actors speaking to potted plants or to coat racks with comic effect. The preview of silent picture team Lockwood and Lamont's first talkie, "The Dueling Cavalier", is one of the most hilarious scenes in the film. It is pretty typical of what you would see in such an early talking picture - dialogue going in and out of sync, actors and actresses strutting around and wildly gesturing as if nobody can hear them, and dialogue that still resembled what you would read off of the title cards in a silent film - "I love you, I love you, I love you".All of this is one of the reasons Singin' In The Rain will never get dated - it is a comic nostalgic look at a very narrow period in time. This movie is fun outside of its comic take on movie history, though. For one, it's hard to say who steals the show the most, since there are so many thieves involved. Most notably there is Jean Hagen - who actually has a very pleasant speaking voice - as the evil silent star who can't accept her days are numbered. Then there is a 27 year-old Donald O'Connor as Cosmo, the studio music director and sidekick of Gene Kelly's character whose youthful exuberance really shines in the number "Make 'Em Laugh" along with all of his goofy facial expressions. He seems to be having as much fun as the audience. Finally, there are all of the great dance numbers and music, capped by probably one of the most famous scenes of all time - Gene Kelly's rendition of the title number that perfectly captures the joy of a man who has just fallen in love and feels he has the world at his feet. You just can't watch this film and not come away with a smile on your face. It is as good for the soul as chicken soup, just a lot more fun.


                
Unfortunately, after watching Singin in the Rain over a thousand times, i can find absolutely nothing wrong with it. It has to be said, this is the best film in existence.The songs are all incredible and are some of the few that can get stuck in your head for a week and you still won't be sick of them. Donald O'Connor and Gene Kelly singing "Moses Supposes" is definitely one of the highlights. As is Kelly singing in the rain, O'Connor making 'em laugh, Reynolds, Kelly and O'Connor wishing each other a good morning... i could go on.The first time i saw Singin in the Rain i was eight years old,and that was nine years ago. Loved it then and i adore it now.Definitely one you need to see.


                
In 1927, the former stunt Don Lockwood (Gene Kelley) becomes a successful actor with the company of his best friend Cosmo Brown (Donald O'Connor) forming a romantic pair with the actress Lina Lamont (Jean Hagen).In the period of transition from silent movies to talking pictures, Don accidentally meets the aspirant actress Kathy Selden (Debbie Reynolds) while escaping from his fans and fall in love for her. Lina has troubles with the sharp tune of her voice, and Cosmo and Don decides to dub her, using Kathy's voice, to save their movie. When the jealous Lina finds the strategy of the studio, she does not want to share the credits with Kathy and tries to force the studio to use Kathy in the shadow to dub her in other productions. But when Lina decides to speech and sing to the audience, the truth arises."Singing in the Rain" is a musical masterpiece, one of those unforgettable movies that the viewer never get tired of watching. The cast is in state of grace, with wonderful interpretations. Jean Hagen is simply fantastic in the role of Lina Lamont, an actress unable to speak correctly and with an awful voice. Debbie Reynolds has a doll face, Donald O'Connor is very funny and Gene Kelly is fantastic. This is certainly one of the best movies ever made. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "Cantando na Chuva" ("Singing in the Rain")


                
SINGIN' IN THE RAIN's story is well known, and concerns 1920s silent romantic acting team Don Lockwood (Gene Kelly) and Lina Lamont (Jean Hagen.) Trouble is that sound is coming in--and Lina's speaking voice could peel paint off the wall. The solution? Don's best friend (Donald O'Connor) and love interest (Debbie Reynolds) have the inspiration of revamping Lockwood and Lamont's debut sound film as a musical, with Reynolds dubbing Hagen's vocals. The resulting story is a high-energy, extremely witty, and truly sparkling film laced with period songs by Arthur Freed, a film that many regard as the single finest musical to emerge from Hollywood.In many respects SINGIN' IN THE RAIN is a throwback to the early musicals of the era it satirizes, for many of its musical numbers ('Make 'em Laugh' is a notable example) have absolutely nothing to do with the story it tells--but unlike such early musicals the storyline is exceptionally strong, and since the film is about the creation of an early "all talking, all dancing, all singing" movie in which such musical numbers were typical, they have here a certain validity that could not otherwise be achieved.The cast is absolutely flawless, and without exception Kelly, Reynolds, O'Connor, and Hagen (particularly memorable as the literally unspeakable silent star) give the finest performances of their respective careers. The musical numbers range from the vibrant and complex 'Good Morning' to the lyrical 'You Are My Lucky Star' to the brilliantly conceived and executed title song, each without exception the definition of perfection. The art designs are meticulous, beautiful, and recreate the late-silent and early-sound era of Hollywood with considerable wit and charm. As a whole, SINGIN' IN THE RAIN possesses an energy and vitality that simply makes you bounce in your seat from excitement.SINGIN' IN THE RAIN is a musical that even people who hate musicals love. Whether or not you consider it "the" finest musical ever created by Hollywood is, ultimately, a matter of personal preference; there are several contenders for that title, most notably MEET ME IN ST. LOUIS, GIGI, and THE WIZARD OF OZ. But no matter where you personally rank it, SINGIN' IN THE RAIN is certainly ONE of the best, a film that simply gains in critical and popular stature with every passing year, a national and a world treasure of cinematic art.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer


                
"Singin' In The Rain" is a musical for people who don't like musicals. Fast, funny, self-aware, and chock full of the best singing and dancing you can cram into 105 minutes, it might as well be the best movie musical since the entire genre peaked here, never to be effectively revived.Fittingly, the movie focuses on the birth of the Hollywood musical. It's 1927, and the silent-film romantic pair of Don Lockwood (Gene Kelly) and Lina Lamont (Jean Hagen) find themselves suddenly wired for sound after "The Jazz Singer" inaugurates a new era. While there are a lot of problems for the pair to overcome, including the fact he hates her for the nasty witch she is, the only real problem is that Lina's Godzilla-like ego comes with a Godzilla-like voice. Making their new movie into a musical might then seem a bad idea, except that Don's new girl Kathy Selden (Debbie Reynolds) can sing like a dream, and doesn't mind dubbing Lina.Knowing humor abounds in this classic, clever film. "You have to show a movie at a party. It's a Hollywood law," says Cosmo Brown (Donald O'Connor), Lockwood's buddy. An opening sequence features a Hedda Hopper announcer introducing vogue-ing celebrities at a red-carpet premiere. "They've been married two months now, and happy as newlyweds," she coos as a catatonic couple stroll past.Even the musical numbers are done with a wink, like "Beautiful Girl" and "All I Do Is Dream Of You." This would be a great film even if the most famous of those numbers, Kelly's "Singin' In The Rain," was left on the cutting-room floor. There's still "Make 'Em Laugh," the funniest song-and-dance routine ever done (by O'Connor and a mannequin) and "Good Morning," with some of the most intricate tap dancing ever performed times three.But "Singin' In The Rain" IS there, and it fully deserves its place in the pantheon, not only with Kelly's wonderfully irrational exuberance but some incredible camera work that pans over and around him to maximize the uplift in this goose-pimple number.If only they left out (and not just trimmed) that Broadway musical number near the end, the pseudo-ballet with Cyd Charisse. It pulls us away from the story for 20 minutes, apparently so Kelly could have a section with his favorite dance partner. No one ever looked better on the big screen, or projected such natural-seeming charisma, as Genial Gene, but apparently he could throw his elbows with the best of them. It's obvious how much this film owes to the other director, the playful and creative Stanley Donan. If Kelly stuck to the on screen stuff, this would have been a better film.But what am I talking about? It's "Singin' In The Rain"! I can't dock this simply because Kelly had a big ego. He earned it with this great film, a movie milestone. If you never see another movie musical, see this one. You'll be glad you did.


                
I watched Singin' in the Rain for the first time ever this afternoon and I think I'm in love. Oh Gene Kelly!.. *What* I would give to have you flash those pearly whites at me! The story is really just a musical about a musical, going into various dream-like sequences embodied in the twelve minute "Broadway Ballet". The songs are cleverly intertwined with the acting so there's none of that phoniness one is used to seeing in some musical pictures. To watch the choreography is to watch pure genius. Gene Kelly is so talented it should be outlawed. (It's downright sacrilegious he wasn't nominated for the Academy Award®!)  I mean - DAMN! I kept backing up to the 'Singin' in the Rain' part seventy-five times in a row...it fills me with such a sense of joy! My Gramps once broke his ankle trying to imitate ol' Gene. The supporting cast is perfect as well, you really must hand it to Debbie Reynolds! She wasn't a trained dancer up until this point. They made her rehearse eight hours a day, hiring different dance instructors to work with the young actress in shifts. The stress proved so overwhelming she eventually had a breakdown and caught the attention of neighboring Fred Astaire who asked, "Why are you crying?" Not able to recognize the man through her tears, Reynolds confessed she felt hopeless and would never meet Kelly's standards. Astaire led her to another rehearsal room where he was busy working on Royal Wedding. "You come watch me," he said. "You watch how hard I work. I don't cry, but I do get frustrated and upset and I'm going to let you watch." The experience showed her how a legendary performer like Astaire, known for his elegant moves on the dance floor, can even feel daunted : )Finally, what else can I say (other than Cyd Charisse wears the hottest dress I've ever seen)? This is one of THE greatest films of any genre ever! They just don't make 'em like this anymore.


                
As I sit here in a Film class I am taking I understood that I should have an open mind... But a Musical? What was he thinking, Making us watch a musical? Ok, I sat there biasly waiting for the DVD to play the So Called top ten movies of all time, and to my utter amazement and total surprise the movie did not suck. In fact I don't recall ever blinking during the show, it was Funny, Romantic- but not corny, seemed real life- for the most part, and over all quite inspiring to me and my fellow classmates here at The University Of Kansas, KU, United States of America. I must suggest that all those who have ever seen a movie before must buy this movie and add it to their collection of all-time favorites. I garante that any person between the ages of 9months and 120 years will love this show and share the same enthusiasm that I have.


                
For sheer enjoyment, no movie ever made beats Singin' in the Rain.  Donald O'Connor and Gene Kelly remind us why vaudeville was as popular as it was in the 20s, Debbie Reynolds lights up the screen, and Jean Hagen gives the performance of her career-of anybody's career for that matter.  If the title dance sequence doesn't get you moving, then there's no hope for you. There are only two down spots, "Beautiful Girl" and the never-ending "Broadway Melody" dance sequence (but the latter is worth it just to see Cyd Charisse).  The rest of the movie is flawless.


                
In the book The Films of Arthur Freed, Freed made one comment about Singin' in the Rain that always stood out in my mind. As the film was about the Hollywood era when films were learning to talk, Freed said that there was no need to do any research as he lived the research. He and any number of people who were still working at MGM a quarter of a century later.The knowledge that folks had who worked on Singin' in the Rain and the talent of Gene Kelly are the two things that make that film some consider the greatest of all musicals.Arthur Freed who wrote a lot of the song lyrics in those twenties and thirties MGM musicals together with his partner, composer Nacio Herb Brown, just reached into his own catalog for the score. The whole score is Brown-Freed except for Moses which was written by Roger Edens and Adolph Green and Betty Comden and Fit As A Fiddler with lyrics by Freed and music by Al Goodheart and Al Hoffman.The only 'original' song written for the show was Make 'Em Laugh by Brown and Freed and was Donald O'Connor's specialty. You have to put that in quotes because even the writers agreed they ripped off Cole Porter's Be A Clown. Which is from an MGM musical that Arthur Freed produced. Lucky they weren't sued.Of course the number that Singin' in the Rain is noted for is the title tune sung and danced in the splashing rain by Gene Kelly. That and the Broadway Melody ballet became two of his signature numbers. I know I don't enjoy myself as much as Mr. Kelly did in that inclement weather.Jean Hagen got a Best Supporting Actress nomination for playing that 'shimmering star in the cinema firmament' Lina Lamont. Unfortunately she lost to Gloria Grahame for The Bad and The Beautiful. One thing that the silent screen did was mask a whole lot of personalities whose voices did not fit the screen image created. That was done for great comic affect by Hagen, but Kelly in some of his love scenes was using the tragedy of John Gilbert who acted in two much the classical manner as a continental lover. Just think how history might have been different if Gilbert had the background of a song and dance man and could have transitioned to musicals. Of course Debbie Reynolds is just fine in her first real starring part as the young singing hopeful whose career is made by sound. So many in fact were, as many as those that were broken. A favorite of mine in this is Douglas Fowley the harassed director trying to get a talking performance out of the nasal Hagen and dealing with the new technology at the same time.As Freed said, no research was needed. Singin' in the Rain is a product of his life experience in those early days of sound.


                
Copyright 11 March 1952 (in notice: 1951) by Loew's Inc. A Metro- Goldwyn-Mayer picture. New York opening at the Radio City Music Hall: 27 March 1952. U.S. release: 10 April 1952. U.K. release: May 1952. Australian release: 27 June 1952. 102 minutes.SYNOPSIS: At the advent of talkies a popular silent screen team is hamstrung by the fact that the female partner has a voice like a berserk chipmunk.NOTES: Would you believe that Singin' in the Rain — the most popular, the most critically acclaimed musical of all time — did not receive any prestigious Hollywood awards. In fact the film had only two nominations, the first for Jean Hagen as Supporting Actress (she was passed over by Academy members in favor of Gloria Grahame in The Bad and the Beautiful), and the second for Scoring of a Musical Picture in which category Lennie Hayton lost out to Alfred Newman's With a Song in My Heart.The film didn't fare any better with contemporary critics. Although it placed in number three position (after The Atomic City and My Six Convicts) on his supplementary Hollywood movies list, it didn't make Bosley Crowther's Top Ten Pictures of 1952 for The New York Times. At least the film came in at the number eight spot both on The National Board of Review's Best American Films of the year and the annual Film Daily poll of the nation's film critics.MGM production number: 1546. Shooting from 18 June 1951 through to 21 November 1951, plus one day, 26 December 1951. Rehearsals started on 12 April 1951. Ernie Flatt worked with Debbie Reynolds on her tap dancing, while Kelly, Donen and Haney started on the staging of the numbers.Kelly explains that the two directors, whilst always working in close collaboration, sometimes worked individually as well as in tandem. Two sound stages were often used simultaneously, with photographer Rosson rushing from one set to the other. Kelly says he concentrated on directing the musical numbers, whilst Donen usually handled the straight story material.Two numbers were deleted before the first preview in order to speed up the story: "You Are My Lucky Star" sung by Betty Royce whilst Debbie Reynolds gazes at a billboard of Kelly; and Kelly singing and dancing "All I Do Is Dream of You".Negative cost: $2,540,800 (which was over budget by $620,996 mostly because the "Broadway Ballet" which had been estimated at only $80,000 was considerably extended when Donald O'Connor was unable to participate in the number due to a prior television commitment and a new story was built around substitute star Cyd Charisse). Initial domestic rentals gross: $7,665,000 which made it number ten on the nation's list of Box office Champions for 1952. Interestingly, it was by no means MGM's top grosser of the year, its takings exceeded by both Quo Vadis (shown at roadshow admission prices) and of course Ivanhoe which sold more tickets than any other movie of that year.COMMENT: Why is Singin' in the Rain the greatest of all screen musicals? A perfect marriage of story and songs, for one thing. The story's fresh, vital, witty, sharp amusing, charming, pointed, satirical with interestingly likable characters pacing from one fascinating crisis to another with agreeable fortitude. The songs flow naturally from and are an integral part of the story-line. Moreover these songs themselves are fresh, vital, witty, sharp, amusing, charming, pointed and satirical.Add to perfect story and perfect song, a perfect cast. Kelly is more debonair here and has lost most of that unattractive brashness and even boorishness of the screen persona he created in his earlier films. O'Connor too has toned himself down, only really letting loose in the musical numbers which make a nice contrast to his more unassuming role in the straight sequences. Miss Reynolds is perky, energetic, self-confident yet identifiable girl-next-door. Jean Hagen of course has the best role of her career and gives the performance for which she'll always be remembered.Add to perfect story and perfect songs and perfect cast, perfect direction. Kelly and Donen move their camera fluidly yet unobtrusively through both complex dance steps and constantly entertaining, twisting plot situations. Supporting technical credits are likewise as highly accomplished as they come.One of the things I most like about Singin' the Rain is that it's so consistently entertaining. There are no dull patches at all. True there are highlights, but the pace is so fast, and one highlight follows so quickly on the heels of another, and there are so many, it seems invidious to single three or four out in preference to seven or eight others.I suppose On the Town should have forewarned us, but the super- stylish, super-energetic, super-witty Singin' in the Rain is anything but the sort of stodgy, second-hand musical we expect from MGM. It's nice to have wit plus MGM's super production values as well.POSTSCRIPT: In the picture's credit titles, Freed's song is quoted as providing the script's inspiration. This of course is malarkey. The credit is nothing but a sop to producer's Freed's ego. When initially preparing the script, Comden and Green used their own imagination and initiative. And of course, as we now all know, Kelly actually hated the brash, egotistic O'Connor and conspired with Donen to fabricate various shooting delays so that O'Connor was unable to participate in the movie's rousing finale due to his previous TV commitment.
A lot of people seem to gush over this picture -- "It's my favorite musical," said one critic, and Kelly replied, "That's good to know." Well, it's hard to believe in lists of best or worst things because everything is made up of several dimensions. Some are good and some are bad. Sometimes very bad. Nobody would argue that Hitler was a nice guy but he DID love his dog, Blondi.However, I have to agree that within the limits of the genre this is probably the most satisfying musical I've ever seen. There is not a single musical number that is a dud. Kelly and Donen avoid Kelly's usual repetitive steps and he really stretches out on this one. There is about a one minute sequence in the "Broadway Rhythm" finale just after Kelly sings "Gotta Dance" from his knees that is given over to his solo. His dance is full of balletic leaps and jagged edges. It's a moment on unequaled exhilaration. He seems at time suspended by wires.I'll skip over the contributions of Cyd Charrise -- my God, those LEGS, like a more than usually sinewy giraffe -- and Donald O'Connor. You cannot NOT laugh at O'Connor's number, "Make 'Em Laugh." Even after several viewings.The most charming (and best-known) number is Kelly's "Singin' in the Rain," but it's not the most technically accomplished. I'd give that honor to "Moses Supposes." The whole movie is of course as corny as they come, although it probably didn't seem so in 1952 when it was released. There's nothing pretentious about it. Kelly had an unfortunate tendency to step out of his class with films like "Invitation to the Dance," and to be involved in musicals with dramatic underpinnings like the overblown "American in Paris." The thing about this MGM musical -- and a few others like "On The Town" and "The Bandwagon" is that they were funny as hell IN BETWEEN the musical numbers. Nobody could ever criticize Astaire's dancing. He was great, a much better dancer than Kelly in many ways, but his 1930s musicals with Ginger Rogers were appealing mainly because of their musical numbers. Betty Comden and Adolph Green in the 1940s added stories that could stand on their own as a comedies.There's something about singing as opposed to dancing too. Anybody can sing -- however lousily. You can sing. I can sing. My pet canary sings. Not well, but we all can do it. But dancing is a skill of a different order and to do it well we need the attention of Terpsichore. All those steps that seem so effortlessly improvised on screen (the taps are always dubbed in later) must be memorized one by one by the performers. Tap? Okay -- heel or toe? Thirty seconds of unedited dancing on screen represents about 100 hours of memorization and practice. Not to mention that you have to be in as good a physical shape as a running back."Singin' in the Rain" is a perfect example of how a nearly perfect musical should be made. Okay, Debbie Reynolds isn't much of a dancer and she can't sing well, but so what? The overall impact of the movie is so warm and fuzzy that it doesn't matter. It's like nibbling some kind of tiny and exquisite pastry, not a big deal, but the equal of any experience.
