Wow did I hate this movie. I feel like I need to rewatch it, because this IS supposed to be a good movie right? Like, classic, everyone loves it? I don't for the life of me understand why. I know all the songs, everyone knows all the songs. I recognized the singing in the rain scene. Who doesn't? But goddamn! This movie was a star vehicle if there ever was one! This movie exists just to show how awesome Gene Kelly was, and doesn't get anything else right. I've seen musicals before (who hasn't?), and I know for a fact that they're capable of having good plots and likable characters like any other movie! Then why does this one seem so flat?


                
This is the most disappointing film I have ever seen.It is certainly not the worst film, but I had such high expectations because of the cast and how famous the movie is.However, as a movie, it is contrived, banal, uninteresting, uninspiring and unbelievable. In fact, none of the movie made sense at all until I watched the special features that contained interviews with some of those originally associated with the movie.Then it all became clear: One interviewee pointed out that the film was created purely as a vehicle to string some promising songs together, as well as to try and recycle a couple of duds that had bombed in the hope they would be better received on this outing.And that is exactly what the movie looks like - a disjointed collection of 'music videos' strung together into a contrived story.Lots of other movies or stage shows have taken the same tack, such as the Abba musical Mama Mia. And while they may be harmless fun, they would not qualify as 'great' musicals in the way that the truly great musicals can - where music and story are brilliantly woven together into a beautiful fabric that is better than either the story or the music could be on its own.It has some merit as an example of an early advertising vehicle, where the threat posed by product pitches in distorting and destroying art was not yet fully understood. But any reasonably critical view of this film at that time should have stopped this poor film and that tragic trend in their tracks.As it turned out, audiences were prepared to accept and even celebrate the mediocre in order to fawn over favorite celebrities. And that wide embrace of shameless-advertising-as-art and celebrity over quality would prove over subsequent decades to be the dominant trend.


                
Well, I have to be one of those people who simply HATED this musical and really cannot see all the fuss over it, or ever why people think it should have won the Oscar for best picture of that year. Although it had some catchy tunes, and I guess the dancing was fine, it really didn't grab me. The plot was nearly non-existent. I put it up there with "Easter Parade", "Bandwagon", and "Finian's Rainbow" as the most boring musicals. Even though all of them have some wonderful tunes, none of them really do anything. Though I fully understood the weak excuse of a plot dealing with the transition from Vaudville, silent movies, then to talkies, I found that the actual plot was so thin it left me wanting, and it became nothing more than an excuse on which to hang some songs (albeit some really catchy and lively ones).Sadly, I find that to be the trouble with most Movie musicals. There are no characters that develop at all. However, there are some that have really grabbed me: "Seven Brides for Seven Brothers", "Meet me in Saint Louis" (and yes, it hasn't got a strong plot either, but it hangs together far better than "Singing in the Rain")"Brigadoon", "Showboat","Wizard of Oz", and a few like that. My favourite musical is "Fiddler on the Roof." Why it appeals to me is there is a real plot, and the music is not intrusive and doesn't stop the actual storyline. That is my biggest complaint with musicals is the way everything comes to a stop for the music ("Oliver" is one of the worst for this), and that usually the plot is so weak that well, were it not for the music there would be nothing whatever to watch.Each performer did a masterful job in this movie, that I can admit. The choreography was well thought out (especially anything that Gene Kelly danced, but of course, he did the choreography, so naturally what he designed for himself would be masterful). Even the singing was quite good (though I prefer more robust singing over Kelly's soft breathy crooning). And of course, the sets, costumes, and all that were wonderful. And the editing was well done.But even with all that going for it, it just left me cold and for the most part, bored. The only Movie Musical that bored me more was "Westside Story." And again, it is a musical with some really great music, just far too long.


                
