"Singin' In the Rain" I find to be a relaxed musical, one whose subject is the traumatic changeover that was faced by Hollywood producers, actors and directors when sound was introduced into film circa 1928. Many fans and critics believe the musical is one of the best ever; I disagree. But it is quite unusual in several respects, I suggest: first because its background is so realistic as a milieu from which to draw appealing characters and opportunities to introduce songs; and second because the film is played on the edge of parody without ever really falling into that error. The three characters at the center of the film are a love triangle. Don Lockwood, played amiably by Gene Kelly, is the on-screen partner of Lina Lamont (Oscar-worthy Jean Hagen); she has mistaken his sincere performance for real interest; he is in love with Kathy Selden, played by too-young but plucky nineteen-year-old Debbie Reynolds, about whom Lina knows nothing. The professional duo are completing one more romantic adventure film as a silent when suddenly sound is introduced into movies. The studio executives panic; and Don and his partner, played by Donald O'Connor, convince the director, craggy-faced and very realistic Douglas Fowley, to get the studio to let them remake the film as a musical--completing the unfinished portion, etc. The problem turns out not to be Don's transition to talkies but Lina's; she has the voice of a screech owl. Coaching becomes necessary; sensational dance numbers are introduced, including Kelly's solo "Singin' in the Rain", motivated by his falling in love with Kathy; Donald O'Connor's "Make 'Em Laugh" acrobatic classic; and the unnecessary but very-well-done "Gotta Dance" showcase ballet with Cyd Charisse as a gangster's moll, and Kelly as a Broadway hopeful. Then, the film is completed and debuted; of course Lina has found out about Kathy. And of course this intelligent satire works out well for all concerned, after some trials and tribulations. Great fun is gotten I suggest from the actors having to learn to "talk into the flowers", where early microphones had to be hidden, etc. Harold Rosson provided the cinematography, with art direction by Randall Duell and Cedric Gibbons. Nacio Herb Brown's songs were intelligently recycled for the film. Arthur Freed, MGM's master musical specialist, had the use of the talents of Betty Comden and Adolph Green for the screenplay and one song, "Moses Supposes"; he also had then-28- year-old nice guy Stanley Donen as director, soon to add "On The Town" and "Seven Brides For Seven Brothers" to this triumph. Walter Plunkett did the period costumes, with complex set decorations being done by Jacques Mapes and Edwin B. Willis. The studio's boss was played by Millard Mitchell, with Rita Moreno and a dozen familiar faces in smaller parts and uncredited appearances such as Joi Lansing, Paul Maxey, Sylvia Lewis, Kathleen freeman, King Donovan, Dawn Addams, Elaine Edwards, Mae Clarke and Snub Pollard. The film was influential, I assert, my criterion for including it among these reviews, because, immediately afterward, other 1920s and period projects were inspired by its success; these included, "Has Anybody Seen My Gal", the TV show "So This is Hollytwood", and ultimately "The Great Race", "The Rise and Fall of Legs Diamond Story" and a hundred others, including a few musicals. I consider it to be genial, a clever period evocation, lightweight, exuberant, youthful, and a very seminal work with a strong central character and unusually-interesting reality background.


                
This film, one of the greatest (if not THE greatest) musicals ever made, unfortunately shows its age.  Redeemed by several outstanding song and dance routines, the film is a fun and fast way to spend 90 minutes or so. However, at the risk of sounding jaded, much of the film is corny and borderline mawkish.  It has not aged well.  I recently saw "Singin' in the Rain" at Oakland's Paramount Theatre, a refurbished '20s movie house that can accommodate huge crowds in its big-screen auditorium.  (Those that can should attend - tickets are generally $5, and while food and drink are not allowed in the movie, they have a full bar and beverage service before the show.  Films selected are usually "classics" like "Gone With The Wind" or "Casablanca", and they have live organ music and Deco Win before each film.) I was amused by both Donald O'Connor, who is great, and the film's dated sensibilities.  Many people were humming to Gene Kelly's famous solo, however, and that's what counts.  That particular scene must be among the ten greatest or most memorable in film history, and it never disappoints.  I rated the film a "7" just for that scene alone.


                
A movie about the early years of Hollywood. More specifically, about the transition period between the silent era and the so called talkies. One of the most well-known musicals of all time. The best musical of all time, if some critics are to be believed.And there definitely is a lot of musical content. The movie sees no problem in bursting into a song and dance number whenever it pleases. I'd even argue that it's a bit much. By the time the seventh or so tap dancing sequence rolled around, I was ready to throw in the towel. Granted, some of the song numbers are absolutely phenomenal, like the titular Singin' in the Rain or Good Morning that comes immediately before it.Luckily the film hits its stride around the middle and it's a much smoother sailing from there. Or I just got used to it. Who can say.The acting is also very good, which helps a lot. Gene Kelly not also directed the film, he also plays the lead role, and he's certainly having a blast with it. Debbie Reynolds and Donald O'Connor, playing Kelly's love interest and best buddy, respectively, are also great and their joined song numbers are easily the most entertaining ones.Character-wise, the one thing I didn't quite get is the character of Lina Lamont (Jean Hagen), the acting partner of Kelly's character. She's showcased as this great villain and is the primary antagonist of the film, but the way the film tried to portray her never quite matched with the actual character. Sure, she's self-centered, narcissistic and willing to trample others in her pursuit of fame, but she never seemed all that malicious to me. It seemed much more like she didn't know any other way to act.A film that certainly earns its status as a classic. It's a product of its era and quite different from modern films, but it has a lot of charm and energy, which carry it far. Recommended for fans of the musical genre.


                
In thinking about comparing this Kelly film to "An American in Paris" I am forced to recall the Vice-Presidential debate in which Dan Quayle got caught comparing himself to Jack Kennedy: "I knew an American in Paris, and YOU are no American in Paris." I am much more inclined to find the comparison invoked in the famous suburban lawn care commercial: an American Tweedledum in his Kellyesque pastel polo shirt, who uses the product, compares his lawn to that of an American Tweedledee in a similar shirt, and says killingly "He has some nice places ON his lawn, but overall I have the better lawn." Singin' has all the great and memorable numbers everyone thinks of, but despite a good plot idea it is clearly podged together and doesn't coalesce as an artistic unit. In particular, the Kelly / Charisse duet in the "Gotta Dance" extravaganza is clearly made to remind us of the wonderful arty sequence in "American" (right down to using Cyd herself) but instead of flowing out of the main plot is artificially inserted (as just about anything could have been) as an improbable addition to the Dancing Cavalier talky movie-within-a-movie. The best Gene Kelly film is "An American in Paris."
Such an easy movie to watch. Humour that hasn't aged at all. The acting is great and the songs are brilliant and all round great film


                
Pure entertainment from early classic musicals.Never felt the time moving.Overall - 3.5/5


                
A wholesome and heartwarming movie. I thought parts were genuinely funny. The acting is great too. Maybe the only thing that put me off was the amount of dancing involved. I get it that it's a musical and dancing is a key item in the plot, but somehow those long dance sequences were just too monotonous for me. Other than that a great movie overall.


                
I'm not usually one for musicals, but this film was actually pretty enjoyable. The story was interesting and making it about the change from silent to talking films was a good subject. It not only showed how people felt about it, but what it also meant for the actors/actress' and the movie business at the time. This was the perfect subject for the film as in this film they also show just how far sound and color have come from the age that is portrayed, putting on elaborate and colorful singing and dancing routines. Some of the routines did get a little carried away at times, but overall they weren't too frequent or overbearing and there was a pretty good balance of musical and story.


                
I think some of the songs could have been cut. The dream-like sequence at the end didn't really seem to fit in, and also there are parts I think could have been cut out. The Good Morning song I guess makes sense (it was morning), but I think it could have been cut, for example.Regardless, it is an excellent example of a comedy, and of a musical done well. I just don't like it when they begin dancing spontaneously, as it takes me out of the world within the movie. That's just me though.The ending was fantastic as well, with the tension building up, and then the grand reveal behind the curtain, and everyone lives happily ever after. That didn't even feel contrived to me, and I think it's difficult to pull of a happy ending like that while making it feel natural.


                
If you like musicals this is one that I would definitely recommend. It is great to see Kelly and Reynolds have so much chemistry on screen. It was said that Kelly gave her a real hard time because she was not a dancer as he was. She could of fooled me. Both performed many forms of dance and did it well. It isn't easy to be synchronized as they were. They are both a triple threat. Not only were they memorizing lines but hundred of choreographed movements as well. Kelly's performance in the "singingin the rain" scene is one that has been talked about for time to come. It was full of talent and funny at the same time.The story line was very entertaining and educating at the same time. It was comical for them to show the behind the scenes of the studios and to almost mock films which were made before with less technology. I would highly recommend this film.
I enjoyed all the great dancing and acrobatics in Singin' in the Rain (1952). The dancing almost reminded me of an older version of break dancing. Especially in the "Make 'em Laugh" song when Cosmo runs up the wall, as well as other crazy stunts. The female dancing resembled that of the flapper styles from a few decades before the movie was made. The film was comedic and clever, with a balanced mix of impressive music and dance. When the song "Beautiful Girls" was performed, it reminded me of Buzby Berkely style of filming, with all the colors and patterns of the female background dancers. When Don performs "Singin' in the Rain", the camera motion is very fluid, and transitions itself around the dancing actor smoothly and unnoticeable. I'm not the biggest fan of musicals, but this film is definitely a classic.
"Singin' in the Rain" is like a theatrical necklace, strung together with gems in the form of musical numbers and then crowned with a sparkling diamond in the middle: the unforgettably classic title track. The running thread in between them might be a little weak, but it's the jewels that that win out in the end.Each musical number carries its own unique magnitude, breathing life, emotion, charm and romance into a lackluster plot. The story is about what happens when the motion picture business in the '20s develops the first talking picture (the appropriately referenced "The Jazz Singer" starring Al Jolson) and how it affects two of the business' biggest stars: Don Lockwood (Gene Kelly) and Lina Lamont (Jean Hagen)...and of course their quirky piano player Cosmo (played by physical humor extroadinaire Donald O'Connor). Underlying it all is Lockwood's love for a wannabe actress Kathy Selden played by Debbie Reynolds, a relationship built on one of the more preposterous Hollywood fantasies.Because of the plot's unoriginality and the sometimes lengthy tangents the songs take you on, "Singin' in the Rain" is enjoyed by the scene. As a viewer, you pick your favorites and pay more attention to them, dismissing those that bore. O'Connor's humorous turn in "Make 'Em Laugh" is a surefire favorite as is "Moses (Supposes)" and of course "Singin' in the Rain." The choreography and the non-stop energy in these numbers makes them so fun and easy to watch. Other scenes like "Broadway Rhythm Ballet" fit the tastes of the dancing connoisseurs as Cyd Charisse steals you away from the film for a good 15 minutes with her incredible shape and grace. There's also a good amount of gags and slapstick filler between numbers, but the numbers are what make "Singin' in the Rain" stand out. The title number is about the only one that perfectly accompanies the storyline. Don is so head over heels for Kathy that he could sing and dance carelessly out in the pouring rain. That's what makes the scene stick out as classic: most of the other numbers are not extensions of the storyline, they're detours from it, but "Singin' in the Rain" endures on this glorious number.


                
I don't like usin' the word "overrated" ('cause it always sounds like: "people who loved this movie are idiots"). Still, I seen too many hyperbolic comments about Singin' In The Rain: "best musical ever", "best movie ever"... sorry but I really can't agree.Since my English is quite bad, I'll get straight to the point: as a comedy, it's VERY dated, and quite childish to boot. It's not a complete disaster, some lines are still pretty funny, but everything else is naïve to say the least - and I think it wasn't so good even in the fifties. Talking' about the "musical" part... two songs are simply beautiful ("Make 'Em Laugh" and, of course, the immortal "Singin' in the rain"), the rest is just good, but not memorable; only when it comes to dancin', the movie shines. Still, some dancin' sequences don't fit with the rest of the movie: if you seen Michael Kidd's awesome work for "Seven Brides For Seven Brothers" (now THAT's a masterpiece that aged well), you can't help but notice it.If you only watched this one, do yourself a favor and try Little Shop Of Horrors, Seven Brides for Seven Brothers, West Side Story. They're not just great musicals, they're also great MOVIES, something that can't be said about Singin' In The Rain.


                
Favorite Movie Quote: "Whadda ya think I am? Dumb? - Or, something!?"Of course, today, not a lot of people realize just how many Hollywood actors' careers were completely ruined back in 1927 by the coming of sound. Believe me, the number was not small.In a nutshell, these famous actors of the Silent Era may have projected plenty of that wonderful thing called "charisma" onto the silver screen, but when it came to their voices (ugh!), they were atrocious!Actors such as the super-dashing leading man, John Gilbert, with his laughable, high-pitched lisp, and the ultra-chic beauty, Barbara La Marr, with her horrendous Bronx honk, were literally laughed right off the screen when their voices were finally heard by movie-audiences all across the nation.In Singin' In The Rain, actress Jean Hagen is absolutely priceless as Lena Lamont, the seductive superstar of silent films. I mean, Lena may have looked like a million bucks, but, whoa, when that babe opened her trap, man, she had a voice that could literally rupture eardrums from 50 paces. No kidding.Hagen's "Lena" was a prime example of an actress whose career was, most surely, destined for the axe once "Talkies" took over in 1927.All-In-All - Singin' In The Rain ranks right up there as one of the greatest and most entertaining Hollywood Musicals of all-time. Even if "Musicals" aren't your thing, you'll find it near impossible not to enjoy this high-energy, non-stop spectacle of song, dance, and comedy.Singin' In The Rain is a fond recreation of that bygone movie-making era when the flourishing Hollywood film industry was making its shaky transition into the greatest sensation of all - Talking pictures.The entire cast in this film are all absolutely first-rate, with everyone putting in a stellar performance from start to finish.My favourite musical number was "Broadway Melody".


                
A good family movie with good poems for kids to sing.


                
This movie is a good sample for me to see the big changing(silent film to sound film) for the movie production. It shows this generation changing in different ways. The first one is this changing offers more chance for those new movie actors who has an attractive voice. The second one is the changing on the movie editing. Because the editing for a sound movie is different from a silent movie. editor can use a lot of fantastic edit ways to shape a silent movie, such as thematic montage and classical cutting. But when they edit a sound movie, they have to pay attention to the sound track with the actions. It is a challenge that editing those shots in previous editing ways and also keeping the continuity of the sound track. So in this movie, I see a lot of long shot or so called "sequence shot". The third changing is the dialog. In the silent movie, this almost no dialog. That's why in this movie, when the actor said:" I love you, I love you, I love you", the audiences didn't like it. Then it changes the dialog. The new dialog becomes metrical and meaningful. This movie is a good movie because it shows the revolution for the movie production. And the result is this new technique helps to make movie production better.


                
Now I am not really the biggest fan of musicals out there. In fact I usually hate them and cant stand watching them. This was a surprisingly good film that doesn't have to much to not like in it. From the beginning this movie is very funny and energetic. Cosmo was by far my favorite character in the movie because he is always funny and full of life. His song half way through the movie has to be my favorite song and favorite part of the movie. Now with all of this good it doesn't mean this movie is perfect. there is one scene in particular that I hate and that is the final sing and dance number. This song starts off good like the last but ends up dragging on to the point where I almost just wanted to turn the movie off and call it a quite's. Not only was it dragging on but the quality of that song was going down in my opinion as the song keeps going. But all and all I would probably recommend this movie to anyone.
If your a fan of Musicals, Singin in the Rain sets the bar and is really fun and full of great energy. As a spectator, writing a review, what I noticed most was how well the Colors worked with this film. For a film that was released in the 1950s the screen shots seemed to work better than most films in this day and age. Just a fun and happy film that will bring a smile to the audiences face. There also was a good amount of humor in this film that worked out great. Gene Kelly as Don Lockwood was brilliant in his performance as well as directing the film . Everything in the film seemed to work and it stands out from other musicals.


                
"Singin' in the Rain" is a musical movie in which we watch the change from silent film to films with sound from a company that produces silent movies. Also in this movie we have a couple which plays in all of the movies and the female star has an issue with her voice. Although everything change when a new girl comes in front.I really liked this movie because I believe as I said before that this movie is the definition of a musical movie. It shows us how a musical movie has to be in order to have the best impact to the audience. About the direction of this movie I have to say that Stanley Donen and Gene Kelly did their best and that was obvious in the whole duration of the movie. About the interpretation we have to mention the great interpretation of Gene Kelly who played as Don Lockwood and he was simply outstanding, Debbie Reynolds who played as Kathy Selden was equally good and I also liked the interpretation of Jean Hagen who played as Lina Lamont and I believe she had the most difficult part in this movie.Lastly I have to say that "Singin' in the Rain" is a great musical movie which everybody has to watch. Even though I do not like musical movies this movie changed the way I see musical movies. Unfortunately nowadays we do not have that kind of movies.


                
I didn't think that I would like singing in the rain due to the fact that I am not a musical person. I was pleasantly surprised by how much I enjoyed the movie. For being a person who doesn't normally like musicals I wasn't overwhelmed by the amount of singing that they placed throughout the movie. It was elegantly placed in the movie and was strategically placed so it flowed beautifully into the scene. Scenes with the music were also very dramatic and well thought out, such as the well known "rain scene". The only complaint that I would have about this movie is that the end scene tends to drag out a lot longer than it needed to. It felt like it took forever for them to get to the main point for the ending.
Singin' in the Rain was a very good movie, it's use of color was a bit drastic but overall good considering the time period. Cosmo specifically stuck out to me, he was very funny and had me laughing throughout the whole movie. The scene with the actual singin' in the rain song was great, it gave me a very happy feeling. You could certainly tell Don was in love with Kathy. They had a very strong connection and I loved the fact of how they met and she played it off cool unlike other girls that would be all over him. There are many aspects of this movie that were really great, great storyline as well as characters. The voice of Kathy was really intriguing, a lot better than Lena! I also liked the message of in a sense you will always be exposed for being or doing something fake, this particular movie really gave out that message. I personally did not really get the end of the movie, I thought it could have been done different to make more sense. The ending was about the only problem I had with the movie, overall I thought it was a great musical.
First things first: it pains me to give this movie a good review. For years I have been adamantly against musical films, often considering them a sort of cop-out for a real film. I suppose this movie served as a sort of awakening. I went into the viewing with contempt, but was soon truly enveloped in the happenings on screen. Above all, I have to credit the movie's choreography. The musical acts and accompanying dance routines were so well thought out and deeply intricate, being unimpressed is an apparent impossibility. The songs both added emotion and also made the film a bit more lighthearted at times. Gene Kelly delivers a remarkable performance, as do his co-stars Donald O'Connor and Debbie Reynolds.
Though i really respect this movie for its up beat tunes and use of sets, it was not my favorite movie. To start out i'm not a huge fan of musicals and this movie had no point really. Yes it was suppose to be when films with sound just came out and they are trying to make a movie better then The Jazz Singer. they were trying to hard to make it a hit. regarding the plot they made it really corny though i know more recent musicals try to take more youth wide problems for people to relate. though they still never interest me. A couple of things I thought they did well with the shooting and lighting. they used the lighting to interact with the characters making it very visual. over all again I did not enjoy the movie as a whole but certain aspects were really great!
I'll be the first to admit that I've never been a fan of musicals and probably never will be but I have to give a lot of respect to this film. The main reason I respect this film so much is because along with all of the singing and dancing there was a story line I could follow and stay interested in. A big reason I don't like musicals is because nobody runs through the streets singing and dancing in real life without being committed to a mental institution. The best part of the movie was when Cosmo was doing his comical routine on the movie set. In my opinion Donald O'Conner stole the show with that performance but he was my favorite character through out the movie. Another thing I liked about the movie was how they showed how the industry worked and the difficulties of bring sound into movies.
After a trip to Europe, now it's a return to America and the cradle of filmmaking: Hollywood. Usually, I'am not fond of this kind of story (a movie about movies, a TV show about TV, a book about an author) because it's a blow to imagination. Instead of creativity, originality, the camera shoots what happens in front of it so it's not very interesting.Except this movie shows a pivotal moment in the golden age of Hollywood, when sound appears with the pictures so mute movies turn into "talkies". I am surprised that the first reactions were to despise this technology and above all that mute "stars" could have such silly voices or unable to act. The premiere of this new kind of movie is really funny.Another good thing about this movie is that all the songs have subtitles. But, the best thing remains Gene Kelly. Change him for another actor and the magic is gone. It's true that is an affirmation of life because we can share a glorious feeling in the rain whereas it's usually a unhappy moment to be under.In memoriam of my grandmother (1911-2010) who died this day of watching.


                
