Definitely one of the most genuinely feel-good films I've ever seen. For a musical, it did not fit the mold of being a bit on the corny side. And some musical films I've seen are a bit stale, but this one is far from that label. I was just beginning to see Gene Kelly's work (I had first seen An American in Paris--which is another gem) and I was captivated by his energy and how overall talented he is. Definitely a great dancer of his time. It was also the first film I saw of Debbie Reynolds' earlier work. It is very clear why it's considered one of the best films of all time. It's witty, romantic, charming, and contains beautiful musical numbers. I definitely recommend it to be an addition to anyones film collection.


                
The heaps of scholarly criticism heaped on "Singing' in the Rain" have done it a disservice by giving it the ball and chain reputation of an IMPORTANT picture in cinema history. Let's not forget why "Singin' in the Rain" was made, which was to provide a form of escapist entertainment, nor why it's still so loved now, which is because it's great fun and everything clicks. It's not homework, and it's not medicine.I don't even think it's the best movie musical ever made (I liked MGM's "Seven Brides for Seven Brothers" more), and it's not one I feel compelled to go back to again and again. I'm not a huge fan of Gene Kelly, and think he's squirrelly when he's trying to be dashing, and Donald O'Connor's manic energy is just as likely to be exhausting as it is funny. But there's no improving on Jean Hagen's pitch-perfect performance as the ditzy villainess, and Debbie Reynolds shows how sweet and charming she was early in her career, before she became a broad.The songs and dances aren't especially well integrated into the film --you can practically hear the gears grinding whenever the film transitions from its book to its musical portions. But the numbers are so wildly entertaining in and of themselves that you don't much care. The "Singin' in the Rain" sequence does what far too few films do -- it transports you to a place where what's happening on the screen in front of you is the only thing that matters.Grade: A-


                
"Singin in the Rain" is a classic Hollywood Picture being both an omage to (the even more) classic Hollywood and a satire of it!Is one of musical's best, but even though some of the songs have stood the test of time, the overall tone might be a bit slow or unpaced for some.


                
"Singin' in the Rain" is rightly regarded as one of the most fondly regarded musicals of Hollywood's golden age.  Not only does it contain four superb performances (Gene Kelly as vain silent screen idol Don Lockwood, painfully making the transition to sound; Debbie Reynolds as Cathy Selden, a chorus girl who wants to be a great actress; Donald O'Connor as Cosmo Brown, the dependable friend who puts fun into the movie; and Jean Hagen as the screechy Lina Lamont, Don's erstwhile co-star) but is an affectionate tribute to the birth of the talkies.The best scene of all is of course, Gene's dance down a rain-sodden street, much anthologised and by far the most technically accomplished and totally joyous piece of musical cinema.  I also have to mention the Broadway Melody sequence, featuring the great Cyd Charisse - perfection itself.


                
Singin in the rain is a classic musical in the 50's that will leave you smiling all through as well as laughing. As the movie commences, you have to hold your breath because you don't picture it coming out as a classic but as time progresses and some of the acts come into play, this movie takes a shape in your mind leaving behind an imprint that you won't forget.Having moderate success in the box office, as it was produced with $ 2.5 Million and it made over $ 7 Million in the box office. This movie became known by critics as one of the best musicals ever made and it stars Gene Kelly, who also directed and provided the choreography for the movie. The movie's plot featured the transition from silent film to talkies and the reactions of the actors involved, it also features the birth of musical films. Mentions were made of the first talkie The Jazz Singer in 1927.The movie has a cast of three leads, Gene Kelly as Don Lockwood, Donald O'Connor as Cosmo Brown and Debbie Reynolds as Kathy Selden. In 1927, Don Lockwood and Lina Lamont are a Hollywood romantic pair on screen but Lina, however thinks the on-screen romance is real love.Don with his former partner Cosmo has been together for years and their chase of success led to Don's rise to fame. Don and Lina's latest film is being transformed into a talkie musical but with Lina being unable to sing and act in talkies Kathy Selden is brought in to help provide the voice for Lina, which was then recorded over Lina's.During the movie production Debbie Reynolds faced major criticism from Gene Kelly, because she couldn't dance. As she was crying away under a piano, the great Fred Astaire (Astaire is named the fifth greatest male actors of all times, and whose dancing is known to have influenced many popular artist including Michael Jackson and Gregory Hines) who took her under his wings and taught her how to dance.The films famous dance routine which featured Gene Kelly singing the title song, twirling an umbrella and dancing in the rain. Kelly was sick with a fever during the shoot, as he was soaked. The shooting of the dancing scene took 3 days to shoot.Receiving a 100% approval in Rotten Tomatoes, and rated the best Musical film of all time by the American Film Institute (AFI) and is rated 5th greatest movie of all time in the AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies (10th Anniversary Edition). Singin in the rain is a fun movie to watch, the comedy will get to you and make you laugh and the movie has a G rating, making it suitable for everyone.I will advise you get the DVD of this movie and watch it, as it is enjoyable.www.lagsreviews.com


                
I generally do not like musicals very much because they usually are sort of corny and just not my usual preference of entertainment. Singin' In the Rain, however, was something that I actually enjoyed watching very much.The movie was filled with flashy wardrobes and bright colors. The stars wore tons of make-up and enthusiastically performed talented dance moves and sang catchy tunes. There was a lot of comedy, but there was also an entertaining plot and content along with a good love story.I will admit that I also caught myself laughing out loud quite a bit, and it was very enjoyable to watch. I did not find myself getting bored or looking away once. I know that I had seen this a long time ago when I was younger, but I did not remember it very well. It was very refreshing to watch again for the first time in years, and I will honestly probably end up watching it again.The storyline with the movie star actress (Jean Hagen) being a royal witch with a B and having an annoying voice was a little corny, but still undeniably fun to watch. The ending, with Debbie Reynold's character winning the man (Gene Kelly) and becoming the huge star, was predictable, but that is part of what makes the movie a classic romantic comedy.If you are ever feeling down or depressed, perhaps because it is raining outside, put on Singin' In The Rain, and I can assure you almost completely that it will cheer you up.
One of the best musical comedies and one of the greatest classics of cinema ever, with well-framed actors, good songs and musics, captivating and interesting storyline and funny jokes. Highly recommend.


                
This film is on all the lists of the best films of all time. Interestingly, neither Gene Kelly nor Debbie Reynolds won any awards for this film, while Donald O'Connor took the Golden Globe. I love this film very much, but I would not include it in the best achievements of the world cinema, even within the genre.8/10


                
This movie shows the story of the film industry as it transitions from the silent era to that of talking films and shows the fears and difficulties for those crafts people going through that process. The Singin' in the Rain sequence with Gene Kelly really is a bit of magic that never fails to delight. Most of the other musical numbers were also quite good. I also like the story as well. I will say that the acting does have that kind of one-dimensional cheerfulness so prevalent amongst movie musicals of this era, but despite that I still find this film quite enjoyable.


                
One of the best musicals ever. In fact, it is one of the best musicals of all time. It is incredible how the acting is incredible. Great performance, great music. Singin' in the Rain is one of the best musicals ever made.


                
That's the basis of one of the best movies about old Hollywood of all times: "Singin' in the Rain". The film is one of the classics it is because of the marvelous direction of Gene Kelly and Stanley Donen, two men who knew a lot about musicals. The screen play is by one of the best people in the business, Betty Comden and Adolph Green.MGM was the studio that employed all the stars one sees in the film, and what a cast they put together: Gene Kelly, Donald O'Connor, Debbie Reynolds, Jean Hagen, Cyd Charisse in a dancing part, Millard Mitchell and Rita Moreno. As if those names weren't big enough, there is the fantastic musical numbers that even, viewing them today, have kept their freshness because of the care in which this film was crafted."Singin' in the Rain" is one of the best musicals of all times. It's right up there with the best of them thanks to the vision of Gene Kelly and Stanley Donen and it will live forever as more people discover this wonderful example of entertainment.


                
"Singin' in the Rain" is one of the most highly praised American films of all time, regularly appearing on critics' top ten lists. It tells the story of a group of film-makers and stars circa 1927 making the awkward transition from silent to 'talkie' pictures.The film is basically a celebration of the well received MGM musicals that had been appearing for about 25 years at that point. Almost all of the songs featured in the film originated from earlier films. Actually, the story was built around the songs, which is sometimes evident in the tenuous associations given by the script.Nevertheless, the story is quite interesting as it revisits the period of transition between silent and talking pictures, showing some of the difficulties encountered along the way. The romantic subplot is a bit more pedestrian but, on the whole, the story is both joyous and satisfying.Whatever the material, the cast certainly left little room for improvement. You couldn't ask for a better leading man than Gene Kelly for what is arguably the definitive MGM musical. He's well suited to the role of movie star Don Lockwood and his singing & dancing are as good as ever. Nineteen year old Debbie Reynolds was as cute as a button while holding her own with both Kelly and Donald O'Connor, who was no slouch himself. Meanwhile, Jean Hagen snagged an Oscar nomination for what is easily the film's best comedic performance. Also notable were Millard Mitchell as the studio head and Cyd Charisse as a featured dancer.Another of the film's high points is the technical aspect. The co-direction by Gene Kelly & Stanley Donen is top notch and provides us with several memorable moments. The "Broadway Melody Ballet" portion of the film is particularly ambitious and breath-taking, while Gene Kelly's rendition of "Singin' in the Rain" is legendary. And let's not forget the sumptuous Technicolor photography.All things considered, "Singin' in the Rain" has to be regarded as one of the best movies in the musical genre. While there are a few Hollywood musicals that I would rank above it, there's no denying that the movie is a joy to behold and that it still holds up surprisingly well today.


                
In late '20s Hollywood, a beautiful but squeaky-voiced star of the silent screen can't adjust when Tinsel Town goes Talkie, yet a disaster is averted when her male co-star has his new girl dub the actress's lines and her singing for their latest costume epic. Glorious musical-comedy is savvy (if a little soft-hearted) about show business, and truly first-rate as a visual feast (with colors that saturate the screen like a painter's dream palette). Though he deserves most of the credit for his co-direction, singing, dancing and choreography, I'm not sure how convincing Gene Kelly is as a love-interest for Debbie Reynolds (they seem more along the lines of close pals, or perhaps brother and sister). Kelly, a real showboater who constantly plays to the camera, knows his strengths like no other musical star, yet his penchant for playing to the audience can either be deemed cute or simply unctuous. Still, the man is a human dynamo, and he cuts quite a presence on the screen; though his elaborate "Broadway Melody" number really belongs in a different picture altogether, Kelly is ingratiating calling out "Gotta Dance!" to a stage full of arms-flailing teens--he's the bedrock of the movie, as well as its heart and soul. Debbie seems rather young for him, but she's full of joshing good cheer, like a great buddy. Donald O'Connor has energy to spare as a pianist, and his exhausting showpiece "Make 'em Laugh" (though prolonged) is one of the few times when Kelly doesn't steal the spotlight. ***1/2 from ****


                
If you want to see a musical it can´t get better than this. Funny song numbers good actors but at the end it´s a few boring songs. The story is about Hollywood during the transition to talkies.
RATING: 4 out of 5


                
I will be honest I hate musicals. I think they are corny and just not relatable. That being said I was a little frustrated when I started to like this movie. I loved the beginning. The movie is funny and the singing just flows its not random. it was a good movie the middle/end was slow in my opinion. The scenes confused me and I wasn't sure if it was actually happening or if he was just imagining it. The ending of the movie was perfect though since the evil girl go exactly what she deserved. I was actually very frustrated. she had the whiny voice and I am glad the audience was able to see that. I also never made the realization that America fell in love with stars and sometimes had never even actually heard their voices.


                
I thought this movie was pretty good! I thought the different technical things that they used were new and different from some of the other movies, making it separate from other movies more.This movie was full of musical numbers and dancing scenes, they added new angles and interesting perspectives. They shot each individual dancing scene in a unique way, in a one of the scenes that they had a montage of scenes in a quick moment. One particular scene with Kathy and Don dancing on stage, the perspective and angle isn't consistent, it switches up from close up shots to scenes that are farther away. In the Singing in the Rain scene, the do a pan shot of him walking along sidewalk. The use of the Technicolor was very cool, and it worked for the movie and I think if certain scenes were not in color it would not show the same effects.
There are plenty of movies which may be a lot of fun but aren't really great movies. Singin' in the Rain is a great movie. And great fun. It is one of the most iconic movies ever and deservedly so. Even people who have never seen the whole movie know Gene Kelly splashing about in the rain. But this is a movie which is so much more than that one legendary musical number. For starters there are plenty of other musical numbers which are just as good as, or perhaps depending on your tastes, even better than Kelly's famous nighttime twirl through the rainy streets. But what makes the movie truly great is that it does not have to rely solely on the big song-and-dance numbers. This is a movie with a great story. So many musicals are just biding their time between songs. Not this one. There are actually compelling things going on between the songs. And funny things too. Add it all up and this is absolutely fabulous entertainment.It's Kelly everyone remembers most but great credit must also go to his co-stars Donald O'Connor and Debbie Reynolds. The three of them make such a great team, their Good Morning number is as good as it gets, just as much of a highlight as the title song. We know what a legendary dancer Kelly is but O'Connor and Reynolds more than hold their own. O'Connor even gets a showcase of his own with Make 'Em Laugh, a number which is as much acrobatics as dance. Kelly, O'Connor and Reynolds are all terrific in their singing, their dancing and their acting. And yet perhaps the best performance is turned in by Jean Hagen. And Hagen doesn't do any singing or dancing at all. And that's the point. Hagen, a wonderfully talented actress, is playing a completely terrible actress who can't sing, can't dance, can't even talk. It takes a great actress to pull that off and Hagen absolutely nails it.The story takes place in Hollywood at the dawn of the talking pictures era. Kelly and Hagen play Don Lockwood and Lina Lamont, the most famous and popular screen couple of the time. But they are silent film stars, the transition to talkies will be quite painful. The biggest problem is Lina's voice which is indescribably bad, grating to the extreme. The movie has plenty of fun at her expense and milks lots of laughs out of the overall struggle of those working in film at the time to come to grips with this newfangled sound technology. How can Don Lockwood go forward in this new era if he's attached to the talentless dim-bulb Lina? Enter, thanks to a rather ingenious suggestion from Don's friend Cosmo Brown, young Kathy Selden. Kathy's got the talent and the charm Lina lacks and Reynolds plays the part of the wide-eyed girl caught up in the crazy world of Hollywood so beautifully. Don and Kathy could be a great pairing, on and off screen...if only Lina could be nudged out of the way.There is a story here full of comic possibilities and the movie takes full advantage of it. O'Connor's character of Cosmo has a few clownish moments but nothing too far over-the top. No need for a lot of slapstick silliness. The movie's more subtle than that. Smarter too. And whereas many musicals struggle to weave the songs into the story everything fits together wonderfully here. The only real misstep comes near the end with a huge production number which unfortunately sticks out like a sore thumb. In addition to going on for far too long it is quite disconnected from the plot. It really seems like an indulgence for co-director Kelly. There was nobody who could tell him it didn't belong. It's performed very well, it just is out of place. And it stops the movie's momentum just as it should be building to a big finish. It's one musical number too far. But that should not detract from what is all in all a brilliantly conceived and performed movie. It may have slowed down a touch at the end but it still has its big finish, and a thoroughly satisfying finish at that. Such a fun, enjoyable, charming movie. Great entertainment. What a glorious feeling indeed.


                
Singin' In The Rain is a fantastic movie that is quite funny,with great music and a nice story to it.Its largely considered one of the greatest films ever made and is well deserved with this honour.But it would not have gone anywhere without the fantastic acting of Gene Kelly,who would be my favourite actor of this era.But he doesn't deserve all the credit,Donald O'Connor and Debbie Reynolds also did a fantastic job.The music is brilliant,especially Singin' In The Rain and Good' Mornin.Two big stars,Don Lockwood (Gene Kelly) and Lina Lamont (Jean Hagen) are having a difficult time making a transition to sound.Don decides to start his first movie with sound along with his good friend Cosmo Brown (Donald O'Connor),and he met after saving him from his crazed fans,Katty Selden (Debbie Reynolds),who start to fall for each other.But the audience wants Don and Lina to be together.


                
So I was dreading having to watch a musical, especially an old one, but wow. It was really really good. The dancing was actually quite talented, funny, and at times plain awesome. I was a big fan of Cosmo (and the way he did a backflip off the wall), he really picked the movie back up at certain parts. They all had good singing voices and worked really well together. It was surprisingly funny too and found myself laughing out loud at parts. Good tap-dancing is so hard not to appreciate, because it's just so entertaining when done well. I highly recommend anyone with phobias of musicals to give this one a chance, you can even take your girlfriend and get brownie points!
I'm not really the biggest fan of musicals but I did somewhat enjoy this one. The acting was quite good and the dancing was fa-nominal. I enjoyed how the musical told the story of the switch of the movie industry from silent films to "talkies" and the troubles that came with it. The colors were amazing which made this movie very interesting to watch. The love story was complicated but not so much that it didn't make sense. The thing that I most enjoyed were the dance routines. I have never seen dancing like that before. Even the minor characters could dance, like the "make em laugh" song. Even if you aren't a big fan of musicals, this is one that anyone can enjoy and it is obvious why it is a great American classic.


                
Singin' in the Rain sets the standard for musicals because it really owns what it is. Other musicals take themselves too seriously and make the musical number seem out of place. Others are too nonsensical and lose the audiences attention. Singin' in the Rain is perfectly balanced. The acting performances are great. Characters meant to be loved are lovable and those meant to be hated are despicable. The musical talent these actors possess is impressive as well. The choreography is wonderful and the singing is amazing. However some songs do go on too long and lose some of their splendor. This does not happen often though. There is also too little character development between the lead actor and actress making their romance a bit unbelievable. But that is forgiven because the nature of the film is meant to be jolly. This would be my number one recommendation to anyone who has never seen a musical.


                
No wonder it has been universally acclaimed as the apotheosis of Hollywood musical in the golden era, SINGIN' IN THE RAIN conjures up an enticing historical premise of the significant sea change in the film industry, with THE JAZZ SINGER (1927), the dawn of talkie which would forever change this scope of the burgeoning media.Set in 1927, Don Lockwood (Kelly) and Lina Lamont (Hagen) are Monument Pictures' golden couple on screen in the silent films, yet in private Don despises the ditsy and talentless Lina, whose diva temperament and funny sheep voice is the studio's best kept secret. Don, on the contrary, starts his career in showbiz as a vaudeville artist and stuntman with his fellow Cosmo Brown (O'Connor), so his bent of singing and dancing well-tested. One day, running away from crazed fans, Daon hops on the car of a young girl Kathy Selden (Reynolds), who quite pertly disses the superficiality of his acting and stardom, it strikes a chord to Don, who begins to question his own capability.However, it turns out Kathy is a struggling starlet, with a doll-like cuteness and a voice can sing. Don falls for her instantly, but does she love him back? Of course she does, it is a musical comedy, no one can resist a superstar's charm. After THE JAZZ SINGER becomes a sensational hit, all the studios begin to tread its footsteps, so Don-and-Lina's next picture will be their first talkie, named THE DUELLING CAVALIER, talking is a cinch for Don, but the soft underbelly is Lina's cockamamie voice, a disastrous test screening forebodes this talkie would be the Waterloo for Don-and-Lina trademark. Six weeks before its official release, Don and Cosmo creatively advice to change the picture into a singing-and-dancing musical, renamed THE DANCING CAVALIER and asks Kathy to dub Lina, the last-minute plan saves the day, except for Lina's prestigious career as an actress.Stretching from the titular song, the script cunningly grafts a cheery romance upon the nostalgia to a bygone silent era, from the opening flashbacks trace back Don and Cosmo's slapstick entertainment (also brilliantly contrasts Don and Lina's lovey-dovey public images and their personal incompatibility), until the long and elaborate set piece named Broadway MELODY BALLET, freshly revamps several music numbers from THE Broadway MELODY (1929) and Broadway MELODY OF 1936 (1935) as a fetching homage, which is not germane to the main narrative, but introduces dancer-turns-actress Cyd Charisse's vampiric moll to the limelight.Kelly, the co-director and the leading star of the project, is swooningly deft in the iconic solo titular piece, and admirably, he also magnanimously leaves the stage for his co-stars to shine, O'Connor's MAKE 'EM LAUGH is la crème de la crème, his effortless agility makes the dangerous antics look ever so easy and winsome. Although billed as the female lead, Reynolds is less a spectacle especially lined up with Hagen, who is the only one in the cast nominated for an Oscar (the film's unjust snub by the Academy is another big scandal mars the award's credibility), fakes her comical tone and upstages everyone else with sheer deadpan amusement.SINGIN' IN THE RAIN is a tested classic, a first-rate choreographic marvel, a less refined character development nevertheless, one can hardly resist its old-fashioned flair and crowd- pleasing charm.


                
There will be spoilers ahead:This film has rightly become a classic, proving that the Academy Awards are quite fallible. A good case can be made that this was more deserving of a nomination for Picture than three of the five films nominated-including the eventual winner, The Greatest Show on Earth. That Jean Hagen lost out to Gloria Grahame can be chalked up to the fact that Grahame had three prominent supporting roles that year and won for the most dramatic of them in The Bad and the Beautiful. Hagen's turn was, in my opinion, the best of the year. Oh well.This film is so well known that I doubt I need to discuss the plot much, so I'll give a brief outline. A silent film star and his leading lady have their careers jeopardized by the advent of sound and the reality that her voice isn't ready for prime time and would sink them and probably the studio. He cannot stand her, while she's convinced she's God's gift to the world. His love interest dubs her voice for the star's in order to save everyone.Sounds clichéd and dull. Without the songs and the performances, it would have been forgettable. But Gene Kelly as the star, Debbie Reynolds as his love, Donald O'Connor as his best friend and collaborator and the incomparable Hagen as Lina Lamont, horrid voice and all, as the iceberg to the studio's Titanic, elevate the story and make the film magnificently fun! Hagen steals every scene she's in. Lina is crass, vulgar, crude, obnoxious, arrogant, vain, self-centered, mean and dumb-and those are her good points. Watch for Rita Moreno in a small role as Zelda, Lina's friend.Cyd Charisse has a significant dancing role in one of the major musical numbers and O'Connor has the funniest musical number in the film, with "Make 'Em Laugh". But the film belongs to Kelly and Reynolds, who shine in their leading roles. There's a chemistry between them which makes the whole movie believable.This film is available on DVD and Blu-Ray and is worth watching. Recommended.
Singin' in the rain can be considered one of the first musicals released from a major Hollywood production company. Not only does Gene Kelly star in the film, but he also was one of the directors of the film, something that we as Americans see a lot nowadays with films, but was relatively rare back in the 50's. Due to scenes that included rain drops, and the ability for the camera to pick up the raindrops on film, this film is an excellent use of back-light lighting to get the desired effect.Another reason why everyone should at least watch this film, is because it is apart of the Nation Film Registry due to the fact that it is deemed culturally significant.
Appreciated the look at movie history, especially the use of sound even when the industry wasn't quite ready for it. The passion for movie making and affection for silent film can be seen in the funny film clips within the film. The transition from silent to talking film was tough. It's sad, real, and funny when the director (film within the film) tries to get the performer to talk into the microphone. Best scene was seeing and hearing the film from the director's point of view; he struggled with new technology and we all can relate to that. Perhaps an editing weakness is that some dancing shots are too long and a few too short. Finally, with awe, wow, that's dancing at its very best, and they make it look fun.


                
