I bought the DVD-box after reading the numerous positive reviews here on IMDb. I thought the first three episodes or so was quite enjoyable, not great but entertaining enough, but from here it's getting old pretty fast.The acting, script and, especially, the characters, are on pair with shows like "Xena: Warrior Princess" (which isn't exactly something positive in my book). There is no character development whatsoever, the characters are dull and most of them, unoriginal. The episodes are predictable and often just spin off's, things that has already been done to death, or just much better in other (sci-fi and/or western)series or movies.Firefly is really easy to get into since it totally lacks any kind of depth and the characters are very two dimensional. This might appeal to the casual watcher and the younger crowd perhaps. The setting, "sci-fi-western" I find refreshing, but it's not enough to make it worthwhile.


                
Sounds like the beginning of a bad joke, doesn't it. Well, it's not. It's the world of "Firefly" in one sentence. I've never seen a cowboy on a pirate ship, so I found it a bit odd to find a gun-slinging bounty-hunting posse together on a spaceship. Let's face it, this is the first time in the history of the western genre that the title "Captain" has been used to address someone other than a cavalry officer.Don't get me wrong, I love sci-fi and I love westerns, but this just didn't combine them effectively, most notably in the oil-and-water production design. A good example is one episode where a posse was riding down the road. A posse of horses surrounding a hover craft. Think about it, that sounds like an aircraft carrier supported by wooden naval vessels. It's just too extreme. Half the world can't be 1875 while the other half is 2875. This isn't Futurama. At least this was remedied in "Serenty" where at lest the other half looked more like a burnt-out offshoot of the quality world it bordered.But regardless, forced comedy and obnoxious western talk (they represent how people talked in the 1800s about as much as Steve the Pirate talks like people from the 1600s) present a poor attempt as a mixing of the genres. But for coming a decent concept with some decent characters (but jeez Kaylee's annoying!), I'll give Whedon a C for effort.


                
I grew up watching Westerns like Hopalong Cassidy and Roy Rogers. Eventually I started watching and reading science fiction: Star Trek, Star Wars, Doctor Who. The two genres obviously have a lot in common: unexplored frontiers, hostile aliens, larger-than-life heroes having exciting adventures. When I first ran across the Space Western idea it was 1987, and I was a devoted pint-sized fan of the cartoon "BraveStarr". So you'll understand when I say that "Firefly" is a bit of a rip-off.If the idea behind the series is nothing new, its creators haven't noticed. Every scene and every shot seems to bear the caption "Look how awesome this is." For example, in a saloon brawl in the first episode, our hero gets tossed through a holographic window. Wasn't that awesome? It's just like in a Western, but with an arbitrary science-fiction thing too. Some of the baddies ride hovercraft, other ride horses. Our hero wears a leather duster, but his engineer dresses in the latest Harajuku fashions. The entire cast cusses in Mandarin with Texas accents. Isn't it all so irritatingly clever? Isn't it all just so pointlessly, overbearingly precious?If cleverness was all you needed for a successful show, maybe "Firefly" would have gotten somewhere. But it's generally accepted that good shows need good characters and good stories; "Firefly" has stereotyped characters and clichéd stories. There's hardly a script that hasn't already seen a thousand typewriters, from the blandly generic "Train Job" to "Heart of Gold", in which the crew defends a whorehouse as if it were Fort Petticoat. Our heroes are the swaggering Captain Mal, icy "Warrior Woman" Zoe, gun-crazed lunatic Jayne, cute but autistic River, and some others. Most of them are crazy and/or violent, but cursed with Joss Whedon's dialogue they become merely, well, cute. There's not really any psychology here, at least no more than you'd expect from something like "The A-Team". The stereotypes are balanced out by the show's villains, mostly in the shape of the cookie-cutter totalitarian Alliance, who are merely a less effective iteration of the Galactic Empire trope known already from Star Wars. The Western's obligatory Indians have been functionally replaced by zombie-like "reavers", who seem to have trespassed from the set of a horror film.To sum up: "Firefly" is annoyingly cute, insufferably clever, and has lots of shooting. It has neither depth nor originality. If you like self-consciously quirky dialogue and guns, then this is the show for you. If you like intelligent science fiction, or even intelligent Westerns, then this ain't your show, pilgrim.
Hello everyone I saw the ratings of this show then I got exited saw I buy it after i saw it I wonder how the rating of this series is that high even though the actors are good and the the show is enjoyable but there is some disappointments:There is no backgrounds and lake of information about the Alliance and characters. No Aliens all of them are humans in different planets.All of this can be accepted but the thing is not accepted is that there is no main story !! or no story at all every episode is independent. I think 9.4 is exaggerated 7 is more than it deserves.


                
I'm really mad for those people. who said here that this is a good Sci-fi movie. The only thing that is science-fiction on this show is that they have a space ship. Apart from that it seems more western to me than anything else. This film made an impression to the people. that never read a true Sci-fi book in their life . I can't believe that a true Sci-fi fan will like this. And yet almost 35.000 people. scored it whit 9.5 (more than anything i have seen so far). My advice for them is to try read more and put their mind to work, not accept for good everything they read. I'm sorry for anyone who liked this as a Sci-fi movie.


                
The whole series is really waste of time. Nothing good in there. The whole series is based on space travel but still nothing happen in space. I know the tech and rest was built around the 90s so does the star trek and other. The story line really suck but you can just watch the if you are Cristian henrix sucker. She appeared in two episodes but nothing best came out.Okay that's enough I tried to submit this but IMDb ask me to write at least 10 lines. IMDBbbbb..... your designer need some guidance. Forcing user to do something is really really bad but anyway. Since, I have been forced to write some extra lines so I throw some extra comments on this.1. Plot = suck 2. Characters = suck 3. Sci-fi ---- HELL NO 4. Character development .... didn't see other than companion woman 5. Too many mysterious characters but none revealed in season 1 6. Is there any season 2? Big NO, because it got canceled ... I was really happy about that. 7. Any suggestions, yes: - go watch UTOPIA. If you really want something with plot. UTOPIA got canceled after season 2 but not because it sucked. They got is canceled because of its storyline/plot.


                
Got sold on 9.0 rating, one of the highest for TV series. Still can't wrap my head around this - How did that happened?? Bad acting, simplest and stupidest story line, not thrilling at all, the intro starts with favorite republican idea "... after the Earth got used up...". Etc., ect., ect.. And I could not find this one for free so I had to buy it for like $15! Not worth it.


                
