I started by forcing myself to watch this show and in that vein it continued for the opening few episodes. To my knowledge it has never screened on TV in Australia, network, satellite or cable, so my pre-awareness was purely from what I'd gleaned about it from websites or Internet chatrooms which is basically what sparked my interest in seeing it. So I happened to come across the box set while lin the DVD section of a downtown HMV store one-day and decide then and there to buy it, knowing full well the risk I take in not knowing whether I'll actually like it. I mean, I find Joss Whedon has an interesting creative mind, even tho I wasn't really a fan of Buffy I still liked the plot twists and ongoing character development they managed to maintain during the course of that shows run. Admittedly I was a huge fan of Angel, despite missing a lot of episodes due to the ungodly hour Channel 7 played it. I do lament that shows passing. It needed another season or 2 and unlike Buffy (but like Firefly) was ended prematurely.I like the way Whedon manages to make the core casts of each of his shows into a family unit. You had it with Buffy, Xander, Willow, Giles, Spike etc; you had it with Angel, Wesley, Cordelia, Gunn, Fred etc; and you have it here, in Firefly. These are characters who care about each other and which you the viewer, in turn, begin to care for and empathize with as well. Too bad that just as the show was starting to hit its stride it was terminated because it wasn't fast-paced or urgent enough to deliver the numbers Fox wanted, preferring instead to slowly (and admittedly I found the early pace a little too languid until later on I appreciated knowing the unique characteristics and foibles of each character which helped me enjoy the show even more) build the characters and introduce them to the audience properly. You sense Whedon had a lot in store for each of them in future episodes and I'm stunned at the thematic possibilities and the directions this show could've taken if it had only been given more time to reach its full potential. There was so much raw material here, the possibilities were truly endless.Nathan Fillion was truly a joy as the Captain/Sarge. To see such a n emotionally withdrawn man who had a (albeit darkly) humorous side to him. All he was interested in was surviving and moving on. No ambitions, no grand plans. Just doing enough, and maybe a little more, for he and his crew, who were essentially the only family he had. We knew about his military career but here was a man with a lot of dark secrets locked away. Some that, I believe, would have come back to haunt him later on. Also his relationship with Inari, a woman who's profession he despised and in a sense he desired to save her from.The marriage between Zoe and Wash and how Zoes unfailing loyalty to Mal could cause disruption to it. The husband-wife role-reversal at work in how she was the tough gunfighter/ex-soldier while he was basically a cowardly pilot with a fondness for loud Hawaiian shirts. Alan Tudyks interpretation of the marvelous scriptwriting was often enough hysterical. Zoe also had more than a few secrets locked in her own closet. It was great to see the interplay of these 2 characters whenever they got together.I think Jewel Staite was magical. She has the biggest most beautiful smile and she's the heart of this ensemble. She plays it like a child given free-run in the coolest toy store in the world. She's fascinating and fantastic, and I probably have a crush on her. It's interesting that you assume her to be rather simple and innocent yet later on in flashback you actually learn that Mal met her by bumping into her and his then mechanic having energetic & rather noisy sex in the engine room.Adam Baldwins character, Jayne is one of the most lowdown, untrustworthy, funniest characters ever put on film. You can never really figure him out, but you do know that in the back of your mind, at some stage in the future, Jayne would betray one (or all) of the other characters eventually (maybe once, maybe many times over). There were so many directions his character could've gone, possibly even working for the Alliance or becoming Mals nemesis in seasons to come. Then again, Joss could've surprised us all and completely turned the whole thing on its head as far as Jayne went; we know from the episode 'Jaynestown' that there was another facet to him and that he could show empathy for others. River & her brother represented the biggest ongoing plot thread in the series. This would've have taken the longest to develop and Whedon teased us with hints and brief glimpses of what was in the off-ing. The corporation that was after her. The 'blue men'. The experiments. What they had done to her? Her parents involvement and disassociation. Her seemingly extraordinary abilities and reluctantly discovered ones. Her relationship with her brother, Kaylee, and the other crewmembers. How she fit into the grand picture? Who will ever know. Probably only Joss.To be honest, probably the most fascinating character for me was The Shepherd, In the 12 episodes he was the least dwelt upon, but when he was you would find out things, some rather disturbing. What was his relationship to the Alliance that he could get medical care without question? How come he was such a great shot (ie the kneecapping thing)? Where did he come from? What was his past? Could he have been a spy or some sort of high official? Along with River, his was the most fascinating character. I really wanted to see where Whedon went with him. In fact, where he went with them all. I like the very last episode where the doctor can't believe the bounty hunter holding them all prisoner has just knocked Shepherd unconscious, and the bounty hunter replies matter-of-factly, 'Shepherd? He's not a Shepherd.'. Very classy, and extremely open ended and frustrating.At first I was scratching my head. I kept referencing the cheesiest 1970s Battlestar Galactica episodes (ie the ones that had Cylons in steel cowboy hats) and thinking 'how cheap is this?' and 'this doesn't look like science fiction?'. I mean, where's the laser guns? Why are they riding horses? Why does a lot of the day to day technology look retro, even from today's p.o.v (ie swipe cards, bullets, no robots, wooden furniture)? In fact, technology looks to have gone backwards, shouldn't we be in Star Trek mode 300 years from now?I was also thinking that there wasn't a huge amount of action and that the initial plots seemed to be about rather ordinary humdrum events. Where's the space opera? Some of the early episodes I wondered at the need for. 'Shindig' especially. Later on I realized that what they were doing was teaching me about the universe these people live in; about the characters and the hierarchal society. Valuable for what happens later on. Yes, some of the sets are shoddy and cheap looking, but they live in a spare parts world, in many ways more primitive than our own. Today in Africa you can live a primitive existence in a mudhut village, yet fly 7000kms away, and you're in New York, one of the most technologically advanced cities on our planet today. Same time, different places. That's the kind of universe Firefly inhabits. On the outer fringes of colonisation, humans have reverted to the basics. Yet on inner core planets like Ariel, we see modern high-tech cities and super-advanced technology.I harbor the somewhat tenuous desire that the movie currently in pre-production becomes a smash hit and either respawns the TV series that gave birth to it, or allows Whedon to continue his story and plans in ongoing sequels. This is one of the best ensemble casts I've ever seen and there are more magnificent stories yet to be told involving them. Needless to say, I reached the last episode of this boxed set just loving this show. Not at all the way I felt when I started it.


                
When I saw the first episode of this show I was pleasantly surprised. I thought we had a new series that a lot of people would enjoy. But apparently FOX didn't get it. Whoever is responsible for canceling this show should be fired immediately. He has absolutely no future in this business. I thought this show was really refreshing mixing western and sci/fi. The actors were all good, the plot was good, the special effects were good. All the ingredients were there to make this series one of those series you look forward to watch the next episode. And then they decided to cancel it. Why? Nobody will ever know... And this when you see the amount of garbage that goes on and on, season after season without ever being canceled. Call me stupid but I don't get it. It's a shame Firefly didn't get his chance.


                
In 2517, humans have spread to another solar system. After a devastating war, the inner planets have conquered the outer planets. Mal Reynolds (Nathan Fillion) is the captain of smuggling spaceship Serenity, Firefly class. His crew is a ragtag group of former Browncoats on the losing side. Siblings Dr. Simon Tam and his mysterious sister River are also onboard as crew.Flyfire is one of those series that lasted longer in the minds of the fans than it did on the air. This is Joss Whedon's series after his success at the WB with Buffy and Angel. Fox Network quickly canceled this series before it had a chance after airing the show out of order. Joss' fans are not to be denied. The concept is great. It's basically cowboys in space. But it's the group chemistry that so addicting. The fans and Joss had the last laugh. They were able to make 'Serenity' a movie to continue the series. Almost everybody continue to bigger and better things.


                
Having just watched the series in sequence on DVD, I was stunned to find out in the special features that the show has been canceled. Whoever made that decision obviously doesn't like shows with a bit of depth. I found all the main characters in the show to be believable and interesting, and quite often rather funny. Personally I think this show is far better than similar shows like Stargate and Star Trek which ran for many seasons, yet for some reason this show only ran for one season. Both my wife and myself were looking forward to the second season, rating this show up there with our other favorite shows. I'm really disappointed that there are no more episodes, however I will recommend this show to all my friends and family as its well made, has really good special effects, brilliant characters and story lines and above all things - DEPTH! I wont go into too much detail, but I was looking forward to seeing some of the main characters develop their story lines more. I might also add that the woman who plays Inara is gorgeous.


                
This Sci-fi/Western so far seems to be interesting and worth checking out, the first episode aired called the train job and was a decent introduction to the crew of the ship serenity. keep an eye on Ron Glass as the "priest" Book. there was some controversy after Fox asked for the original pilot to be canned and a new first episode shoot to include more action and humor, however the end product (the Train Job) still came off well, however I hope at some point they do an origin episode to better explain how this crew cam to be together. Joss Whedon is a master storyteller and avid T.v. viewers would do well to check out his other shows Buffy The Vampire Slayer and its spin-off Angel.


                
I started watching Firefly after I was done with the Star Wars and Star Trek Series. The series takes a clichéd story...... and turns it into something amazing. We follow Captain Malcolm Reynolds, a rebel soldier-turned-small time smuggler, as he takes his crew on small heists and the adventures (or misadventures) that follow.While the story is always driven, it is the charisma of the characters that grab your attention. Nathan Fillion delivers a stellar performance as Malcolm Reynolds, the disillusioned former soldier, with a foreboding past, charismatic leadership under terrible circumstances, and a dark sense of humour. The supporting cast doesn't disappoint either, particularly Morena Baccarin (a.k.a. Inara) - the underlying shades of attraction between the two is the best chemistry I've seen in years.The music is deep, yet subtle, and the fusion of the sci-fi and western genres is a stroke of brilliance. I cannot recommend this series highly enough, anyone who ever loved a saga simply cannot pass it over. The sales figures of 200,000 DVDS speak their own stories (critics, producers, even studios may be fake, but numbers don't lie). And so I join the numerous fans wanting to bring back "Firefly" on the small screen.


                
So, I pick up a copy of Serenity. I was really impressed. I remembered seeing the preview for this show and thinking "hey! I'd really like to watch that". As I am no good with plans, I never was around to watch it. After finally watching Serenity, I pick up the series and start watching it. I wasn't as impressed at first with the show, but it's now 5:20 am and I felt so compelled to write a message on IMDb's boards after watching the "Our Mrs. Reynolds" episode. Joss Wheldon tapped into brilliance on this episode. He got into the psyche of every man in the world with a style that is amazing. I can't wait to see the other episodes.
I did not catch Firefly when it first came on TV and it wasn't until later I'd heard about the 2005 film Serenity. But that movie introduced me to the world of Firefly and got me interested. Spaceships and human-occupied planets in a totalitarian system and (unlike some sci-fi outings) no lightsabers, phasers, replicators, aliens, or space battles. Just a makeshift family onboard a single ship looking to survive and live to see a better tomorrow. The cast really took home the gold and my favorites include Jayne, Mal, River, Zoe, and Wash. They, along with the others make such a fine crew. And it's about cowboys who travel in space. Think spaghetti westerns crossed with sci-fi and that's Firefly. Plus, the characters have chemistry. This show should have stayed on longer but at least now we got a comic book continuation that takes place after the 2005 film. If you're tired of vampires and demons, take a look at this.


                
Firefly is a terrific television series with very well written episodes and a stellar cast. The set up of the series immediately had me hooked, as it brings us something similar to that of Star Trek, but bringing in a western tone that differentiates it from other science fiction. My biggest issue is the fact that it never got a chance to really build on its potential, there is a sense as you watch it that something big and exciting is to come, but we are ultimately left disappointed after Fox cancelled the beloved series after one season. The ensemble cast is certainly what makes this series, Nathan Fillion shines as Mal Reynolds, a flawed captain who we support all the way through, he has great chemistry with other talented actors such as Alan Tudyk, Morena Baccarin, Adam Baldwin and Ron Glass. Several characters are left feeling underdeveloped, particularly Shepherd, an intriguing character who starts off seeming important and eventually, sadly, gets pushed to the side. Great adventure, well developed stories and top notch chemistry all around, Firefly is an enjoyable series that is definitely worth the watch for Sci-Fi fans. A renegade space crew work for several organisations around the galaxy in order to stay alive. Best Performance: Nathan Fillion Worst Performance: Summer Glau Best Episode: War Stories Worst Episode: Serenity


                
I never caught this series the first time through, probably because I wasn't watching TV on Friday nights at the time. After years of hearing how good it was (even though it was canceled before the end of its first season) I decided to give it a look. The first few episodes show us Joss Whedon's original vision - a space western. It reminded me a lot of how Gene Roddenberry sold Start Trek to NBC back in the 60's. He called it "a Wagon Train to the stars". Of course he sold it that way because westerns were very popular at the time. Roddenberry never actually intended Star Trek to be a western, but the phrase helped him sell it.Whedon on the other hand has actually made a space western. In the early episodes Firefly is very heavily western. Horses, pistols, cattle, dusty trails all figure prominently in the early episodes. So much so that I found it difficult to get through the first 5 episodes. I don't hate westerns, but they have to be REALLY good for me to enjoy them, and this one was not. However, I treated it like any classic piece of literature that people say you should read and I gutted through it.I was glad I did, since after the first few episodes they backed off on the western aspect, spaced it up a bit and things got much more interesting. As I got to know the characters, I actually became invested in them emotionally. By the end of the series I really didn't want it to stop.It's really a shame that they lost a big chunk of their potential audience during their first few episodes because it was too western. By the time they figured out that the heavy western influence was losing them sci-fi viewers, it was too late to get the network to give it a second chance. If you have Netflix, give this a look, but I suggest you start from the middle and then go back to the beginning. Once you get to know the crew a bit, the early episodes are much more palatable.


                
Gory at times, but the story lines, characters, acting, photography and FX were all so amazing considering this was a TV series. Where was I when this was airing? Did the network schedule it opposite insurmountable odds on purpose? Did they air it at midnight or something? Man, when they get it wrong, they really get it wrong. What a crime that this show was canceled! I want to know what happens to the crew! I want to know what happens between Mal and Inara; between the Doc and Kayley! This show seems to be very popular and award winning. What gives that the networks leave such crap on every single day that no one wants to watch, and cancels gems like this? I hope someone in charge will wake up and smell the bacon, and BRING THIS SERIES BACK!!!


                
I am not surprised that this show got canceled in just one season, because it is not very good comparing to some other scifi shows, such as my favorite show: 4400. That is just way better.First, the storyline is weak. They have this River Tam on board, they could have made her story a little stronger. So audiences want to watch it one episode after another just to see what really happened to her when she was younger. Instead, you can watch most of the episodes randomly, because there is no central thesis.Second, the outdated weapons, technology and environment. It is supposed to be a TV show about the future, but sometimes, you see a lot of old western background, brown and dusty. And people are still riding horses behind a hovercraft. In one episode, the captain was able to catch a hovercraft while riding a horse! How slow that hovercraft must be. No wonder that episode was never aired. According to this TV show, people were still using old western type of guns to shoot each other. And in several episodes, the entire setting was old western.Third, bad Chinese. According to the director, in the future, China and USA are two world super power. So every person can speak Chinese. However, most of the Chinese words they spoke don't even make sense to any native Chinese speakers. And where are the Chinese people in this show? I watched the whole series, I can't find a single Asian face in this show. That is just hypocrite. Forget about the Chinese, they should not speak those fake Chinese at all. They don't make sense, and they just sound strange anyway. And there is not a single episode that is about China or Chinese at all. All those people at the Alliance are either black or white.However, I am still rating this TV show a 8, because even though the story was put in the wrong time. They are at least interesting to watch.


                
Firefly has a huge cult following, and I can see why. Had it been allowed to grow and develop, it could have turned into a fantastic series the way Buffy did (whih actually had a much weaker first season than this). As it is though, it's just really good, although it does hit greatness various instances. The characters are pretty fantastic and episodes in you really feel a sense of family, something Whedon has always been great at doing. It also helps that the cast is up to par, there's no weak link to be found and makes ranking them that much harder. I still have yet to see the film but I hope it doesn't disappoint, and I hope Netflix does something to bring this back.


                
Maybe the best space-western project ever!A very good choice if you want to see a mini series but in the end you'll feel disappointed by the fact that it stop so soon despite it didn't explain practically anything of the fans' main questions.Nevertheless the movie SERENITY was a really great answer to the epic plot questions of the series and a must see.With a great cast of later well-known actors(Nathan Fillion,Summer Glau,Morena Baccarin,Adam Baldwin,Mark Sheppard and others) maybe this series was a new beginning for many reasons.Although the special effects were rather poor(something that didn't happen in SERENITY) this is a little drawback to the whole epic production.In the end "you can't take the sky from me".


                
This was no Star Trek, but it was OK. It was set 400 years in the future and took place on a spaceship as it evaded the "Alliance" and delivered goods to various outposts. It was like a combination of a western and scifi. I liked it and its various story lines. Don't expect too much out of it, and you won't be disappointed. I liked the characters and their various nicknames and the various settings on the planets. I loved the spaceship and the interactions with the various members on it. This was a good show and a good recommendation for anyone interested in scifi. See Serenity-the movie sequel! ** 1/2 out of ****


                
SPOILERS:Well, I've known about this show for about 4 or 5 years but never found the moment to watch it. Maybe it didn't cached my attention because all the cast is in some way unfamiliar to me. I knew the show had great reviews and the other day watching a video about inaccuracies in films, they pointed out the great things about Firefly is that the space scenes where complete in silence... as it should be. So I gave it a go. Full equipped for a marathon, the first thing that got my attention was that all the good guys, doctors, army or pilots where white folks and oddly, all the mercenaries, thief, crooks where from other ethnic groups. And the game changer here was that they where cursing in Chinese but there is no Chinese or Asians to be found, until episode 13 "Heart of Gold" where suddenly and finally an Asian character made it to the show... as a prostitute. Despite this, I enjoyed the show very, very much. I thing Mal (Nathan Fillion) at the beginning was a little on the comedy side but then the show has great turns and all the characters have a story and at some point during all the show, you eventually found out how they turn into who they are. All but one... Shepard Book's story is still a mystery, and after watching the film "Serenity" It is certain that they will not tell anything about this kind of mysterious character. Maybe is because he is African-American the writer wasn't comfortable about telling more about this. What the writer maybe found enjoyable was to introduce another black guy, of course, bounty hunter... and a rapist. Really nice show if you put aside all this and just focus on the Serenity crew's adventures. Great fun if you end it by watching the movie too.
... but I don't think it's good enough to warrant all the complaints and campaigning for getting it continued. Sure, some questions were left unanswered, like who is the Sheppard actually or what had been done to River. But they never seemed that important in the series so they weren't that important to me. This series shoved very few signs of wanting an actual narrative storyarc. It seemed to much rather want to be a series of stories about the everyday lives of the characters. It actually reminds me a bit of the structure of Mad Men, set in space, rather than an agency. And it does it good and it's actually refreshing to see an series without a big dramatic arc which starts to overshadow everything after four episodes. But without that arc or at least some kind of cliffhanger, there's no sense of necessity or urgency in hearing the continuation of the story. I like what I already got, but don't necessarily want more of the same.Maybe my biggest issue with the series is in the world building. It's a combination of sci-fi and western, but those two elements are never allowed to merge. Sometimes they're in high-tech future land and other times they're in frontierland without any tech to speak of. When someone once decided to combine sci-fi and victoriana, they came up with steampunk, so it's kinda surprising an disappointing that nobody could combine sci-fi and western into something new and shiny. The idea that China was the second great power is interesting but is never really explored other than Chinese apparently being the go-to language for swearing. And maybe that's why I don't feel the need for any more. I've already seen all the world has to offer, or rather, I know that it's all sci-fi or frontier land so I'm not missing out on anything. The same with the stories. Half of them seem to be classic westerns, with the only difference that the characters come in in a spaceship rather than riding in on horses.The real strength of the show is in the characters and writing of them. The dialogue flows naturally and there's never a shortage of funny one-liners. All the characters are fun and interesting and well-rounded and all out a joy to watch. They are all well defined without becoming stock characters. And it's always nice to see a diverse cast. If there had been a second series I would have watched out of curiosity to see what Mel and gang was getting themselves into now, rather than out of any sense of wanting to get on with the story.But alas, there is no second series, which means that after watching Serenity I will just have to grind my teeth and give Battlestar Galactica another shot.


                
