I had high hopes for this one.  I loved Aronofsky's debut, Pi.  I would consider it among the ten most original films ever made.  So, I went into this movie expecting a lot.  Maybe it was my own fault.  So I didn't like it.  No big deal.  Then everyone and their film school professor latches on to the film and is calling it one of the greatest films ever made.  What a load of bs!  Aronofsky just rehashes all of the camera techniques that made Pi so enjoyable to watch.  Sure, they were original in Pi and I love that movie, BUT if I wanted to see Pi again then I would have watched my DVD. And the story is ridiculous! SPOILER ALERT!  There's a drug shortage in New York!  A drug shortage!  How on Earth could their ever be a drug shortage in New York!  This comes a little past mid-way into the film and completely derails any kind of credibility the filmmakers were trying to establish. If you enjoyed those after-school, don't do drugs television programs, then you'll enjoy this one.  It will be the wildest one you've ever seen. However, when all is said and done, that's just what it is... an after school special.
I've checked on the internet before writing this review, partly to check there wasn't some joke I was missing out on and partly to see if there weren't plenty of negative reviews to counter the adulatory ones I'd read already. No such luck. This film is universally respected and adored for it's portrayal of drug addiction. Personally I found it to be the most jaw droppingly risible, ham fisted load of old cobblers since Reefer Madness.Mother, son, friend and girlfriend all descend into their own hell over the space of three seasons. It begins with giggling and dieting and, within 9 months, ends in amputation, dementia, electro shock therapy, imprisonment (black boy in a Southern white boy jail) and the insertion of double ended dildos anally in a lesbo gang bang for a bag of smack. The novel (by Last Exit to Brooklyn scribe Hubert Selby Jr) was written in 1978, and maybe in those far off distant dark ages the events of this film could happen. I dare say they could today. But the combination of all these tales within a 98 minute/9 month span (and a fast edited final ten minutes showcasing the simultaneous final consequences for all participants) makes this a laughable, monotonous and ludicrous film whose audacious visual style only serves to make you feel even more patronised by its didactic hollering.
This is one of those films that everybody talks about as being so disturbing and shocking... well I finally saw it and I think it's neither.First of all, it's utterly predictable. It's a movie about a bunch of drug addicts (one character is not knowingly a drug addict, but I'll get to that later). How do you think it's going to end up?! Either they sober up or go through a downward spiral, and the director chose the latter for all the characters to make you just think that "Drugs are bad, mmmkay?"Second of all, it's not realistic at all. So many places to start. I'll just break it down. 1) The 2 guys, on a drug-induced whim, make the decision to become dealers. And somehow these 2 (I repeat, 2) people rise up the complicated ladder of heroin trafficking, making tons of money in the process, making it look like a cakewalk, without the director showing any insight into what exactly they're doing other than a few 2-second clips of them standing on a street corner. That's just lazyness on the director's part in my opinion. To anyone who knows even the slightest about dealing drugs (not saying that I do), "making it big" is not an easy feat that 2 junkies can just start up.2) The older lady on diet pills. Presumably these contained methamphetamines. It does not make sense that she's just permanently "crazy" from taking them. Sure, you get methamphetamine toxicity from overdose, causing hallucinations and psychosis, but this would have been corrected in the hospital after withdrawing the meth and giving Haldol. She was not on them nearly long enough to suffer any "permanent effects", the existence of which are even questionable. Regardless, Etc (Electroconvulsive therapy) would NOT be used for this. And even if they did use it, the patient would sedated, not wide awake. The director just threw this in for shock value.3) The guy being sent to jail for his arm infection. This is illegal. A physician cannot deny someone medical care just because they suspect a criminal act. Even a serial killer who goes on a rampage and then tries to kill himself but fails will go to a hospital for treatment (with security present) prior to going to jail. And even if they do suspect a criminal act, it's a violation of HIPAA for the physician to just "tell the police" unless the patient is an actual threat to himself or others. There is tons of medical literature about IV drug users... they are a unique and special patient population that have their own needs. I gotta say the director really makes doctors look like a-holes. And the sad thing is, some poor junkie out there probably saw this movie and thought "There's no way I'm going to the hospital if my arm looks likes that!"4) Pupils constrict with heroin, they don't dilate like the film shows.As for the "shock value", what exactly is so disturbing and shocking about this movie? The orgy/sex scene? First of all, you can find more shocking things on the internet. Second of all, I don't feel bad for Jeniffer Connely's character because despite how addicted to drugs she was, she still willingly CHOSE to go the dudes house and later the party. She know what she was getting into, and had other options.That's it, I'm done. I have to say, I really enjoyed the cinematography in this movie and that actually makes it worth watching. The acting is great as well. But the plot/storyline is unrealistic making the whole thing suck.
This movie is so derivative it is disgusting! I am very surprised at the number of people who think this movie is shocking and original when it is clearly stale leftovers with some fancy photography (the only redeeming quality).  The characters act like they are in some never ending music video gone terribly wrong - it was obvious that they were shallow attempts to try and make us squirm. In the end everything was so over the top and stylized it just turns out to be ridiculous, staged, and boring. If you want to go see a movie that is imaginative and breaks through the normal movie nonsense go see Dancer in the Dark!!


                
This seems like a combination of Paul Schrader on a bad trip with Kevin Smith.  It hates its characters almost as much as it loathes and detests its audience.  This may be art but it certainly has nothing to do with why I go to a movie house.  These characters remind me of Death of A salesman on a bad acid trip.  What a pointless waste of time and energy!


                
This movie was written and directed by people who think human life is worthless.  Some good acting and some interesting but wholly derivative camera work save it from total oblivion.  But people, please, the social fabric isn't this threadbare anywhere in the country where it is set, and nowhere on earth would you find four characters this stupid in the same place and time.  The film makers hammer home a point rather than tell a story, and that point is tiresome, the story unrealistic, and the whole thing an ideological mistake.  I'd call it pretentious, but it's too awful. The director's "Pi" was a compelling case study on mental illness.  This film is a disappointment.


                
Arsty-farsty shooting and gritty squalor cannot save this howlingly overblown cautionary tale.From the deluded fat TV widow to the sinister black drug pusher, to the naive twerps brought low by the evils of drugs, there is not one character interesting enough to be played by a non-beautiful actor.There's really no reason to have shot this live action. In fact, if Jack Chick ever gives up drawing religious pamphlets and tries his hand at screenplays, he'll probably come up with something just like this.Lots of talented players, a great score, and a somewhat interesting story make it a real shame that this film is so annoyingly overrated and that it fails so badly. Despite snappy editing, some naughty director's cut sex footage and strong acting, this movie has the artistic value of a 1950s pot-scare movie shown in high-school phys ed.The emotional impact of the plot is about as subtle as a bunker-buster falling on a box of puppies in slow motion.
What I miss in this film is the attempt to address difficult social questions about drugs. Instead we are treated as Pavlov's dogs: drugs=bad, drugs=filth, drugs=pain, drugs=ugly, etc. All this may be true, but does that really suffice to make a film? No, I answer. For example, why not try to address the question WHY do these people in one way or another do what they do, why do they inflict these things upon themselves? What drives them? And why not try to put drug addiction in a bigger picture? Who gains from this abuse, why does a society accept that many of its citizens are paralyzed at their television sets, doped by drugs, completely consumed by their need or engaged in small gang wars (small in comparison to what governments do)? I do not say that one single film should address all these questions, but a drug film above the ordinary must see beyond the individual. This one fails in that respect, thus making it uncontroversial (the nudity and sex scenes are filthy and terribly voyeuristic, but I do not consider them to be controversial except to a very prude audience), which probably is the reason why it has been so well received... no one in power is criticized, it is the addict which is the loser, end of story.The film has some inventive visual effects and some good acting, but form can not make up for lack of challenging content. So I end up with 2/10.


                
Some friends of mine rented this a while ago and raved on and on about how great it was, how the cinematography is beautiful, blah blah blah, all that usual stuff so i finally saw it, and i HATED HATED HATED this movie!! I've had several people tell me that KIDS is a terrible movie because all it does is depict a worst-case-scenerio, well that's exactly why this is such a terrible movie.  I actualy liked it untill the end, but the end is so horribly depraved and depressing that i hated this movie.  Don't get me wrong i'm all for "non-Hollywood" endings for movies, but this was so bad. It's like the film makers tried so hard to make this a "non-Hollywood" movie that they forgot to make a good movie.  I'd like to remind everyone that different does not neccesarily mean good.  If you like movies with weird endings that are sad or different from most, then go see AMERICAN BEAUTY, but if you want something that will make you wish you were dead then REQUIEM FOR A DREAM is you film.  I really can't believe hoe bad this movie was, it boggles my mind.


                
Let me start off by saying that I will save the spoilers for the end so feel free to read the beginning of my review.I feel that this movie is just what Hollywood wants you to believe is realistic about drugs and the world. They also want you to believe that this movie is a good movie. It's not very realistic and is NOT a good movie. I have experienced all sorts of aspects of the drug world from user to witness of the South American effect. With that in mind, I will tell you that the movie "Traffic" is much much closer to the truth about drugs. I see way too many people saying that Requiem for a Dream is a movie to show your kids or loved ones about drugs. You must be on drugs to think that way or have not thought about how unrealistic this movie is.Here's my issue. Unlike the movie "Traffic", this movie doesn't develop the characters. I immediately couldn't stand the mother, Harry, his girlfriend, his friend.... nobody! I couldn't really identify with them. The mother. She looked and acted like a grandmother. She seemed like far too fake of a character. I actually spent most of the movie laughing at her character. Even now my girlfriend and I crack jokes about "the refrigerator". Harry was a selfish jerk of a son who I didn't care if he lived or died. His girlfriend was never really developed throughout the movie. Too little was touched on about his friend.Now here is where the spoilers come along.The last half hour of the movie caused my girlfriend and I to laugh and also say "c'mon!". I have plenty of experience with people being arrested and admitted with drug problems. Not once have I seen a doctor have a severely infected patient get arrested without being taken care of. Never have I seen a patient be sent right to shock therapy because they overdosed on uppers. The mother and son could have sued and won tons of money for his arm being amputated and for her being sent through last resort mental procedures without ever going to detox. It's like this movie was meant to scare you into abstaining from drugs but at the same time causing so much laughs that you wonder if you shouldn't just do some drugs to understand what is going on. And last of all, the "ass to ass" scene. That wasn't necessary. Seriously, how many times is a druggie going to just agree to do "ass to ass" in front of a bunch of strangers for just a little bit of smack. This movie took the absolute most unlikely and worst scenario and made a movie out of it.If you honestly think this is a good movie to persuade people not to do drugs, think again. The people who told me to watch this movie? Yes, all drug addicts. Drug addicts who aren't going to therapy. The people who told me to watch the movie "Traffic"? They were recovering addicts, addicts in therapy, addicts who had reached the end of their rope and turned back, or police officers. Do yourself a favor and don't waste your time on this movie.This movie is just as realistic as MTV's "the Real World". Sure it seems real. But it's basically the most wacked out and unlikely scenarios being thrown into a movie. It's like someone making a movie about how you shouldn't smoke cigarettes. In this movie about cigarettes the characters die by accidentally burning down their house, starting their cars on fire, or dying of lung cancer at age 25. Or making a movie about how you shouldn't own guns and all the characters blow off their fingers and commit terrorist attacks. This movie is way over the top. So over the top that many people will laugh like I did.Please, if you disagree, learn more about the drug world and how you can prevent your loved ones from doing drugs. Don't use this movie as a tool. Now I have to go. I think I hear.... oh my gosh!!!! The refrigerator!!!!!
I had very high expectations when it came to watching Requiem for a Dream, but was very disappointed. I think it is not a bad movie, it portrays addictions (to all types of things) in a very graphic, surreal sort of way, which in my opinion is an accurate way of depicting them. The entire story of Sara Goldfarb is very well portrayed, especially the haluccinations. However, as the movie progresses, it becomes incredibly dull and uninteresting, even though the director tries hard (too hard) to keep the audience's attention with truly shocking images, but the crappy plot shines right through. The last 20 minutes of the story reveal what the movie really is: a pathetic campaign to show that drugs will ruin your life, which is what we have seen a million times over in "say no to drugs" specials....the characters get  stuck in situations like electric shock therapy, amputation and prostitution, which are really not very viable, and even if they were they are shown to be way too melodramatic, seeming too exagerated and ridiculous, ruining the entire tone of the movie. it is sad to say that it is the ending that usually leaves the biggest impression of the movie, so it left me extremely disappointed not only because of that really stupid ending but because it had started out extremely well, and got completely crushed.
I really can't trust these ratings at all anymore. I have put off watching this movie for years due to hearing about how depressing it is, depressing indeed.Only a few minutes in and you're hit with a visual assault of flashing images, changing from frame to frame.. which persists the entire movie, what horrible editing. I mean, Tarantino does something similar but this is 10x the pace and intensity, without any style either. They kept repeating that same song, really loudly too.Credit where it's due, this movie does portray the horror of withdrawal very accurately, the sweats, going mental and doing anything for the next hit.But what was with the fridge moving and coming after the old woman, full blown hallucinations on diet pills? I don't think so. It was difficult to watch that same game show segment being played over and over.I guess this is rated highly because it sends home a message to teenagers, not to do drugs and the consequences it could have on themselves, their future, family etc.However, some parts were unrealistic, there wasn't a plot at all that I could see.. one sole objective - make the movie as dark and depressing as possible. Kind of like media scaremongering.In any case, I will never watch this again. I'd much rather watch a documentary with real life stories than this series of unfortunate events, portrayed in such a bleak and hopeless manner.
You don't need to pine for nothing but old MGM musicals to be disgusted by the blatant sadism fueling movies like this. That is to say, I fully accept the tragic decline of characters in keeping with a story, nor do I object to miserable endings when the course dictates that. I'm a grown-up. But. There is something nasty going on with films like this, wherein increasingly grotesque displays of characters undergoing horror are presented as 'reality', or, God help us, art. No good storyteller in any medium actually needs to show us, inch by inch, how low his characters are going. As in this dreadful, pretentious movie. Reviews here sensibly bring out the absurd mistakes, like Burstyn's Etc without anaesthesia or the drug dealer's ridiculous giving away of heroin for a little sex, yet seem to miss that these absurdities are there to serve the director's sadistic purpose: to make everyone suffer really badly, and right in front of us. That is not film-making. That is an adolescent's idea of being shocking and gritty, and it's insulting all around. Give me a story that realistically portrays these very dreams falling apart, with some humanity and not as an exercise in visual cruelty, and I'm on board. This? It's prurient garbage under the guise of serious movie-making.
If this had been made as an educational video to raise awareness of drugs, it may have succeeded. Although as it stands requiem for a dream is a simple, dull story which glorifies and tries to make us sympathise with some junkies and a woman obsessed with television.Strong themes of addiction run through Requiem for a dream. Namely the drugs. Though this, which is evidently the films main attraction, becomes boring very soon. We are repeatedly treated to scenes of Marlon Wayans smoking some kind of drug and saying "righteous man, this sh*t is good." This is basically THE film. Showing addicts taking drugs.What makes it worse is how innovative, although ultimately pretentious and drab the camera work throughout the film is. Some of the drug scenes are just close ups of pupils dilating and the sound of a lighter sparking. This looks kind of cool the first time you see it. Though by the 100th time it gets boring and a little embarrassing. Aronofskys attempt at bringing some sort of art-house chic to this boring story, totally backfires and comes across as pretentious and silly.Aside from the in your face drug addiction, comes the main characters Mother's addiction to a television game show. This for me is the only interesting plot line in the film. Slowly her world is taken over by her preparations to appear on this show that she idolises. The film even manages to strum up some emotion, detailing the Mother's pain, disappointment and desire to be noticed. Though we don't get this story half as much as the boredom of the drug addiction, which fills most of the films running time.I had heard a lot of people saying how shocking and disturbing this movie was. I regret to say that it was not. Its nothing but a dull, repetitive mess with very brief glimpses of quality, added in to try and interest us in a crappy story which runs out of mileage within the first half hour. Don't bother with this. It isn't clever, entertaining or good. Its true bottom of the barrel Hollywood film making, with a shiny gloss of what could be mistaken for a good movie, and a centre of preachy dumb junk. It doesn't inspire sympathy or shock, it just kills you with boredom. Utter drivel.


                
If you want to watch a 90 minute show reel of camera tricks then this is the movie for you. If you want to watch a movie about the highs and lows of drug taking then go and rent "Trainspotting".Many of the 10/10 reviews say this is "beautifully made" and "wonderfully shot". That is all well and good but a movie needs substance and here there is none. I felt no sympathy for any of characters, their downfall being all of their own doing. They made their choices and suffered the consequences, all driven ultimately by greed not to gain some sort of high.Over-rated, over hyped and to be honest I was bored to tears by half way through.


                
I had an idea! My wife and I would make a jar with all of the classic films in we wanted to watch and we would draw one out a week and watch it. The first film that was drawn out of that jar was 'Requiem for a Dream'. "Great." I said "I've wanted to watch that for ages. I love the theme tune."Little did I know then, that the theme tune is by far the best thing about this movie. I'm not going to go on too much because it has already taken too much time from me. But this is a warning to all film lovers out there. Heed my advice and listen well... DO NOT WATCH THIS FILM. So with the warning issued I will try to explain a little before I close this page and never think about this terrible film again. There are plenty of films that are bad. There are plenty of films that are stupid. But Requiem for a Dream is like a handsome rogue that turns up at a party who tells great stories and looks for all the world on the outside that he has everything. But within he is an empty shell. The film maker believes his film is intelligent and original and visionary. But in reality it is just horrid, convoluted, strange, stupid, ignorant agonisingly plodding and at times just damn right rage inducing. I don't know how we made it through to the end, but it was an epic chore and we did skip 'yet another one of those stupid fantasy scenes with the bloody TV. But, at last, like a tortuous trek through the desert, we got to the dismal, depressing and convoluted ending. I looked at the wife and she looked at me and I said "That is the worst film I have ever seen."The wife concurred.The jar went in the bin, as we couldn't bring ourselves to even draw another name.So DO NOT WATCH THIS FILM. You have been warned. Without being too offensive I feel many people who like this film are just trying to see what isn't really there and feel it is an 'intelligent film'. It isn't, it's just a bucket full of stale urine.


                
For starters, i would like to point out that i don't write comments for movies too often. A movie will have to make a certain impression on me - positive or negative - to make me write one. Secondly, when i see a movie that i like or dislike, i always read the exact opposite comments in IMDb, to see the point of view of the people that think otherwise than me. In this particular movie, the opposite comments would be the ones that i'd agree with 6 years ago.First time i saw Requiem For A Dream was back when it was released. I was blown away. Totally. I thought that this is what cinema MUST be. That was then...I saw it again three hours ago. When it ended i caught myself being cold. Not by emotions, by the lack of them. I started thinking that something must be wrong - me or the movie. Obviously it must have been me, because it was the same movie that blown me away back then. So i thought to myself that i had to figure out what has changed since. The very first thing that came to mind was that i found out i didn't care about the characters. There was no depth in them. I couldn't relate to any of them. They were like comic characters. Flat. The only emotion they had was anticipation for the next time they would get a dose.Was it possible that i had that kind of thoughts about the same movie i saw in 2001? No doubt about it. So, it must be me. I'm getting older and apparently the shock-after-shock theme in this movie isn't convincing for me anymore. And that's all there is to it about the plot. There isn't any. It's just that. Shock-after-shock. Mr. Aronofsky tried to shock his audience because he knew that. He made the film as much as depressing as he could, for the sole reason to bring tears to everyone, so nobody would pay attention to the non-existing script. It's true. THERE IS NO SCRIPT - NO PLOT. Nothing. He made a movie for junkies with nothing in it. Must find a dose and will do anything to get it? That is not a plot. That is absolute nothing. The side story of the mother is the reason for the 2 i'm giving it. Otherwise not even 1 would be enough.Acting(fantastic job), directing(quite good, i admit), editing, scoring(brilliant music), producing, developing, even promoting. Almost everything was almost perfect. Only one key element was missing. Plot. And that's the single most important part of a movie.


                
I don't get the fuss about this film. Granted it only really has a cult following but I watched it recently and would regard it as a pretty poorly directed and acted film. I can see what the point is - anti-drugs hoohaa etc. but there is better and more interesting ways of doing it. Trainspotting is the film this film tries to be. It's not big, it's not clever and it's not funny.The direction is amateurish. A particular scene that is shot 'cleverly' has the old mother sitting at the breakfast table before, in rapid cuts, her breakfast is eaten...yawn! Why use rapid cuts for a scene like this? The drugs scenes don't immerse the viewer in what it's like to actually take drugs, rather all the viewer gets is a quick burst of fancy camera-work and some people dancing while being extremely happy...MDMA one suspects! An opportunity badly missed, this could be totally revamped and probably make a good film but until that day ignore this title and watch Trainspotting...really can't stress enough how disappointing this film is!


                
A black deaf-mute drug lord gets blown to smithereens by a white hit-man posing as his limo driver!Allow me to congratulate Darren Aronofsky for kicking that obnoxious poseur, Quentin Tarantino, right in the crotch!Unfortunately, Requiem for a Dream goes downhill from there. The split screens and hyper-fixes get old real fast. The plot is all over the place. I won't go into detail because the Hated It posters put it better than I, but I will add this: In a moment of clarity, Harry realizes Sara is addicted to diet pills and tells her to stop because "they're no good." Is he hearing himself? Of course not. So, why does he bawl like a baby in the cab?"The dream I'm referring to in the book is the great American dream: prosperity, property, prestige, etc. And the fact that it'll kill you dead. Striving for it is a disaster. Attaining it is a killer" said Selby, no doubt, while on his way to the bank! The irony is Requiem for a Dream isn't about drugs, it IS a drug. It's Buñuel on crack stuck in a Z-Grade Grand Guignol.
You need a strong stomach for this film, just as you need a strong stomach to drink seawater.  In both cases, what's the point?  Watching Aronofsky's film isn't so much like drinking seawater as being rubbed all over with sandpaper - a treatment painful beyond belief, yet superficial.  No doubt Aronofsky STARTED with the intention of saying something about the Oprah Winfrey "follow your dream" mentality, but that idea was lost or buried in the early planning stages; all that he successfully demonstrates is how bad heroin and those colourful little weight loss tablets are.  For most people it's not worth finding out.  We already knew THAT they were bad.  If a few souls are dissuaded from taking these substances I suppose that will justify the film, more than compensating for my suffering and for the fact that it's a rotten work of art.In "Pi" (which wasn't a rotten work of art) Aronofsky showed that he didn't know how to use black and white; here he shows he doesn't know how to use colour, either.  I didn't know it was possible to get that sewage-filtered look on film - I thought you needed digital tape.  And if Aronofsky wants miserable overcast lighting, that's fine, I really have no quarrel, but he should wait for the sun to stop shining before trying to get it.  It's that modern auteur's disease, the desire to achieve all visual effects by manipulating the camera, without trying first to manipulate what's in front of the camera.  Hence also that jarring split screen effect.  At one point Aronofsky even splits the screen to get both his actors in the same frame, when they're lying together in the same bed.  A director with any sense would have tried asking them to lie closer together.The terrible thing is that Aronofsky is talented.  The difference between his technique and, say, Oliver Stone's, is the difference between thought and bombast; you know where Aronofsky's going with his visual gimmicks, even if there's usually a better way he could have got there.  This is more true in "Requiem" than in "Pi".  Aronofsky is getting better at making worse movies.  It's frightening to think how bad his next one will be, if he improves any more.


                
I finally got round to watching this after years of hearing all the hype and telling myself that one day I would have to see what all the fuss was about.I have often heard people talk about this film being an amazing (albeit disturbing) portrayal of addiction - but I couldn't disagree more.Part of the problem here is the extremes that these characters experience - extremes that are so detached from reality that they end up alienating the audience from the true reality of what addiction actually means for people who live it. It's almost like watching a cartoonish and deliberately over-hyped exaggeration of clichés about addiction.The problem is that they are so far removed from the reality of your average person, and from the truth about how serious addictions effect most people that it comes across as totally disconnected from the real world.Another thing that really struck me was the decision to weave in the storyline about the mother's addiction to diet pills and TV, which is compared with a major drug addiction - but in doing so this trivializes the seriousness of drug addiction, while also doing no favors for people who struggle with food-related addictions and other compulsions.It's almost as if, during the writing process, the primary question that drove the script was: 'what's the most shocking thing that we could imagine happening to these characters - let's do that, and then just use addiction as the Ex Machina plot device to justify including those shocking scenes.By the end credits, it literally felt to me like the sort of concepts that a teenager would come up with if they were asked to make a film about addiction - it just felt a bit like a series of clichéd stereotypes that were there to hit you over the head, rather than a serious attempt to delve into the reality of addiction and tell a story about those whose lives are afflicted by it.The true reality is that the very reason addiction can be so much more damaging to people is precisely because it can go unnoticed, or even incorporated into their daily lives for so many years, with such a level of mundane functionality that over time it robs a person of true flourishing and all the various potential they started out with in life. A lifetime of accumulated bad decisions and outcomes caused by addiction is far more serious and damaging to a person than one off shocking events tend to be.
(Before everything else, I want to say that I have no problem with difficult films, and try my best to work through them and process them with more than just emotion. In other words: I tried to like this movie.)This film does to the viewer what the drugs do to the characters. It eviscerates. It grinds down. It leaves you feeling hollow and unsatisfied. The thesis, from what I can tell, is: "Drugs are bad." And this becomes extraordinarily, horrifyingly clear during the extremely punishing final minutes of the film. But what is the viewer supposed to do afterward?Is the point that drugs will leave you feeling the same way the film does? If so, fine. It is a masterfully constructed (but otherwise useless) public service announcement that subjects you to hell for 102 minutes in the same way a fire-and-brimstone preacher might.If not, it is a work that delights far too much in breaking the viewer apart, using every trick it can find to beat us over the head with the depravity and brokenness of man, to no discernible end.Having seen Black Swan, I expected a disturbing experience, but this was a far darker film than I imagined. Black Swan, at least, celebrates something (the perfect artistic work), and explores the self-destructive obsession that seems to follow perfection and genius. It is cautionary and morbidly fascinated, like Requiem, but much more measured. The penultimate scenes of this film, cutting between the destruction of the four main characters, made me wish I could turn off all sensory input-- or at least punch Aronofsky in the mouth.This may be a naive notion, but I believe in the power of art to uplift. To challenge and empower people toward higher vision and accomplishment. Obviously not every film needs to attempt this, but I truly do not understand the point of making a work that only has the capacity to crush the soul. As a creator, why simply grind people into the ground?If you are the kind of person that wants to "get something out of a film," you will probably be best served by steering clear of this one. It will only take from you.
The good: Actors did a splendid job. So did the director. Scenes were wonderfully filmed. In fact, the whole movie is a masterpiece when it comes to visuals. It kind of reminded me movies by Guy Ritchie. It is filmed in a similar manner. Also, I think this movie is great for teenagers. It contains nudity in some scenes, but I think that in the context this movie is presenting it, the whole message would be a good one for the kids. After all, they've seen nudity all over the internet. One little movie won't hurt their innocence, however it will build up an emotion inside which I think will help them renounce the wish to try drugs.That's it. What about the movie itself? What about the story? The conflict? Well, I am afraid, there is NONE. The whole movie was extremely predictable, just like a teenage horror movie. It was incredibly hard not to know what was going to happen. A little drama then *sniff*. A bit more drama and again *sniff*. And the drama escalates as the *sniff* escalates. Which is all so obvious, that it became very boring to watch. I've read a few reviews, that this movie is about addictive dreams and stuff. Yeah, I guess it is. But all dreams are addictive. There's nothing special about this movie. All I saw was seriously weak people. Their weakness combined with their stupidity made me predict the ending right from the beginning. Of course not in details, but in general it happened like it should have happened. Actually there is no drama (in a good sense) here. Drama is when Al Pacino becomes the Godfather and he swears not to kill, while his men kill every opponent. That's drama. Nothing even close is seen here. My brain was corroding into jelly while watching this movie. It's pure nonsense. It's a world outside my world. One which I don't really wanna see in details. One which is boring, ugly, full of despair and stupidity. The whole movie was about this world. Nothing else.I want my 2 hours back.


                
If you become addicted to drugs, here are some of the worst things that can happen to you: 1. You'll dye your hair a bright orange color. 2. You'll have sex with a black man.3. The refrigerator will LUNGE at you.4. You'll have terrifically nasty sex with Jennifer Connelly.5. You'll get lost riding the subway to Madison Avenue, but eventually find your way. 6. You'll see the world though a slow-motion, wide-angle view. 7. You'll sweat. A lot. 8. You'll be surprised to discover the hospitality Southern jails afford a black man. 9. You'll start wearing heavy black or dark-blue eyeliner and shadow. 10. You'll learn how to cry and to sleep in a fetal position. 11. You'll learn how to churn butter to the beat of loud, insistent music. 12. You'll non-chalantly sign your name to the form allowing the doctor to administer electro-shock therapy. 13. You'll discover that you have the energy to roll a television for over a mile. 14. You'll discover, suddenly, that you have a car. 15. You'll live in a world where only you, three others, and either crowds of old ladies or crowds of junkies, exist.16. You'll do your drugs quickly, in a carefully edited, close-up and syncopated manner. 17. You'll have your own personal soundtrack, Lux Eterna. 18. You'll have steak dinners with bald men. 19. You'll have only one channel of television to watch, which shows only constant reruns of a confused personal-improvement show. 20. You'll spend the money to buy this DVD. I think I'll go score, now...
This movie was obviously produced by someone who doesn't know anything about drugs. It's a huge scare tactic film portraying the worst things as commonplace. You know how some schools teach sex ed only by showing severe STD photos? This movie is on the same wavelength as that. I'm not at all saying I approve of recreational drug use, but the lengths this film goes to demonize it is actually laughable. I'm really trying to find a positive point about this film, but I'm at a loss. The camera shots are awkward and the effects they use for when characters are high is hideous. It fails at trying to be a statement piece, which it so desperately wants to be. The soundtrack is nonexistent except for one orchestral piece that is played upwards of ten times throughout the film. If you want a better movie about heroin use, watch Trainspotting (not a masterpiece by any means, but it's better than this movie).


                
