This film is about as cheap a play on emotions as you can get. A lot of people found this film offensive because it was graphic and brutal, I found it offensive because it treated me like an idiot. It's like, OK, I want to make a film that people will walk out and say "Wow, that really affected me, what an intense and touching film!" So, I'll get four characters, and I'll just screw 'em up real bad. That's all it's gonna be, I'm just gonna try and think of the worst way I can possibly screw each of them up, and then I'll screw 'em up - and people will come out bawling, thinking that, "well, I'm bawling, so it MUST have been a good film!"
Without being too harsh, the film did have a few (but only a few) good things about it, mainly visual things. However, the predominant feature of Requiem for a Dream is it forcefully trying to squeeze emotion out of you. I'm sorry, but there's more to a good film than just something which crudely forces you to feel shaken and sick in the stomach. A good kick below the belt will achieve a similar effect, and any idiot can do that. Sure, make a film that will make us feel shaken and hurt, but do it creatively! Don't just go for the easiest, bluntest, most transparent and hollow option! 'Cause the only emotion I felt when the credits came up in Requiem for a Dream was a slight anger for paying to see it and then laughter when I saw tears in the eyes of the person next to me. Because since the 'emotion-squeezing' didn't work on me, I was pretty bored throughout the film as there was little else to it.4/10. See PI instead.


                
Well, if the purpose of the movie was to make me feel absolutely awful and grossed out, the movie was a ten.  However, I was looking for a little more about why the characters were doing what they were doing.  What drives people to start down a path and never turn off it no matter how bad it gets? I would prefer to see that explored instead of this ode to "oh pitiful me in a my world of despair that I just can not get out of".


                
The first time I saw this movie I loved it and I would tell so many people about it. It definitely left an impression on me.Then i decided to watch it again. The second time around this movie was seen for what it really is, or at least can be. This movie drips of propaganda and the viewer is left drinking the excesses of the creators viewpoint. One thing they teach you in NA (Narcotics Anonymous) is that drugs lead to one of three places. Jails, Institutions and Death. This movie introduces another destination, slavery, but holds up the credo and teachings of organizations such as NA.Through imagery, conversation, suggestion and the occasional blast of visual information, the creators work very hard to show the viewer the users side of the story as well as the "outsiders" views and opinions of the main characters.We hope for the best as Harrys mom makes her decision to use diet pills to lose whatever iota of fat she thinks she has before her television appearance. We are left feeling sad for her though as she begins her decline into delusion only to end up institutionalized.All in all, the characters work together very well and the movie is better than many other creations out there. But for me, when it boils down to it, this movie feels a lot like reefer madness and should be cataloged as shock-education.


                
I went to see this movie after hearing all the noise it did, after hearing some of my friends say it was the best picture ever... and I was truly disapointed.First of all, its photography. Of course, it is great in technical point of view, the shot of the eye dilating is cool, all the visual effects are cool, and technically astonishing. But, it is just that, it is just cool. They do not mean anything, they are put there just to decorate the story, they are useless. And there is too many of them. I went to see a movie, not a parade of technical skills. A movie, not a video clip. What could have been an interesting aspect of the movie becomes boring and excessive.It is the same thing with the story, which I find extremely moralistic. Of course, drugs are bad, of course they can kill you, I don't need to pay ten dollars and suffer during two hours to understand it. My parents told me that many times before. Besides, the way Aronofsky uses to affect his audience is easy, sadly easy. He wants to shock you, and in the hardest way. And he goes for the easy way. It is easy to make you cry and to make you hate a character showing him kick a dog to death. In the same way, he shows you a rotting arm, gore sex and all the disgraces that can happen to a poor junkie or to his mother addicted to pills and TV. He never tries to say things in a subtle way, he things people who see his movie are idiots who can not understand anything unless he shows it, completely. He made a movie for idiots, I must repeat it.He does too much and is redundant in his message and in the way he tells it. I could elaborate, give more arguments and examples, but this movie really do not deserve more of my time. I have wasted enough seeing it. If "Requiem for a Dream" is worth something, it is just because of the images effects, because its subject, drugs, is the same a teenager would choose  and what he says about it is not much more mature. Drugs are not so interesting and this movie does not tell me anything I did not know before about them. And what irritates me the most is to see that there still are people who have the courage to say this is a classic! Well, I just hope that, with the years, it will be forgotten...


                
Yes, "Requiem for a Dream" is well made, as far as it goes. The insurmountable problem, however, is that three of the four major characters are monumentally uninteresting losers. It was almost impossible to care about the fate of anyone in the film except for the Ellen Burstyn character.The other fundamental flaw was the one-note nature of the entire production: "Addiction! Addiction!! ADDICTION!!!" Okay, okay; I got it. I got it after the first 20 minutes. I still got it after the next 20 minutes. I didn't care anymore by the third 20 minutes.The acting is very good, as far as the monotonous roles allow. The direction and editing are skillful and interesting. In fact, they are more interesting than anything else in this tedious film.


                
I enjoyed the previous effort by Requiem's directory Darren Aronofsky, Pi, but this one didn't work for me.  The subject matter is interesting enough (I loved "Traffic"), but the out-of-control direction and annoying camera angles overwhelmed the plot and the acting.  There weren't enough scenes over a few seconds for me to even get a flavor for what was going on within the actors.  Those emotions were supposed to have been communicated through the visual medium rather that dialog, however I found it to be ineffective.  It's a shame.  I am a fan of Jennifer Connelly since seeing her in Once Upon a Time in America.  I think Jared Leto is a fine actor, but again, I couldn't tell from this movie.At age 41, perhaps I just haven't watched enough MTV to follow manic cinematography.I felt the ending was cheesy and pandering, so it didn't carry the emotional power that was intended, either.


                
I have heard this movie talked about for years and I always assumed it would be good. I finally watched it last night. The best thing about seeing this movie is ---- that watching it is no longer in my future.i am bewildered as to how this can be so popular. I believe that people confuse the topic/storyline with its actual quality. This movie is about drugs, a topic with counterculture appeal. Movies about drugs and crime are usually overrated. It doesn't hurt having Jennifer Connelly naked in a few scenes either. But I'm really confused as to what makes this a good film...The entire storyline of the mother and the gameshow was annoying, boring, uninteresting and lame. These scenes were 50% of the movie. The back and forth between the Connelly/Leto/crazy mother at the end was just unbearable.Poor writing: 1) I was never convinced that these guys were junkies or addicts. Yet the minute the coke in Coney Island 'dried up', Connelly was turning tricks and Leto was pale, skinny and disheveled. The scene before Leto and Wayans started dealing, they convinced each other to just take a taste in order to evaluate the product just for 'business'. I thought for sure this would turn into a situation where they killed their supply in 48 hours. But in fact, they were controlled and professional and literally just had a taste. Even the supplier in the limo liked Wayans because he 'wasn't a junkie', hence offering the promotion. You can't write in these qualities and then try to make these guys hapless addicts. The world doesn't work like this.2) I never knew Marlon Wayans was working for anyone and never heard a mention of the names of the gangstas in the limo.. and all of a sudden there is a scene with Wayans in the back of a limo getting a 'promotion', and having his life threatened by hardcore high-level dealers? 3) the scene in the back of the grocery store where they deal huge bags out of a briefcase in plain sight to a rowdy mob... really?4) the whole Connelly 'art store' business or whatever that was... you can't write in a 3 minute scene and expect it to have any sort of impact. What is the point of all of these undeveloped stories? 5) Who gets arrested for bringing a friend to the hospital? Someone please explain this to me.these are just some examples, but the bottom line is this was poorly written and the story wasn't very good. it takes more than close-ups of a dilating pupil to make a drug movie good.
The examination of drug addiction as illustrated in this film is a worthy topic to explore. However I felt it was just too disjointed and inconsistent to help me as a viewer understand what the storytellers were really trying to convey. It certainly had some interesting situations to examine, particularly the issues involved with weight loss and the typical unfulfilled expectations associated with such endeavors. However, I felt the film's "story question" was not "well-formed".Stylistically, this disjointed feel may have been the intent of the filmmaker, yet I don't feel it belongs in the same company as say films like Memento, City of God and Taxi Driver.


                
I can't believe people can call this a masterpiece, it's mediocre at best. It feels less like an actual movie and more like something they would show in schools, minus the nudity. This film could have been better if it actually had a consistent plot, or even the basic elements to a story. It's an anti-drug movie that focuses on one dimensional characters, wow good job.The characters were very uninspired, except Ellen Burstyn, she was the only one that was remotely sympathetic. I didn't care for any of the other characters. To sum them up, they do bad things and suffer for it. To bad you couldn't get an emotional response out of me, that would have helped. If you want to shock people with drugs, show them a picture of Meth mouth, that would work. But instead we get a film that doesn't even feel like I'am watching a movie.This film is severely over-rated, it lacks any form of development or imagination. Could have been good if they came up with a better plot and more intriguing characters.


                
The story of four people and drug addiction and how it destroys their lives. The above is basically the whole of Requiem for a Dream summed up in one sentence. You don't need any more, because there isn't any more to the movie.Even though RFAD has received massive acclaim, I just can't understand why people rave about it. My personal belief is that RFAD goes down much better in the US and that the scores it gets here on IMDb are a reflection of the fact that most of the people who frequent this website are Americans. To a degree, I feel that the marks it has received are due to the US attitude to hard drugs and addiction.As a European, I didn't find anything brutal or shocking about RFAD. The earlier "Trainspotting" was THE movie about drug addiction and it portrayed a much more realistic attitude to addiction. It's a case of "Seen it all before only better". Realism was a big problem. Really, for heroin junkies, the guys and girls in this movie didn't have a hair out of place. Clean finger nails, tidy hair, clean clothes, dammit, they looked better than most of the people I know! Some of the decisions they made were really "out there" (even for junkies) and the plot left a lot to be desired (what little there was of it). There were also many instances where the plot veered off into the realms of being illogical - things happened to characters that just wouldn't have happened in real life - no matter how whacked out on drugs they were. One could counter that the movie's strength was that it was a bleak portrayal using extremes as a way of gaining impact but bleakness doesn't make it a classic and extremes still have to be put into a context where they don't overwhelm logic.And my other beef? RFAD seems to be a hybrid of Trainspotting and Snatch/Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels (again, people rave about the camera-work and music in RFAD, but again, it's something we've already seen done far better in European film long before). Take away the originality of the camera-work and score, take away the originality of the "Addiction Story" and you're not really left with anything else but a mediocre movie.I've read elsewhere people defending RFAD, saying that the book clarifies this or the book clarifies that and that criticising the movie whilst being unaware of the book's contents means that any negative view is unjustified. But come on people!! I went to see a movie. I didn't want to read the book. The movie really should tell me everything I want to know and if I have to read the book to have a better understanding, that means that the movie has failed.Believe me, I tried to like RFAD. I looked at the IMDb score and thought, "It's got to be great". Then, when I discovered that it really wasn't that good, I thought maybe the problem was with me. But on analysis - no. No punch. No realism. No meat. No originality. Finally, I'd just like to add, that I didn't relate to any of the characters - they were all annoying idiots. The only one who could elicit any sympathy at all was Wayan's character, Tyrone (although again, his final predicament didn't follow logic). I always find it very hard to like any movie where all the characters grind on my nerves. I'm not talking about just disliking characters - that could be the point of the plot and negative emotions could be the director's intentions, but in this case, they were just plain aggravating and I'd be pretty sure that was never the intended result. Personally, I couldn't have cared less what happened to them and to tell the absolute truth, I actually hoped from an early stage that something bad would happen to at least one of them and that kind of tramples over everything that the movie probably tried to be.Sorry. For all the raving RFAD is just an average movie.


                
"RFAD" as a lot of the fans, and people within the industry call it.The movie is shot like a music video, which isn't a bad thing. That's the high point. The low point, however - is the poor editing. The driving theme-song that plays throughout the movie pops in during the worst times. The main characters mother sitting in a lawn chair, then walking to a mailbox with a bunch of her friends isn't really the appropriate time for a heart wrenching song, with the drive of a scifi theme-song.After the 15th or 16th closeup of a pupil being dilated, I felt like shouting out "WE GET THE POINT!".Those are the movies only real downfalls. If you're into trendy film making, you will probably enjoy this a lot more than I have. I've seen better movies about drug addiction.I was pretty reluctant to see this when it first came out, but since about 10-20 people have told me this is their favorite film of all time: I had to sit through it at least once. It's my suspicion that people quote this as their favorite movie because it has a very trendy/catchy title. "Requiem" was a hot word for some time, most people don't even know it's meaning. It gets tagged onto movies for no reason (see, AVP: Requiem).Kids.
I actually BOUGHT the DVD.. Thought Leto would be real nice in this one. But my God i was wrong. This was THE most depressing piece of .... i have ever seen. Sure, it's a plot, good actors, but come on.. this was maybe the biggest mistake i've ever done. I'm sitting here eating breakfast, and watching this diabolic sex-drugabuse-sad-depressing-feel-bad-for-everyone movie. Watch it if you're suicidal, it will help you make your decition. For everyone else, avoid it. I can not understand how this is rated 8.9, that is beyond my imagination. I cant say it was all bad, that would be a shame. Pretty much all the actors are very convincing, and you might just get crazy yourself. Despite of the very good cast, this movie stinks. So, to sum up. Actors, great. Movie, very very very bad.


                
What would have happened if Trainspotting had been directed by David Lynch? The result would have looked spookily like Requiem for a Dream. Come on people, buck up your ideas (of what a good film is), same goes for all the trashy MTV directors out there force feeding us this junk. this ranks up there with Pulp Fiction as the most meaningless, overrated film EVER, this is just the LAST straw! Another music video adapted into a film, how many fancy visual tricks and stupid 'trippy' scenes do you want in one film? Well Requiem has more than you could ever wish for - split screen (done to death better on UK television dramas), computer altered dilating eyes, a snappy 'shoot up' sequence that is used about 50 times, imaginary food falling from the ceiling, fridges that want to come and eat you and hundreds more, it's all so much fun you might wet your pants in elation. Who needs David Lynch and Fincher, this film has more weird s**t than they can ever hope to provide in a single picture.If you want a film about drug addiction and it's effects you have Trainspotting, it may not be flashy but it does the job better than this pile because it has a decent story, some character, half decent acting, wit and realism, RfaD lacks all of the afore mentioned qualities. By far the worst, most annoying feature of the film though is the sound track. It's just the same track over and over with the tacky strings section at the beginning and end, boooooring! Also just as predictable and bland is the story, the writer should have taken the same stuff as the director, maybe then he would have thought up some interesting plot developments and characters. The only character who was any fun was Sara while she was tripping out and dancing about like a loony. As for the rest of them, well I was rooting for them to all OD and get off the bloody screen! What a bunch of sappy losers, maybe if their dreams and emotions were illustrated better at the start I would care, but they start chewing scenery and getting high far too quickly and they are then promptly thrown about in the wacky world of the directors twisted vision like so much vomit getting flushed down the pan. Boring, shallow, seen it all before. NEXT!
I just watched this movie last night after reading all the great reviews on IMDb. I didn't think it was a very good movie in any way, not one I would bother mentioning to my friends.The fast motion sequence is downright annoying and wrecking to the movie. The audio is awfully annoying - especially towards the end when I found myself having to turn off the stereo and watching the rest of the movie on the less dominating TV speakers. It had too much sex and nudity. I never came to identify with the characters and thus their fates at the end didn't touch me emotionally. The movie did manage to do one thing right: Illustrate how psychotic you can become even from popping pills subscribed by a doctor. The scenes with the exploding fridge are good. The acting performance of the mother-character is downright awesome. But the movie as a whole = big waste of 1 hour and 40 minutes.


                
This movie is another one of those art house movies that are works of modern art. Most people either don't like it or they don't, and they claim they do, so that it looks like they appreciate art, and thus don't seem like ignorants in front of other people who found it as stupid as they did in the first place. even if you didn't understand that the point is the movie has no point. there are much better movies on drugs out there. the only reason this movie is watchable is that it has some brilliantly conceptualized and shot scenes and that for some strange reason i knew what was going to happen and just wanted to make sure it did. a good film maybe if you are a film student but worthless as entertainment. watch it if you like these art house kind of movies.


                
sorry to offend anyone but i think this movie really sucked!!!! its message was simple enough. drugs will ruin your life. thats great but it simply did not work for me. the scenes with jared leto's mom were grating and repetitive to the point where they just became annoying, as opposed to making me feel pity for her drug dependency and isolation. way too long, trite, and just over the top. if you want to see a good "drugs are bad" movie, watch drugstore cowboy, traffic, Jesus' son, or even trainspotting. jennifer connelly is probably the movie's highlight and the "end to end" scene is actually pretty harrowing. overall though, i don't think i would want to watch this movie again.


                
Requiem for a Dream marks my first Darren Aronofsky film to date. In short, I am disappointed and has given me a bad first impression of the director. This overwrought public service announcement follows the lives of four people suffering the consequences of drug addiction. An interesting subject treated with the utmost superficiality. My major issue is with the script. It doesn't seem to be doing much except saying "look how bad drugs are". There's no deep or profound meaning on the subject matter and doesn't leave much for interpretation. Furthermore, I could not manage to muster an ounce of sympathy for any of the characters. The script simply lacked any real depth to make them remotely interesting or relatable. We basically just watch all of them crash and burn. It might be visually interesting but we never get to emotionally connect with any character. There's also Aronofsky's visual techniques which are quite striking at first, but after a while they get tiresome. The four principal actors do well enough given what they have to work with. Ellen Burstyn is most notable for her Oscar-nominated performance. But not even a good performance can redeem this relentlessly pretentious film. A Let Down!


                
"It's such a fine line between clever and stupid" goes the immortal line from Spinal Tap, and this film reinforces that message. The direction and cinematography and editing are as look-at-me slick, stylish and gimmicky as the most 80's of music videos. But oh my goodness the plot. I came to this comments board after seeing the film hoping, once my laughter had subsided, to make the obvious "drugs are bad m'kay" jokes, mock the ludicrous plot, and point out that this film outdoes Reefer Madness for camp, self-parodying counterproductive hyperbole. But I see plenty of others have beaten me to the punch in stating the obvious. This film is the Monty Python "Salad Days" skit writ large. Try drugs, and you will end up getting your infected arm amputated, your game-show-addicted mother will get shock treatment in a loony bin after trying to slim down to fit into her red dress, and funniest of all, your white girlfriend will be forced to fellate over-endowed black men and have foreign objects inserted into her anus at orgies in exchange for drugs. I could almost visualise John Waters and Ed Wood and William S. Burroughs making up this plot over a few cones of wacky tabbacky as they laughed and masturbated themselves silly. Except that they would have cast Divine as both the mother and girlfriend if they had been directing, and they would have called it something like "Naked Flamingoes from Outer Space" rather than given it the pretentious title that it actually had. And they wouldn't have taken it all quite so seriously. Watching this film, I honestly expected a Ron Jeremy cameo at any minute. The whole plot sounds like one of his Catskills routines, complete with long-suffering Jewish mothers doting on their disappointing sons. How they managed to avoid having Ellen Burstyn say "You coulda been a doctor like that nice Dr Spencer" I'll never know.All that said, despite the clichés and the pretentiousness and the ludicrous, heavy-handed, moralising, didactic plot, the film has its merits. I wasn't overly bored, the direction was OK, if a little hammy, and the acting was adequate, if a little hammy. Still, I don't understand the rating of 8.5/10 and the rave reviews. That puts it higher than "2001: A Space Odyssey", which is even more ludicrous than the plot.


                
Let me start of this review by saying I didn't think I would like this movie before I rented it. This is one of the movies that all of my friends talk about being a great but messed up movie. For years they have been telling me to see it so I finally gave in and rented it for fifty cents. I don't think I was ripped off but I can say that I wasn't entertained.I knew the movie was basically about drug addiction, but that was about it. What I found was exactly that, the only problem was it was missing a plot. Never taking any kind of drug or really being addicted to anything there was nothing I could relate to in this movie. There was also almost no one in the movie that you even slightly care about.There were some good parts to the movie. Both the way the movie was shot and the acting I enjoyed but unfortunately that dosn't save this movie.


                
No spoilers here.I haven't seen this movie in awhile, but I remember that it was well done. That is, technically, the film is well made.However, watching this movie makes me think of the old 50's propaganda movie Reefer Madness. This one is updated and more graphic. The story-lines are impossibly gruesome, as if drug use can ONLY end in the absolute worst outcome possible. It seems as if the director never had any experience with drugs or drug users, and based the story on what was presented to him by his high-school health teacher.I just can't take this film too seriously given the way it deals with the subject matter, which is entirely amateurish (or government sponsored?).Also, I posted this because I feel the movie is given far too much credit. It's not a bad movie, but there are so many BETTER movies out there....


                
This movie is probably the most effective anti-drug statement ever put on film. What watching it proved to me, less than that being a junkie isn't any fun, is that I don't have as strong a stomach as I thought. I've made it through some pretty rough movies, but even those were basically just entertainment. Requiem is a different matter, and is the first movie where I couldn't make it all the way through; after enduring the first hundred minutes,I fast-forwarded through the last twenty. The movie depicts the lives of four people living on Coney Island whose lives go awry due to drugs. Harry Goldfarb, his girlfriend Marion, and his friend Tyrone are already drug users, but as the movie begins seem to have their use pretty well under control. Marion dreams of opening up her own clothing store, while Harry and Tyrone are trying to set themselves up as drug dealers. The fourth character is Harry's mother, a widow who spends most of her time in a dreary apartment eating candy and watching a bad self-help show. So the movie isn't exactly a laugh-fest to begin with. But hold on, it's gets even grimmer from here. Stylistically, the movie is quite impressive. I had previously seen his debut film, Pi, which shares a similar, deliberately grungy look, as well as aggressive editing. I wasn't a huge fan of that film, which at least in my memory seems rather lacking in substance to match its style, but I do remember being impressed by its rapid montage, repeated multiple times, of the obsessed protagonist swallowing pills. For Requiem, Aronofsky elaborates on those sequences with montages of the addicts' drug taking, showing only small details, such as the needle being readied. Working with a bigger budget here, he's able to pull out all of the stops, including split-screen, speed-up motion, and micro-photography, in order to convey the highs and lows of a junkie's existence. But this movie isn't just a director's show; the actors are also very impressive, though largely because of their sheer willingness to pretty thoroughly abase themselves for their roles. This is particularly true of Ellen Burstyn as Sarah Goldfarb, who never flinches from her painful role. Jared Leto and Marlon Wayans manage to make their junkie characters sympathetic enough to care about what happens to them. I never expected that there would be a movie sex scene involving Jennifer Connelly that I wouldn't want to see, but it's here, which may or may not be a somewhat dubious distinction (it was in fact at this point that I decided to skip all the way to the end). Despite its generally harrowing quality, there are points where Aronofsky's willingness to go to extremes starts to dip over into absurdity. A scene where Leto and Wayans encounter a cop and Leto imagines stealing the cop's gun plays more like a stand-alone commercial than a scene in a movie. Another fantasy sequence, this one belonging to Sarah as her mental breakdown begins, literally breaks down the wall between reality and the movie by having her imagine that the talk-show crew invades her apartment. The effect isn't disturbing so much as jarring, by reminding us that we're watching a movie- something that the rest of Requiem, for all of its overt stylishness, avoids to stunning effect. But while the acting and the technical aspects of this film were very good, why I thought it fails is because of the intent behind it. The movie amounts to little more than the world's most extended anti-drug commercial. At some level, I think that all movies should be entertaining; not necessarily fun, but involving and satisfying to the audience. Maybe it's that I'm just too conventional to accept Aronofsky's brutally honest vision, but I think that there's a problem with a film that wants to put the audience through as much discomfort as possible. Instead of telling a story or conveying a mood through the camera, Aronofsky seems to want to use it as a weapon for mounting a sensory assault on the viewer.
This is one of those movies I heard would 'change my life,' that I HAD to see it because it was SO profound.Well, to me, it wasn't. Honestly, it's just a bunch of drug clichés, loosely latched together with a sad storyline. The familiar subject matter and emotions it instigates are of course authentic, and therefore relevant to many people, but again exploting drug culture better than any film before it doesn't seem to be a landmark achievement to me, it seems to be a drug film. Following this, I watched Pi by the same director and that stands as one of my most hated movies I've ever seen. Perhaps I just don't like the director, or perhaps nothing special is really going on.I've been exposed to drugs plenty in real life, this is absolutely nothing new to me. Capturing some of the stigma and sadness on film? Perhaps, but some segments are quite fictitious, and I don't think this film really needs to be on the top 250 list. One mans opinion.


                
Those of you that rate this movie so high must have thought Refer Madness was Oscar material.  I appreciate what the movie tries and succeeds in doing which is to scare people away from drugs.  Great, but the people that need this sort of movie aren't the people that are going to sit all the way through it.  The idea of the movie is transparent.  There are no surprises. It would be great to show your teenagers to shock them but the content often walks the border of being XXX pornographic so it loses even that appeal. The movie doesn't have any real entertainment value.  There isn't anything to learn, and the moral is lost on only a small few. The movie is done well but, again, so was Refer Madness in its day. I only recommend this movie to people who think High Time is great reading.


                
Maybe this movie pushed the envelope when it was released but people who voted this movie into the top 100 need to watch more movies. I watched this movie tonight and anyone could predict the outcome (and each of the events that lead to it) for all four main characters in the first five minutes. The films only attempts at twists are in easily predicted fantasies and delusions. Aside from Sara I found it impossible to relate to or have any compassion for any of the remaining characters. I wished that the film makers would just hurry up and bring their story lines to their obvious conclusions. It's not that it's a horrible movie it's just ridiculously overrated ala Fight Club, Pulp Fiction etc... Not that it's a bad way to kill off a couple of hours but you won't strain any brain cells.


                
I decided to hunt down a copy of this movie after reading the rave reviews on this website. When other users rank the movie 9/10 or 10/10 and give their review titles like "Brutal, honest, and a must see movie", "Disturbing, Graphic and Great" and "Like being repeatedly punched in the back of the head by Mike Tyson" (sic) it certainly gets your attention. Naturally, having read such rave reviews I expected a great movie.I was wrong. Very, very wrong.I thought that I had found the "Texas Chainsaw Massacre" of drug movies but instead I had found a movie with average to sub-par acting and a plot which contains every cliché from the genre. The only things commendable about this title are the soundtrack and the directing, and to be entirely honest, this isn't even director Darren Aronofsky's best work.*****SPOILER BELOW!!******* The film follows the exploits of three dumb kids (a white guy, a white girl and a token black guy) as well as a vain and insecure woman. The three dumb kids, who have no brains and less virtue, decide to make some quick and easy money by pushing illegal drugs onto their local community. One day, the token black in the group encourages them to 'sample' the product and they all become addicted to heroin. At this time, the vain and insecure woman, in a separate story arc, decides to opt-out of a rigorous weight loss program by taking addictive weight loss pills instead. The movie is a bit vague but I expect that she is taking some sort of methamphetamine, which were once marketed in the west as a weight loss product.To cut a very, very long story short, the white guy contracts gangrene from dirty needles and loses his left arm. The white girl decides to whore herself out for drug money and, finding that the money is insufficient, starts doing live sex shows instead. The black guy ends up in jail (bet you didn't see that coming) and the vain and insecure older woman lands up in an Asylum after the methamphetamine's rewire her brain.Now that's a ground-breaking, creative and interesting plot right? Right??? I didn't think so either.So why did the other reviewers give this movie such wild reviews? Now that, kind sir, is a damn good question. My only explanations are that either I am extremely insensitive to the shock value of these sorts of movies or the other reviewers have grown up and live in pillow-walled hug boxes. My money is on the latter option.I give this film a 4/10 ranking because of its soundtrack and directing and believe me, I am being extremely generous. This film is worth seeing if you are interested in directing from a technical standpoint as the director has a very unique and interesting style. As an entertainment product - don't bother. Save yourself an hour and a half and watch something else.
