This will likely be the most modest review you'll read of this film in the first few pages of a sea of 10s. I nonetheless, am convinced a 7 is the highest the film deserves. Aronofsky creates a unique film about the horrors of four characters spiraling into a chaotic conclusion due drug addiction. However, his reliance on creating an extreme, hyperbolic film undermines the movie's appeal. The film seems to be an example of pushing the boundaries simply for the sake of pushing boundaries, as no real message. It would be similar to calling a horror movie a 'classic' because the director showed a bloody decapitation after bloody decapitation or a romance movie being considered a 'classic' because it has 1/2 hour of real sex. Nonsense. The best films are the ones that leave the gory or gruesome details to the imagination yet leave you with an extraordinary impact and a message. I really got no message from the film which is heavily focused on torturing four miserable characters again and again....and again and again. What's the point? The four main actors in the film are phenomenal. Marlon Wayans surprisingly gives a stunning break out performance for someone known for starring trivial and mediocre pop culture comedies. He may have given the best or second best performance of the four. Jennifer Connelly gives a credible performance as a desperate and loyal girlfriend forced to do unthinkable sex acts. The actors strengths are their modesty and ability to succumb themselves to the most demeaning things possible.The music of the film is memorable. The film has one main theme song, but it is the most memorable and haunting theme song ever I've ever heard. I downloaded it immediately after the film. The music emphasized the tone of the film.The major weakness of the film, despite the great acting, are the characters. There's no bones about it, the characters are pure idiots. The fact that they're idiots leaves me little ability to sympathize with them, and I was trying my hardest. Furthermore, despite other reviewers efforts to paint them as "tragic heroes", the main characters are not heroes in any form. It's even a stretch to suggest that they're good people. For instance, Connelly's character initially seduces an older man simply to get money. Leto's character upsets his mother repeatedly by selling her television set. Yes, they all do this to subdue their addiction.. but the term hero cannot be thrown around aimlessly. They're simply dubious protagonists. Yeah, they try to aim to get out of the drug culture and start prosperous lives. The characters have great chemistry with each other, they are somewhat slightly charismatic, but they don't do anything remotely generous or pious in the film to warrant praise as "tragic heroes." You can watch this film and immediately see the end coming. Part of you naively and helplessly hopes the film takes a sudden right turn into brighter pastures, but that is simply not the case. Aronofonsky might tease you in the beginning, but he brings you to the most overly dramatic conclusion like a car crashing into a brick wall. Ironically, while many critics bashed 'The Passion' for overemphasizing torture and maiming of Christ again and again and again and again over other aspects of Christ (and rightly so, that film has its flaws as well), it surprising these critics praise similar methods of repetitive "how can it get any worse" torture done to rather shady characters nonstop.I'm not saying this film needed a happy ending to be a good movie. But if it has a tragic ending, it should have a message. If it's just "don't do drugs", than that's a grave disappointment and waste of time for a supposedly deep experimental film.To his credit, the director utilizes a neat and impressive artistic style known as "hip hop montage." The surreal spinning directing was a doozy but a great asset to the film.This film I guess is worth a watch once. But once is only time I've seen it, and I'll never sit through that film all the way through again. Period. I'm pretty confident in saying that most of those "10s" people have only seen it once and will make an excuse not to see it again. The only people who will see this film again are overly depressed and eccentric, pessimistic types.... A classic has to be more than a overly nihilistic novelty act.
There is already a glut of films on drug addiction. Filmmakers love this subject just as actors love to play mentally handicapped characters. In a comment on one of them, I plan to provide a survey of this and how addiction of the subject feeds the addiction it depicts. But not here, because what is interesting about this film is not that Aronofsky started with a notion of a world and might have successfully portrayed it. Rather the interesting thing is that he has a particular style of film-making that seems inflexible, and his problem is to find that one subject that is apt for the style.Consider Terry Gilliam, the visual pythonista. He's very talented in creating quirky worlds with odd juxtapositions of props and sets. And he understands self-reference, the type found in British humor. But his overall sense of profundity is thin, and his mastery of narrative immature. So while his films are interesting in the sense that unlikely accidents attract attention, they are generally disappointing and messy. That is, until 'Fear and Loathing.' That's because the drugged mind is precisely composed of odd juxtapositions and weak profundities. And Gilliam's sense of self-reference (aided by Depp) is able to combine his condition with Hunter's. It works; it works well.Now turn to Aronofsky. He comes from a different visual tradition, one where slicing and dicing is the rule. Its not so much what the camera sees but how it sees it that is important. His first product: 'Pi,' was a spectacular mess. That's because he assumed that mathematically induced hallucinations were something drug-like, and that mathematics was arithmetic, and that the connection between mystical cosmologies and axiomatic dissonance was something simple. No one noticed the lemonade-stand approach, because there may only be a couple dozen people alive who know uncontrolled mathematical visual worlds, and there is scant literature on this to be found.Here, he turns to something that everyone thinks they know: simple erosion of the mind and will from drugs. Here, his cinematic approach is more apt. He shuffles, he jiggles and follows, he splits, he injects a repeating snap when the character does. Burstyn does an Emily Watson and completely bares her pathetic soul, and we are shocked at the supposed cost to her personally. The camera does succeed in intensifying the documentary feel, so the blur between character and actor is increased.So both Aronofsky and Gilliam have now produced, with the aid of talented performers, the one decent film their styles can accommodate unless they mature. What then? Well, in Aronofsky's case, it could be to develop the other thing he has done here -- he has created a somewhat masterful narrative of frustrated dreams. Personally, I prefer the understatement of 'Stranger than Paradise,' to the continual beating of the obvious we have here. But the self-referential notion of the fabricated TeeVee image defining this woman's hopes, mirrored by the similarly fabricated Movee image defining (not merely reporting) the loss of those hopes shows a promising narrative mastery.Let's hope he works on that for a few films and takes the Ridley Scott approach to growth on the cinematic side: do stuff you don't understand and develop the ability to adapt the vision to the narrative, not the other around. Not the other way around.


                
I must admit that I was somewhat surprised to see that this film is rated at #46 (at time of writing) in the IMDB Top 250. While it was a good film, I don't think that it was powerful enough to rate so highly.Perhaps it's that there are relatively few drug-culture films around and that the viewer is not accustomed to the shock that the inevitable downward spiral finishes at. Or maybe it just got a much wider audience than many of those that came before it.In any case, the film is a good watch, but the highlight by far is the story of the mother and her obsession with dieting. I found myself drawn into her story far more than that of the other three characters.Overall, I'd give this 7/10. If you liked this, check out Drugstore Cowboy - I think they did it better...


                
I have to admit, I have wanted to watch RFAD for a couple of years now. However, I let other people's opinions keep me from seeing it, which is something I don't normally tend to do.  Everyone who has recommended it to me has said, "You will LOVE this movie, it is so dark and heavy.  It's REALLY dark and REALLY heavy."  So for a couple of years, I've had it on the back burner but hadn't actually picked it up. RFAD seems to have become a staple on some of the "pay" movie channels on cable, and on Friday night it was a choice of one of my DVDs, Swingers on HBO or RFAD.  I chose RFAD and was cautiously delighted.I will preface this review by stating that I have not yet seen Aronofsky's first film, "Pi" so I am uncertain if the visual style in RFAD is his normal M-O, but I was thrilled.  The use of color, vibrant during the character's high points during these months, and sallow during the more prevalent low times was subtle yet stylishly done.  The frenetic cinematography is something that has been used often in the last couple of years and is becoming more and more mainstream, but I believe at this time it wasn't as overused as it is today.  Even if it is not original, it's effect is very heavy on the viewer. The use of drugs was primarily limited to very quick montages (similar to ones done in Snatch) that got the point across without being too graphic. Additionally, the scene with Ellen Burstyn waiting in the doctor's office in the last act of the film was extremely frightening, due in large part to the brilliant camera work and the sound.In regard to sound, I am very picky when it comes to music use in films. Being a product of an MTV generation and having studied video production I am sensitive to when music is appropriately placed in films.  The effective use of techno music in films is rare, Run Lola Run is one of the few films that come to mind, but I can add RFAD to this list.  The score is also extremely haunting; it compliments the action and the characters.Which brings me to the acting.  This movie would have simply been stylish with a decent story without the incredible performances of the four principle players.  Jared Leto was very good as Harry Goldfarb.  He conveyed the struggle between his reality and his drug-enhanced reality very well. I wasn't expecting much from the "cute guy" in My So Called Life.  And Marlon Wayans.. talk about not expecting much.  I'm not a big fan of comedic films unless they were made before 1960 generally, so I am not well schooled in the Wayans Family.  Marlon Wayans'character was less dimensional than Leto's but sympathetic nonetheless.  I've never been a fan of Jennifer Connelly. I remember sitting through her C-grade films in the 80's and early 90's with boyfriends who would readily admit she was a terrible actress but that she was a goddess because she was beautiful.  Of course, none of these films included a gorgeous male co-star (Frank Whaley? I think not.) so I couldn't dip into that superficial fantasy world that would make those films more endurable.  This movie was definitely a welcome change.  Whereas I was rolling my eyes during her early performance in the film, her acting drew me in to her character and eventually made me both pity and feel repelled by her.And finally, Ellen Burstyn.  This woman is not used enough.  I remember when she was nominated for an Oscar for this role, they showed her clip, then they showed her in the audience and I was literally shocked by both her beauty and the transformation into abject dowdiness in this role.  It is Burstyn's performance in this film that terrified me.  Perhaps it was because we actually see the origins of her addiction from beginning to end. Nevertheless, her performance made me ache.  It made my heart hurt.  I've seen Burstyn in several other films, but based on this film alone I want to see more.  She was amazing.For two days after I watched this movie, I sat back and had to figure out whether I liked this movie or not.   I knew that I liked the technical aspects, and having attended film school that's the first thing I base my opinion on.  During the weekend, the movie was always in the back of my head, but I still was sorting out whether or not I truly liked it.  Then this morning I came to a realization.  I liked this movie in the same light as I liked Schindler's List.  Both movies are brilliantly directed with excellent performances, and they were both extremely thought provoking. However, they are so heavy and compelling that one can't take it out to watch it on a regular basis without climbing into your own Bell Jar.Bottom Line:  A must-see.  Just make sure you don't watch it before you head to work at your gig as a Clown for Hire at little Susie's birthday party.


                
Requiem for a Dream is a staggeringly bleak look into the lives of four interconnected drug addicts living in Brooklyn. The story follows an older Jewish woman, Sara, her son Harry, his friend Tyrone and Harry's girlfriend Marion as they lose their sanity, dignity, bodies and eventually their futures to cocaine, diet pills, and heroin. The plot has been summarized enough here, but suffice it to say that it's one of the grimmest, heaviest films I've seen <U+0096> and I've seen a fair amount. Requiem plays as an agonizing train wreck that ends without any hope whatsoever for our main characters. This film is full of moments where I wanted to grab the characters and force them to stop their self-destructive behavior. It really is gut-wrenching and is very tough to watch <U+0096> viewer take caution.Now that I think about it, Requiem reminds me of the more recent Passion of the Christ. Both are very well shot, edited and produced, but are tough to call entertaining and certainly not the kind of movies you'd pop in on a rainy day. While Requiem for a Dream is very much an anti-drug film, the message I got out of the film is: Your actions have consequences. As I watched the heartbreaking scene near the end, where Sara's two elderly friends sit on a bench outside the hospital and sob after visiting her, I couldn't help but wonder if Aronofsky had people in his own life who were destroyed by drug addiction.So while I hesitantly recommend Requiem for a Dream, it's not the kind of film I'd care to own, and is certainly not for children or the squeamish. Powerful, brutal, and nightmarish, this film will have you questioning if you drink too much coffee. You may think I'm kidding, but I'm not.
"May contain a spoiler"The message of the film is that addiction is bad and can lead to your destruction and it doesn't matter if you are addicted to prescription drugs or to illegal ones. This is an important message and the way to the destruction is conveyed in a very impressive way. You first get a glimpse at the "good side" of the heroes addiction and afterwards you watch them on their way to hell. But the characters remain one dimensional and at the end of the film you don't know more than you knew about them in the beginning of the film and the fact that they are basically pursuing their dream is not enough to explain their motivations and actions. Ellen Burstyn carry the film on her shoulders and do her best with what she got in the first place,which is not much.An important message is been carried by a weak film.
From a viewer point of view, sometimes you like movies not to be so frank. Sometimes you prefer movies lie to you and let you get away from this ,somehow, ugly world. But if you are looking for this you should never watch this "requiem for a dream". This is a truely honest story of poor poeple engaging themselves with drugs and start destroying their not-so-beautiful life, second by second through the film. Like othe aronofsky films, the atmosphere is bothering in almost every scene, specially in the first 60 minutes. You might feel nothing about the film and want not to continue. But then the final 30-40 minutes arrives, everything changes, the atmosphere, the composition, the rhythm, everything, and it engages you with the story, with the characters, and then you can't move away. You want to find out where these people gonna reach. So you will stay with the film and you will follow it. To be honest the atmosphere remains bothering, torturing your mind and soul. But you are somehow surprised and you can't just let it go. So surely you will be more satisfied with yourself for choosing this film to watch when the final credits apear with that amaizing soundtrack in comparison to when you were watching the opening scenes with the same soundtrack.
Finally, perhaps this film is a little bit overrated with that 82 position among toprated 250 movies. But no doubt it is a very good, dark but honest movie you should watch. But only once because you can't and I think you don't want to watch it again. But you will always remember its amaizing brilliant soundtrack and you may want to listen to it again and again.


                
This is not a bad movie, but it is completely overrated. The plot is rather flat, predictable and the characters remain superficial.  OK, the message that drugs are bad may need to reach every generation in a new mantle, but it is not that revealing for most people that got out of their teens.  The fast cuts and comic-like style elements are not really new or original, "run lola run" used them more efficient and a few years earlier (and maybe some even older movies I don't know or cannot remember).  *minor spoiler*  The very elaborate images of the mother's drug induced psychosis are interesting, but not very realistic.  Yes, the movie may be disturbing, but only for viewers that are not alienated by its flaws.  Apparently the majority.
1. Jennifer Connely.2. Marlon Wayans is not being funny.3. Elen Burstyn rips the screen apart.4. great score.5. cinematography by Matthew Libatique.7. visually intense montage at the climax. 8. a fridge is part of the cast.9. no stereotypical Hollywood movie10. "drugs are bad".so, why not?


                
I was skeptical of seeing this movie because I have to admit Pi was not exactly my favorite movie.  But after seeing Requiem, I left the theater stunned.  This was an incredible movie, with beautiful imagery and the entire cast was amazing.  Ellen Burstyn definitely deserves an Oscar for her role as a lonely and unknowing speed addict, and who knew that Marlon Wayans could act??  Jared Leto and Jennifer Connelly were great as usual. The last few minutes of the movie left me horrified, but in a surprisingly good way.  You MUST see this movie.


                
(I originally wrote this review for a journalism class. It's my first film review, and i hope to write many more in the future.)I have a theory that the longer it takes me to utter a word at the close of a film, the harder it has hit me. After walking away from Requiem for a Dream, it took me forever to utter even a sigh. I felt as if I had just watched a car accident, and I could remember every gruesome detail.Requiem for a Dream is terrible, haunting film; the kind of film that's dark images that might chase me into nightmares. The film is a nightmare. When I say this I am not speaking from a critical standpoint and this is not a `horror' movie in regular context. However, this piece, about the horrors of drug addiction, is not for the faint of heart. The film was critically a masterpiece, perhaps the best I have seen this year.Requiem was written and directed by Darren Arnofsky, better known for another dark film about life, Pi (1998). Requiem revolves around a young dreamer named Harry Goldfarb, (Jared Leto of My So Called Life, Fight Club) and his widowed mother, Sarah (Ellen Burstyn of The Yards, Deceiver). The film also features Marlon Wayans (of Scary Movie, In Living Color on television), and Jennifer Connelly (of Dark City, Labyrinth).This isn't the average, run of the mill `Drugs are Bad' stereotypical film, despite the fact it was Arnofsky's mission to create a film that dutifully rendered the theme of the book it was loosely based on, Hubert Selby's Last Exit to Brooklyn, A book about the ills of drug addiction. Instead, the extraordinary cinematic technique of Arnofsky makes it hard to look away. He uses sped up sequences, split screen shooting, and various camera angles as a few `brushes' to illustrate the film's basic storyline.Harry Goldfarb (Leto) and his best friend Tyrone (Wayans) have big plans. By getting hold of a fine score of Heroin they are able to cut it themselves and sell it on the streets. With Harry's end of the profit he wants to assist his girlfriend, Marion (Connelly) in making her clothing boutique a dream come true. Somewhere along the line major complications arise, the three frequent the drug more often, and the three are thrown into a wild mix of various trouble with drugs, violence, and the police.Meanwhile Harry's mother, Sarah, (Burstyn) has settled into a painful and lonely routine of cooking and cleaning.  After a phone call from a television game show scout, Sarah wants to diet and look her best. She has even picked out her best dress to wear on television. When her diet seems certain to fail she enlists the help of a doctor. Without so much as a care he prescribes her pills in the form of speed. At first these pills work, yet she slowly becomes addicted, abusing the medication. As time drags on she eventually loses track of herself and reality.Requiem is a shocking look into the world of addiction and denial. The film painstakingly focuses on a mere heartbeat of the lives of Harry, his mother, Tyrone, and Marion. It glorifies and downplays their personal day to day struggles, their fears and hopes, and the eventual destruction of everything around them through their respective addictions.Arnofsky and his cinematographer Matthew Libatique have put the film together is such a manner that time races by when it's characters are on their drugs, yet it seems to drag when they're not. The feeling that the characters believe that life between highs is dull, and they are waiting for the next hit becomes hauntingly evident. In addition the scenes of drug induced highs are bright and busy, while those without are seemingly drab and clouded. One thing that got to me was how dimly lit each of the character's apartments were how little sun came in, the emptiness, and openness of each. In one scene Harry is walking out a pier in the beautiful summer sunshine to Marion, who is waiting patiently in a red dress. I found it interesting since in one of Connelly's latest films, Dark City, she is featured in a similar sequence. It is also interesting to note that Ajay Naidu, Sean Gulette, and Samia Shaoib, who appear in small roles, were also in Arnofsky's film, Pi.One of the most influential techniques in this tale is the music. Clint Mansell (Who worked on Pi as well) employed The Kronos Quartet to perform every song on the soundtrack, such as aptly titled pieces `Ghosts of Things to Come' and `The Beginning of the End.' Each piece is as haunting and nervous as the images on screen, and the music is impossible to ignore as a reminder of the tension and collapse. It is equally as powerful as the film in haunting the viewer long after the final fade.


                
A film-making tour de force of style, "Requiem" is ultimately exploitation masquerading as art. Apart from the glitz and glamor of the cinematography and editing, where is the character development? Where are the twists and turns in the story? Where are the delightful surprises that great films always give us?Were it other than a straight linear, chronologically ordered record of four characters' steady descent into hell, it might be more than a simple diary of the times.Students wanted me to show this in my film class this past semester. Sometimes I will show films I have not previous viewed. This time I chose not to<U+0097>I'm glad I made the right decision.


                
I have watched this film once and will never ever watch it again, perhaps the single most depressing film ever made. I would of given it a higher mark as it is a 'good' film as it provokes an emotional response, however I would never wish anyone else to see the film as it isnt worth it.


                
Different than anything I've ever seen. It constantly goes. Never stops. There's a tempo to it almost which made me respect the film but it gave me a headache the entire time. It was almost displeasing.it kept me awake


                
I'm glad I finally got around to watching this movie. But I wouldn't call it a 'must watch'. It's a good movie, but at the end I'd been watching at 3x because it felt needlessly long and uncomfortable.


                
One of the more terrifying things about Aronofsky's Requiem for a Dream is how numerous extras appear to just 'exist' amidst proceedings and merely get on with their own lives, fleetingly mentioning the odd happening from recent times, as they intermingle with the film's core characters whom are witnessing their own existences fall apart at their very seams. Watching these people going about their business on screen reminds us of the same way those figures, or people, in our nightmares mingle around in the background as we dream on; we're aware of them, much like the central characters are aware of them here, but we cannot really make them out nor indeed really work out what it is they're saying or plotting. Often, we feel at the mercy of them; we pray that they're not speaking or plotting against us. Such are the situations the numerous leads, in this rather eye-opening urban drama that does carry an hallucinogenic, nightmarish quality, eventually come to bury themselves in; a sad, sorrowful film depicting the gradual falling away from reality of a number of people because of drugs or drug addiction in varying forms as well as falsified dream chasing.What is most admirable about the film is the manner in which how, the now somewhat renowned American director, Darren Aronofsky manages to take an idea one might surmise with a one-sentence pitch and manages to spin a tale out of it all that's cinematic and with a distinct, applied aesthetic which engages without ever glorifying and never at once feels like a lecture. The film revolves around a handful of disparate New York-based characters, their tales running parallel in a multi stranded fashion with their coming into contact with drugs, or the drug trade in some form, making up the meat of film's core. It is, much like 1996's Trainspotting, a smart and cunning drama applying a post-modern spin to what might constitute as what the British used to refer to as 'kitchen sink drama' in its depiction of predominantly young, attractive people destroying their lives through the lust for a drug fix. In this sense, Aronofsky has made a 'whizz-bang' film guaranteed to keep those of a younger disposition in their adult lives occupied whilst tell a tale systematically demonising the activity within, and yet retaining enough intensity for it to appeal to those well beyond the dangers of slipping into drug addiction.Jared Leto plays Harry Goldfarb, a young Brooklyn based man with a penchant for class-A drugs, which his girlfriend Marion (Connelly) additionally shares, and constantly on the look for ways into the narcotics trade operating out of this shady corner of The Big Apple. Living not so far away from Harry is his elderly mother, Sara (Burstyn); a woman living in a decrepit apartment with a flurry of other elderly women, of whom spend most of their time sitting outside in the summer's heat on the pavement, and whose lone item in her flat that's worth any money at all is her television. The things in life to which she holds dear lie in the form of one of her son's school photos, depicting the kid at better and more affluent times, and that television through which she gradually observes herself becoming the newfound star of a kind of reality TV show following a phone call from the network inviting her in.The film dances between the two strands with the sort of consummate ease that would have you think it were were a piece composed by a filmmaker seemingly nearing the height of his game; Marlon Wayans' local lowlife Tyrone Love filtering into proceedings on account of being good friends with Harry and later heading his own story of grief when things reach a hilt. Aronofsky seeps a sense of repugnance through proceedings; a 'sickness in the stomach' feeling; an aesthetic feeding off what can only really be likened to that of the drug-induced, nauseating aesthetic certain American films from the turn of the 1970s, in the form of Easy Rider or Midnight Cowboy, carried with them. There is a gross repetition to some events that unfold which, rather than frustrate the audience, has feel the clammy, grotesque sensation rife throughout. Sara's gradual obsession with weight loss pills and the necessity to essentially look as thin, and therefore ill-mindedly beautiful, as possible dominates her story; the film, as it depicts her seemingly withering away to a desired size, rears the other way in its depiction of her surroundings by gradually bulking out her apartment into this medieval chamber of filth and mould – a locale in which she looses her mind; hallucinates inanimate objects coming alive and suffers premature proleptic shifts to stardom plus the conclusion of this celebrificated process she desires.Harry is a good looking boy with a good looking girlfriend; both of whom admit they love one another very much and we sense in an alternate world, they'd be able to settle down away form all this. Their brief, gentle early embrace is a hundred-times more erotic than the depths toward which young Marion will have to later plunge for her drug 'fix'. Then there is Tyrone's path formulating out of the events, a strand more akin to being a gangster film or drugs trade thriller which might have made a fascinating short all by itself. The film, in spite of being driven by a very simple message or core thesis, is constructed around the incorrect use of lens' deliberately done so to induce sickness; excruciatingly low camera angles and cinematography encompassing good uses of extreme close ups of objects that aren't nasty to look at, but evoke reactions of disgust anyway. The film is a hardened and substantial peek into the crevasses of drug addiction merging uneasily with mental illness; a peek that is studiously executed in what is a highly effective drama.


                
This cult film got recognized and reached mainstream success thanks to great performances from Jared Leto, Marlon Wayans, and Jennifer Connelly. It is a very controversial movie which deals with drug addiction in a very crude and realistic manner. The director was not afraid of tackling the issue of drug addiction and presenting it in a raw manner. The different kinds of addictions are addressed as you have a lot of sniffing, injecting, and coke dealing on the one hand, and medical prescript weight pills on the other hand so the different kind of addictions are addressed here and yes the medical drug pills are considered as equally addictive and harmful as the rest. At the end they both can have devastating results and the director tackles these issues. The film is very original and has several interesting filming sequences which just add to the overall mood of the movie giving it a more realistic and crude vision as do the dream sequences and hallucinations. At first it might seem as the movie is going nowhere if not paid attention too but at the end every sequence adds up to the mood of the film creating a crude and real film sending out a mirror message of the effects that drug addiction has. The movie succeeds in that the viewer experiences the hallucinations and the effects of the drugs and it pulls us in to a world many of us perhaps never have experienced.


                
Four loosely connected people get caught up in the world of prescribed and illegal drugs.Pretend this is a school project. Write a first draft of a screen play about the subject and where it all leads. Just kidding, just pretend you have. Then go to this movie and tick the boxes: Yes it is fun, fast and making life better in the early days, but in the end it is just downward spiral towards despair, degradation and serious illness.Given the story is just one giant cliché (in capital letters), the question is how well and how originally the cliché is played out. I have to say pretty well. If you enjoy hip-hop and fast cutting. Some real low budget style from Darren Aronosky. Keeps it moving along at a steady clip.Yes, the budget is pretty low and the actors a little bit too good looking (Jared Leno is the only junkie I have seen with a six pack), but this is for the MTV generation. Bad/good messages have to a bit of boom-boom-boom in the background or the audience will fall asleep.Oscar people love over-the-top (look at the rewards for Deniro and Nicolson) and Ellen Burstyn makes it to the red carpet by going completely and utterly bonkers. So bonkers that you ask, how could she have got on a subway train? Found a building? And what happens to her after makes no sense either. They don't force feed people/shock people like that in hospitals - that went out decades ago! The script is as mad and over-the-top as her fantasy world.I don't take drugs. Not from a moral or legal point of view, only that I have never viewed self poisoning as a way of making my life better. If coke was on offer at the local petrol station I wouldn't touch it. Some people do, that is their knee-jerk. I am not better than these people, only different. Who connects with this story (and some must look at the IMDb rating!), it must be people who think, "drugs have a place and can help." As I said before, maybe they can for a while. The popularity of the film is a clear indication that people need - still - reminding about what they are really doing and where it can lead. Requiem is a small failure in that it doesn't seek to highlight lives that were going anywhere or leading to anything anyway. If you prostitute yourself you are obviously capable of prostituting yourself. Despite being movie cliché and law - some people don't prostitute themselves even when starving. However they never get their lives portrayed on film. And sex is always exploitation in film - even when it is pretending not to be...


                
Well the title says it all doesn't it, this movie certainly was a Requiem for a Dream. What a brutal, tell-all film that does not hold back on anything. This film focuses on the issue of Drug addiction, and how something that started out as a small addiction can lead to catastrophic events beyond belief. Throughout the movie I was thinking: "by the end of this film I am going to be in shock", but to be honest I was not as shocked or in disbelief as much as I thought I would be. But I think this is due to the fact that these days we have been subjected to so much knowledge about drug addiction and we see so much of it that I guess we have become desensitized to the issue since the movie was made (2000). Overall it was a very well made film with some really interesting camera and editing techniques that you do not see used that much anymore. The acting was amazing; Ellen Burstyn who played Sara Goldfarb was absolutely brilliant. Jennifer Connelly was astonishing as Marion Silver, My god that would have been a hard role to play but wow did she pull it off, and quite fantastically I might add. This film is definitely not for the weak at heart and it will leave you thinking and somewhat shocked long after you have turned it off. 7.5/10


                
As a film, Requiem for a Dream is unique and a brutal flash of reality. As a watchable movie is it horrifying, depressing and unfortunately -- a brutal flash of reality.  I would not wish this movie upon anyone other than those who wish to view it for its artistic characteristics and its underlining meaning.  If you are bored and want to just watch something, definitely pass this up.


                
This movie simply has turned my perspective on how, why, and what reasons lie behind making a movie.  The brutal honesty of this movie, I cannot remember having seen before.  And even though one could argue over the point of the movie and the plot details, I believe most all would have to say that it hides nothing from the audience in the way of all the good things humans have to offer, all that they want in their life and the lives of others, and how either gradually over time or in the blink of an eye, it can all be swept away...and the brutal honesty and reality that is their own lives surfaces and shines through.  Everyone thinks that if they just ARE good people and live life and BE good people that they SHOULD and WILL get what they and others feel they deserve.  But as anyone who has ran across their own failures and fallibilities in their own lives can tell you, that is not always the case, and the story doesn't always have a happy ending, even if there are not any bad guys to readily blame or condemn for the tragedies that befall even the most unassuming of people.  Thus my claim for reality-punch....this movie acted as a reality punch for myself and I'm sure it would, or could I should say for anybody else who were to watch this movie, uninterrupted, from beginning to end.


                
**Warning: spoilers ahead**At basis, this is a pretty simple sort of drug film. It depicts the lives of four people, and how drugs are instrumental in their downfall. One loses sanity; another loses innocence and self-respect; another loses freedom; another loses an arm. The message is hardly subtle: drugs can mess you up. Well, duh.Three of these characters fall into destructive drug use in the ordinary, expected way: through escalating recreational use. More interesting is Ellen Burstyn's character, who instead naively allows herself to become dependent on amphetamines in order to lose weight for a television appearance -- an appearance we, as the audience, of course know will probably never happen, but which gives her otherwise meaningless life new hope.
It's a shame, really, that her character wasn't given primary focus in this film. For her, drugs are simply the incidental means to fulfilling some deeper desire rather than an end in themselves. She doesn't self-destruct because she wants to get high, but simply because she wants some reason to feel alive again. Much more could have been done with this idea if the movie hadn't been too busy showing the other characters' more routine kinds of addiction.This movie really doesn't stand out as a particularly poignant or interesting drug film, then -- certainly nothing to rival, say, Traffic. Where it does stand out is in technical excellence. The filmmaking is so perfect it is nearly sublime; if the movie fails in having a new or interesting message, it certainly succeeds in imparting its message with stylistic force. If for no other reason, Requiem deserves to be seen by anyone who loves a well-made film.
The movie definitely addresses an important issue, however, as a movie, it's too depressing.The story is very simple and quite predictable. The effects of the camera "running" in front of Marlon Wayans' character, and the constant ticking and clicking to describe the hallucinations, are quite cool, but that doesn't make this film worth the time.I'm not going to be doing drugs after watching this film, but I'm not going to be watching films like this anymore either.


                
This movie (and book) plays like a Lou Reed song (see "Street Hassle"). Aronofsky develops his striking style as seen in "Pi," and benefits greatly from a bigger budget.  A brilliant film all-around.  So note that the topics of this film have been well-explored in the arts for decades.  The cinema finally takes their crack at it, and really there is no one better than Aronofsky to handle the task.  He seems to have less sympathy for the characters towards the end.  Though "predictable" is hardly a word for this film, among independent music at least the story is at times cliched.  The cast is what makes this film most memorable.  Highly recommended.


                
This is not a movie, it is an experience. From the beginning to the end, every element of this movie will touch you, thrill you, scare you, disgust you, and change you forever. It goes deeper into the subject of drug addiction than any other movie ever has. It also doesn't just focus on run-of-the-mill "drugs" (ie heroin or marijuana), it shows the viewer that we use drugs on a normal everyday basis (ie pills, coffee, and the worst of all, television). Requiem is the story of four people whose lives are totally different, yet totally the same. I apologize if you haven't seen this movie yet, I cannot possibly tell you here how amazing this movie is. My words are dulling it down and making it so much less than it really is. I want to sound smart and analyze every part of this movie but it just isn't possible. There is too much. I promise that seeing this movie you will amazed at how much work Darren Aronofsky put into making this film utterly perfect in every way.


                
