You will not so much as want to take a sip of wine after watching this mesmerizing film about the horrors of drug addiction.  I was not a fan of director Darren Aronofsky's debut film "Pi," but with this movie he proves to be a filmmaker of unlimited vision and style.  Four characters in Brighton Beach, Brooklyn are all driven to despair due to their drug abuse, the saddest being Ellen Burstyn as a nice Jewish widow who unwittingly becomes addicted to prescription diet pills that help her lose weight but drag her into a world of hallucinations and paranoia.  Burstyn is superb. It is so refreshing to see such a great veteran like her in such a challenging leading role, one in which she goes through a hell worse than that in "The Exorcist."But this is a director's film if there ever was one.  Aronofsky knows how to tell a story in a way that is dazzling in its use of sound, editing, and cinematography.  The score by the Kronos Quartet and Clint Mansell is the most striking movie music I have heard in a very long time."Requiem for a Dream" is not a movie for everyone.  It is the essence of independent filmmaking, a daring, engrossing, artful film that stays with you long after you leave the theater.  Hollywood bubblegum this ain't.


                
I was tempted to title this "Drugs are bad, mm'kay?" because "Requiem" was so sad I was desperate to inject some humor. Man, what a sad, scary, excellent, grim, disturbing, well-made movie. The more I read about RFAD and learned, the more fascinating it seemed. I'm one of those people who, upon hearing a movie is extremely shocking, has a burning urge to see it as fast as possible to see if it shocks me (especially unrated or NC-17), since I'm pretty jaded. So, I eagerly anticipated seeing it.Unfortunately, I read so much about the making of the movie that I knew a little too much about the plot going in, so there were few plot surprises. "Requiem" concerns four addicts. Jared Leto and Jennifer Connelly play a young loving couple, Harry and Marion, who dabble in heroin and plan to make a big sale with their friend Tyrone (Shawn Wayans) so they can be set for life and Marion can start her own business. Their recreational drug use turns into day-to-day addiction, and things start to get ugly. VERY ugly. Ellen Burstyn plays Harry's mother Sarah, a lonely widow who wants to lose weight to fit into a red dress to appear on her favorite TV show. She starts out addicted to TV and candy, but has the bad luck to visit a doctor who-in what I thought was the only unrealistic aspect-gives her an RX for 'diet pills', that turn out to be speed. I say unrealistic because, as anyone who's ever worked in the medical profession knows, few doctors will write a new patient a huge prescription for extremely powerful, addictive controlled substances without even an exam.I found her story thread the most memorable and heartbreaking. Sarah takes her pills and starts losing weight, plus suddenly becoming energetic and chatty. Like any addictive drug, her happy blue pills stop working after prolonged use, so she ups her dose more...and more...and things slowly start getting very weird and scary. In one of the best scenes midway through, Harry visits her --the only visit where he doesn't openly steal her TV to pawn for dope. He's briefly riding high (in more ways than one) and announces he bought her a big-screen TV; he wanted to do something nice for her and figured out that "TV is her fix". He looks uneasy when she's babbling happily about how she has a reason to get up in the morning, then he hears her grinding her teeth, and figures it out ...the first time in the movie you see real fear in his eyes. Sarah soon starts having very scary strung-out hallucinations-starting out with subtle things like time woozily slowing down and speeding back up, and when her refrigerator suddenly starts moving on its own, the real nightmare begins. An aggressive fridge may sound Monty Python-esque now, but trust me, you won't be smiling by the end of the movie.One review I read said that the movie not only pulls the rug out from under you, it drags you and the rug down a long flight of stairs into a very dark basement. Another reviewer compared the experience of watching the film to a drug, and that's not too far off the mark either. Whenever a character gets high, there's a slam-bang fast-cut montage of the same images over and over; a sigh, a pupil dilating, cells changing color. The description I probably agree with most came from Aronofsky himself; he compared the film to a jump from a plane without a parachute, and the movie ends three minutes after you hit the ground. The last few minutes that show the gruesome, depressing, worst-case-scenario fates of all four characters are just as intense, hard to watch, and nightmarish as I heard they were. I don't think I will ever forget Harry's mother's transformation from a harmless, plump, friendly older woman to someone so frightening looking that people cringe away in fear and revulsion at the sight of her.My only complaints would be that I wished there was more time for character development. The film is divided into 3 segments, Summer (things going fine, having fun getting high) Fall (the beginning of the downhill slide) and Winter (end of the line). I would've liked more scenes of what these people and their lives were like before addiction, as well as their relationships with each other. The cast is stellar- Wayans shows that he has the most range and talent of the Wayans bros- I laughed so hard at him in Don't Be A Menace that I ended up buying it, but here ...wow. I would've liked to see more of his character. I never liked Leto much before, but he's excellent and also almost unrecognizable (he dropped 1/5 of his weight for the role and oh, it shows). Connelly I actively disliked before, but I was very impressed and now know she can act. Burstyn gives the performance of a lifetime- not only convincing, but dedicated enough to let the filmmakers make her look like absolute and total hell; few actresses over 55 would probably be as fearless.Not recommended if you're easily shocked, squeamish, or upset. If you only like movies that take you to a happy place, stay away. Everyone who left the movie theater looked like they had just been hit over the head with a very large board, and we all who knew what we were getting into. Recommended for those who want to see a movie that will completely overtake you and involve you emotionally. In addition, this film should be required viewing for everyone in the fashion industry that supported/glorified that whole 'heroin chic' crap. Also a good movie if you are having some problems in your life and want to put them in perspective VERY fast. 9 out of 10 stars. I'll probably never look at my fridge quite the same again...
Well, I았e seen "Pi" and was fascinated. Now, there압 "Requiem for a dream" and my expectations were very, very high. That can be the downfall for a movie, but in this case I wasn앖 disappointed. Aronofsky proves not only that he can direct a "bigger" movie, he also shows how one can do so without selling out. To be more precise: "RFAD" is one of the most disturbing and depressing movies that came out of the US for a looooong time. From the opening scene to its final curtain it압...well, a requiem for the characters, who are all perfectly portrayed by their actors. Ellen Burstyn is unbelievable. The power of her performance can only be compared to that of Bj他k in "Dancer in the dark". Aronofskys direction is even more experimental than in "Pi" and some of his ideas, like his combination of sound and picture are really innovative and give his movie a musical feel -without creating a long music video. On the downside, you could say that this movie offers no hope, no solution - but then, this would았e been a lousy compromise.


                
Great writing, directing and acting performances from all but especially Jennifer Connelly. I have however never felt that awfully uncomfortable after watching a movie and no matter how fantastic it is, I never want to watch it again. I do very highly recommend watching it at least once though.


                
This movie is an emotional roller coaster with a very positive message. It portrays the miserable lives of two drug-addicts. The desperation they have just to get a fix is definitely well portrayed. Parallel with this narrative is the narrative about the one addict's mother who is basically a recluse who watches television whole day, everyday. She falls into total derangement which portrays how easily people can be brainwashed by popular media. The musical score is excellent and drenched in strong emotion.
My Rating : 9/10The film is a parallel story. It jumps between Harry's (Jared Leto) story about trying to score enough heroin with his buddy Tyrone (Marlon Wayans) and girlfriend Marion (Jennifer Connelly) to live out happy lives, and his mother Sara's (Ellen Burstyn) story about her desperate attempts to get onto television. The film chronicles these four individuals, and their ups and downs through the course of three seasons of a year.Excellent performances, stylish camera work and quintessential Generation X film along with Fight Club. It is a visual treasure, and a true thought provoker.


                
I must have been 14 or 15 when accidentally I came to watch this movie. And I know that possibly that is not the right age to watch such a movie, but still... I think it was quite important for my development Although I did not dare to see it again since, all the images of the film are still somewhat burnt into my brain: It were some of the most disgusting scenes I have ever seen in movies so far and some were so dreadful I wasn't even able to cry. But this is, in my eyes, exactly what this film should be like! It shows every little piece of destruction in the lives of the protagonist, until the final end. Another aspect of the film that I truly liked was, that the mere showing of the damages, physically and mentally, without trying to be too moralistic and to spread wisdoms each of us has heard thousands of.I think I am ready to watch it again by now, but I have to say that this is not a film to see for pleasure. This is a film to show you everything you never wanted to see but ought to!10/10!


                
There are a lot of great movies out there that make you think, this one stands out above all the rest. Friends have told me how disturbed they were after watching this and being someone not normally touched by movies I had to see it. I thought it would be just another druggie falls from the top type movie but I was in for a complete shock by the presentation of the situation. If you want to be blown away by a movie you need to see this. The end completely drained me emotionally, it should easily be higher on IMDb's list. There are drug movies like Blow and Scarface(I love both) and then there is this...in a league of its own. I am yet to see a movie that i can relate it to. The acting was superb, Jared Leto was incredible and completely believable. Ellen Burstyn showed one of the most heartfelt performances I believe I have ever seen. Jennifer Connelly played what I saw as the most mediocre performance of the main characters, but was still so much deeper than most characters you see today. Finally there was Marlon Wayans...He is so talented and showcases himself perfectly in this movie. All in all, this movie had an incredible plot, the camera work fit perfectly, and the cast put forth the best overall performances I can remember. WATCH THIS MOVIE


                
What to say about Darren Aronofsky's Requiem for a Dream that hasn't been said already? Without doubt it's a film, that in spite of its high standing on the main movie sites, polarises opinions. It's a film that in simple terms follows four people through their addictions until the shattering denouement, but the journey is made more bleak by offering tantalising snatches of hope, the dreams of the protags offered up as some sort of goals for the addicts to cling on to - only for the narrative to stick in its rusty serrated blade to draw the lifeblood from the hapless hopefuls.Arononfsky brings a multitude of technical skills to the party that emphasise the emotional discord on show. Standard split-screening is married up with rapid cutting, isolated framing, close ups, long tracking and Snorricam, all of which is sound tracked by Clint Mansell's haunting musical composition. All told it's an assault on all the senses and terrifying with it, boosted no end by Aronofsky getting top performances from his cast of actors. Love it or hate it, it's a film that simply can't be ignored, unsparing cinema produced by a most gifted director. 9/10


                
This is one of the best movies that I have ever seen. The story was interesting and I think that it is one of the topics that are extremely hard to express visually so my expectations were low. But the depictions of head trips and hallucinations were perfect. Also the quality of acting was quite high. I think that the storyline was a bit too pessimistic though and I think that there were several glitches. The sexual humiliation of Marion was not too realistic looking at the size of the device and that game that the two girls including the first timer Marion were forced to perform. Also there was a secret message of hate against black people stemming from the way Big Tim abused "Maid Marion". Also I could not understand why the main character kept injecting the heroine in his gangrene arm. Apart from that, it was one of the best movies that I have seen.
This is one brilliant piece of art. This movie is in my eyes an instant classic. The story is perfectly sewn together and the direction is original and superb. Never before has a film shown the intensity of drug addiction. Basketball diaries is kool aid in comparison. It is so powerful and moving that it will leave you in awe at the end. The acting is flawless and the plot is hard-nosed and to the point. It doesn't mess around with any aspect of its sincerity. This movie is utterly chilling. There is great re-watching value here as well. Let me just say I believe this movie should be shown in High schools across the nation freshman year, unedited in it's entirety. This movie is a landmark in cinema and I will never forget how it touched me and moved me. Motion pictures like Requiem for a Dream do not ever go away or sink into the shadows of the forgotten. OUTSTANDING.....Wow............. 9/10


                
I love this movie. From the underlying theme of addiction to the social commentaries to the sheer beauty of the cinematography. But ultimately, I like movies that force you to either look away or hold on, squirm in your seat and continue absorbing the visual imagery, no matter how beautiful or disturbing. There is rarely a point in this movie when the viewer does not realize that the main characters, although battling different demons are all entering individual downward spirals. Although the uninformed may label this a "drug" movie, drugs are only the catalysts which propel the characters into much deeper and interesting battles with their own souls. When I hear the song that plays during the final and most harrowing shots elsewhere, it always brings me back to the imagery of this movie.


                
I viewed this movie while under the influence of many drugs, at a point in my life sometimes I'd rather not remember. This movie was recommended to me by a friend, and I knew nothing about the movie before watching it. By the end of the movie I had completely broken down, and was crying miserably. I ended up calling up my parents and some buddies and admitting I had a serious drug problem, thanks to this movie. Since then I've gone clean, and my life has been improving more and more. I think it takes a terribly powerful and amazing movie to bring somebody to this point. I recommend this movie to everybody, and think that movies like this would help people to stay off drugs more than all those anti-drug campaigns you get to see all the time.


                
Disturbing. I suppose that's the best summary of my experience, watching Darren Aronofsky's 'Requiem For a Dream' for the second time. This stylish drama has a great deal to give in terms of style and story. Basically, the film's about four people dealing in their own way with an addiction. Harry (Jared Leto), his companion Tyrone (Marlon Wayans) and his girlfriend Marion are heroin fiends, trying to scrap enough money together to escape from it all. Television is Sara Goldfarb's (Harry's mother, Ellen Burstyn) drug, and thinking she's going to be on a game show, she is determined to lose weight and begins a pill-diet.On the surface, addiction is central in this film. But honestly, I think 'Requiem for a dream' isn't about addiction, but rather about trying to get away from it all, alienation, an escapism which creates a division between the real world and the dreams. All four drug-addled characters strive to escape from reality, which they almost seem to achieve but then fall back into the real world. Sara wants to lose weight so she can wear her red dress and feel younger again. Aronofosky covers these interesting human themes with the motive of drug addiction, and that makes it a very sad film. This film stays with you, and Aronofsky gives you this lasting impression with the great climax. The naturalistic plot of deterioration has a shattering climax, enhanced by the soundtrack. Everything comes together, it is a climactic mix of drama, horror, sadness, relief, acceptance.Aside from the story, 'Requiem for a Dream' is even more about atmosphere. extreme close-ups of the characters' sweaty faces, long tracking shots and time-lapse photography create an atmosphere of mystery, sadness and tragedy. Aronofsky shows the characters isolation via these devices: Harry and Marion are lying together but the close-ups only show one character; In one of the most impressive scenes of the film, the time-lapse technique shows a lot of people hovering around Sara, while she wanders around the city, isolated. Furthermore, Burstyn's acting performance is just at the right level, the soundtrack is excellent and I mean to give a compliment when the film reminded me of a certain Stanley Kubrick.
One of the most disturbing and depressing movie I've seen in a while. Hands off to Darren Aronofsky for a such a beautiful piece of work. If you're looking for entertainment then this is not where you should be looking at because this is certainly not a feel good kinda film. The movie is about four people who become victims of drug addiction. The director has mainly concentrated on misery and the darker side of emotions. From start to finish it's a sad yet interesting and clever film. Darren's style of brutal portrayal of a story is evident.Coming to the music score, well it's definitely remarkable. It's kept simple and subtle yet so moving. The background score makes the scene even more dramatic and scintillating than it already is and it keeps us hooked to the screen till the end.The cinematography is simply brilliant. The wide angle shots, the close ups of the characters, the effects is perfect for this genre. Overall, Requiem for a Dream is a hard hitting, depressing, disturbing yet beautifully made which makes it hard not to watch it. So I recommend this movie for anyone because it brings out emotions that you never knew you had it in you.


                
I didn't know what "Requiem for a Dream" was about when I rented it, and I was stunned. This ultra-gritty look at several people's lives degenerating due to drug usage is like nothing that you've ever seen. It's more polished than "Pi", but no less eye-popping. As mentally decaying retiree Sara Goldfarb, Ellen Burstyn makes your blood freeze the same way that she did in "The Exorcist". Jared Leto, Jennifer Connelly and Marlon Wayans also bring to their roles an intensity rarely seen on screen. And let me tell you, I never could have predicted what would happen during those last few minutes! In conclusion, see this movie if you dare. I should warn you that it may knock your breath out. You have been warned. Also starring Christopher McDonald and Louise Lasser.


                
No one can deny that the message in this movie was powerful. It reveals consequences to drug addiction that are unfamiliar to the general public. One consequence that I overlooked until now is that society would rather punish drug addicts than help them. It was interesting to watch those in positions of power as they abused addicts, took advantage of them, and showed utter indifference towards human life and dignity. I would have rated this movie with a 10/10, but one essential element was missing, backgrounds. Out of the four main characters, the movie only delved into the addiction history of one. It would have been nice to learn about the introduction and descent into drug dependence among the other main characters. They all seemed so beautiful and loving, but viewers would be more sympathetic if traumatic events were used to explain how life can take a turn for the worst.


                
This movie was considerer by Premiere as one of the 25 most dangerous movies, and i really feel like it is. Darren Aronofsky gives us a amazing movie about drugs, how it changes our lives, by showing how time can go faster or slower with the more than 2000 cuts that make us always be on the edge. It also reveals the dark side of the human condition who prefers a drug induced utopia than to do something meaningful to change their lives. It shows dramatically the pain of the characters and their endless search for something that at the end they always knew they wouldn't be able to achieve. The futility of current society is showed on the shallow goals of the characters who prefer a tragic ending than to choose different things for their lives.Although all the performances are very good, there's no shadow of a doubt that Ellen Burstyn gives a performance of a life as Sara Goldfarb, we feel her pain, we understand her needs, we feel her desire...Ellen makes totally drawn to a character who gets what she wants and no one deserves. And i believe everyone's heart gets broken when we see when she finally got in the red dress and that's the only thing that she now has in her live, a red dress who fitsA great movie that i highly recommend


                
Darren Aronofsky's Requiem for a Dream is one of the movies that would never win an Oscar(just like American History X e.t.c)for obvious reasons.It is about four people located in Brighton Beach, Brooklyn;Sara Goldfarb and her son Harry,his girlfriend Marion and their friend Tyrone.Sara is an ordinary housekeeper-widow who's only pleasure in life is her television while her son Harry as well as his girlfriend Marion as well as Tyrone is a drug addict.One day Sara is informed that she will be a guest in her favorite TV show and starts thinking how she will be looking as great as possible,and because she cannot stand taking up a diet,she starts taking "special" pills in order to become as thin as she was young.Harry,Marion and Tyrone are organizing a plan in order to get money and their fix while in the back of their mind is the hope to quit drugs.As the days go by and Sara is not being called to appear in the show,she increases her fix and becomes an addict .Harry and Tyrone are suffering because they can't get their fix and are forcing Marion to become a kind of prostitute in order to be able to buy drugs.In the end Sara gets totally insane and is being closed in a clinic,Marion is being dragged in an inhumane world of total degradation and humiliation in order to get her fix,Harry and Tyrone are being closed in jail and Harry loses his hand due to Gangrene.The acting is perfect,the direction is one of the most innovational,pioneering yet amazing seen in cinema's history and the messages are more than the movies' industry would prefer... To sum up this movie is one of the most dramatic and sensation films of all time and the worst of them all;it does happen in the real world each and every day...
A very Amazing Movie, something i haven't come across for a long time in our all-star, big-buck Hollywood movies. I'd recommend it to any and all who enjoys a good movie with unique point-of-view shoots and deep mesmerizing meanings to life to pounder upon, even after hours finishing. Every scene is direct and captivating; almost like a bullet shooting out to all your senses.The whole idea of "drug is bad for you" has long been lessons for our health ed class; but aside from this, the director intelligently snuggled many more of society immoralities into the scenes.Rather than spoiling, I'd just say to all "Watch It"; and i'm sure you'll be in for "wow"s like the way i am now!


                
Not a whole lot of movies these days get you to actually think.Luckily, Requiem for a Dream is one of the few that require thinking and feeling.This movie is not for the faint of heart or feeble-minded.The movie tells the story of 4 people who have big dreams of happiness only to have them ruined by drug addictions. Sara Goldfarb, a TV-loving widow who is addicted to diet pills, her heroin-addict son Harry Goldfarb, his coke-addicted girlfriend, Marion Silver, and his drug-dealing friend, Tyrone Love.You learn a lot about each character and begin to sympathize with their situation as they begin to spiral downward with their addictions.Ellen Burstyn was excellent in The Exorcist, so I knew she would give a good performance as Sara Goldfarb. I had never seen Jared Leto in other movies, but he sure didn't disappoint here as Harry Goldfarb. Marlon Wayans is usually in bad, over-the-top comedies, so I was really surprised with his excellent performance as Tyrone Love. I personally do not care for Jennifer Connelly, she wasn't bad as Marion though, just wasn't great either. And Christopher McDonald was perfect as Tappy Tibbons, the icon of Sara's TV addiction, who runs a talk-show talking about how he managed to lose weight and gain his life back.This movie wasn't perfect, but was still great. It claws into your senses and burrows in deep, making you really get the full-blast of what this movie is trying to tell you. This movie could be a weapon in fighting against the mass drug-use in this country.9/10.


                
"Requiem for a Dream" is not an uplifting film in any way. Nor does it have a traditional story line, so if you don't like movies like that, then don't watch this. If you're looking for a good drama, this is it. I felt glued to the screen at times.Four people live their lives addicted to drugs. Harry Goldfarb (Jared Leto) is a heroin addict and lets the drug take over everything. His girlfriend Marion (Jennifer Connelly) loves her boyfriend, but she'll do anything for the drugs. Tyrone (Marlon Wayans) is a friend of Harry, who wants to live the way his mother wanted him to, but can't quit the substances either. Sara Goldfarb, played by the wonderful Ellen Burstyn, is the mother of Harry, and just wants to lose some weight. She begins an addiction to diet pills, and a dream to be on a TV infomercial. All four of these stories are sad, and all four are amazingly written and acted. Ellen Burstyn is the stand-out actress. Every scene she was in, I was sucked in. Her acting is amazing in this. The direction is great, and the cinematography is beautiful.This great drama reaches near perfection, and should be touted as a classic, as it seems to be by it's cult following.My rating: *** 1/2 out of ****. 100 mins. R for sexuality, language, drug use and violence.
It's fun to read the "Hate it" comments, and usually they have a point. Surely, this is a morality tale with worst-case-scenario ending, not a documental feature on drug abuse (for that, take a look at the German film "Christiane F.") or an investigation into the American health care system (although after watching Michael Moore's "Sicko", I think anything is possible).The comments I read all overlooked that this is a very moving film about loneliness and alienation - the best I've seen yet besides "Blade Runner" and far above "Collateral" and the like. If you watch a lot of movies, you'll get a spooky sense of the screen looking back at you. Ellen Bustyn as the mother lives inside an incoherent TV dream, until she completely vanishes into that "brighter world" where she is not only loved, but adored. The kids have high hopes and seem to be more firmly on the ground, but Marion needs to pump up her courage and Harry loves to go easy. All three are junkies who keep the world at arms length or behind locked doors while they artificially enhance their feelings. They're not only addicted to uppers and downers, but to more-than-life-size dreams.By contrast, reality seems drab and without purpose and the individuals utterly alone. Like true average heroes of modern society, they are frantically trying to keep up happy, successful faces. Nobody takes the time to listen to or check on the old lady. The world doesn't care, and they in turn refuse to need it until it's too late and they lose limbs, minds, relationships, freedom, self-respect and finally the will to care.Jonathan Demme has laid a finger on a rift in society's fabric that's not easy to expose without boring the audience or adding thriller elements, and the shocking imagery gets more people to see it (as the comments confirm). Definitely a recommendable film that provokes nagging questions and engages even those who don't "like" it.


                
I watched 'Once upon time in America' the other night & was intrigued to see was the young actress Jennifer connelly had gone on to do.
This took me to this, a movie I had heard of but never watched & knew nothing about.
I am so glad I watched this! It is not an easy watch but it is a film made with passion...enough people are writing about the plot etc so will leave that to them.
The acting is a joy to watch I can't think of any weak performances. This is for people who enjoy film as an art rather than JUST entertainment.
My Brother is watching it tonight!


                
I've never felt so much disparity after watching a movie. Requiem for a Dream tells the tale of four very different drug addicts. Throughout the movie they experience ups and downs until each one hits rock bottom. I'm not sure who experiences the worst possible ending. All I know is Requiem for a Dream is the saddest, most perfect piece of art I've seen in a long time.
