Nothing like this was seen on TV at that time and probably never will again. From the first image of that police light blinding you and from there you heard the words: "Police Squad - in color", you were schocked to see that this in no way was an ordinary sitcom.Also to kill off a "Guest Star" and then never refer to him again, where had you ever seen that before. Then the actual show started and if you did not pay attention, you would miss several jokes in the background. Don't pay too much attention to one thing or you would be sorry. This was the show that video recorders were made for, way before Married with Children or The Simpsons.The stories did in no way make sense and the dialog was sometimes so weird that you had to think about it for 5 minutes before realising that it was a joke.The characters Frank Drebin and Ed Hocken came right out of Dragnet and they were absolutely straight (no funny accents or expressions) but instead there were puns and twisted sentences played absolutely deadpan. Only once as I can remember, were there a segment played for silly laughs - a scene involving a trip to a dentist, suction and a whole lot of saliva.There were some tedious moments - like the informer Johnny and an appearance by some celebrity. That was strictly a one-joke moment but they had to use it in all six episodes. Oh, well. Everything can't be perfect. The important thing is that the rest of the time you were knee deep in tears of laughter.Leslie Nielsen was fortunate that this revived his career when they put the Frank Drebin character in 3 features but it must have been an Achilles heel as well. Can you remember seeing him in anything except Naked Gun type work since? And don't count the awful Mr. Magoo reworked for live action. He probably made a lot of money, though.
I have to admit, I really liked the Naked Gun movies (especially the third, which is a guilty pleasure of mine), so I was naturally curious about it's roots.If you've seen the Naked Gun movies, you know what is the basic premise of the show, which is basically a spoof of such TV series like Dragnet or The Streets of San Francisco. Also, most of the gags will be familiar too, as they were reused in the Naked Gun movies.As a spoof, this series works better than the movies. The acting is more serious, the situations are better, the gags are more subtle. A major problem of the Naked Gun movies is, that they loosed focus too quickly, and started to include situations that were out of place. Here a good balance is maintained. Leslie Nielsen's deadpan acting makes the jokes even funnier, and sometimes saves otherwise lame gags (like for example when Drebin talks to a widow about his marriage to another man). Of course it helps that Nielsen was not a comic actor originally, and he have not yet forgotten his roots at this point.Another actor that I feel I should mention is Peter Lupus as Norberg. I was never really satisfied with Norberg in the movies, probably because the stupidity of the character was really played up, although that stupidity was played convincingly by O. J. Simpson. Here Norberg is less stupid are more of a comic relief (if such thing is possible in a comedy), and Peter Lupus' comic delivery is perfect.Of course many people say that it was a crime to cancel the show after only six episodes, and to some degree I agree too. However, I think even these six episodes show, that the writers were running out of steam rapidly. Some of the running gags were becoming tiresome, most notably Johnny, the shoeshiner, a one gag character stretched out into six episodes. The last episode shows probably the best, that they were running out of ideas. Most of the episode is padded out by Leslie Nielsen doing a stand up routine, that is not particularly funny, and singing. Then the episode abruptly ends.So, in summary, Police Squad was a good show, it was a good parody, had some good acting, an unique kind of humor, and it was canceled probably at the right moment, before becoming dull and repetitive.Final verdict: 7/10
