Anyone looking to watch A Clockwork Orange might be wanting to revisit some of Stanley Kubrik's work and might be interested in studying this film. Those who have already seen this film tend to already have strong opinions regarding this dark sci-fi movie but for me, I approached this film recently to obtain an opinion for myself and study one of the great masters of cinema. The fact that this film was regarded as one of the most controversial films ever made (rightfully so) sparked genuine curiosity to give this flick a full viewing and while I have large issues with the film, the experience as a whole was both satisfying and a learning experience. This story centers on "Alex" our main protagonist and his gang of hoodlums set in a not so distant, dystopian Great Britain. The beginning portion unfolds Alex's dark and twisted soul as we watch him and his gang fight, rape, and kill. When he's eventually caught, he undergoes controversial "treatment" to be cured of his dark soul.I first appreciated the inmate concepts of this story and the type of questions the story attempted to raise to the audience. Furthermore, much of the psychological ideologies surrounding freedom, choice, good vs evil, and selfishness were extremely thought-provoking. It had a way of making me feel self-exploratory despite the character's complete inability to relate with (hopefully) any viewer. Performances were top notch; especially from the lead: Malcom McDowell. His performance felt so authentic there's never a single moment that feels fake or forced with his dark character. As always, Stanley Kubrick directs the hell out of this. His commanding and authoritative shooting style is apparent in every frame of the picture and he does a wonderful job at sucking the viewer into this terrible world to the point of enthrallment. While all these positives make for a great movie-going experience and when Kubrick is at the director's helm not much can go wrong, the film's biggest downfall is indeed its controversy. Disturbing subject matter in this piece is indeed vital to the essence of the story but taking off the gloves when it comes to fighting, rape, and killing (especially the rape) make this so incredibly disturbing that it's difficult to muscle through. I found that A Clockwork Orange was not only offense because of its disturbing content, it was personally offensive in so many ways. Frankly, these extremely rare and offensive movie experiences are not quite the reason I enjoy films in the first place; stories can still be thought-provoking while not morally offend and damage the viewer internally. In addition, a viewer looking to study the work of Stanley Kubrick can still experience some of cinema's greatest and transcendent experiences without feeling like their conscience has blackened.It's understandable that not everyone feels this way; just as stated before, opinions about this film are all across the board. As time has passed however, A Clockwork Orange has stood out has one of Kubrick's finest and has been adored by die-hard fans so much its fan base has grown over the years. The best advice to give is to see it for yourself. Much like all other Kubrick films, relying on anyone's opinion won't help one bit. Seeing it and deciding for yourself is the best course of action. That being said, despite it's strong artistic merit, I wouldn't recommend seeing it simply because of the morally offensive and sickening content that most don't appreciate. Overall, it's been the hardest one to review in a long time because it's not a simple: see it or don't see it. There's much more to this picture than that. If you do decide to see it though, be warned and well prepared. If not, that's probably just fine too.


                
Stanley Kubrick wow! This film is extreme, that's what the first few scenes said to me. It's off-the-rails scenes work to create the appropriate shock value in the audience. And those scenes truly work, it provokes the audience, willing them to think about what they just witness. It makes you reflect. This is film. It gives you a glimpse to another view and sometimes that view depends on how you perceive the film. A Clockwork Orange is vividly original as a a film (I'm aware it's a book). This is more of a movie that you sit back and think about it and perhaps rewatch again one more time because you can't really wrap your head around everything in this film. It definitely challenges the limits of film. Yet, I think it works well as a stand-alone entertainment and perhaps you'll get a better idea to Kubrick's vision.


                
I really didn't like this movie. The main character is a rapist who lives in London England. He is in charge of a gang. He treats everybody in the gang like crap. So about 20 minutes into the movie the gang smashes milk mixed with some kind of drug (can't remember what it was, also he had just gone in to kill a woman at a house) into his face which makes him lose his vision for a while. The police pick him up and take him to jail. He is put in prison. Then while he is in prison he hears of an experiment that will make bad people good. So he participates in it. The experiment involves him watching violent images on a movie theater screen while it plays Beetoban (can't remember how you spell it) with his eyes winged open with well I forget how they made his eyes stay open. It drives him crazy. But after that he gets to go home. Some guy says something he doesn't like while he is there and he tries to beat him up but then he falls over when he tries to do it. Later his parents kick him out of their house and he ends up running elsewhere. He runs into the guys from the gang he used to lead. They're cops now. They beat him up. He ends up at a house of man who's daughter was raped and killed by him and his gang. The man doesn't recognize him at first but later he does recognize him and tries to kill him. He ends up in the hospital where the government guys who sent him to the experiment come back and release him. But then at the very end he goes back to being a rapist! That's what I hate about the movie! My cousin likes this and said, "I liked it because it's about how you can change the way someone thinks but you can't change who they are." I hated the ending. He should've been good at the end but he goes back to being a rapist! And that is why I give this a 1. He should've just gone away from crime and led an ordinary life but he didn't. I've actually heard it's the opposite in the book where he does give up being a rapist. Anyway that is just what I think. Although this cousin who liked it is the only person in my family that likes it.
I started A Clockwork Orange with low expectations, as i am not a fan of 2001: A Space Odyssey, but boy was i wrong. This unique story of a psychopath is immensely entertaining and filled with an array of creative, interesting characters.The film starts off interesting, gets weird, then interesting, then scary, then more interesting and carries on right until the finish!I think I expected a bigger event towards the end of this film or some huge twist but this was not needed. After analyzing the final scenes of the film it is clear that there is already enough depth and thought in the plot.what an excellent piece of cinema.I normally like to suggest some similar films at the end of my reviews but I think ACO may be too unique!


                
From the first frame till the last one, 'A Clockwork Orange' is intriguing, thought-provoking, meticulous and brilliant, like most other Kubrick films. The screenplay, cinematography (colourful & exquisitely photographed), set-design (very modern for its time), acting, background score - every aspect is almost flawless.The story is a dark satire on a futuristic world, where they try to eradicate violence by conditioning criminals to abhor violence and sex by watching gory movies. Their (criminals') morals remain the same, but they just can't indulge in violence anymore; they become defenseless. The movie gives rise to so many topics of discussion, and you can debate all day long on the different themes it explores. Ultimately, the primary theme - if a human is stripped of his own choice of good and evil, he simply becomes mechanical, like 'clockwork'.Alex DeLarge, the "humble narrator", the anti- hero, is one of the most important and fascinating characters in English Cinema. The story, and its adaptation, is much ahead of its time. The liberties Kubrick takes in the field of violence and sex (in 1971) are quite commendable. No wonder it caused such a stir during the time of its release. Even after so many years, the movie can be enjoyed completely - it speaks so much about violence, youth agitation, gangs, criminal reforms, politics, etc., which are relevant even today.Final Word - 'A Clockwork Orange' remains indelibly remarkable even till this date.


                
Another cult and controversial masterpiece film from Stanley Kubrick. A story of an ultra violent boy with a taste of beethoven music. Some facts about this movie is at below.1. Kubrick received death threats against his family would be murdered in similar fashion to the movie if never banned the film from showing.2. "A Clockwork Orange" is one of two X-rated films to ever be nominated for Oscar's top prize (best picture, best director, best film editing and best adapted screenplay).3. This film is Stanley Kubrick's quickest production to be shot, edited and released. (in one year only) 4. Kubrick was on a mission to make a low-budget movie on the heels of his exorbitantly expensive 2001: A Space Odyssey.5. Kubrick introduced Basil the snake to the production when he learned of McDowell's fear on reptiles.6. Director of photography John Alcott lit most of the film using only natural light.7. "A Clockwork Orange" was the first film to employ Dolby sound.8. In 2005, "A Clockwork Orange" was included on Time's list of the 100 best English-language novels written since 1923.


                
The French Connection was certainly a great movie, a cinemtaic experience and certainly worthy of an Academy Award for Best Picture. However, how the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences can leave this movie off the list of nominees is an insult to filmmaking. The reason I can fathom is that most of Hollywood was too shocked by the movie's graphic scenes to be entertained. All the same, it is utterly wrong and a pathetic snub. This movie is, in my opinion, the greatest movie that did not win Best Picture.


                
I've always wanted to watch a film about Humankind violence through the artistic knacks of Stanley Kubrick, I had high expectations before watching Clockwork Orange, but there I found what I sought for once I did.It's a movie that is about a young scoundrel with his droogs doing ''ultra-violence'' deeds at night with such a pleasure and unconscious way that makes the movie tone a comedy satire one, Stanley Kubrick depicted this movie in a way to make us aware that violence is something uncontrollable even by the people meant to prevent it to occur (the government),it is considered as a misdeed notwithstanding, it is something that humankind needs.Alex's performance as the villain character in clockwork orange was key, he succeeded to convey that emotion of someone who is violent and charismatic at the same time, letting us loving him and hating him simultaneously throughout the movie.the scene where Alex and his fellows are seen raping a woman in front her husband's eyes was so fascinating that made us in a way empathizing our regards at Alex instead of the ''Handicap'' husband!!!! the ''singing in the rain scene ''where Alex is seen doing his violence and raping acts artistically was one hell of a scene, as a matter of fact the performance given by the old man in the scene where he recognized Alex was absolutely tremendous, the sickness and morbidness that the old handicap man showed were really vivid and realistic.The classical music used by Kubrick extraordinarily matched with the scenes that were meant to catch our attention, we can notice that once the classical music is on, the tempo of the film is getting slower, except the scene where Alex was with the two girls in his room where the tempo of the music was more intense and rapid.The movie tries to tell us in a way that violence is something that human being can't ignore and it's somehow something that come from our nature, in another way as it is unveiled in the last scene it is something that finally we've got to accept it and make it one of those eternal yet useful misdeeds needed to let life goes on.Stanley Kubrick's masterpiece is certainly about more than I've mentioned above, I highly recommend it for those who haven't watched it yet.
In this case, Kubrick's haunting directing and McDowell's disturbing portrayal paint Alex de Large as man for the sake of his monster.Large is a violent, drug using, rapist, turned accidental murderer with a sickeningly easy going attitude. Through a series of seemingly random crimes he and a crew of three others rampage across what seems to be a futuristic London landscape and cityscape reeking general havoc on the population. Explicit scenes depicting sinister nudity rattle the viewer into a sickness that rivals the one later induced on Large through a series of "therapeutic" sessions in which he is forced to watch scenes of sex and violence while drugged.The impression of these scenes sticks to Large and is virtually incapacitated whenever he attempts an act that is violent or sexual in nature. Allegedly coincidently (though the cell-search scene in which Large's interest in Beethoven is discovered by his tormentor suggests otherwise) he is also conditioned to react the same way whenever the ninth symphony falls on his ears.Large is subjected to the rejection of his family and the revenge of the souls he wronged in the beginning portions of the movie and eventually attempts to kill himself. His attempt fails, but his extended unconsciousness erases his conditioning and the final scene hints at his future return to his disturbing crimes.Large is frightening human. His narration borders on quaint as he feels himself to be a sort of hero. Instead he depicts the anti-hero; a protagonist too human to understand that his drives and lack of ingrained moral senses are abnormal. Whether driven by the search for a new high or a disorder native to the most frightening of psychopaths, the "humble narrator" of this film will not be easily forgotten.
This film is extremely emotional and depressing feeling so sorry for Alex


                
Young is so brilliant
Young is so brilliant
Young is so brilliant


                
It's a really good film. Mostly the Alex character makes this film work of course due to him being the main focus and the events he goes through. The opening scenes, only way to describe them, crazy and disturbing. The soundtrack beautifully compliments the movie and makes the pure disturbing nature of this film amplified. However, this movie isn't perfect. There's surprisingly not a lot that stands out after the opening scenes for me atleast. The only thing I can think of is the scene where his friends betrayed him. The pacing can be off aswell. Funny enough, I fell asleep the first time viewing due to the pacing and the story not being all that interesting. I was having a blast with watching the fight in the theater, why didn't we get more of that? Where was the insanity and fun going hand in hand? I digress though, I did have a fun time watching this movie even if it wasn't as exhilarating as the opening. 8/10.
Superb film.The role,character and acting of Alex was outstanding.The dialogues given by him was awesome and he rocks in the first half of the movie i.e.upto when he is caught and put in the prison (jail).
His eyes expression,cruelty,wickedness were just terrific and it rocks and the murder and rape committed by him and his fighting scenes were extremely brutal and terrific and all this just gives you goosebumps.The direction from Stanley Kubrick was one of his best.The plot was good.The screenplay was good.The dialogues,music and songs were superb and humorous.But the editing was a lil lousy and the second half was a lil slow and boring.Otherwise I would have given it 9 or 10 stars.But overall an enjoyable and remarkable film.


                
A Clockwork Orange was controversial upon release and it still is a hard film to sit through at times, probably because the main character Alex De large commits such atrocious crimes. But much like any other Stanley Kubrick film this film has an underlying theme and message. A casual glance online will show you the many theories and analysis on the film(much like any other Kubrick film) by so many people around the world- which only proves how popular this film is. The acting is exquisite especially by Malcolm Mcdowell. The cinematography, production design and background features are top notch and as good as any Kubrick film. You can see this and form your own judgement, but chances are that you'll have something to say regardless of your opinion of the film.


                
A Clockwork Orange was controversial upon release and it still is a hard film to sit through at times, probably because the main character Alex De large commits such atrocious crimes. But much like any other Stanley Kubrick film this film has an underlying theme and message. A casual glance online will show you the many theories and analysis on the film(much like any other Kubrick film) by so many people around the world- which only proves how popular this film is. The acting is exquisite especially by Malcolm Mcdowell. The cinematography, production design and background features are top notch and as good as any Kubrick film. You can see this and form your own judgement, but chances are that you'll have something to say regardless of your opinion of the film.


                
Kubrick makes many choices that make a difficult adaptation very successful. The themes of government intervention and freedom are explored similarly to the book, and is at the core of each. Kubrick does a phenomenal job of characterizing Alex as one who always acts in his own self-interest. One of my favorite elements of the movie is how music was used, both the 9th symphony as a symbol of individual freedom as well as the dark, omnipresent score. While it is intensely violent and unrelenting, it is a great movie with a resounding ending, strong acting, and thematic relevance.


                
So I'm honest I can not say much about this movie. It's one of the best movies I've seen in life and one of my favorite movies. In my life I met movies that I liked but not so good films were good or well done but I did not like it so much. This is one of the few movies of my life where I just have to search the bad things with the magnifying glass and years later, the first look at my opinion has not changed until today. Therefore, to give a proper review, I'll just list all the things I did not like about this movie: The cut is a bit too fast for some places The sound is a little bit poorly controlled from the middle (the place where Alex goes back to the house of this artist, I mean especially the truth, that's the only part of the movie that bothers me You have to be able to get involved in this movie if you go in without knowing in this movie you get confused out until you can not do it anymorePS: The movie is not the most brutal in the world but still has some view that makes many people shocking. I love those kind of movies, but I can see why a lot of people turned their heads around.


                
Personally this goes without say, the title of the movie is as strange as the movie itself. It was hard for me to firgure out this movie. I enjoyed parts of it but then other parts were somewhat disturbing and confusing. Malcolm McDowell was awesome in the movie. The rest of the actors dont really shine. McDowell does a very convincing job by playing a scumbag of society. I dont think anything is as good as the moral of the whole movie. In fact the moral of the movie is what really makes the movie other than the master art of Kubrick. Dialogue is good as of any of Kubrick's movie but can be somewhat lenghty on some scenes. I would have to say this is one of the strangest movies ive ever seen but it did somewhat make sense to me. I gave it an 8 for cinematography, lighting, dialogue, very original story line, and great role played by McDowell. I cant say i recommend this movie to any movie lover. You have to really understand the deep meaning in this film. Basically if you look at it one dimensionally its saying what goes around comes around.


                
This, like most of Kubricks films makes you think, or even believe that you are the character he so well portrays... I most definitely believe that this is Stanley Kubrick at his best, short of Dr. Strangelove, of course... This movie is a must see for anyone who enjoys movies at all.


                
A Clockwork Orange is indeed one of the best films that Stanley Kubrick has ever made. It was a pity it was banned for 27 years. When i first saw this movie i was very puzzled and somewhat confused, and now i have seen it lots of times now i understood it. Also, you will understand the storyline and also appreciate the actors brilliant skills in their performance. The cast is good but their is a lot of wasted short and small roles used. But, the film is excellent and strange anyway.


                
This was a good movie, overall.  Malcolm McDowell was great, as were the costumes.  This movie did not have to be so graphic, and it would have been better had it included that last chapter.  The end is definitely strange, the minister part is funny, but what's with the snow?


                
Kubrick created an exceptional depiction of Anthony Burgess's classic novel. Why, oh why, did he have to leave the last chapter out?  I know he wanted to leave his mark with his own artistic flare, or maybe it was his disagreement with the underlying message the book declares about the world in which we live.  Either way, he neglected the central element which made the book great.That being said, the movie is still outstanding.  An 8 and a must-see for anyone who has any enjoyment of Stanley Kubrick.  Hey, maybe even those that dont like him.  I didn't like 2001, but Clockwork makes up for it.


                
Bizarre and violent, Kubrick's adaptation of the Burgess novel isn't for all tastes.  While it has tamed, even to the point that it feels like some of it was done only for shock value at the time, it still retains some of its power.  Kubrick provides a brilliantly disturbing look at our society in the future, with a superb performance by Malcom McDowell.  One of the truly unique pieces of work the genre has produced.


                
1st watched 8/10/2002 - 8 out of 10(Dir-Stanley Kubrick): Strange futuristic story of a "ultra" violent gang whose leader goes to jail and is rehabilitated by the government.  His rehabilitation is basically just to make him sick whenever he is about to be violent or have sex. They also made a little mistake in making him sick as well whenever he hears his favorite piece of music(Beethoven's 9th).  There is much controversy about the lewdness of the sexual perversions and the violent beatings that happen in the first half hour of the movie and this is about all we hear from the public, but the movie really becomes interesting after he's caught(at this point the perversion and most of the violence stops.)  The rest of the movie is a sometimes funny, very sarcastic look at how criminals are treated and how our government and ourselves react to varied things like the media and the fate of those who have murdered. There is so much discussion that can follow after this movie ends and I believe that's where Kubrick is when he's at his best.  Just like in "2001;A Space Odyssey"  again he has pricked our minds and our senses to a strange, comic, dark, play on our soceity and given us much to think  about and much to learn from as we look at our present human condition.


                
I first saw this movie when I was 14 and it messed me up.  10+ years later it's still sort of unsettling to watch.  Malcolm McDowell is superb as Alex. The film is stylish, but a bit dated 30 years later.  Still a solid film with an interesting message (though not the same message that the book had... Kubrick changed the ending).  Not for children or the faint of heart. Clockwork Orange is not Kubrick's best work, but still a solid movie.  8/10.


                
