(Series 3) Irritating switching of timelines (which was ok in series 1) became difficult in this series. Mahershala Ali's acting is laughable, especially when portraying his older self. He does a cringing caricature of an old person what with his bent leg walk and wandering gaze and, quite frankly, no more than 50% of his dialogue is understandable. None of the characters are at all likeable apart from perhaps Stephen Dorf's. A ridiculous plot relating to Ali's wife made no sense at all and added zip to the overall story. Is it really likely that the wife of a detective would be permitted to write a book on the case her husband is working. Really?? Made it all so difficult to watch and then the sucker punch of an abysmal Deus Ex Machina ending. Uuuurrrggghh!


                
Please. The first season indeed was excellent, but come on.. it has seriously gone WAY down hill since. The actors/acting is -for the most part- grade A spot on.. its the damn story lines that leave much to be desired, if not plain suck.This latest season has its moments but for the most part is flat out snooze boring.. with all of the constant scene by scene jumping back and forth between 3 different time periods is exhausting to keep up with.. especially when the story isnt all that interesting to begin with! Add to that 2018 PC racial stereotyped fictional crap and ... well, it doesnt make for that great of a show. At most this deserves a 5. Sheesh.HBO sure knows how to ruin a good thing. They've cancelled the best and ruined much of the rest.


                
Absolutely excruciating. Loved the first two seasons. Loved the first two episodes of the third season. But THIS. This is dull beyond dull. As of my writing, this thing is getting 10s . . . wtf. I truly do NOT understand how that happens. I stuck WITH season 2 for the 'style,' and I'm ditching this, it's so dull.


                
Season 1 was fantastic, season 2 was okay but season 3 is just the same episode shown every week, literally no progression of story, it is so painfully slow with endless mumbling, I can't imagine what they were thinking, clearly a case of style over content. I strongly urge you to get involved with another show, this one does not deserve your precious time


                
I have just finished season 3 and I write this only to warn against it. It is a complete waste of time. 8 boring hours that you will never get back. And all the time you want so much to believe that the season will be more exciting just around the bend. But it won't. Forget season 3. I wish someone had warned me.


                
8 episodes of slow talking and no action.
What a terrible season.


                
Season 1: Absolute best.
Season 2: Average, still enjoyable.
Season 3: Absolute garbage. It tried so hard to be like season 1.
1. Firstly, the "story" or "premise" didn't deserve 8 episodes. Atmost a short film of 1 hour would have easily suffice.
2. It isn't a crime drama anymore, it's a family drama built around Mahershalla Ali.
3. There is no gas to run this season, everything is already seen in season 1. Chance encounter with real culprit, Killing the wrong guy for the crime, sudden hint for the real culprit.
4. there is no closure, no satisfaction, no answers to ur questions in finale. The only attraction they had was academy award winner Mahershalla Ali.Questions:
1. In finale, Hoyt confronts Wayne, threatens him that there are dangerous people who wants Lucy Purcell case to die down. NO answer abt it in rest of the episode.
2. Lucy's uncle body was found by TV people, NO answer abt it.
3. Finale was so much garbage, like they found one eyed black man so easily and he tells them everything , literally vomits everything. If it was that easy , investigator hired by TV channel who could found body of Lucy's uncle, why didn't he find him.conclusion: True Detective, what a shame!! First season was so good, and I had to see absolute garbage now.
Seems that anything with Matthew McConaughey is destined to be impossible to follow. I watched, with great difficulty, all episodes up to #5 of Series 3 and just gave up. These strong accents coupled with slurred speech makes the thing impossible to follow and I've reluctantly had to pack it in. Couldn't find the subtitles switch. It's something of great visual impact and I daresay great acting, but not everything you see is worth the effort: you need to be able to listen as well. Matthew "Mumbles" McConaughey has made another mess. Shame, could've been great.


                
Season 1 was phenomenal! If you don't freaking read so much into this show and pick apart every little detail, you will be entertained and pleased. My opinion may be biased because I believe that Matthew M and Woody H are both great actors and were perfectly cast together. They have a chemistry on screen that is very believable and so enthralling. The story line is generic, and somewhat predictable, but the acting is what draws you in. Season 2! Watched first episode THREE times, I am literally bored out of my mind, I can not digest this. I think where they went VERY WRONG was casting Colin Farrell, good god is he a horrible actor. I feel nothing from any performance of any movie he has been in, and the same rings true for this performance. Unfortunately, the rest of the actors also seem completely lost with their roles. None of them take it to the level of emotion and intrigue as Matthew and Woody, they set the bar way high with their performances. Sorry to say but this could have been a great series. I have a feeling that the show is about to lose a massive amount of viewers, unless they can revive it with season 3. I am not even going to waste the rest of my time with season 2, its completely garbage compared to Season 1. Hollywood, please learn from your mistakes, Colin Farrell has bombed every show or movie he has been in, he just isn't a convincing actor, please stop giving him roles.


                
The first season was stellar. It was intriguing, gritty, and was never boring. The 1st season's characters interacted spectacularly with each other.The second season is starting to stink. The bossy woman character is killing the show. I hope the obligatory woman character doesn't kill the series. But, Que cera, cera.The second season's characters don't have the depth that the first season had. Are there different writers? If so, they chose horribly. The first season was a 9 only because I don't believe in a perfect 10. The second season is a 5 and is sinking fast. There is no way the viewer ship will be close to the first season. Please don't ruin the show with obligatory bossy women.


                
You can watch the first and last episodes and not miss anything. But I wouldn't recommend even doing that. It would be a waste of 2+ hours of your time.There is little point in pointing out the many flaws in this the third, and hopefully last, of a series that started with so much promise in season 1, then fell off the precipice in season 2, and finally crashed to a certain death in season 3; but you know it's bad when the actors 1) look like they have no idea why they are in the story and 2) have the same expression on their face regardless of what is going on, which is basically zero. And the big reveal? A nothing burger. It's simply talked through, making it clear that the writers had no idea how to construct a storyline and create an impact. Thumbs way down.


                
I was always taught that you should try something at least twice before saying you don't like it. Well after watching three episodes of TD Season 2, I can honestly say I don't like it. I'm so disappointed after being such a fan of Season 1. Months ago when I read about the casting for Season 2, I started to get worried but decided I would keep an open mind but Season 2 is just so ridiculous there is no saving it. I keep asking myself how the show could go bad so quickly. Was Season 1 just a fluke? Was Season 1 so intriguing and amazing because of the supreme acting skills of McConaughey & Harrelson? Whatever the reason, this show has definitely tanked in Season 2. There are so many things that are absolutely ridiculous about Season 2 it's bordering on being comical<U+0085> <U+0095> The writing is just ridiculous<U+0085>.come on "I'm feeling apoplectic<U+0085>" really? <U+0095> The look that Rachel McAdams is sporting is a total FAIL! Ridiculous unkempt hair doesn't make you tough. <U+0095> I don't even know what to say about what Vaughn, Ferrell & Kitsch are trying to do but it's all bad. <U+0095> The ridiculous Vegas singer in the light blue suit of the latest episode<U+0085>I'm just glad we had one good ride before the park closed.
Even though I objected to the portrayal of my beloved Louisianan as a state filled with incestuous, dimwitted swamp people, I loved Season 1. I awaited Season 2 with excited anticipation. The opening credits greatly impressed me with mysterious graphics and a theme song of which I never tired. The first episode was a jumble of meaningless stories that seemed to have no connection, but we have all seen this technique used before. I told myself that I simply had to wait and everything would become clear as the story unfolded. The cast was beyond impressive, so I kept watching and waiting for the characters, any characters to have a shred of appeal. In eight episodes, I never cared one tiny bit about any of them or the worlds they were trying so hard to hold together. The tag line is "You Get the World You Deserve" and they certainly did. Where Season 1 enticed the viewer into a frightening and strange world that seems to have been reclaimed by the magical forces of nature, Season 2 drags the viewer at gunpoint into a man-made cesspool populated by equally worthless creatures who deserve that world. More than a few times, I found that I was playing solitaire out of boredom and had to go back to see if I had missed something that might make me care about anything that was going on. I never did find a thing. The best part about this series, besides some of the music, was that it finally came to an end.


                
Eliminating the bias of comparing seasons, True Detective Season 2 as a standalone is an utter failure. The story is flat, boring, and depends upon weaving a multitude of paltry stories together to somehow create a tapestry of depth. Is this about corruption, possibly something important about life? At this point who cares? Episode after episode this meandering only becomes redundant, unnecessarily complicated, and frankly unimportant. We've seen the same story many times before (whether it's Chinatown, or this latest episode's comparison to Heat), however there is nothing new or unique brought to the table this time around. It's all pointless dialogue, characters who don't deserve our interest, and a head writer so full of himself he can't see the forest for the trees (spoiler Mr. Pizzolatto: your forest is burning down, in a slow, miserable death). In essence, there is nothing worth watching in True Detective season 2.Vince Vaughn is arguably the worst I've ever seen (both in his acting and acting as a general craft). While season 1 proved to break McConaughey from the chains of Rom-Com typecast, season 2 proves to me that some actors are bound to certain genres for a reason. Vaughn is not meant for drama and perhaps not meant for television. Watching him struggle each week to convey a character far different from himself was at first hilarious, but has now become painful. Every line and little soliloquy of word salad that falls out of Vaughn's mouth makes me cringe and shudder. Yes, McConaughey was long-winded and questionably delusional last season, but he had the stuff to pull off the craziness (and he has the awards to show for it). Nobody was shocked to hear McConaughy wax loco in Season 1 because it would probably be the same ideas he'd impart on you as you cheers'd Coronas and ate fish tacos on the beach in Venice. If Vaughn (or the rest of the Season 2 cast) said any of their dialogue to me in real life I'd have to laugh and tell them to grow up. Neither their characters nor their dialogue is believable or frankly unique enough to capture interest.Aside from Vaughn's cancerous acting flop, there is a somewhat devoted effort by Colin Farrell, Taylor Kitsch and Rachel McAdams who show that they can act regardless of their character or the poor writing. It's clear they are giving their brooding characters their all and doing their best outside the show to hype it up and convince us all to stay patient, KEEP WATCHING!! Unfortunately their strength as actors gets lost in the lack of skill by the season's new director(s), the terrible writing, and the drivel of monotony they seem to be stuck within. This season could have been good, SHOULD have been great for these three actors. Unfortunately it really is not.This season isn't a flop because the viewer's expectations and hopes of a second season 1 are not being fulfilled stylistically. It's clear that a show (head writer) can only ride the coattails of success for so long until the true colors come out. Pizzolatto has proved to us all that without Cary Fukunaga, True Detective season 2 is all cliché, poor writing, and pointless, pointless television viewing. At this point no amount of gunfire, crazy existential twists or Yellow King can rescue this show from it's pointless mumbling, a plot and idea that has drawn on for far longer than it should.


                
First of all, if each season is going to be a new cast with the new story, you should be able to rate each season separately. Season one is the greatest thing that's ever been on television. Season two sucked. Season three is possibly the biggest waste of time i've ever experienced. Spoiler alert, nothing ever happens, at all. I so regret ever watching this season. Obviously the writer has no more ideas. HBO, please end of the show.


                
Sandwich modelGood things There is an amusing line once in a while but you have to wait for itBad things Watch first and second episode I got a few questions 1. In the investigation room....is there a plot hidden in the coffee muck? 2. Did the writers of the show forgot it had the word "detective" in the title? 3. Is there to much money in TV shows now a days so that the producers think "If we take two really good actors and put them in a crappy BUT somehow mysterious Hannibal/twinpeak/rachel getting married it will be a blast" 4. How many episodes do I have to watch before something interesting is going to happen? 5. I wonder if the writers know the terms Cliché? There comes a new detective to the precinct no one likes him, no one wants him, he is haunted, haunted by an episode so fatal and injustice he have to drink, use drugs, and worst of all HE CANT SLEEP. REALLY is that the best you can come up with.... how hard can it be to find something new and interesting?Good things It is truly boring and I will continue use it as a sleeping pill 10 minutes watching and I am in my own detective story


                
How does this absolute pile of trash have a rating of 9.3? There goes my faith in trusting IMDb ratings... Where do I even start with this terrible mess.I have watched three episodes and I just cannot continue. I wanted to like this show, I really did, everyone seems to give it high praise, but I just cannot watch another episode. I don't think I'd watch it if I was paid. It's so boring. Why do people like this rubbish?By the end of Episode 3 we haven't even seen an antagonist or any person that seems to be a bad guy. There's only 8 episodes, HURRY IT UP ALREADY! Every character mumbles their lines in this show. This makes it really frustrating to watch as you have to listen out extra carefully, you might want to put subtitles on if you're watching this. Not one interesting or decent event has occurred by the end of episode 3. No action, no story, no nothing. The story also jumps about all over the place going back to the present and then the past every ten minutes or so. Stick to the past will you! Why don't those detectives just get the details they need? No one cares or needs to know anything about a boring dinner conversation.At the end of Episode 2 we learn of this church where we assume this bad cult has its meetings to carry out their executions. I wonder if the show will leave us on a cliffhanger... And so we wait and what are we given? A boring painting on a wall... Is this meant to make me want to watch the next episode? Hey writers and makers of the show, if you only have eight episodes to work with, not having any action or a bad guy nearly halfway through the series isn't good storytelling!What am I meant to be interested in? The characters? It's difficult to like characters that mumble every line so you can't even hear what they say. Boring, monotone, drone characters with no like ability. Don't waste your time on this it's so boring please don't watch it. Unless you want to watch boring people mumble lines so you can't hear them properly or if you like stories with no action, bad guys or cliffhangers, then this show might be for you!
Matthew McConaughey mumbles so much in this role I missed the final line of the final episode. Totally unintelligible. Something about stars, which is a good alternative title to this overrated series.9.4 it rates on IMDb! You got be kidding me. The presence of an A-lister or two has blinded everyone's ability to see the flaws in this series. So much of it is ponderous, repetitive and just plain unnecessary. It needed severe editing, especially the tedious interviews, and doesn't really get going until episode 5 or 6. The first four episodes could easily have been merged into one.I'm giving it one-star, simply because some perspective is needed here, though I did watch to the end, which, though a chore at times, was eventually rewarding. Interesting well-developed characters, moody cinematography, and an attempt to make this a psychological thriller, not just the usual action cop cliché, puts it ahead of the pack. But ultimately, it really is just the same old serial killer fare in an arty grunge T-shirt. The stars do a fine job on the whole, despite some brooding overacting from McConaughey at times, and annoying cud-chewing from Harrelson, but True Detective is a long way from great. The final episode paves the way for a sequel with talk of more killers that haven't been caught yet, but I won't be watching.


                
I gave it a try for the first five episodes. I then realized i was watching the same episode all over again. Nothing happens, the story doesn't evolve at all in no direction, not for any of the characters nor the plot, whatsoever. What you'll see is McConaughey talking as if his mouth is full of chewing tobacco while he drinks beer and talks about god knows what. Then there's Harrelson for whom nobody really cares.This is boring, slow paced and useless. And stop comparing this to Breaking Bad, because if you do then you haven't watch it, that's for sure.
I just finished episode 5 of 8 for season 3. Basically, it is a show about an angry white man and an even angrier black man, who are both angry, being angry about everything and also being angry at everyone.If that sounds like fun, watch season 3.


                
The amazing make-up job that might cost a lot, wasted a lot of time for the makeup artists to transform these two leading actors from the middle aged detectives to two old farts, and one of them with Alzheimer's disease. The whole Season 3 is just like Season 2, a total waste of HBO's time and money to produce such bad-worse-worst TV drama series in TV production history. Jesus, it's just so shamefully bad. HBO only did one thing good to okay these two seasons even they were so dominantly cursed with negative reviews: These two series helped a lot of people who used to take sleeping pills to help them sleep, but if sitting in front of the TV to watch these series, they'd fall asleep very soon without any difficulty to close their eyes and start snoring. HBO just couldn't stop the decline and fall like the Roman Empire, and will soon become a relic cable production company. What a shame.


                
I am really sorry to write this. I was so excited after the first season. It was amazing, there was action, drama, thriller, everything you wanted was there and even more. I was so glad to watch it and sad at the same time, knowing that I have to wait a year for the second season. I was waiting and I was full of doubt that this kind of masterpiece cannot be repeated so easily and unfortunately I was right. I like the cast, but I think that the scenario is poor and thin. All of the actors are playing very artificially. Vince's character I don't have any idea what is this superman that everybody is afraid of. It is so poorly written that I would have rejected this role to save my career if I was on his place. The story is so confusing and full of holes that I cannot express my disgrace. I was hoping, hoping and I can honestly say that I am glad that soon it is over and I will wait for hopefully better 3rd season.
I truly believe this series is way overrated. They are trying SO hard to convince people that this is something special. I don't have many things to say, I have watched the 7 episodes of the 8 in total episodes of season 1 and nothing happens. Each episode so far(the whole season almost) has a bunch of unrelated situations were they spend the most of the time, instead of focusing on the case...and all these unrelated situations are again boring... what is the point of making all this? even if the last episode is fantastic(I doubt!!!), thats only 1/8 that would be a good episode. all the other episodes are zero. No more to say, most boring TV series I have seen in my life..sorry......


                
I hated season 2 and hoped season 3 would be good.. it isn't. Sloooooooow and boring. I give up


                
Everybody is raving about this series but not me. I have to admit, the photography and music is brilliant, but that is about all I find attractive. First of all we have Woody Harrelson and Matthew McConaughey. They desperately try to impress with their acting capabilities and that ruins it for me. Woody constantly does this stubborn and willful mouth pose, like he had a stoke, which I find really annoying. A good actor doesn't need a pose or a gimmick. It has to shine through. Matthew, especially the flash back scenes, is so dreadful serious and long-winded I just cant take another episode. Woody and Matthew play characters who want to be "authentic"...but their authenticity is obnoxiously pondered, and feels very forced. The producers probably watched Scandinavian crime series with outspoken personalities and wanted to copy this aspect. Well, Americans can't be Europeans and shouldn't try to. After watching several episodes I realize I really don't care if a suspect is arrested or not. I don't care who the killed woman was. Besides, I am not impressed with the devilish worshiping scenery of the victim. After watching all seasons Dexter I know what murder staging is, and that was pretty awesome in Dexter and the staging in True Detective feels like mustard after dinner.


                
