Don;t believe the hype this show is bad, for one it is too predictable I mean who couldn't see that Aang and Katara would get together or Zuko would turn into a goodie? All the characters are bland and there's no development except for the usual "believe in yourself" rubbish in 99% of shows. It is also a bit racist because it portrays Fire as the bad guys, whats up with that? There should have been bad guys from the other 3 elements too. Don't be hatin on fire, without fire you'd all be dead oh and water is a bigger killer than Fire in real life(Tsunami anyone?) so if anything Katra and Sokka should have been the main baddies.Also why is making machines bad but living in your own poop with nature if good? Guess what without machines you couldn't even make this stupid showIts also a rip off of Japanese anime. If you want watch some Asian cartoons go watch some Asian cartoons, why watch a cheap western rip-off? Don;t be a sheep, think for yourself and realise that Avatar is crap.
This show is just awful.Firt off; the creators have NO CREATIVITY. The world of Avatar is based off China. All the "bending" styles are based off of various styles of Kung-Fu. Also, whats with the Animals? It's like they just took two or three animals and hodgepodge them together(Platypusbear). How long did it take the writers to think of that? a tenth of a second? HOnestly, I could do all that crap. I could create a world based off of New Jersey and everybody uses various styles of "Fistbending" and "Legbending" which are based off Karate an Tae-Kwon-do and there will be lots of animals like "ParrotSharks" and "MonkeyDucks".Avatar is also one of the many American-Prouced shows with a heavy Anime influence (Boondocks, Kappa Mikey, Teen Titans). I have quite a problem with this. Now, You could argue that Anime was influenced by western cartoons like Betty Boop and Disney, like every Otaku does, but there is a little hole in that argument. You see, the Japanese took some influences and created something that looks distinguishable from its source. American Anime artists do not do this. All it does is take a style that is cheap and generic and strip it of the one thing that made it unique. Before it was something uniquely Japanese, now it's generic crap. I myself used to draw Anime, but I grew out of it and fleshed a style of my own out. I am also amaze by the fact that the creators seem to be yet to realize that Anime (for the most part) is Garbage made to entertain 13 year old Japanese Boys. The writing isn't that great. I have seen the first two seasons, and I have NEVER been shocked, amused, or saddened. It just feels predictable. I think its also worth mentioning that one of the Writers wrote on the "Mind of Mencia." Ouch. Thank god for the Writers strike.
...because then, I'd give this movie a negative 10/10. Just giving it a 1 is hurting me, that's how much I hate this show. It's so boring, and just because it has a nice story-line does not mean the show is any good, which applies to this show. And 9.3? You've gotta be kidding me. This show doesn't deserve a 1.0, that's how bad it is. This show is a terrible, boring,lousy, overrated show that has no right to be alive in the Nickelodeon's now poor selection of shows, or anywhere in any TV station, this show does not belong. I truly think it is that crummy, boring, stupid, and horrifyingly unreal.-10/10


                
