Aliens (1986) is the best Epic Sci-Fi Classic Action Movie of all time and one of my personal favorite best action sci-fi flicks that I love to death. Just like I love The Terminator and T2, I love this movie to death. James Cameron's classic masterpiece. The now classic science fiction film was only the third feature directed by James Cameron (following Piranha Part Two, The Terminator). It is the sequel to the 1979 film Alien and Alien is a masterpiece I love that film, but I love this movie more sorry this is my personal opinion this is my movie. I am not saying it is better than the original movie but it is right up there with Alien a real classic.  Ellen Ripley (Sigourney Weaver), the sole survivor from the original "Alien", returns to Earth after drifting trough space in hyper sleep for 57 years. Although her story about the Alien encounter is met with skepticism, she agrees to accompany a team of high-tech marines back to LV-426 and this time it's war! It has great cast I love the marines fighting aliens in this movie. The movie stars: Sigourney Weaver, Michael Biehn, Carrie Henn, Paul Reiser, Lance Henriksen, Bill Paxton, William Hope, Jenette Goldstein, Al Matthews, Mark Rolston , Ricco Ross, Colette Hiller, Daniel Kash ,Cynthia Dale Scott and Tip Tipping and they are all believable enough.I love the characters beside Ellen Ripley, Newt, Corporal Hicks, Bishop, Private Hudson, Private Vasquez, Sergeant Apone, Private Drake, Private Frost, Corporal Ferro, Private Spunkmeyer, Corporal Dietrich, Private Crowe I love those platoon of US Colonial Marines I know I haven't mentioned Burke because he was the bad guy and I don't like him. But most of the characters in this movie I love.  I know it is a sci-fi action film but it also does a have a horror mixed together people just don't see that. There's plenty of horror in it. The nightmare sequence in the beginning, the creepy atmosphere of the LV-426 colony, and the heart pounding face hugger on the loose scene in the medical bay. You see mother of those aliens who cocooned all the humans and killed them you see Ripley finding the nest and fight the Alien queen on the end. Ripley faces her fear and gets over her PTSD by going in by herself to rescue the Girl/Fight the Aliens/and Destroy the Entire Nest...Battles One on One with an Alien Queen and Whips its' Ass...and, by the end, now both her and Newt can dream without the worry of any more Nightmares (which plagued Ripley at the beginning of the film).This is the finest action movie of all time. And, yet, believe it or not, it's not the action in the film itself that makes this be the case. This is especially odd in a movie with a $100 million budget (in 1986!), with multiple huge explosions, with thousands of bullets fired, and scores from James Horner of stuntmen used.10/10 I have the Blu-ray disc which it also have a special edition version on it I used to had this film on DVD but I throw it away because I bought the Blu-ray which I am very happy about it. I love this film to death it is my personal favorite sci-fi action film even Lance Henriksen from Hard Target and The Terminator is in here and he is the good guy.


                
James Cameron is an extremely talented action director because not only does he know great action, but he always backs the action up with a great story and interesting characters. Aliens is his finest achievement, as far as I'm concerned. Of course, I should specify: Aliens Special Edition is his finest achievement.In 1986 several scenes were cut to keep the movie's run-time reasonable but there was one scene that was incredibly foolish to leave out. The scene I refer to is near the beginning where Ripley learns that her daughter has died while she was away in 'hypersleep' for 57 years. "I promised her I'd be home for her 11th birthday," cries Ripley. This is a very moving scene that adds a great deal the character's depth and makes more sense to why she cares for a little girl named Newt later in the film. She's seeking penance through Newt with her love and determination to keep her alive at all costs. The theatrical edition obviously doesn't elude to any of this, and even cheapens the relationship between Ripley and Newt- just a little bit. James Cameron has said that all of his movies are love stories, and Aliens is a story of parental love. He has also said that the special edition is his intended (if not definitive) version of the film. For about five years or so the Special Edition was the only version of Aliens you could get on DVD. It should have stayed that way.Aliens is a unique film experience: it's genuinely thrilling and exciting, unlike a lot of movies where people shoot the evil monsters and there's disgusting blood and rapid gunfire, and it's really meaningless. In Aliens' case, the aliens are very threatening and more than just target practice. We don't see any aliens for over an hour, but once we do, it's a huge payoff. By that time, we get to know some interesting characters: Hicks (Michael Beihn), a take-charge marine who also turns out to be sweet and sincere, Hudson (Bill Paxton), a braggart who turns out to be a coward and complains most of the time, Vasquez (Jeanette Goldstein), the iron-willed woman soldier who proves to be one of the bravest characters in the film, Bishop (Lance Henrikson), a robot that is very helpful for everyone's survival, Burke (Paul Rieser), the slimy company man who the audience loves to hate, and of course, the adorable little Newt (Carrie Henn), a girl who has survived unspeakable horror. Holding the whole film together is Ripley, played by Sigourney Weaver in her surprise-Oscar-nominated performance. I think the only reason why the audience cared for her in the first film is because she was the only person left and we wanted her to live. But for this film, James Cameron added so much to her. With all this investment in characters, we're really concerned for their well-being. We don't want those aliens to get them. Some die, and I'm always truly bummed out when it happens.Filled with amazing performances and an abundance of thrills, Aliens is one of the greatest of any genre it attempts: whether it's action, sci-fi, horror, or even drama. I personally liked it better than the first film, but it's really like comparing apples and oranges. I prefer the special edition and don't see why anyone should view the other version instead.My rating: 10/10


                
I am just going to add my voice to the chorus of praise for this movie. It is as near to being perfect as any I have ever seen. I will not say that it is much better than Alien - which is just about near to being perfect also. But I do love all the characters in this movie. I have rarely seen a movie where all the characters were so well developed. Even most serious dramas seldom develops each character so completely. None of these characters are stereotypes even Paul Reiser as Burke, although the slimy company/government man villain is a prerequisite in disaster type movies. I would almost say that my favorite is Michael Beihn as Hicks, just because I like his work & consider him to be underrated. But I also like Lance Henriksen as Bishop, William Hope as Lt. Gorman, Bill Paxton as Hudson, and of course, Jenette Goldstein as Vasquez. I liked all of these characters. I cared about their lives & deaths. The final scene for Gorman & Vasquez still chokes me up after seeing it many times. I am not ignoring Sigourney Weaver or Carrie Henn. Ripley is the template for the modern action heroine. In the 24 years since Alien, few have been able to measure up to Sigourney Weaver's Ripley. Even in Alien 3 & 4, Ripley was still powerful, despite the 3ed rate quality of the movies. As for Carrie Henn as Newt, she was the emotional heart of Aliens. Cameron's ability to develop well rounded characters does not detract from his ability to create great action scenes or to scare the audience out of a several years of growth.


                
THE sci-fi movie. It's nearly perfect in every way: storyline, characters, menacing threat, suspense, action, direction, music, emotion, etc... It's always been a favorite of mine and still is. To me this is not just a film, it is an experience. The adrenaline pumps like in no other film and rarely have we had the chance to see a heroine as compelling as Sigourney Weaver. She can kick anyone's ass and still keep a heart and soul. (Why she didn't win the Oscar back in 1986 is beyond me.) When the action starts, you're in for the ride of your life. Truly a milestone in movie making. Now if they could only release it on DVD...


                
Series note: It is strongly advised that you watch this film only after seeing Alien (1979). This is a direct continuation of that story.57 years after the events of the first film, Ellen Ripley (Sigourney Weaver) is found and awakened from hyper sleep to discover that a terraforming colony has been set up on LV-426, the planet wherein she and her fellow crew of the mining cargo spaceship Nostromo first encountered the titular aliens. When Earth-based communications loses contact with LV-426, a band of marines are sent to investigate, taking Ripley and a representative from the company that financed the colony, Carter Burke (Paul Reiser) along for the ride.For the difficult job of following up Ridley Scott's excellent Alien, director James Cameron decided to go a completely different route--to make a fast moving, slightly tongue-in-cheek, boisterous action extravaganza. Remarkably, he was able to do that while still maintaining a stylistic and literary continuity that melds Aliens seamlessly with the first film.Ripley is much more fully developed in this film, although unfortunately, some of the most significant scenes were deleted from the theatrical release (if at all possible, watch the 2-hour and 37-minute director's cut instead). Cameron fashioned Aliens into a grand arc where Ripley's actions at the end of the film have much more meaning as she's not only fighting monsters, but also fighting to retain a semblance of something she lost due to her 57-year hyper sleep. As in the first film, she is still the most intelligent, courageous and resourceful member of the crew, but she has much more colorful company.The marines accompanying Ripley back to LV-426 may be too cartoonish for some tastes (as for viewers of that opinion, most of the action and the film overall is likely to be too cartoonish), but for anyone more agreeable to that kind of caricatured exaggeration, it's a joy to watch. I'm a big fan of both Bill Paxton and Lance Henriksen, and both turn in wonderfully over-the-top performances, at their diametrically opposed ends of the emotional spectrum--Paxton as the spastic surfer/redneck and Henriksen as the intense, moody sage, with a surprising reality and an even more surprising conscience to go along with it. We also get a cigar-chomping Sergeant, a crazy, butch Private, and a complex, pensive Corporal as main characters, and a mysterious, bright young girl (played in a terrific performance by Carrie Henn). Much of the center section of the film hinges on the interrelationships of these characters, despite the action trappings going on around them.Cameron carries over the crypt/labyrinth motif of the first film, and adds a metaphorical descent into the bowels of hell in the climax. The action throughout is suspenseful. Aliens contains one of my favorite "cat fights" in any film. It's also worth noting the influence this film may have had on Paul Verhoeven's Starship Troopers (1997)--although admittedly, we could say that Cameron was influenced a bit by the Robert A. Heinlein book, as well. Throughout all of the varied action sequences, as well as the important early scenes of colonists on LV-426, Cameron is able to clearly convey the logistics of very complex sets, so that viewers remain on the edges of their seats.Part of what makes the monsters so effective is that we're not told too much about them. We only get glimpses into their physiology's, their behavioral patterns and their intelligence. Cameron gives us just enough to become wrapped up in the film, but not so much that we become overly familiar with the aliens, or start to question the logic behind the film. He also smartly carries over some devices from the first film that were abandoned to an extent, such as the acidic blood of the aliens, and he supplies answers to the few questions that the first film raised, such as why the blood doesn't corrode instruments and objects when a dead alien is examined.Aliens is yet another example of a sequel that is just as good as an original film in a series. Just make sure you watch both in order, and try to watch the director's cuts.


                
Just recently, I have purchased the new Alien Legacy box set on DVD, and each one is excellent. Aliens is the second chapter in the Alien saga and is probably the most remembered by today's generation. Let's face it; it changed the way sci-fi movies were made forever,and it hasn't been for the best(I'm not saying Aliens is a bad film). Aliens set such a high standard in action sci-fi(basically the new genre the James Cameron has created) that none of the copycats can compete. Take the recent movies Soldier and Event Horizon(both directed by Paul Anderson). They both try to be Alien movies but do not succeed. My advice to Mr. Anderson is to stop trying to copy what has already been done. Enough said.As for Aliens, it is a perfect sci-fi action movie. Great casting(although ALL are stereotypes), great music(James Horner is the man), great use of technology and  a well written script are all present. Weaver's performance is outstanding; one of the best action heroes of all time just happens to be a woman. If you have a chance to watch the director' cut of Aliens, I suggest you take it(it's available in the new Alien Legacy box set or alone on DVD and VHS as well as on laserdisc). It expands on Ripley's maternal persona which makes Weaver's performance all the better.James Cameron came off making The Terminator and made Aliens. He used his expertise in the sci-fi genre and created an engrossing story that does not let up until the final reel of the film. For all the young folk out there that have not seen this film, watch it and see perfection in action movie making. A must see.


                
There are really good movies and then there's that select few that change your life.  For me movies like Jaws, Raiders of the Lost Ark, JFK, Titanic and Star Wars did that.  By viewing a movie you see life in a different light.  Aliens also did that to me.  I didn't think a movie could scare me as much as Halloween did but this one certainly did that and more.  The atmosphere in this movie, and the lighting and cinematography and of course the direction are top notch, and some of the scenes are some of the scariest I've seen in my life time.  But what puts this movie over the top as one of the all time greatest films ever made is the casting.Sigourney Weaver is terrific but it is her supporting cast that shines and makes you feel like you know the crew that is heading to that desolate planet.Paul Reiser is perfect as Burke,the slimy corporate kiss ass that cares about profit before human lives.  Lance Henriksen shines as Bishop, the cyborg with a heart.  Jeanette Goldstein is the rough around the edges female marine that more than holds her own with all the testosterone floating around and Michael Biehn ( another Cameron favourite )is the perfect quiet leader that leads by example and not so much a loud demonstrative voice.  But the show stopper in this flick ( just as he always is in any movie that he is in ) is Bill Paxton.Paxton and Cameron have worked on Terminator 1, True Lies, Titanic and Aliens and Bill is one of those actors that steals scenes from every actor and was always a recognizable face even before Titanic.  Here, his Hudson character is the comic relief but he is also perhaps one of the true characters that we can all identify with.  His tough exterior is nothing more than camouflage for his frightened fragile interior.  He realizes the dire situation that they are all in and he can't hide his fear.  When he finds out that they won't be rescued for at least seventeen days, his response is " Hey man, we're not going to survive 17 hours man!  Those things are going to come in here and they're going to get us and..... " ( Ripley ) This little girl survived longer than that with no weapons and no military training. " ( Hudson ) " Why don't ya put her in charge!!! "Paxton is a gift to any and every movie that he is in and this is his finest work.  He should have won a best supporting actor that year.  And if you haven't seen this movie, rush to see it if only for Bill Paxton.  He steals the show.  But if a tightly wound, brilliantly technical and unbelievably scary movie is your thing, then you can't go wrong here.  This is easily a ten out of ten, and one of the best ever made.  If Spielberg is the king is Hollywood, then Cameron is his heir apparent.  Oh, and one more thing, Paxton will win an Oscar one day.


                
ALIENS really does have it all.  Perfect direction.  Beautiful cinematography.  Intense characters.  Big guns.  Action.  Heroism. Courage.  Battles.  Friendship.  Bravery.  It is certainly the BEST sequel ever made in movie history, and one of the GREATEST MOVIES EVER MADE.At its core is Lt. Ellen Ripley (played by the badass Sigourney Weaver), a warrant officer, and tough as nails.  Her character is one of the greatest heroines of all time.  Sigourney really does pull it off.  No one else could have done it like her.  Ripley's maternal connection with the young girl Newt is amazing to watch...but the ultimate scene is her final battle with the galaxy's most deadly creature - set to a pulsing military score (James Horner delivers in a big way!).  Quite possibly my favorite fight scene of all time.There's not really much else to say - just go watch the movie on DVD, and you will not be let down.  You're in for a wild ride!!!ALIENS:  THIS TIME, IT'S WAR


                
What can I say that hasn't already been said? Every aspect of this movie is spot on, which I can only put down to James Cameron's obsessive attention to detail. The characters are distinct, memorable and believable. The plot builds slowly into the most tense, suspenseful roller-coaster ride I've ever experienced in the cinema. The special effects are good even by today's standards, and the sets are simply second to none. This is one of my top 10 favourite movies of all time.If you like this kind of movie and haven't seen this yet, what are you waiting for? Twenty years on and the only other Sci Fi action movie in the same league is James Cameron's Terminator 2. I can only hope he returns to this genre in the future, he is the master.Oh, and try to see the special extended edition if possible, the extra scenes make an amazing movie even better.


                
Back in 1986, sequels had become very common (Superman, Star Wars, Indiana Jones), yet people were suspicious when they heard of a follow-up to Alien, Ridley Scott's acclaimed sci-fi horror from 1979. Most of the criticism was aimed at the fact that Scott had nothing to do with the new movie, which had been entrusted to an unknown (at the time) named James Cameron. Fortunately, Cameron had shown he knew the genre two years earlier with The Terminator, and by perfecting the skills he had developed on that film he delivered Aliens, which still stands out as one of the greatest science fiction flicks of all time.Given how the first film ended (all characters but one died), Cameron wisely decided to radically separate his movie from the original, and he does so from the very beginning by having Ripley (Sigourney Weaver) wake up from her cryogenic sleep and make a shocking discovery: although she hasn't aged at all, 57 years have passed since she left the Nostromo, meaning everyone she knew is either dead or very old (in a particularly heartbreaking scene, she talks on the phone with her grown-up daughter, who is full of resentment for her "unjustified" absence). In addition, no one believes her story regarding the alien since, as she's told by scientist Carter Burke (Paul Reiser), the planet where these creatures allegedly lived has been successfully colonized. Suddenly, though, all communications with LV-426 are inexplicably interrupted. Thinking there might be some truth to Ripley's tale, Burke asks her to join him and a group of soldiers on a mission to uncover the mystery. And while most of the participants are in it just for the money, our heroine realizes this is her only chance of confronting her worst nightmare and overcoming it for good.The main problem with Alien, some have said, was that, as great as it can be, the characterizations were reduced to the minimum (not that it really mattered, with Ridley Scott ensuring the film retained the right pace and suspense throughout). With Aliens, character development is the last thing fans should worry about, Cameron being fully aware of each individual's potential and exploiting it as much as he can. Ripley, who was just part of an ensemble in the original, is now allowed to carry the whole film, and boy, does she carry it: rarely has there been a more solid, compelling female role in a genre movie like this (the fact that Sigourney Weaver is the only actress, thus far, to have received an Oscar nomination for a science-fiction film is further testament to Aliens' immortality). The supporting cast is equally good, with a multitude of different characters ranging from funny (regular Cameron collaborators Michael Biehn and Bill Paxton) to weird (Lance Henriksen's android Bishop) and bringing something extra to the movie's unique atmosphere.Ah, the film's mood: that's the other aspect Cameron deserves all the credit in the world for. On a superficial level, it could be said Alien was a horror movie, while the follow-up is more action-oriented; that may be true, but one should also notice that every single spectacular battle scene actually oozes tension, never leaving the audience with a pause to breathe or relax. In fact, Cameron has succeeded where many other directors would have failed: he stayed faithful to the original's tone, but managed nonetheless to make the film undeniably his own.Relentlessly creepy, occasionally very violent and consistently compelling, Aliens is a pitch-perfect piece of adult science-fiction. Watch it on a double bill with Scott's version and you will get four hours of genre film-making at its finest.


                
Aliens is one of many movies from my adolescent years that is just as good today as it was back then. It is an adrenaline filled ride filled with creepy locations, intense action, thrills, much circumstantial humor and one-liners that will never grow old (mostly thanks to Bill Paxton). It is, unapologetically, a man's movie, filled with everything except nudity (which it did not need).All movies in the Alien series have a claustrophobic feel to them, and involve a relatively small cast of players. Aliens is no exception and really capitalizes on the fear potential of the locale. Cameron is not exactly known for injecting horror into his films, but provides enough here to satisfy.The characters are very well cast and the actors have great chemistry. I especially grooved to the fact that, even though the soldiers are supposed to be tough marines, not all of them were completely gung-ho about their adventures. In fact, a few were downright cowardly and indecisive in the face of combat - something I'm certain would happen to many in such a situation. Bill Paxton stole the show as the wisecracking space marine. With all the likable characters involved, the stakes were very high. When they start dropping, we feel the loss.Movies like this just don't come around very often. The pacing is very tight, even when the action is absent. The characters and situations are interesting enough - when the action hits, it just serves to suck us in deeper. I have nothing bad to say about Aliens. It is simply an awesome movie with a well deserved reputation for being such. See for yourself.


                
One of those rare sequels that is better than the first movie in every way.James Cameron manages to take everything that was great about Ridley Scott's original 1979 film and builds on top of it to make a superior sequel.It not only maintains the claustrophobic atmosphere of the first, but I found the characters more endearing and memorable (Ex. Hicks, Hudson, Vasquez) this time around.The action is great, the creature designs are better, and the visuals are simply awesome. The Queen Alien is one of the greatest monsters ever put on screen and it's amazing that the effects were all done in camera.Aliens also feels more textured from a character and writing perspective. I love the Vietnam War/Starship Trooper aesthetic (I personally like this movie better than the actual Starship Trooper movie) and the underlying themes of motherhood that is further accented in the extended cut.I also liked how Ripley is upgraded to be an action heroine and Cameron showcases this transition perfectly. It all felt perfectly natural and in keeping with the logic of the story (I'M LOOKING AT YOU FORCE AWAKENS!!).James Cameron back in his heyday really understood that in order for all this action and spectacle to matter, you need to have compelling relatable characters to anchor it.It kinda bothers me that there is this growing trend of stereotyping the film as a "dumber action shoot-em up" version of Alien, which baffles me to no end.Seriously, it's nearly a full hour before any gun is fired and there is literally zero moments in this story where the marines have the upper hand.


                
When I first watched Alien i was really impressed and had to get Aliens. I wasn't sure if this could be as good because most sequels hardly ever surpass the first. But I thought this was a lot better. Don't get me wrong the first was brilliant but this was amazing. Everything was right. They had a brilliant cast, brilliant story, brilliant effects and brilliant acting.The thing i was most impressed about was the design of it all. It looked amazing. They Made things look realistic and the aliens looked really good as well. The aliens home was put together brilliantly. For a 1986 film they made the effects look really good and the set. The king alien looked very good and the set of it's home was very good as well. Yet again Sigourney Weaver puts on a brilliant performance as like she did in the first one and Jennette Goldstien as Pvt Vaquez gave a great performance and is one of the best movie heroes ever.With the first film it had a lot of parts that made you jump and had you on the edge of your seat. It was exactly the same with this one. There were lots of parts that made you jump and nearly the whole film had you on the edge of your seat wanting to know what was going to happened next and they had a lot more gore in this than the first which was good to see because i thought in the first it would be fairly gory but it weren't that much.If you thought the first was good you must watch this. You will be blown away by the effects and design and the great action sequences they have with the aliens. It is one of the best films made and it will keep you entertained from start to finish.


                
Greetings from Lithuania.What can i say about this movie that wasn't told hundreds time before. Excellent. This is the only word that can describe this movie. Excellent direction. Excellent acting. Excellent camera work, editing. Breathtaking (still!) special visual, sound effects. Unforgettable hero! The best of the decade. The best in its genre. Every time you watch it gets better and better. The atmosphere and suspension will never be the same again. EVERYTHING in this movie works brilliant! My favorite director J. Cameron created the timeless masterpiece. Bill Paxton really deserved an Oscar nomination that year. One of my favorite five motion pictures ever. And it will stay there forever...Overwhelming masterpiece.


                
You know back in 1987 when i first watched this movie on VHS - later i watched the uncut version - i was at first reluctant at giving it a shot but then i said what the hell might as well go for it and let me tell you i was more than impressed i was awed this movie was THAT good. I thought of it as the best sci-fi flick ever at the time and still do 20 years later. I mean you gotta look at this movie not only from the crew's perspective but also from the audience's. And that perspective scores very high all across the board mainly because from the very beginning the crew was set on making a sci-fi futuristic movie that continued the story from "ALIEN" but added new unique elements to the story. Everything is great about "ALIENS" the plot the storyline fine continuity and not only it follows where Riddley Scott left off but adds something unique to the gender. And the way the story unfolds gradually building up the tension while at the same time treading on that fine line between dark and light, good and evil, is just amazing how that was done in terms of sentimentality Ripley ,missed her daughter's birthday because fate was cruel to her given the circumstances of her floating out into space for 57 years, after she escaped from the Nostramo, and now she sees in Newt the one and only child who could possibly make up for the hole left in her soul once she found out her daughter was gone only 2 years prior to her rescue and here is her chance to make up for it. The way this chemistry between Newt and Ripley develops can clearly be seen throughout the movie little at first but as the movie advances, their relationship grows ever stronger and culminates at the end when Newt calls Ripley "mommy". It's clear that James Cameron and all his crew had their hearts set on making a movie not just for the money but also for providing high quality action to the viewer blended with that feeling that despite all the evil around us, despite all the risks we take all the compromises we might make, love conquers all in the end from start to finish while at the same time making us relate in some way to anyone of the characters..I mean you gotta understand that love, sentimentality and aliens, the story of the movie don't quite mix generally speaking, but by bringing Newt into the picture as the orphan child, the way the chemistry between the main character and the little kid develops, is just amazing..is something unique and you don't get to see this a lot in movies of this gender at least not a lot. I just watched not long ago "ALIENS, THE MAKING OF - BONUS DVD ONLY and i was just amazed with all the hard work and soul James Cameron and his entire crew put in, in order to give the audience a final product that i'm sure will be remembered for generations to come. And to sum it up that's what this movie is all about...something that revolutionized the sci-fi gender. Of course Riddley Scott did a fine job to with "ALIEN" only James did better. Way to go James! A masterpiece! And one other thing...you gotta keep in mind they used 80's technology as far as the equipment used is concerned - the spaceship just to name one, the atmosphere processor, etc- but looking at this movie 20 years later you still cant tell the technology is outdated..is just amazing how they've accomplished something like this and only with an 18-million dollar budget at the time. This just goes to show that if you as a director and crew as well have your heart set on making something memorable, everyone will remember your name. And last but not least, the soundtrack rocked, man, especially given that James Horner had little time to implement it into the movie. Good work James! My vote 10/10
In space no one can hear you scream. Officially, Aliens should be called an action movie, not a horror like the first, because it is not stop and the special effects are top of the line. Acid for blood, and humans for hosts, the aliens of the film are THE image for aliens you will think of from now on. I've seen this movie countless times, and have never picked out a real flaw. It has so many great characters.. Hudson, Bishop, newt, Hicks, all the marines, and ofcoarse Ripley and the aliens themselves. I loved Bishop as the android, and Hudson's panic and foul mouthed presence earned him a lot of fans. The story is a colony establishing an atmosphere on a planet loose communication with 'the company' running the show. USMC marines are sent in to see what's going on and Ripley the survivor of the 1st film reluctantly agrees to go along. The director even lets you get to know each marines personality, each one is a little unique and I thought the cast was really a timeless one. There's some amazing combination of puppets, animatronics, and miniatures used in the film from the drop ships to the amazing face huggers to the new queen alien from. There's enough beeps on motion trackers, futuristic weapons, and ice cold metal cooridors to fill 3 movies. Not to mention this time 'it's war' with literally crowds of aliens coming at us full speed. The most memorable moments are of the crew preparing for the mission at the meal table and bishop the android doing the knife trick at 100 miles an hour between the fingers of a marine who laid his hand on the table (Hudson). But the mega scene is when Ripley has to find the young character (only survivor colonist) named newt, which leads her directly into the alien breeding chamber. The alien queen is simply amazingly done, and the director Jim Cameran really convinced the effects guys to go all the way with it. Well it worked. The result was amazing and pricless. What really made Aliens an absolute action and horror gem was the writing and the amount that was there was just so richly done I was so very impressed. It's by far the best of the series of movies and the best alien film of all time.
Review 2 of 4As the middle part of the Alien trilogy this film accomplishes exactly what any good second chapter must do, it builds on the world established in the first film and takes the story in new and interesting places. The emotional canvas of this story is broader than the original Alien, and the film as a whole is less subtle. I really like the theme's of family and the parallel character arcs of Ripley and Newt. They are both characters who have lost everything they ever cared about and through finding each other they attempt to fill the holes in their hearts that their respective losses have left behind. Cameron takes great time in setting up his characters from the start, something that was lacking in the original. The beginning of the film may be a little slow but like Cameron's next film, The Abyss, the payoff in the end would not be nearly as satisfying without all this time to get to know the characters and become emotionally invested. The setup is massively important to the rest of the film. Aside from the abundance of action this film benefits greatly from a larger emphasis on character. Hudson, Hicks, Vasquez, Burke, and Bishop are all very memorable characters, perhaps more memorable than those in the original film. It is the relationships between these characters that make it more than just an action film. Cameron has such a way with dialog and Aliens is a prime example. I have built entire friendships on mutual love of this movie. So many lines are so easily quotable. From a technical level this film is flawless, and like the original it has not aged much at all since its release twenty years ago.If in the first film Ripley was discovering her inner strength, Aliens is where she learns to master her fear. In this film we also learn the depths of her humanity that was scarcely present in the original film (the scene where she goes back to save her cat comes to mind.) Ripley is a character that continues to change and grow, and this film does a fine job of fleshing out her interesting (in under developed) character from the first film. Aliens is definitely a film to watch more than a few times, but for different reasons than the first. The mystery and ambiance of the original film makes it fascinating to watch multiple times, but Aliens is more like spending time with old friends, you want to spend two and a half hours with these characters. Aliens is quite possibly the perfect sequel because it gives you everything you got in the first film and much, much more.


                
Aliens achieves that often elusive goal of creating a compelling sequel, which not only expands upon the world setting and character arc of the original movie and it's protagonist, but also takes the series into new genre territory. Aliens has been described as a Viet Nam war movie in space, and this is an accurate thematic analogy. Not only does it provide a very different feel, by switching the genre from the Monster/Sci-fi Horror of Alien to Sci-fi/Action/War, but it also adds exciting new elements to the Alien mythos, such as the introduction of the Queen Alien, which remains one of the best monster designs in movie history.
Is this the perfect movie? Well, maybe not perfect. But it is a perfect blend of horror, scifi and action, excelling in all three genres and creating a legendary flick.SynopsisRipley is rescued by a salvage team after floating in space for 57 years. After being questioned by the corporation she settles into life. However, the world where the alien entered their ship is now colonized and all contact is lost. Grudgingly, Ripley goes along a group of marines as an adviser to check out the colony. After arriving, they find the place deserted. When they do find whatever is left of the colonists, they are attacked by aliens. One by one they die until Ripley dukes it out with the alien Queen, wins, and sets the survivors in cryosleep.Bad StuffErm.........maybe Newt forms a bond with Ripley a little too soon? Ripley forgives Biship out of nowhere? Why did the marines not check the ceiling of their last-stance place? Hudson can be a little annoying? Well, all of these are minor points. It's almost nitpicking. This movie has no real flaws of any magnitude. Good StuffThere's too much to mention, so I'll just say this: Aliens enriches Alien and the two should, if possible, be viewed in one session. Alien was a horror scifi, this adds action. All of the characters are interesting. It fixes the one bad point form the first movie, which is that Ripley really isn't that likable. But here we see another side to her, a softer side while remaining an ass-kicking heroine. All the marines are cool, but Vasquez makes an especially memorable impression. She's the kind of chick you want next to you when you go into battle. She's capable, ruthless, tough as nails, handy, and oddly sexy. I like Hudson, Drake, Apone and Hicks. Burke and Gorman are assholes but at least they have some depth, some palpable reality about them. The aliens look awesome as does the whole colony. Newt is very cute. A small detail this movie does great is showing us the bullet counter on various weapons, which greatly increases the feeling of hopelessness as the marines' arsenal becomes increasingly depleted. Just like Alien, there is a hot, swampy, suffocating feel to the movie that works best when seen after sunset with the lights out.Thunderin' Tim Tip: if possible, watch the Special Edition. If gives more meat to the story of the colonists and Newt. It's worth the 30 minutes of extra length. ConclusionA superb mix of three very separate movie styles creates a rightly legendary movie that has often been described as having no flaws. A smash hit in theaters, a favorite of critics, and an endearing piece of film making in the eyes of the masses, Aliens has withstood the test of time extremely well, and is Die Hard's only real rival for the title of Best Action Movie ever. Because the movie does not forget to incorporate the horror element (just the look of the slimy and slick aliens is enough to pull your feet of the floor and tuck them in your blanky) and the scifi, giving us more info on the inner workings of this fascinating species, the movie feels as a tight unit, compact, a near perfect product. I love this movie and almost everyone will agree. Superb. No real flaws. It's a solid 10/10.
At around 10 years old i watched aliens and it gave me nightmares for weeks!!! I couldn't bring myself to watch it for years and when i did it blew me away. Everything about it, characters, scenes, props(pulse rifle, possibly the best movie prop of all time???) the whole shah-bang. It was a movie light years ahead of its time and showcased James Cameron in my eyes as one of the worlds top directors. There really isn't enough you can say about this movie, its just a shame the following films didn't live up to expectation. Does anyone else notice that it doesn't matter how many times you watch it different things appear that you never noticed before? Suppose thats partly what makes you go back to watch it over and over again!


                
After the ending of "Alien", Ripley is finally rescued by a salvage team after drifting out in space for 57 years in hypersleep. Then she tries to explain what really happened all those years ago to the "Company" board, but they instantly turn the story down, much to her disbelief. However on the same planet where her previous crew found the Alien egg, she finds out that now a colony of families have moved there and they could be in serious danger and her fears are proved correct when And one of the main reasons why this is a sequel that works so well is because it's aware that its a sequel and its a real continuation of the first movie. And this and Terminator 2: Judgement Day are living proof of why James Cameron is the one and only guy to be making sequels and he can make his sequels just as good as, if not better than, the first movie.Because that its a true sequel, you would expect Ripley to be even further developed, and she is. In "Aliens" you get to find out so many things about her that you didn't realize in "Alien", such as the fact that she had a daughter who died while Ripley was in hypersleep, wow what a shame, because of this she tries to make up for her mistake by bonding with Newt, whose family was killed by the Alien attack. And we even find out her first name towards the end And her development is actually continued from the first movie rather than her developments being abrupt and coming out of nowhere. And while Sigourney Weaver was nominated for an Oscar and she should've won obviously, because part of the reason why Ellen Ripley is an iconic character is not because of how she was written but how she was acted.The supporting cast was among the best I've ever seen in any movie and it possibly rivals the one in "Predator" as the all-time greatest. The characters can remembered on the back of anyone's hand; Hicks, Vasquez, Hudson, Bishop, Burke and Apone and they all have their own thing for us to remember them by.Hicks is blended in by the fantastic Michael Biehn as the silent, intelligent leader ("I like to keep this handy, for close encounters"). Vasquez is the totally bad@$$ woman pumped in sheer masculinity and toughness, ("I only need to know one thing, where....they....are). Bill Paxton is at his prime as Hudson, who acts tough all the time but is actually a timid little child inside ("How do I get out of this chicken$h!t outfit?"). And Bishop, the android with the big heart, plays an important role in Ripley's development through the movie, in "Alien" the android named "Ash" went berserk and made the crew expendable to get the alien organism since the start. And Ripley had an extreme distrust of Bishop even though Bishop is clearly gentle the minute you first see him. At the end they both make peace and sort it out when Ripley learns he ain't as bad and messed up as Ash was. And also, Paul Reiser is perfect as the slimy corporate guy who only wants to make a profit above other people's lives, and when he gets killed you're gonna stand up and cheer, I assure you. And Apone is the awesome sergeant who frequently belittles Hudson ("You secure that $h!t, Hudson!, "Hudson, get over here, over here!" in the film's funniest sequence).The action is totally relentless and packs a heck of a wallop. But during the first hour you won't be seeing any of the aliens or the gunfights so we can focus on the characters and get to know them first. But the action has everything, big machine guns, flamethrowers, grenade launchers, you name it. And the final stand-off between Ripley on the loader and the alien queen ("Get away from her, you bi**h!") is among one the greatest ever filmed and it might be the fact that it was really a girl on girl fight which makes it more unique. And that's also why it works as a sequel, because the overall tone is different compared to "Alien", and the worst thing that Cameron would've done was to make it a rehash of the original, but he avoided doing that at all costs. And this isn't considered one of the best ever action movies because of the action itself, but because it depicts a once innocent woman who lost nearly everything by a hostile species and will do anything to avenge herself and also try to rebuild what she lost. Awesome, awesome movie, this gets a perfect score from me.
One of the reasons I'm still clinging onto hope that the Avatar franchise isn't a one-hit wonder is because James Cameron has proved how well he can build out a world in a sequel. He did it with Terminator and he certainly did it with Aliens. It's not only a great sci-fi thriller, but it's easily one of the greatest action films to date.With a much bigger budget and story, Aliens takes everything that was great with Alien, and doubles down on it. All while at the same time building his own world of Alien mythology that seems similar and different enough from Ridley Scott's film to succeed as a sequel and stand on its own. It's a hard thing to do, but amazingly Aliens does it. What's great about this adventure is that we know what to expect with the Xenomorphs. We know that these explorers and military personnel are in for a rude awakening when they reach the colony, but the film takes us on the journey anyway. Everything is avoidable, but yet, all of the character decisions feel logical anyway.It's pretty amazing what 7 years can do to special effects and production designs. While Alien was very contained and simplistic, Aliens is just the opposite, bold with a massive scope. It's a testament to making films with real effects and minimal green screen and CGI, because films (and these in particular) are always scarier and more thrilling when everything feels real. In fact, you feel like you're going on this journey right alongside the crew, experiencing each gun shot and face-hugging with them. In this regard, Aliens plays as both a harrowing western, and an electrifying video game for the audience. That speaks to Cameron's masterful directing.Cameron also manages to write and direct Ripley into one of the most recognizable action stars in film history. She wasn't granted a ton of action in the first film, and fittingly so, but Aliens turns a warrant officer into the queen of all things Xenomorphs. Which brings me to the theme of the film, which seems to be motherhood. It's a nice twist on gender stereotypes and harsh look into the struggle of a "woman's voice" in society. Ripley is questioned at every turn by most of the characters, even though she clearly has the most experience out of anyone. And I love how Cameron parallels Ripley with the "Alien Queen" at the end. Both of them trying their hardest to save their "children". Aliens, much like Alien, is the perfect example of how to max-out the quality of your film in every aspect. Everything from the intense score, the gorgeous production design, the endless tension, and unique and memorable performances. Aliens is quite simply, one of the greatest films ever made.+New take from Cameron+Tension+Ripley is now an action icon+Bigger scope10/10
There are very few sequels out there that have managed to surpass the originals and overcome the expectations of the first chapter's loyal & faithful fans. And James Cameron's Aliens is one film that accomplishes exactly that by taking the universe of Ridley Scott's Alien and expanding upon it in ways most sequels are afraid to, for this second chapter is much bigger & more action-packed than its predecessor, and succeeds not only as a great sci-fi horror but as a redefinition of action filmmaking as well.The story of Aliens takes place 57 years after the events of the first film & concerns the solo survivor Ripley, whose account of what happened on the planet is dismissed by her executives as the very desolate planet is now inhabited by humans. Things are set in motion when the contact with the planet is lost & Ripley is requested to join a group of space marines to investigate, which she refuses at first but joins in eventually in order to face & overcome her fears once n for all.Written & directed by James Cameron, it's so heartwarming to see him expanding the universe of the previous film instead of crafting a loose sequel of Alien by repeating the same concept of the first film. Cameron in my opinion is an extremely talented filmmaker not because he knows what great action is all about but because he's always able to back it up with a highly compelling story which is further elevated by jaw-dropping visuals. And this film is a perfect testament to that.While Alien was a slow building masterpiece of atmospheric tension, Aliens replaces the survival horror of its predecessor with a highly intense, bombastic & violent war between two species. And even though there is less suspense in this film than the last chapter, Cameron makes up for it by turning his feature into an action- thriller filled with intense moments of relentless terror & highly potent combat sequences which ultimately culminates with a bone- chilling climax, that is executed to perfection.Coming to the performances, while Alien gave equal importance to each of its characters, Aliens places more emphasis on Ripley and is basically her journey from undergoing severe traumatic nightmares caused due to the events of the first film to facing her fears head on in this sequel. And Cameron has penned down her character with extreme care by providing Ripley more depth & emotional dimensions to explore, which Weaver makes full use of to deliver a career-best performance while also becoming the first real female action figure in cinema.The supporting cast is no slouch either as just like the previous film, there are almost no death fodders in this and the space marines are one bunch of badass characters, each nicely written & given a distinct personality. As for its technical achievements, the art direction & set designs may not have surpassed the artistic levels set in the previous film but it certainly comes close. Visual Effects however is groundbreaking, sound is expertly carried out and James Horner's score perfectly balances the tone of the film throughout the runtime.On an overall scale, James Cameron's Aliens is a wildly entertaining, immensely satisfying & one spectacular roller-coaster ride of non- stop action that refuses to age even after three decades and continues to rank amongst the most intense & fulfilling pieces of action extravaganzas ever made. Arguably the best film of the franchise, certainly one of the greatest sequels of all time, and undoubtedly one of the finest & most influential examples of its genre(s), Aliens is a perfect follow-up to Alien and, just like its predecessor, is immortal for its contribution to cinema.


                
After the masterfully suspenseful horror/thriller of Alien, any sequel needed to do something different, and that was exactly what James Cameron came up with for Aliens. Where Alien is essentially a haunted house movie in space, Aliens is an all-out war movie in space.The story fits PERFECTLY alongside Alien and there are no continuity lapses between the two. The characters are all totally believable, from the inexperienced and arrogant Gorman, through the cocky but cowardly (but ultimately heroic) Hudson, to the sleazy corporate "suit" of Burke. The cast do a fine job of bringing these characters to life, so much so that we can even accept Ripley's transformation into a kind of all-action female-Rambo by the end.The effects are universally excellent with only a couple of fairly obvious rear-projection backdrops giving the game away nowadays. The practical Alien effects (and especially the Queen) are infinitely more scary and believable than the all-CGI-garbage that Alien:Covenant has recently foisted on the cinema-going public.To be honest, the biggest "downer" of Aliens is how Alien 3 completely swipes away everything Ripley worked for in Aliens before the opening credits are done! But the fact that the biggest problem with Aliens is it's subsequent sequel should tell you all you need to know about it! It's an absolutely superb film which, along with The Empire Strikes Back and The Godfather Part II, has the rare accolade of being a sequel that more than holds it's own next to original. Impossible to give this anything other than 10/10.
I really enjoy alien as a film but I have to admit that I totally love aliens and believe it is a better movie and one of the best movies ever. The premise of the film sees Ripley get picked up years after alien, along with a group of marines she goes back to lv426 to investigate the new missing colony there. Sigourney weaver is back as Ellen Ripley and she is even better in this film then the first and she was even nominated for an Oscar for this role. She is one of the most action packed strong woman in a film ever and she delivers such a strong but lovable performance in this film that makes you truly care about her character. The rest of the cast is also absolutely awesome, the late great bill Paxton plays Hudson in this film and he is amazing in this film, he has the best lines in the film and I loved the humour that he brings to his role. Michael biehn from terminator plays corporal hicks and he is really good in this film , he has a rugged but charming characteristic to him and I liked his performance. The character of Vasquez is absolutely great she is the biggest badass in this film and I absolutely beloved her character. The character of newt is really important to the film and I absolutely love her relationship with Ripley an thought it really brought the emotion to this film. The story in this film is pretty simple like alien, but I give this film credit for doing something different then the first film. The chemistry between the team is great to watch and you truly care about the characters as they take on the xenomorphes. Similar to alien there are a few interesting twists in this story that help make it feel unique as well. The script has fantastic dialogue in it with humour that makes these characters really fun to watch and build the relationships between the squad. The drama towards the end of the film really works as well and helps build the emotion. The style of the film has some of the most awesome action scenes seen in recent memory that adds suspense and keeps the action up. Overall I love aliens and I think it is a must see especially if you appreciate action films.


                
