Alien is a brilliant film. The atmosphere, acting, direction, and story progression are near perfect. Aliens, however, is the near opposite. The movie is one absurd action scene after another; which culminates in Sigourney Weaver's character, Ripley, fighting a giant alien while operating a mech suit. The entire movie was just ignorant.But, as bad as everything was, there was one thing, one thing, that really, really made me mad: Aliens seems to disregard everything we learn about the "monster" in Alien. In Alien, there was no way to stop the thing, it was a tank, and if you got within a few feet of it, you were probably going to die. Not in Aliens though. In this movie the creatures (now dubbed Xenomorphs) are mowed down like deer. That's not the creature I remember. I remember that thing being unstoppable.Overall, all James Cameron accomplished with this flick is to make me respect Alien, more than I already did. I love Alien. I wish Aliens had remained in Jim's brain though, along with Avatar.
Upon re-watching this film with a friend I was sorely disappointed in how different this film was from what I remembered. I first saw this film as a child and thought it was terrifying and now I just think it's...terrifying in a completely different way. I find the majority of the characters surrounding Ripley bland. James Cameron, for whatever reason, decided that it would be a great idea to add a child into the mix that Ripley could feel motherly to. I think he assumed this would make women connect more to the film somehow, by saying women are at their best defending children, or something? Yeah, no.I think the child was just an annoying, cheap distraction attempting to pull at the heart strings, which for me just became a hindrance to Ripley's character rather than advancing her. I get that Ripley's daughter dies because it is the future, but Cameron did not NEED to try to convince us she was oh so motherly by giving us Newt. Hick's is not only so bland, but he is oddly one of the few male characters out there that's sole purpose in a movie is to be a romantic interest for a female protagonist. Newt and Hicks are just there to create this paper family dynamic with Ripley. I don't know the last time I rolled my eyes so much.As for the rest of the characters? All of the marines are nearly the same, save gender difference and the somewhat entertaining and sometimes annoying whiner of the group "MAN!", who is differentiated only by his cowardice and catchphrase. Some may say to change my mind... "But it's an action film, not a horror film...it's a different tone..." As an action film, I believe it is a poor one. There was a lot of off screen fire and when the aliens were shown it either didn't look menacing or there was just a lot of flashing lights where you could hardly see them.The soldier gear was clunky and illogical... predicting that sometime in the future, rather than going smaller in technology we would strap clunky cameras to helmets and large obnoxious looking flashlights to the shoulder rather than make them discreetly smaller or more convenient. Neither of those pieces of technology would be convenient for a scientist OR a soldier, one swipe of an alien claw would knock those cameras and flashlights out.Oh and let's talk about the ending for a moment which is supposed to be a callback to Alien where a suited up Ripley knocks that pesky alien off into space through an airlock. Wait, wait, wait...back up for a second. In Alien, she suits herself up, but in Aliens, she not only doesn't consider how this would effect Bishop and little Newt, but she OPENS AN AIRLOCK INTO SPACE WITHOUT A SUIT. SHE SHOULD HAVE BEEN SUFFOCATED OR SUCKED OUT...or more than likely BOTH. It doesn't make sense as "awesome" as it looks. It is actually QUITE stupid, but yay, the alien is dead and SHE doesn't get sucked out and BISHOP doesn't get sucked out and NEWT doesn't get sucked out...and ...that doesn't make sense.Any redeeming moments were few and far between for me, but those moments simply move this film from one star to two. Yes it was the film that introduced the Alien Queen, but this "iconic moment" wasn't enough for me to enjoy the film as a whole. I consider this film one of the most overrated films out there undeserving of it's overall rating. So of course, at the end tralala, "family dynamic" survives along with the android and... blegh. I really did not like this film. Somewhere along the way in my life I must have confused this film with another that caused me to put it on some idealized nostalgia pedestal...The best part of the entire film, which makes me giggle is "They mostly come at night, mostly..." I am just going to leave this review with that...
Anticipating the release of Prometheus, I decided to watch some of the alien movies again to refresh my memory, specially after I learned that the story would include the mysterious alien figure known as the "Space Jockey". Watching Ridley Scott's movie went just as expected, I continue to see it as one of the best sci-fi movies ever produced. The next day was James Cameron day and it struck me that there was a time when I considered Aliens to be a good movie, but now I find it just terrible. It rivals "Beneath the Planet of the Apes" as one of the worst sequels of all time.*** Spoilers for "Alien" and "Aliens" from here on *** I'll just comment on some of the major points that made me reevaluate my position.1.) The science: the Alien movies are not usually remembered by their scientific accuracy, nevertheless the few points that are made in that sense in the first movie are credible enough, and the lack of any further elaboration on controversial topics leaves the viewer free to interpret it in a convincing way. For instance we are told that Nostromo's voyage is interrupted when they are still months from reaching Earth, but it could be ship's time (see relativity). There is no communication with Earth, as one would expect if they were at a different stellar system. The fact that nobody mentions any family relation contributes to the view that work in space involves being away for long periods of time. But all that is destroyed by "Aliens" when out of the blue we learn that Ripley has a daughter, who is now dead, and that Ripley planned to be home for her 11th birthday. Aliens is full of scientific illiteracy like the fusion reactor that blows up if not cooled just like a fission reactor, and the orbiting spacecraft that just falls to ground when released by another orbiting spacecraft.2.) Stupid military force: this is the element that proves the complete change of direction that the movie had taken. From sci-fi horror to almost a slap-stick comedy. An elite unit that resembles a bunch of teenagers going to a party, an irresponsible and inexperienced lieutenant that freaks out when half his crew dies, and a hysterical soldier that punctuates every sentence with "man".3.) "They are on the ceiling!": in a highly sophisticated structure built in a hostile environment there is always room for the silliest plot device in the movie. While barricading themselves in the control room they forgot that the ceiling was completely open, even after Ripley specifically tells them to check every ventilation access, electrical tube, etc. That was the smartest thing they could think of to kill some more characters and keep them running?To wrap it all up there is a reprise of the last act of the first movie, with the alien queen sneaking into the ship and being blown away through the airlock, intertwined with a pathetic mechanical suit fight and the worst line in the whole script: "Leave her alone, you bitch!"
Alien was a classic; this sequel is flashy junk.In Alien we saw ordinary people dealing with something unimaginable. We were shown their cooperation and conflict. The drastic isolation was overpowering. The technological twists were plausible. The scenes of "discovering" the alien were fantastic but natural.So, instead of a sequel that might involve some scientific inquiry or perhaps some narrative worthy of the cosmic ideas involved, we get: sweating warriors yelling at each other; a little girl survivor; Ripley grim and determined; hordes of monsters; a sneaky slimeball; lots of noise and Saturday afternoon serial "suspence"This script is about as creative as a 13 year-old's fantasy. Actually I think a lot of 13 year-olds could have done better.Unless a sequel really honors the original, it's just parasitic.


                
I wonder how it got 8 stars... No-no! I am not a fan and I've dispassionately checked "2" from combobox just because this movie is really awful. Why? OK. Here we go! Creating science fiction (SCIENCE!) movie has to be fantasy based on reality, not on unrestrained minds of writers or your 5-year old son. So, what we've got here? Story sucks and don't tell me it's OK, it's just... cant describe how bad it is. Ah, OK, not bad for five year old boy! Characters sucks. For example marines are defective imbeciles, not a soldiers. Screenplay is awful: cliché, cliché, cliché... omg, so many clichés (yes, I know it's '86). But it's OK for 80-90 minutes... It's 137 minutes long. "Daddy asked me to let you all know that the theatre is closing. We are all being sick!"
Listen, I know people will not find this review helpful, and people will get mad at my opinion but this is honestly a bad movie, in my opinion, this was just boring, not entertaining and just bad, i know many people find this movie a masterpiece, i am not saying that you shouldn't watch this it just depends on your opinion, i am sorry director i just didn't like this...i could say the CGI was good but that's not what i was focusing at, plus i didn't like the atmosphere of the movie, yep this movie is iconic, it's what started theory of aliens and other alien stuff, i don't recommend if you do not like classics and like modern movies more


                
Recently re-watched this and found it to be a bore-fest. Dreadful acting, poor direction and really non-scary alien creatures.. The addition of a child was an almost desperate attempt to tie the story to an emotional base.. ill concieved at best. Overall, 2 hours of my life I will never get back...


                
PROS: Overall this movie is good. I especially enjoyed Bill Paxton and the alien hive. What I also enjoyed was the colony on the planet where Ripley and her crew from the previous movie found an engineer ship, which now contains a terraforming colony. Bishop was also awesome, being a hero instead of the mad Ash from the original Movie. Ripley was cool, too, after waking up from 57 years of stasis.CONS: Ugh, that annoying, whiny little brat named Newt. Even though I liked most of the movie, Newt annoyed the living daylights out of me by screaming like a firetruck siren. Couldn't get her scream out of my head. Thank god David Fincher killed of that stupid little brat just in time (I actually burst out laughing when she died)
