The sequel to Ridley Scott's repugnant (but memorable) sci-fi monster movie is nothing more than slick, professional, high intensity trash, with Sigourney Weaver reprising her role as the indomitable sole survivor of the earlier expedition. Here she returns to the planet of her nightmares with a company of marines assigned to exterminate the growing colony of voracious aliens, but unlike in the eerie, otherworldly original the emphasis now is strictly on cheap thrills: military firepower vs. insect acid slime. Writer director James Cameron clearly knows how to manipulate his audience: each shock is delivered on cue at a furious and exhausting pace, and every visceral effect (not to mention every line of formula dialogue) has been calculated to guarantee the proper response, whether laughter or revulsion or (says Weaver to alien threatening small child: "get away from her, you bitch!") a rousing cheer. The end result may be short on brains, but packs plenty of muscle; a lot of summer moviegoers apparently don't expect anything more.


                
All the suspense of Alien is lost. The almost invincible intelligent predator has been diminished to a mindless beast, slaughtered in masses by Ripley, a corporate jerk and a bunch of military dimwits. The only character with any depth is the little girl Newt, who's lines are the only thing remembered from this movie, and the little first time actress Carrie Henn does a wonderful job with the role. The android character Bishop is also somewhat sympathetic, redeeming the reputation after John Hurt's memorable Kane in Alien. Even if you have seen Alien many times, it is better to watch it again than ruin the whole idea by watching this.


                
Right off the top the movie made me shake my head with one of those "it's just too convenient" moments. Ripley (Sigourney Weaver) - the only survivor from the first movie - is finally rescued by a salvage ship after being in "hyper-sleep" for 57 years. OK. She tries to brief the company that sent her and her team on the first mission on the dangerous aliens they encountered, but no one will believe her story. Why not? Because there have been human colonists on the planet now for over 20 years and there hasn't been a single report of a problem. Well, we know where this is headed, don't we. Now that Ripley's back all of a sudden contact with the colony is lost, which allows the company to send Ripley back to the planet to do battle with the aliens all over again. Apparently they were waiting for her to be found!Setting aside that moment of ultra-convenience, this movie is weaker than the original in the series. James Cameron took over the directing duties in this from Ridley Scott, and Scott's touch was missed. What made the first movie very effective was the shadowy nature of the aliens. Scott never really gave us a good look at them. They were shadowy figures which made the story quite suspenseful. Cameron dispenses with that idea completely. The aliens are front and centre once the team reaches the planet, and somehow that makes this movie less frightening than its original. Cameron (who also co-wrote the screenplay) also turns this into a pretty standard humans vs. aliens shoot out with lots of weapons and lots of explosions, etc. The characters in this seemed more one dimensional than those in the original. So you have an out of control Marine (Bill Paxton), an in control Marine (William Hope) and the requisite bad guy representing the company (Paul Reiser). Then of course there's Ripley who, while being far more aggressive here than in the original, also gets to explore her maternal side as she becomes a surrogate mother figure to Newt (Carrie Henn) - a little girl who's apparently the only survivor among the colonists. The scene in which Ripley holds the little girl tight as the alien is approaching and says to her "close your eyes, baby" is actually a virtual reshoot of a scene in which a mother comforts her daughter as a monster approaches them in a 1957 movie called "The Monster Who Challenged The World." And - wow - can Newt ever scream when scary things happen!No. I wasn't especially impressed with this movie, although I did get a laugh near the end, when Ripley appeared to do battle with the aliens inhabiting that big robot-like suit swinging away at the creatures without mercy, and I suddenly realized that - hey - that's where James Cameron got the idea for the same kind of suits the Marines used in "Avatar!"


                
Aliens is a mediocre film but I'm not surprised that the video game generation sees it as a masterpiece, considering they are also used to take screaming and swearing for show of character, bragging for courage and Bang! Boom! for real action. This one starts with candy for the kids, a panning scanner; then it brings in a rip-off from Alien: old reliable chest-buster (but we know already that nothing can happen to Ripley, 'cause then the movie is a goner, bummer). Then we are invited to a nonsensical inquiry through which everyone involved seems to go sleepwalking. At some point I even saw a guy dozing off, there. A bit later a girl screams her lungs off, when seeing her face-hugged dad. That's subtle. Then, for at least half an hour the action moves on in an anecdotal way, in events all loosely connected, in which no personal interactions are developed, suggested; no undercurrents, no solid dramatic base on which to build an emotional plot, create tensions, even if a general direction has already been given by Alien. It becomes worse when they arrive to LV 426 and the action dissolves then in bits of swearing and banter by unlikable, one-dimensional, characters and in the—I guess--organizing of things. (one thing that intrigues me most is how reviewers speak here of "well developed characters" when all I see is a basic, generic, stereotype of youth posturing, cussing and making abundant use of words like awesome, cool, f***k you. If it wasn't for their physical presences I couldn't even differentiate amongst them). At this point nothing holds things together and the plot is hanging by a single thread: they are there "to kick butt". By now Ripley has been ostracized and she looks distracted, as if asking herself what she is doing there. So it's high time to bring in the things that will keep the movie moving; they are the fight with the aliens, the Ripley-Newt relationship and the mystery of the alien eggs. There seems to be nothing wrong with this program, but there's actually one big problem.At this point we don't give a hoot about what may happen to the mob of foul-mouthed, undisciplined punks. We know anyway that nothing lethal will happen to Ripley--'cause then the movie...etc. As for the LV 426 colonizers, they are abstract, non-existent. So we could sit back and relax, watch the movie as if it was a video game--which in fact, I see, many people did. But no film maker wants that, so JC had to insert here something to keep us emotionally involved. Now, these clowns are not different from those who tried to set Willard's boat on fire or jump into the Playboy chopper. Difference is, Coppola is a master filmmaker. He just loads the jerks in a chopper and sends them off to battle at the strains of the Valkyries and there you got a classic. (Or Spielberg for that matter who, when not being sloppy, can create a classic out of a fish jumping out of the water and eating people). But Cameron doesn't seem to be able of giving that stroke of genius to this work, so he resorts here, as he did in Titanic, to simpler, reliable things; things that ordinary movie makers, or those who don't want to take risks, use when trying to stir our emotions, as for ex. the tearjerker, the loving relationship. In Titanic the couple is Rose/Jack, here's Ripley/Newt. Difference is, while DiCaprio/Winslet were quite good, this relation looks fake, contrived. That kid seems under threat of great punishment if not acting exaggeratedly cute and touching. So much so I couldn't stand those "tender moments" between them two. (As a Gilmore Girls fan I have a good idea about how these scenes are done with taste). Or, to mention a far better known case, remember Dorothy and the Witch of the North. The contrived quality of this relationship reaches the sublime of the ridiculous during the final showdown, when Ripley hollers that immortal line in film History: Get away from her, bitch!. I almost cried. Some say her--until then unknown--daughter explains it all, but the opposite is true: the deceased girl's story was just tacked on here to justify Newt's inclusion in the plot (Ripley never mentioned a kid in Alien). That shows also the weakness of the plot, or the director's fear that a relationship based solely in the personal interaction of the two wouldn't be strong, credible, enough. Why couldn't have reacted Ripley in the same way, motherly protective, if she had never had a daughter? If, in Titanic, JC showered us with clichés, here we are with rehashed bits mostly from Alien: A bad robot morphs into a good one and the villain will be a human; Ripley goes back for a cat first, now for a girl, all that during final countdowns, etc. I think Cameron's main problem in Aliens, as with Titanic, is not one of lack of talent but that he made two films about topics he's unfamiliar with. In the FMJ reviews I recall one Viet vet saying that Kubrick didn't know a thing about war. I think that those two films show the same for Cameron who, as the product of a neutral, pacifist, Canadian culture, doesn't know what and how Vietnam really was--Aliens is Vietnam in Space after all--or what to lose a whole empire means—-of which the Titanic was the ultimate symbol. There's the main reason for all the stereotyping and cliché lading, I guess.Totally forgettable flick. No enduring images, no memorable lines; no 'we'll need a bigger boat' or here's looking at you kid. No Valkyries, nor choppers. 3 out of 10.
I must say that this was the last in the series of the four alien movies I saw. First I saw Alien 3, then the original Alien, I catched Alien: Resurrection in the theaters and finally I got my chance to see this one. I was pretty excited to finally see the film that everybody told nothing but good, but after the film... Well, I felt a bit betrayed.The original Alien was more like a Lovecraftian mystery than an action film. The creature that was hardly seen and when it was seen it looked like something diffrent than your normal man in a rubber suit (ala Predator), like something that could just stand next to the ships walls and dissapear to the dark painting of gaslines. This was something that Cameron refused to understand. Propably thinking of Starship Troopers without having to pay the rights for the book, Cameron wrote the story of Aliens. Ripley, after escaping the alien in the first film, is revived after drifting in space for a long long time and is given a change to make his revenge with a group of space marines at her side. First problem with the film is the script. It's very traditional following everything taught by the "now you can write a script too"-books. No true surprises, everybody is motivated and follows their lines with boring results. A special thanks to Gormans actor for his campy performance during the first attack. Just the fact that Siquorney was nominated for an oscar for this role makes you wonder by what standards do they choose in the Academy. The dark gothic look of the Alien is gone, replaced by Camerons "blue"-look than can be found in his every movie. The Alien has been redesigned to look more like a skeleton than the shiny tubular biomechanoid of the first one. It's a good thing they returned to the original design in Alien3. The action is your usual Cameron. Slow, with huge fireballs.Finally the idea about the Queen just destroyed the mystery surrounding the alien creature. In Alien the creature showed some strange signs by toying with its prey and propably raping Lambert. In this one, the creatures are just mindless drones thats main purpose is to kill. Thus Cameron manages to take away the horror of the original Alien. Even the facehugger gets a facelift to look a little bit less menacing. And the overhyped queen? Looking at the queen and comparing it with the dinosaurs of Jurassic Park 3 makes you just wonder if Stan Winstons studio can ever get that stutter out of their animatronics, since Jim Henson studios have been without it for years. The good things about this campy action movie? Well, there are some pretty good effect shots, like the ones of the dropship and the final battle. But in the end this film will be admired by people without the patience to look at something like Alien or The Thing. But in my mind it will always be like Commando: Funny as hell at the points it's supposed to be dead serious.


                
Average imagination and average aims must be the combination behind this alien sequel. To take an example near the beginning, the capsules where the spaceship crew sleep are shot three times over from a very boring perspective (the foot of the beds slanted in a row to the left, the edge of the first bed slanted to the right); or, when part of the crew are investigating a tunnel where aliens might be hiding, the two men and a woman are pictured from the front, at the knee level, as in a tourist photograph.These ordinary camera angles would not matter, if the director was not only interested in technology but also people. But besides Sigourney Weaver's Ripley we have vehicles for one-liners. I just appreciate it if several people in a film are given some character: it does not have to be more complicated than, say, the four different old men in Clint Eastwood's "Space Cowboys" (2000). Also, I failed to notice any special amount of humour, which some say is there. Regrettably, Cameron's alien is just a competent action film, with good acting by Weaver.


                
I only watched an hour of this movie before I decided it was no major improvement to the horribly overrated Alien.The action doesn't even start until an hour into the movie! And the action isn't even that good! If you enjoyed Alien for some reason, it's likely that you'll enjoy this. If you found that Alien was dismally boring throughout (like I did), I can guarantee you that you won't like this movie any more than the former.The dialogue is cheesy, and not in a funny way either. However, I can't help but admit that the scenery, filmography, and direction is excellent, just like in Alien. What kills both of these movies, though, are the scripts!


                
WOW, just wow. I remember watching this movie when i was a kid and, man did it freak me out. I just watched it again (2018) and i can't believe what a piece of garbage this is. There are sooooo many plot holes, cringe worthy scenes, and just utter disregard to reality. Yes this is a si-fy movie but MAN did they jump the shark! I just can't believe that this movie was praised at all. There are scenes where Cameron decided to "intensify" the action, with NO APPARENT reason!!!!! If its just me than ok. but please re-watch it. It will put this movie in a new perspective


                
