The tramp tries to nurture and help a blind flower girl regain sight despite scant resources and the prejudices and graft of the big city. Although the physical gags lack the large-scale invention of the factory scenes in Modern Times and the criticism of the wealthy doesn't transcend an admittedly witty recurring joke<U+0097>the aristocrat friend can only demonstrate compassion and friendliness in an inebriated state; he's always inviting the tramp in, only to incredulously throw him out the next sober morning<U+0097>the tramp's touching earnestness in rescuing his angel from a life of abjection is simple and selfless and deeply moving. I would say it also fades out at the perfect moment of open-ended ambiguity<U+0097>the viewer is forced to make resonant meaning out of the final troublingly cathartic shot, even as the film articulates a consistent worldview in relation to what has come before. In my eyes, Modern Times is Chaplin's masterpiece, but City Lights would probably better merit repeat viewings, which is as much a testament to the film's power as anything else.
City Lights is probably one of the most well loved, along with Modern Times, Chaplin movies. The iconic and everlasting character of The Tramp, one of the most lovable, truly human and sympathetic characters perhaps of all time. Sometimes there is some hate towards tramps, like they are labeled lazy and troublesome. It is very hard to hate The Tramp, because he gives so much when he has so little. He spends his time and money giving to people - whether it be saying a millionaires life or buying a flower from a blind girl. Undoubtedly, we all have a little bit of The Tramp in us.The plot is as follows: the Tramp meets and falls in love with a blind girl who sells flowers on the street. She is poor and by a mere coincidence, believes that The Tramp is rich. He also saves a drunken millionaire from suicide, and despite his gratefulness, doesn't remember the poor tramp unless he is drunk.City Lights is no doubt a magnificent feat in motion picture history. It's poignant view of the world and society leaves you laughing and crying at the same time. Some believe this should really be called a drama instead of a comedy. I believe it is a strong mixture of both, and a great balance of the two. Both comedic and touching, City Lights should not be missed by anyone.


                
Charlie Chaplin made some extremely funny shorts but of his longer films, this is one of the best, along with "The Gold Rush" and "Modern Times." Two stories are woven together. One is Charlie's on-again off-again friendship with a wealthy drunk. The guy has a case of multiple personality. When drunk he showers Charlie with friendship and gifts. When he's sober he doesn't recognize Charlie at all.The second story involves a pretty, blind flower girl who, given certain distances, angles, and lighting, resembles Uma Thurman. Charlie falls for her and accepts a thousand dollars from the drunken rich guy in order to pay for the operation that will refurbish her eyeballs.Charlie is accused of stealing the thousand bucks but when he appeals to the rich guy, he's sober and won't support Charlie's story. Charlie manages to get the money to the girl anyway but then is picked up by the police and spends some time in jail. When he emerges from the Crowbar Hotel, broke and bitter, he bumps into the now sighted girl and she recognizes him by his voice and the feel of his hands. The happy ending.There's sentimentality in the story of course. There often is in Chaplin's later films. But, as usual, it's somehow tempered. Here, it's undercut by irony.When Charlie meets the wealthy toff, the guy is about to kill himself because his wife left him. He ties a noose around his neck and a big rock to the other end of the rope. He's about to hurl himself and the rock into the river when Charlie intervenes, gives him a pep talk, and changes his mind. His spirit revived, the rich guy spread his arms to the sky, dropping the boulder that falls on Charlie's foot.And when Chaplin meets the blind flower girl, she's enthralled by his gentleness. Unseen by her, the smitten Charlie tip toes behind her to the nearby water fountain where she fills a pail. Her expression is dreamy and far away as the pail fills. Charlie is sitting on a bench next to the fountain, himself enraptured. Then she empties the pail by throwing the water in Charlie's face. Well, it's not the blind Mr. Muckle busting all the light bulbs in W. C. Fields' general store, but what is? A note. There have been some comic prize fights recorded on film, not counting the Dempsey-Tunney debacle, but I don't think any are as funny as the one Chaplin has choreographed here.It's hard to imagine the kind of talent that could pull off a story like this in a medium like this. Black and white, and silent. Applause, please.
To say that Charlie Chaplin was a perfectionist would be an understatement. The meeting of the flower girl in "City Lights" took over three hundred takes before it met Chaplin's approval; one of the many fascinating bits of history offered on the DVD extras I enjoyed today. Virginia Cherrill was a twenty year old, recently divorced socialite who didn't share Chaplin's work ethic and might have been replaced in the picture by Georgia Hale ("The Gold Rush") if so much of the picture hadn't already been filmed. Knowing that, and re-watching some of the more poignant scenes in "City Lights", makes it seem all the more incredible for knowing that Chaplin and Cherrill didn't really like each other.This is the story of love between two lost souls in the big city, a theme dear to Chaplin as the silent era in pictures was coming to an end. Movie fans, entranced by Al Jolson's "The Jazz Singer", were newly hooked on talking pictures, so Chaplin's decision to keep this film a silent was a controversial, if not an economically dangerous one. However the fans reacted wonderfully to the story, the final scene conveyed in a manner to bring tears to one's eyes and a melancholy lump to the throat. Few closing scenes in a movie can match it for impact, and it remains memorable even after eighty years of film making.For my part, I always get a kick out of the little things in a picture. This one had me hitting the rewind button to catch The Tramp's reaction to the newspaper boys near the beginning of the story. After that little dust up when one of the boys pulls the finger off Chaplin's glove, you can catch the quick flip of the bird he gives to the boy on the left. It's done very deftly and without hesitation, and you'll wonder to yourself - 'Did I just see that'?I haven't watched a lot of Chaplin's work up to this point, but with every film of importance I see, I'm led to others that will give me an even greater appreciation of the talent and hard work that went into the making of cinema's best. Chaplin's on the list now, and I'll be searching out his other noted pictures in short order.
Arguably the best thing Chaplin ever did. The physical humor is mostly outstanding, particularly the boxing scene, yet it brings poignance not found in his earlier work. The last and greatest of the old-style Chaplin movies, before the spoken word changed everything forever.


                
The film begins with the unveiling of some statues in a park and that's where we are introduced to Charlie Chaplin's tramp. And he's funny. We then follow his antics as he falls in love with blind flower girl Virginia Cherrill. He wants to help her get a better life and goes out of his way to ensure this. Does it work out for him?This film is a love story that touches the emotions, especially at the end. Up to that point, the love aspect is sentimental but each sequence contains elements that will make you laugh. Chaplin is very funny. His balance is outstanding for the comedy he performs and his timing is spot on. An amazing talent - no-one to match him since.


                
(Flash Review)With a simple little plot of a poor man who meets a pretty blind women selling flowers on a street corner. He is charmed by her and learns of a cure for her blindness while also being mistaken by her for a wealthy man. Full of quintessential Chaplin clever gags arise from him trying to quickly earn the money to pay for her eye surgery. Some of the best comical scenes are him as a street sweeper and a historically funny and smart, clever, amateur boxing match. This is one of his most revered films due to the great mix a physical gags and genuine emotional romance. Chaplin at his silent best even as the world had just entered the era of talkie movies.
City Lights is a comedy-romance that excels in both respects. It starts off with a hilarious moment that got me laughing and the ending was a very heartfelt, romantic moment. The relationship between the Tramp and the rich man is one of misadventure and hilarity. On the other hand, his relationship with the blind girl begins with tragedy and ends with a beautiful conclusion.


                
This for me is Charlie Chaplins best performance it's such a great movie


                
The classic story of a beta male who meets an alpha. The beta places females above his alpha friend.The comedy is purely based on timing and repetition. Comedy is based around the opposite. Take the boxing scene for example. If he was to just immediately get knocked out like expected, it wouldn't be funny. Rather, the beta fights and appears to be winning the fight against the alpha. Then just when you think he will win, he loses.This is the amazing philosophy of this movie and it is amazing.
All chaplins films and most silent films feel short regardless of run time. This film is funny as all chaplins usually are and has an easy to gollow story line.


                
I generally thought this was one of Charlie Chaplin's most delightful, most overlooked quiet motion picture diamonds. At that point I found it truly wasn't underrated; it's appraised high on most commentators' rundowns. It might be that I for the most part catch wind of a portion of his different motion pictures than I do this one.


                
Charlie Chaplin falls for a blind flower girl and lives the high life with a lush, amnesiac fatcat, sampling and exploiting various urban lifestyles along the way. Playful and carefree, like all the classic auteur's best pantomimes, this is more of a loosely-related collection of skits than an all-enveloping story. The sidetracks are all great, of course - The Tramp and a late replacement swinging for the fences in the boxing ring, all manner of drunken hijinx in a ritzy club on New Year's Eve, slapstick encounters with a newly-unveiled statue before an outraged audience - but it doesn't get quite as deep under the skin as Chaplin's other masterpieces.That he doesn't share a wealth of chemistry with his leading lady, Virginia Cherrill (who endured a contentious relationship with the star during production), isn't so much to blame as their too-swift courtship and her disappearance during the second act. We never really get a chance to grow into loving them as a couple, though their sweet parting shot serves as proof that such spoils were within reach. Stuffed with ideas and ingenuity, City Lights still makes for an endearing, if scatter-brained, early romantic comedy.


                
This movie is capable of being Charles Chaplin's most famous classic. Although, in my opinion, not be the best film by Charles Chaplin, it's really good, it's a movie that will make you laugh and cry. A movie that everyone loves and if you have not seen it yet, I highly recommend it because it's practically impossible not to like it.


                
The story tells the tramp but the necessary precautions for eye surgery by a florist, an ideal landscape for the star to create emotions and laughter-filled scenes ...
To become a rescue of a millionaire prone to committing suicide, working in the hands of Tramp, street-riding, boxing, the role of rich man. The message is silent, appropriate universal: love is blinded ...The film is very important from an artistic point of view
The story of how a generous Tramp tries to help a blind girl for whom he's in love is famous since its release. Its probably one of the most acclaimed and famous films of Chaplin's career, who was already an accomplished actor when he made this silent film, released in the midst of sound era, in a conscious choice of Chaplin, which saw many successful silent film humorists sink when they began to talk and decided not to have the same fate. For us, its one of the most remarkable films of Little Bum, the most iconic character of this actor.Visually beautiful and elegant, it has a careful cinematography and music, as well as sound effects, dispenses well any vocal addition. Scenarios and costumes were carefully thought out and created. In all the technical details Chaplin's taste and meticulous hand is visible. The comedy is created through the most unlikely situations in which the character stands, and it is delicious. Even if it fails to tease out laughs it will certainly make the audience smile. There is also a naive and pure love story that permeates the entire film, as a thread of history, and that is deeply touching.


                
I only watched this movie because it was the highest rated on IMDB that I hadn't seen before. I don't generally watch really old films, particularly from the silent era. City Lights has made me rethink that tendency.Solid laughs throughout. Chaplin's comedic choreography skills are rare qualities in today's cinema. Jackie Chan comes to mind.Since I hadn't seen this movie before, but had grown up with old Bugs Bunny cartoons, it was funny to realize where they got much of their material.I was surprised by the amount of subtle humor in there as well. Like a wink from Charlie to us, his audience; a reminder that this he is taking us on a journey. And that whatever is in our head at any given point in the movie, is what he put there.This is solid storytelling from when film was truly a visual medium. I'm surprised that it hasn't been remade in modern form. That would be a good writing exercise.An impressive film from a multi-talented man. I highly recommend it.


                
IMDb Top 250: 51City Lights- arguably Chaplin's greatest contribution to film. It completely could be, just not for me. I thoroughly enjoyed the film, but looking at my record with his films- The Great Dictator is one of the best of all time and Modern Times was hilarious, while The Kid was boring, I have to say this one is just below Modern Times.I watch a Charlie Chaplin movie to see slapstick primarily and watch a very high quality silent film. City Lights is more of a drama, due to the primary storyline of the blind flower girl. The story is incredibly touching. The actors involved put on the performances of a lifetime, especially considering their off-screen relationship. But it reduced the laughs, and not once did I laugh out loud like the food machine in Modern Times. The subplot about the millionaire was funny though.I think a second viewing in the future will be very rewarding, knowing what the film really is. That's my advice to you: recognize this as a dramedy. The film will be much more fulfilling. 8.4/10


                
I am a child of the Sixties, and many of the attitudes I formed were based on essentially special moments, it seems to me. One of my parent's friends opined one evening, stridently, vigourously, something to the effect that because Charlie Chaplin was a Communist everything he ever did was therefore artistically inadmissible. There are times in life where something you hear you instantly know is either completely wrong or right. I knew then that this had to be wrong, even though I had never seen anything more than a snippet of Chaplin's work.Many of what are considered great films were not shown anywhere, not on TV, certainly not on the big screen, for most of my early life. So it is that in my recent viewing of "City Lights" I saw my first full length Chaplin film. And I was not disappointed.In this movie there are only a handful of main characters. Chaplin's little tramp is of course prominent, but the key supporting players certainly get a lot of screen time. Among them is the blind flower girl who becomes the center of the tramp's attention, her grandmother, and a very rich and also very boozy benefactor of sorts. The rich man's butler has a significant part. There are many, many players with brief parts.As far as a plot goes, the tramp meets the blind flower girl and of course he is able over time to appear to her as a wealthy kind-of boyfriend; he helps her when he can. He is smitten with her. In the meantime the tramp has run into the rich man, their initial meeting being the tramp's intervention in the others suicide attempt.But the benefactor has mercurial fits of memory loss and gain, so his generous gestures are at best unreliable. In the midst of the tramp's efforts to do what we would term the right thing, other confounding moments occur. Which leads us to the comedy part.In effect the tramp runs into troubles at every turn. His helpful and often unsolicited attempts make things right do not necessarily provide a real advantage for him or those about him. He does get the money to help the flower girl and grandmother, but at a price.It is fun to watch the little tramp and his antics. Chaplin could certainly do physical comedy, and his attempts at this are very honest, involving tremendous eye to detail touches in all scenes. At one point he briefly eludes two policemen; his quickness and well-rehearsed reaction is actually difficult to follow. I have read about the ending previously from a few sources, but no spoilers were among them. I appreciate this because the last few moments of "City Lights" deliver a terrific payoff. And its nice to know a boyhood suspicion was well-founded.Three Stars


                
Orson Welles once cited as his favorite movie Charlie Chaplin's tribute to the art of body language and pantomime, "City Lights." "I was determined to continue making silent films," Chaplin recalls in "My Life in Pictures" of his decision to make a silent four years into the talkie era, "for I believed there was room for all types of entertainment." "City Lights" features Chaplin's musical composition and various sound effects, but no dialogue. Chaplin opens the film with a lampoon of talkies: at the unveiling of a Greco-Roman stone statue, the dignitaries' speeches are heard only as unintelligible squawks.Smitten by a flower-selling Blind Girl (Virginia Sherrill) who has mistaken him for a dapper gentleman, the Little Tramp takes on odd jobs (including a prizefight, shown in a masterfully choreographed sequence) to raise money for an operation to restore her vision. After the Tramp intervenes to prevent the suicide of an alcoholic tycoon, the tycoon befriends him; but it is an on and off friendship, as when sober the tycoon doesn't even recognize the Tramp. Despite a series of mishaps, the Tramp pays for the operation. But in the process he lands in prison. On the Tramp's elease, the Blind Girl learns the true identity of her benefactor in one of the most rarified scenes in cinema.


                
Believe it or not (especially nowadays) there was a movement of actors, producers, and directors that didn't like the addition of speech to cinema. While most of these "voices" didn't hold much weight, they did have one frontrunner that could definitely dent the industry of "Talkies," and that was Charlie Chaplin. Chaplin was so strongly against movies with dialogue, that he continued making silent movies (then eventually with sounds) way after the fad had died. Among his films that defied the industry was the charming City Lights. City Lights is a good bubbly film that has easily one of the best endings in the history of motion pictures. Combining slapstick comedy with good direction, a nice musical score, and a dosage of drama, City Lights is another tour-de-force from Chaplin.There are two plot lines to City Lights, both of them involving The Tramp (Chaplin of course). In one tale, The Tramp tries to help and win the heart of a blind flower girl (Virginia Cherrill). In the other tale, the Tramp experiences a series of antics with a millionaire that gets drunk every evening with him, but then doesn't remember him the very next morning. Both plots mingle a few times, and complement each other as they advance the story forward. The Tramp in the latter half of the movie falls for the flower girl so severely that he begins working any sort of job to come up with the money to fix her vision.Chaplin was one of the most talented men Hollywood has ever had the privilege of supporting; the man can act, direct, write, and even compose music. The music helps make up for the total lack of dialogue and very limited sound. His story at the time was a bit original, as the lead female couldn't see, which adds a dimension of innocence to her character. She represents purity, kindness, and what's right with the world. In the meantime, the drunken millionaire represents all that is wrong. The balance between the two gives City Lights its roller coaster feel, much like the city-like atmosphere setting in the movie. Most of the sight/humorous gags were with the millionaire, while the drama was saved for the scenes with the flower girl. Chaplin himself provides all the funniest moments in the movie, especially the incredible boxing scene.With that being said however, City Lights gets a little repetitive in its jokes, which makes it overall a weaker comedy than The Gold Rush. Whether it's the joke about the amnesic millionaire, the repetitive moments of the kids spitting at the Tramp, or the scene with the chairs; City Lights has a lot of good funny scenes, but they lose flavor and quality once you see them again and again. The Gold Rush doesn't have this problem, as their gags are very varied and never repeat. The Gold Rush also has a much better cast of supporting characters, and has better cinematography.But, the one thing The Gold Rush doesn't have is the incredible ending that City Lights has. In my opinion, if you can't end the movie on a good note, you better be sure to craft a masterpiece of a flick throughout the first two acts. A great ending can save a movie, and a bad ending can utterly destroy a good movie as well. City Lights has the perfect ending for the content presented; it could not have ended in a better way. At this moment, the directing, editing, acting, and music was at its best; its as if Chaplin had saved his best efforts for last. The payoff is grand, and the tears just might stream down your face. That is, if you know what love is.Bottom Line: As a modern, bitter, out-of-the-box independent critic, I try to step away from the expected boundaries of the typical film critic; I try to not give in to the regular mannerisms of the people that get paid to criticize movies past and present. The usual film critic shall state that City Lights was Chaplin at his prime blah blah blah. This isn't the case, as Chaplin has done better work before (Gold Rush; his best work) and since (Great Dictator, a long monologue away from perfection). But, this is a good movie, and is one of the earliest examples of a spectacular ending. City Lights is better and ages better than the typical silent movie, it can hold its own with romantic comedies of today. Its charming story will keep you entertained, and its ending will leave you breathless, wondering why movies of today don't try to end in the same fashion (or at least with the same amount of effort). City Lights is a nice "comedy romance in pantomime."


                
Chaplin's City Lights has several funny vignettes, including the climactic boxing match and the scene near the beginning where one of the characters is trying to commit suicide. They are the epitome of slapstick. They're largely unvocal and entirely physical. They're unreasonably against reality, and common sense. This kind of humor can be full of laughs, or simply grin-filled appreciation.What I found the most interesting about this film, and the even later Chaplin film that I previously watched, are the mechanics of the earliest kind of cinematic storytelling. The story threads are so simple, and even close to singular. You can hardly call anything a subplot. There is a single journey taken by a character who encounters several others. I found myself engrossed by this sort of plot. Sometimes the most simplistic stories are the most effective. You really find yourself yearning for Chaplin to get the money for this blind girl's rent. The film may be light, and how can it not be? But while you're watching it, you can't treat the story lightly, which is very impressive for such a threadbare film.Also, having already known that Charlie Chaplin was a multi-talent, a performer, a writer, a director, I had no idea he'd written the score playing over the entire film's action. Most silent film scores are not as beautiful as the score in City Lights. Chaplin pumped his score full of hopeful, naive emotion, which suits the tone of the movie perfectly.


                
This is the first silent film that I have reviewed. This maybe the first silent film that I have ever sat all of the way through. I have not been avoiding them, but there are just so many movies to watch that I just have not gotten to any. The saddest thing about a movie as great and as influential as this is that as a modern movie goer it is hard not to be jaded when it comes to witnessing the brilliance of the original geniuses of film. There is a lot that modern filmmakers and viewers can learn from silent movies. It is hard to capture an audience for an extended period of time without boring them especially when the movie is predictable every step of the way. Watching City Lights was an extremely predictable experience, yet it did not take away from the enjoyment of the movie. I really enjoyed watching the story play out each step of the way and the movie is made with so much heart and care that it really comes through when watching. The movie starts with some great physical comedy while showcasing the good natured spirit of the Tramp. The sword gag really demonstrates some of the physicality that Chaplin brought to his role, as does the boxing scene, but having grown up with the Loony Toon cartoons and the physical comedians like Jim Carrey we have seen all of these types of gags. Seeing it play out on screen with real actors is still enjoyable to watch, but I am sure that the magic that others experienced watching it for the first time is lost on me. The heart of the film is not the physical comedy, but the relationship that the Tramp has with the flower girl. It is really a touching story that really has not lost any of its poignancy. A man willing to give up anything of his own to bring happiness to a stranger's life is not a original story, but watching the Tramp put everything he has into making the flower girl smile is heart breaking. While this is a moving tale it is amazing how Chaplin balances the comedy with the heart and how the comedy is a necessary consequence of the Tramp helping the flower girl with the means that he has. I love how Chaplin throws himself into the character and embodies the physical nature of the tramp. The walk is instantly recognizable and one can see how the great actors are able to disappear into roles by capturing this physicality with their performances. Cherrill does a wonderful job also and I swear that some of the actress from the black and white films actually glow. Cherrill absolutely glows throughout the whole film and she does have sweetness that matches the Tramps intentions. It also showcases how being physical in a role does not necessarily mean that their movements are loud and exaggerated. The ending will go down as one of the best endings of all time, but it did not hit me as hard as I thought going into the movie. I knew the basic premise of the movie and the ending was sweet as could be, but it did not resonate with me as much as it has with other film goers. I loved watching it the smile on Chaplin's face will sit with me for a while. I did love this film and it really has opened the door for me to want to see more silent films. It was a fascinating experience that I thoroughly enjoyed, but it did not feel fresh to me. I did not seem like I was discovering something special, but had finally watched something special that everyone else had already embraced. With a lot of these older films I almost feel as if it is my duty to watch the movie and that I am not doing it because I want to. I loved the movie and it will go done as a classic in my book, but it was not a special movie experience for me.
A poor man (Charlie Chaplin) falls for a blind girl (Virginia Cherrill) who mistakenly thinks he is wealthy. After rescuing a man from a drunken suicide attempt, the tramp befriends him and soon he finds himself able to help the girl get eye surgery. The catch? The rich man forgets the poor man's existence every time he sobers up.Upon my first viewing, I had no strong background in Charlie Chaplin films. Aside from "Modern Times", I cannot recall really seeing all that many before. And I freely admit I had a bias towards Buster Keaton, the earlier, "better" silent comedian. But their comedy is somewhat different: Buster is more physical, whereas Charlie seems to be more of as prop artist.Upon further review, Chaplin's work is better appreciated. We see in this film that he mocks the motion picture industry as a whole, which has now embraced the talkies; the only "dialogue" here is a stream of squawks, and Chaplin noted that "dialogue is superfluous noise". Of course, he eventually gave in, but this film proved that silents could compete -- and sometimes exceed -- the talking films. (Just as today black and white is not common, but can still have its powerful impact.)The bulk of the comedy here, besides falling down, could be called "bait and switch" routines. The tramp is presented with an item, and then it switches to something else (such as pasta turning into confetti). It is funny, and you have to give the film credit for keeping audiences entertained when they cannot verbally tell jokes.One of the greatest things about the film is the casting of Virginia Cherrill. Prior to this film, she was a complete unknown, and through Chaplin she was launched into the stars. Not that her name is well-known today, but she was married to Cary Grant and later George Francis Child Villiers, 9th Earl of Jersey. That has to count for something for a Chicago native!If you have not seen much Chaplin, see this one. Almost all critics agree that it is one of his best, and this was also Chaplin's favorite of his own work. Jeffrey Vance believes it to be his "most perfect film".


                
Charlie Chaplain's comic outings are very well known, even today and given the amount that he made, it's difficult not to come across one of his classics every now and again. I happened to stumble across 'City Lights', in which the comedy still holds up.What makes the film still good is the simplicity of the comedy. The situations are common, everyday and relatable to and most things that MIGHT go wrong, do; given the circumstances. These apply to going to a restaurant, fighting in a boxing match and spending time in someone else's home. Early on during the statue scene, everything is placed into context and the scene serves as a good introduction to the film and its content. This is good for people first encountering Chaplain and this is the perfect introduction to his world of 'slapstick humour'. The things that could possibly go wrong; do and everything has an eerie sense of realism. 'What would happen if a tramp was indeed sleeping during a statue unveiling?' or indeed, got involved in any of the other situations in this film. One thing I found particularly interesting was the instance where everyone paused to respect the national anthem, even the tramp amongst the chaos. Nobody moved during the anthem and although they were trying to get him down initially, everything stops for the anthem <U+0096> everything. I found this an interesting little piece of propaganda but very humorous at the same time: No matter what's going on around you, always stop to respect the nation when given the chance.What's also interesting is the narrative in the film. Narrative film making was around but was only about a decade or two old. In other films from around the time, narratives were still pretty basic but they got their story across, albeit maybe jumbled. In City Lights, the love story is put across effectively and the whole side story of the drunken millionaire/Chaplain trying to raise money is well sewn in; this adds to the effectiveness of the ending, also. What I like is the feeling of the character just wondering around, living day to day life, encountering people and things. There is that feeling of chance throughout. The backgrounds, given the date, are equally as interesting.Although you do see some gags coming, for instance the spaghetti scene where the similar looking decorations lurk menacingly above, City Lights does enough; with its love story, simplistic and comic situations mixed with actual humour such as the 'I thought you were driving' scene and the bad effect the lucky charms have on the boxers prior to the fight scene and the fact that there's enough in the film for you to take it seriously, especially the ending.'City Lights' will remain a classic.


                
