Once again Chaplin plays his famous creation, the beloved Tramp<U+0085> The noble Little Fellow meets and falls in love with a blind flower girl<U+0085> She assumes he is wealthy man and offers him a flower, which he attentively accepts with his last penny<U+0085> One night by chance he rescues a drunken millionaire from drowning<U+0085> The rich gentleman becomes a generous friend when drunk but doesn't recognize the tramp when sober<U+0085> Chaplin takes the blind girl under his wing, and takes flight with the millionaire's money to cure her blindness<U+0085> "City Lights" engaged a true genius in a graceful and touching performance which arouses profound feelings and joy with great simplicity of style and tragic tale<U+0085> Each scene was the result of hard-working detail and planning<U+0085>


                
Charlie Chaplin's "City Lights" contains a blend of humor and humanity that make it memorable for everyone who watches it.  Although made very much in the old-fashioned silent film tradition, much of it is timeless, too.After a few minutes of slapstick at the beginning, Charlie's "little tramp" character makes two acquaintances.  He meets a blind girl selling flowers, who mistakes him for a rich man, and the two become very fond of each other. Then he meets a real millionaire, who is drunk, depressed, and about to commit suicide.  In a comic scene, the tramp persuades the millionaire not to go through with it, making himself a devoted friend.The tramp soon learns that there is an operation that could give the girl her sight, and tries to think of some way he could help.  His scenes with the girl and her grandmother are moving, while his determination to help lead him into some comic escapades - his attempt to win money in a boxing match being particularly funny, and one of Chaplin's best comic pieces. Meanwhile, when his millionaire friend is drunk, he dotes on the tramp, but when sober he forgets who the tramp is, leading to more amusing scenes and occasional trouble for Charlie.All of the comedy leads up to a finale that is one of the best-remembered scenes in any film.  "City Lights" shows the power of the camera in the hands of a master, who without words can move his audience or make them laugh.  Anyone who appreciates good cinema should see it at least once.


                
City Lights is simply put one of the best movies out there. Every scene is classic and had a huge impact on the history of film-making. Chaplin's last 'silent' film tells the story of a poor little man the tramp played by Chaplin who falls in love with a blind flower girl. He becomes friends with a wealthy man who constantly tries to commit suicide. The man only recognizes the tramp character when he is drunk. To impress the flower girl the tramp uses the man's wealth to make her fall in love with him. The only problem is that when the man is sober he doesn't recognize the tramp anymore. On top of this the flower girl has to pay 22 dollars of rent or she will be thrown out of her apartment. Now the tramp desperately seeks for jobs in the city to help his love. Out of this simple plot great comedy and heart breaking moments come forth.The outcome of the movie is to almost all people known. It is regarded as one of the best endings ever taped on film. The movie itself still is masterpiece more than 70 years after it's release. I personally rate this as Chaplin's second best I have seen so far. My favorite remains The Gold Rush. Still this movie gets 5/5 stars from me.


                
I always thought this was one of Charlie Chaplin's nicest, most under-appreciated silent movie gems. Then I discovered it really wasn't underrated; it's rated very high on most critics' lists. It may be that I usually hear about some of his other movies than I do this one.Part of the reason I think so highly of this is simply that I'm a sentimentalist and story in this film is a very touching one. It's a romance between Charlie's tramp character (no name) and a blind girl, who also had no name in this film. Virginia Cherill, who played the blind woman and had a wholesome, pretty face which I found very attractive.I'm not always a huge fan of pantomime except for some great comedians of the era like Chaplin, Harold Lloyd and Buster Keaton, but Chaplin was so good at it and this is one of the last of dying breed as "talkies" were out in full force by 1931. Chaplin was at his best in silent movies, anyway, and his comedy routines are legendary. He gave me a lot of laughs in this film, as always, and I particularly laughed (I love slapstick) at the boxing scene. Kudos, too, to Harry Myers as the "eccentric millionaire."There's a lot of drama as well as humor in this 86-minute gem as the Tramp tries to aid a blind girl, raising money so she can get an operation to restore her sight.Comedy, romance, drama (with suffering) all combine to make this an extraordinary piece of entertainment. It's hard to believe this movie was not up for one, single Academy Award.


                
A truly marvellous film, one to watch over and over again (as I have) and not tire of. If I remember right Chaplin basically made it up as he went along, with only the bones of the story and the ending in mind, tens of thousands of scene retakes later. This put the lid on silent films for good, CL could not have been bettered if they'd tried - and Chaplin did of course but failed with Modern Times.There's so many gags in CL it's pointless to pick any one out - the boxing match hardly counts as a gag, more a work of art - overall it's a relentless 80 minutes, the usual Chaplin roller-coaster of emotion. The dedicated know all this, the ones who only like violent colour talkies will scoff after having wasted their time trying to understand why this movie is so highly regarded. I wonder if they switch off before the end?The original for the set for the outside the blind girl's home still exists in Lambeth today, along of course with many other surviving places of Chaplin interest.


                
City Lights, made back in 1930, is a love story featuring our favorite funny character, the Tramp. First time,I watched this movie two years back with my friends. That time we laughed very much. But as I was watching the movie, I felt that I have to watch this movie alone sometime to get the feel and the message of the movie. Unfortunately, I was very busy those days and couldn't watch it back then but I watched it again yesterday. And this time there was much more than just laughs I got. I loved this film. And I can challenge everyone who says A Walk to Remember or The Notebook are the best love stories! The Tramp (Charlie Chaplin) is introduced to us sleeping in the lap of a large statue. People, who have come to watch the giant statue, shoo him away. He is just wandering when he sees a girl selling flowers. He stops and buys a flower. But the girl drops the flower by mistake. He sees that she is looking for the flower in the wrong place and he realises that she is blind. He feels bad for her. He is also very poor and he can well understand her situation. He wants to say something but instead he leaves.At night, he sees a guy trying to kill himself. He convinces him in giving up this idea. The guy takes the Tramp back to his home. He is a millionaire and the Tramp can't figure out why he was trying to kill himself when he is having every pleasure. They become very good friends and the Tramp asks him for some money. The next day, the Tramp buys all the flowers from the blind girl. She is happy, and he is happier than her. The blind girl reaches her home and tells her mother about the millionaire customer she has had today. She thinks him as a millionaire as well as a very big hearted person. She is also having many problems at her home. The rest of the film is pretty much about the Tramp trying to help the girl and sometimes asking the millionaire for some help. Will he be able to help the girl? How will things end up with the millionaire and the Tramp? All the answers are lying in the movie further with a heart-touching ending of the film. Along will all these, there will be many scenes where there will be tears in your eyes just because of laughing.Charlie Chaplin, as most of the times, is the director-writer-producer- composer-editor-actor of the film. And he wins, again as most of the times, in everything. First talking about Chaplin the director-writer, he is brilliant. Needless to say, the story of the film is amazing. Comedy scenes are superbly written and directed and also there are few fighting scenes but Chaplin knows very well how to make them funny. And when I say funny here, I mean hilarious. Though I loved every scene in the film, but still I would like to mention a couple here: Of course the last scene in the film, then the scene where the millionaire invites the tramp for dinner and the fight scene between the Tramp and the boxer who was changed when the original had to flee and with the original one, the Tramp had a pact of 50-50 if he lets the Tramp win. Both the scenes are insanely funny. And I think I won't be able to stop my laughter even if I'm watching them for 10th time. I don't have to say much about Chaplin the actor. I will definitely fall short even if I write a page in his praise. According to me, there have been only one actor who has delivered every performance with no more scope of improvisation: Charlie Chaplin. He has played the Tramp for about forty years. To tell you the truth, I can't imagine him otherwise. I have watched many of his movies and I have loved his performance in all of them. In this movie, he is excellent. In emotional scenes also, he is brilliant. He has had a great impact on the film industry and it won't be an oversaying that he actually revolutionized the genre and the industry.Chaplin the composer does a swell job. Music changes accordingly with the requirements of the film. This is a silent movie and so music becomes a very important part. It supports the funny scenes brilliantly. The movie is black and white so there is not a question of brilliant visuals. The cinematography is good overall. About the other actors in the film, the blind girl is played by Virginia Cherrill and she is very convincing in the role. Her later films didn't see much success and she dropped her film career. The millionaire Harry Myres and he is good. As required, he is very funny. He trusts our Tramp and helps him very much, with his money of course. All other actors are fine.City Lights is definitely one of the best Chaplin movies, if not the best. I loved this movie and while writing this review, going back to every point and remembering everything is making me watch this movie again. You know what? I will watch the movie again after I finish this review. There has been a lot of discussion about the movie title "City Lights". Many believe that "city lights" are allegorical for the types of shallow luxuries and excess that can be found under the lights of the city, e.g., the rich man's drinking, cars, and clothing, when compared to the life of the Tramp and the blind flowergirl. I am kinda satisfied with this theory. City Lights is a very special film for me and I will remember this film for a long long time. And I will definitely watch it many times.


                
It may be the haze of all the intervening years, but I don't think Chaplin made anything but 'Classics' from 1916-1936. You can pretty much watch anything from these couple of decades and see, if not an entire classic, at least frequent moments of brilliance. Such was the man's genius.Of this oeuvre, some items stand out as especially worthy of praise: all the full length features in this period, for example, are worth seeing today. Most live on in the work of other directors, cinematographers and actors who were influenced by these films. In fact it could rightly be said that Chaplin lives on in innumerable moments on screen and in the attitude he brought to the project of making films - raising it from a novelty to it's status as art today. No filmmaker did more to advance the art of film.City Lights is certainly one of his masterpieces. It resembles his other features from the 30's (and throughout is career) in it's utterly distinctive look and feel. Due to the unique style of directing, his absolute control of all aspects of the production and the use of his collaborator/cinematographer, Rollie Totheroh, all Chaplin films have this 'look' that the film wears almost like a brand.The most striking thing, to me, about CL, is the pure symmetry of the story. Everything is pared down to the double story of love story/infatuation and friendship/exploitation. The love story is predicated on deception, while the friendship is predicated on alcoholism. The parallel stories take place almost independently of each other. It is this lack of cohesion that to me at least makes it less of a great film than, say, Modern Times.Nevertheless, there are many great moments in the film to admire. The two best scenes, IMO, are the boxing scene which is genuinely one of the most hilarious sequences ever filmed (if you want to know where Jackie Gleason, Lucille Ball and other masters of physical comedy got their chops, a good place to start is right here) and the final scene/fadeout.The ending is beyond genius, almost as if God had AD'd this scene for Chaplin, it is so profoundly moving. That said, a great ending, even one as great as graces City Lights, does still not resolve the issue of the un-meeting story lines which proceed along parallel tracks for the whole film.It is still worth your time to watch this supremely gifted physical comedian at the top of his game, and even more so, IMO, in repeat viewings. No silent actor rewards the repeat watcher more than Chaplin, as his constant, offhand improvisations often escape first or second notice and only become apparent upon repeat viewings.


                
****May contain spoilers***** City Lights is yet another great example of Chaplin's greatness. This film contains many of the Chaplin's usual comedy numbers. In fact, the boxing scene in this film is even better than those from Cinderella Man. However, I think that this film has a very serious message behind all of the comedy.Chaplin was never a man who feared making social commentary. This is more obvious in films like The Great Dictator and Modern Times. Even though City Lights messages are a little more subtle, I think they are still present. The film touches on everything from poverty to wealth and even race.I think the main social commentary in the film can be found in it's views on wealth. The film actually opens up with the city unveiling a large monument. To their surprise, when the pull the curtain the homeless Tramp (Chaplin) is sleeping on the lap of the statue. His presence is seen by the crowd as an unwelcome blemish on the face of their monument. Physical comedy aside, this scene sets the tone for the rest of the film. The whole concept is how the rich want to ignore the poor and pretend they do not exist. This is made completely clear in the relationship between Chaplin and the eccentric millionaire. In fact, when the first meet the millionaire is attempting to kill himself. He is actually saved by a homeless man telling him that "the birds will sing tomorrow." This total irony is the kind of tool that Chaplin uses to illustrate his point. Another aspect of the this relationship that illustrates the same point is the fact that when the rich man is drunk, Chaplin is his best friend. However, when he sobers up he wants nothing to do with him. He even pretends not to know him some times. This shows in no uncertain terms, that Chaplin saw the rich as being afraid to help the poor. In fact, one of the only people that will actually talk to Charlie is a blind girl who sells flowers. This seems like a typical screen romance. However, when you delve deeper I think that you can see it is not. Through out the film, I think you can confuse this relationship as puppy love. Then as the plot unfolds a couple of apparent thoughts surface. The blind girl actually thinks that Charlie's character is a millionaire. I think that in hind sight it is easy to see that the more Charlie pretends to be rich, the more she likes him. In fact, this can perhaps be seen in the ending sequence. The girl now able to see and the owner of a whole flower store thanks to the money that Charlie provides is always waiting on him to arrive. The catch is, that she has never seen Charlie before. At one point a rich man walks in, and the girl gets a look on her face that shows she thinks that her prince has arrived. When it isn't him, she says she hopes he comes soon. Then ironically, a totally beaten down Tramp walks by her store window. From inside the store, she actually laughs at him when local paper boys pick on him. Then we he sees her and is obviously madly in love, she taunts him even further. In fact, when she does realize that this tramp is her knight in shining armor comes the clincher. The girl's face shows not love or gratitude. There is no hug or kiss, for the man that saved her. Only a disappointed look and her saying that now she can see. I think that this more than any other point in the film is where the message is really hammered home. When Charlie's only friend now has some money, and sees him for the poor person that he is she is saddened. It is really quite a dark thought. I mean this is a man, who got beaten up in a boxing match and even shoveled fecal matter off the street just to try and help his love pay her rent. I think this sad thought is one that Chaplin hoped would open the audience's eyes to this problem.Besides the obvious economic views in the movie, we have other examples of social commentary. The boxing scene has a very interesting one to me. Not only does it show these boxing people turning the poor into punching bags, so they can fill their arena but there is a race issue as well. In this scene the black boxer is shown not only as superstitious, but he actually gets pummeled by a white boxer. Then there is also a major homosexual under current in this scene as well. Charlie is shown as seemingly gay in the locker room. He makes gay gestures as well as faces towards his opponent. If you think this is not true, then why does the man change his pants behind a curtain? I think the fact that Charlie and the black boxer are shown as outcast in the locker room is some kind of commentary on the thoughts of the time. In fact, the homosexual theme is also prevalent with the millionaire and Charlie. Always hugging and drinking. At one point Charlie actually wakes up in bed with the millionaire. I think the film at times shows the desperate Charlie as a male prostitute to the millionaire. I am not sure if this is what Charlie meant to do, but it is definitely something to look at when you view the film.In closing, this film is just as much a masterpiece as everything else that Chaplin has done. The comedy and commentary mix together to form one very striking and memorable film. I think that is why is is still held in such high regards, even to this day.


                
Having not much experience with silent films, this is admittedly my first venture into Chaplin's filmography. A renowned master and auteur during the 20's and 30's. Suffice to say after just one film, I can whole heartedly state that the man was a comedic genius. This puts all modern comedies to shame. I laughed more watching this classic than I have done all year, and that in itself proves that this 1931 silent masterpiece has stood the test of time. A tramp encounters an enigmatic blind woman who he tries to impress. In doing so, he befriends a turbulent alcoholic millionaire and starts to utilise his wealth to win her over. It's easy to dismiss Chaplin's films as slapstick humour. An array of silly sketches stringed together to evoke laughter. This dismissal is unjustified. There is a reason why City Lights is regarded as one of the best of all time, because it makes you experience a variety of emotions. The romance between the tramp and the woman is sweet and tender. The commentary on alcoholism, although not as thematically powerful as one would've hoped for, makes for adequate drama. The misfortunes of the tramp, particularly the swallowing of the whistle and well-choreographed boxing match, create the expected humour. Then the touching final scene adds a sprinkle of melodrama to surmise the story in two minutes. It's a tale about kindness. Being a gentleman no matter how small or large your bank account is. Aside from the overlong boxing match preparation scene, which should've been shortened to keep the pace up, I found no faults. The amount of personality seeping through the screen from the characters was astonishing. Nearly every scene felt fresh, introducing new and innovative gags to maintain the hilarity. The exaggerated acting assisted in producing chemistry between the characters. Briskly paced, consistently funny and just enough drama to retain viewer engagement. City Lights is (so far) the best silent film I have seen, and a true testament to the power of silence in an era where "talkies" were prevalent.


                
This movie was my first silent movie I have watched. 
Needless to say, performance by Charles Chaplin in this movie is really hilarious. And the way the story proceed is flawless. Every scene is important has meaning to following ones.
I knew Chaplin's performance was funny to watch and that's what I expected before. But there was something I didn't expect so much. It was romance story of this movie.
Blind girl by Virginia Cherrill, was really charming. The story of Charles and Virginia was really romantic. As of 2018, everything still holds up.


                
If you've ever felt you should one day watch a Charlie Chaplin film (or a silent film in general) and you're a rom-com fan, then this is the one for you! It is even credited as a "Comedy Romance" in the opening credits, and is among the very first of the genre. Chaplin, in his persona of The Tramp (replete with disconcertingly Hitler-y moustache), falls in love with a beautiful flower seller (Virginia Sherrill). She is blind, and mistakes him for a wealthy benefactor. Across the course of their love story, the Tramp goes from low to high to low to very low and ultimately, to one of the purest moments of joy ever shown on screen. It's funny, it's charming, it's wacky, and above all, it is dreamily romantic. A true classic, in every sense of the word.This review appears in Romantic Intentions Quarterly #1.


                
It has everything a Chaplin movie promises and deserves. Except Paulette Goddard who in Modern Times and The Great Dictator is freaking fabulous enough to have made own stand alongside the Great Comedian. Nonetheless the blind girl who finds her benefactor at the end to everyone's delight and the tippler with personality issues making him bipolar-esque and a friend is certainly enough to make you watch this film. 
It is a simple enough story with surprisingly not as many laughs as i had in the other movies but this movie is the one which boasts of the infamous boxing ring with Chaplin fight scene that is immortalized in the annals of the comedy now. And also, it has a beautiful composition that supplements speech in a such a delightful manner that obviously only to be bettered in 1936's Modern Times. Much respect and more so, every bit worth it.
You're probably deciding to watch this because it's in the Top 250 movies of all time. Let me tell you that it totally deserves its spot at #25 for Top Rated English Movies. I'm not a huge fan of Charlie Chaplin or silent movies in general, but this one surprised me. It was funny, but yet had a serious tone at the same time. My only wish is that the ending would've had more to it. It wasn't a bad ending by any means, I think it's just me wanting to see more since the movie was so good. Just do yourself a favor and watch it already!


                
Charlie Chaplin's "City Lights" contains a blend of humor and humanity that make it memorable for everyone who watches it. Although made very much in the old-fashioned silent film tradition, much of it is timeless, too.After a few minutes of slapstick at the beginning, Charlie's "little tramp" character makes two acquaintances. He meets a blind girl selling flowers, who mistakes him for a rich man, and the two become very fond of each other. Then he meets a real millionaire, who is drunk, depressed, and about to commit suicide. In a comic scene, the tramp persuades the millionaire not to go through with it, making himself a devoted friend.The tramp soon learns that there is an operation that could give the girl her sight, and tries to think of some way he could help. His scenes with the girl and her grandmother are moving, while his determination to help lead him into some comic escapades - his attempt to win money in a boxing match being particularly funny, and one of Chaplin's best comic pieces. Meanwhile, when his millionaire friend is drunk, he dotes on the tramp, but when sober he forgets who the tramp is, leading to more amusing scenes and occasional trouble for Charlie.All of the comedy leads up to a finale that is one of the best-remembered scenes in any film. "City Lights" shows the power of the camera in the hands of a master, who without words can move his audience or make them laugh. Anyone who appreciates good cinema should see it at least once.


                
City Lights (1931) is not only Charles Chaplin's great achievement but it also happens to be one of my top ten favorite films of all time. The emotion and effort that Chaplin put into this film cannot be recreated or matched by anyone. A classic tale about the Little Tramp giving up his livelihood for the benefit of others. Filmed during the height of the Great Depression the situation of life in America has never been caught like this before.The Tramp is hoboing around town doing whatever odd jobs he can find. One day during one of his outings he meets an attractive woman who has an eye sight problem. Smitten, the Tramp vows that she'll see once again. So, he does whatever he has to do to get this young woman to see. He befriends a wealthy drunkard after he saves his life. The problem is that he only recognizes him when he's sloshed out of his gourd. What really moves this film is the great lengths that the Tramp will put his body through for love. When the final scene is shown, you'll understand why many people (including myself) have called this one of the greatest films ever made. Pure magic.
A comedic masterpiece. Charlie Chaplin made a bold move by keeping this film silent, and it paid off. Regarded by most as Chaplin's best work, City Lights has some of the Tramp's funniest and most heartfelt moments. In a more developed storyline than usual, the tramp falls in love with a blind flower girl who mistakes him for a rich man. While this situation provides the emotional drive of the film, the Tramp's relationship with a rich, suicidal drunkard provides most of the laughs. Both plot lines intertwine perfectly, complementing each other well. In the third act, the Tramp sets out to raise money for an operation on the blind girl. After loosing his job as a street sweeper, he enters a boxing match to try and win the prize money. The hilariously choreographed match is one of Chaplin's best routine's ever. As much as it makes us laugh, it still tugs at our heart strings when the Tramp surprisingly goes down for the count. The final scene in which the girl with her restored sight realizes that the Tramp is her benefactor is a study in bittersweet. Chaplin and the girl wisely underplay the moment, keeping it from being too sappy, but still making us care. What happens next is also wisely left to the imagination.
A Charlie Chaplin classic. But then, many of his movies are classics, and rightfully so. Has the usual Chaplin traits: fantastic, ingenious, ultra-creative visual comedy, plus a great emotional angle. The comedy is brilliant. Some of the scenes are iconic, and have been copied by many great movie makers.Where this differs from his previous movies is that the drama side gets more weight than before. After the almost-continuous comedy of The Circus, his previous movie, the lulls in comedy found in City Lights to advance the plot and develop the characters come as a bit of a shock. Even a let-down. But they are worth it, as the movie builds up to an incredibly emotional final scene. Plus the breaks from the comedy make the comedic scenes even more impactful.An absolute must-see.


                
Making Jack Lemmon cry is a delight reserved for demented people, but---when he was alive---there WAS a way to make the man weep. Just show him the last scene of City Lights. If you can get hold of the American Film Institute's Top 100 Laughs TV special, you can see for yourself. Lemmon cries while describing the end of this movie. Then I cried. My wife laughed. She's such a little trooper.I won't give away what that last scene is, but it's easy to see how it could make a person bust up just thinking about it. Charlie Chaplin was certainly not afraid to hit those maudlin notes. His Tramp character was lovable enough and Chaplin the artist was talented enough to get away with milking you for every emotion you've got. Funny how some people can mix tones in the same movie and make it work so well while others can't even get one tone right.The story: the Tramp makes friends with a blind flower girl (Virginia Cherrill) and works various jobs to help support her. She doesn't know he's broke, instead thinking he's a rich benefactor. Along the way he tries his hand at a few different vocations, including a hilarious attempt at being a boxer. He also parties a lot with an actual rich man (Harry Myers) who spends most of the movie drunk as a monkey. Whenever he sobers up, out goes the Tramp. No one can ever see our hero for who he truly is.City Lights is a short and pithy movie, as were most of CC's works. He knew how to tell a compact story with oodles of hijinks, a little drama, a message and plenty of feeling. The AFI definitely had l'amour for this picture, ranking it 76th and then 11th on their 1998 and then 2007 Top 100 lists. That's a remarkable leap in the span of 10 years. Do you feel that strongly about City Lights too? I'm not quite as enamoured with it as the AFI, but it's a wonderful picture. Jack Lemmon's sloppy tears are proof.If you dug this snapshot review, check out the website I share with my wife (www.top100project.com) and go to the "Podcasts" section for our 23-minute City Lights 'cast...and many others. Or find us on Itunes under "The Top 100 Project".


                
I have never before seen a full silent movie and obviously, never seen a Chaplin film. I didn't know, going into the film, what to really expect. I didn't think I would be able to stand a whole film without any dialogue. I honestly didn't think that slapstick humor, to the extent that I've seen in a few clips from Chaplin films would appeal to me. Thankfully, I was more than wrong. Charlie Chaplin is not only a funny film, but it is an extremely touching film. The performances are fanastic, especially by legend Charlie Chaplin who was perfect as the often clumsy Tramp. The story was so moving that the 90 minute duration was forgotten by me right throughout the film.The Tramp meets a blind flower girl and immediately falls in love with her. On eday, he rescues a millionaire as he was about to commit suicide and convinces him to not destroy his life. The drunk millionaire befriends The Tramp to the extent of allowing him to stay at the man's mansion, use his car and even borrow money. The Tramp, one day, spies on the blind girl's window and sees a doctor by the girl's bedside and realizes that she is sick. He also discovers that the girl and his grandmother may be forced to leave if they cannot pay their rent in time. 'City Lights' then follows The Tramp's hilarious adventure to try and get enough money to save the girl and her grandmother, whilst running into plenty of trouble.Charlie Chaplin perfectly portrays the Tramp as an extremely peculiar looking and clumsy man yet also brings extreme heart and love to the role. His fantastic performance is matched by Virginia Cherrill who portrays the blind flower girl extremely well. Inarguably, both were fantastic but their brilliance is more evident due to the fact that 'City Lights' is a silent film that has no dialogue. The ability to portray an entire film simply out of facial expressions is absolutely fantastic.My expectations for 'City Light' were to see a completely slap stick humored film. Whilst there is plenty of slapstick humor, the film is incredibly touching and powerful written and directed brilliantly by Sir Charles Chaplin. The humor is plenty throughout the 90 minute duration of the film and whilst the emotion is limited, when emotional scenes are shown in the film they work brilliantly. 'City Lights' is yet another one of those films that many people underestimate and jump to speculations which turn out wrong.'City Lights' is such a brilliant film that is pretty much flawless, making for the most entertaining 90 minutes without any words uttered out of mouths! The brilliance of this film is more evident for myself, as I now wish to see more Chaplin classics! Featuring fantastic performances and a great story, City Lights is definitely one of the classics that every movie lover must view sometime in their life. It is the Star Wars of its era.
Charlie Chaplin is a tramp, blown hither and thither by the winds of fate in this film. The set pieces, including Charlie as a boxer and Charlie rescuing a man (George Myers as a rich drunk) from suicide are fantastic. The boxing scene in particular is the work of genius because it involves in the fight as Charlie tries to avoid being beaten to a pulp. The final scene is beautiful as the girl (Virginia Cherrill) who had been laughing at Charlie, not knowing he was the man who had extended a lot of kindness to her, realizes that he is the man who had been kind to her when she couldn't see.Chaplin's appreciation for the universality of physical comedy and his appropriation of an everyman persona as the tramp went a long way to solidifying his appeal. He created a character which was universally recognizable and many people could relate to. Making such a sympa character makes it possible for Chaplin to appeal to many people and he does. Chaplin's use of the mundane and the everyday in his movies made for scenes which were funny while also being everyday. Chaplin's placing of his tramp character in settings that many people were familiar with, and the fact that his Tramp character was an everyman, made his films attractive for many people. This film is certainly one of them.The acting from Myers and Cherrill is excellent and Chaplin also delivers a very good performance. Highly recommended and it's easy to see that Chaplin was a genius.
The movie is a brilliant movie with simple approach, face expressions and body language delivered the message louder than words. Charlie Chaplin manages to expose the contrast in our lives between rich and poor and between dreams and reality. The first point has been delivered in the first seen, when group of politicians were celebrating a monument that has been built by donated money. Charlie Chaplin (a homeless man) was sleeping under the cover of the statue. This seen highlighted the contrast between money spent for cosmetic projects that does not add any value to eliminate hanger and improve the life of the neediest parts of the community. The message is that we are spending money and willing to provide funding for project that at most just cosmetic, and ignore funding to fight hunger, homelessness and curable diseases in our own backyard in the US. We see the same today, almost seventy years after the movie. The willingness to spend many billions on wars, supporting dictators, stadiums, art, and music, on the other hand, the community organized huge resistance to provide health care service for every American. The movie continued to highlight the wide gap between the rich and the poor in our community. The movie showed how a $10 can buy whole day worth of work for the blind girl and send her home for the day. The rich mane has many of those bills in his pocket as pocket cash. The same point is emphasized when the drunk rich man wanted to help and offered a $1000 to help. This amount of money was part of the pocket cash again. The movie proceed to show that portion of the rich man pocket cash was able to keep the blind lady and her old grandmother at their rented home, and cure her vision in addition to opening her own flower shop. The idea of just a portion of a pocket cash of someone can make this huge impact on someone else life is sad reality. It applies to all of us today, the few dollars we spend every day on coffee, cigarettes, and other unessential expenses can make huge difference in someone else life, in this country and in other countries. The culture of spending money we don't have to buy things we will never use is a very well established culture, proved by a simple trip to the nearest Costco or mall. The rich man drives a Rolls Royce (that he was willing to give it as gift in exchange for few happy moments with his "friend" Charlie Chaplin) and he has several servants at his home. The movie succeeded in denying the association between money and happiness. The rich man was not happy and was trying to end his own life; however, unintentionally he was able to introduce major happiness to others. The fact that he was drunk when he offered the money is an indicator that people are good when they are at their simplest form, and turn to monsters when they are back to their complicated personality.At many points, the movie highlighted the harsh reality of the tough job market. The humiliation of cleaning after horses and "elephants" and the job as a boxer to make money were stretched to make the message louder. My personal believe is that money and wealth belong to god, wealthy people are just in control of the wealth in behalf of god and spending money is regulated on the basis of helping the bigger benefit of the community. Over spending is discouraged and greed is discouraged. The spending is to be balanced between the extremes. God like to see the signs of his gifts on his creations. The movie did not touch directly on the social justice and the lack of it; however, it highlighted the dark side of capitalism, homelessness, eviction, medical coverage, and low end jobs brutality. The movie triggered thoughts in many directions due the lack of the sound conversation. This may lead to stretch of what really the movie is trying to say and deliver to the viewers. It opened the door for multiple interpretations for the same seen based on one's background and believes. In conclusion, the movie is intellectual and it is everything but just a popcorn movie.The movie successfully delivered the message that capitalism comes with heavy price. The dark side of capitalism can be minimized by having social justice and implementing social services to benefit the least fortunate among us and the sick.Advance social services do not contradict with capitalism as far as I understood capitalism. Advanced social services may hurt certain business like insurance companies and other business that makes money from the misery of people. The contradiction is how such a religious country like the US denies social services and support for the poor and the sick. It seems to me that money rules, and money map our lives much more than out believes. I always support my claim with our consistent attempts to cash in our ethics like legalizing gambling and certain types of drugs. Some communities went further and legalized prostitution. As I am living in this free country, I am always amazed how major issues are not negotiable and taken granted forever as in the availability and abuse of alcohol and "right" to have sex without restrictions. We choose to deal with the end effect of alcohol but never question its availability and accessibility equally to under-aged and mature abusers. The same applies to our solution to the teen pregnancy where the best we did is making condoms available.This movie was one of the intellectual movies that managed to deliver a clear message by highlighting contradictions in our daily live. I enjoyed the movie and it made it to my favorite movies list.


                
Sound was quickly taking over the film industry, and there was a lot of worry as to whether the star of such great silent classics like The Gold Rush and Modern Times could still make people sit through it, of course the answer was yes. Basically the Tramp (Sir Charlie Chaplin, also directing), broke and homeless, stops a drunk and Eccentric Millionaire (Harry Myers) committing suicide, and they become friends, well, at least until he sobers up. The two of them go drinking and partying together, the Millionaire even gives the Tramp his Rolls Royce, and one day walking the streets he meets a poor blind Flower Girl (Virginia Cherrill), and she believes him to be a millionaire, so he just goes along with this. To earn some money and help out his new love interest pay her overdue rent money, or face eviction from her apartment, the Tramp gets a job sweeping the streets, which he quickly loses. He is then approached by a man who offers him a high sum if he can beat another man in a boxing match, which of course the Tramp fails to win, and it looks like the poor Girl is to be evicted. However, the Tramp meets up with the Millionaire who cheerfully gives him a $1000, which can pay for both the rent, and an advertised eye operation for the Girl to gain her sight back. He is accused of stealing this money from the Millionaire and goes to jail, and months later when he released he searches for the Girl, who is looking for the Millioanire who has been so good to her. In the end the pair find each other, the Girl with her eye sight restored runs a flower shop with her Grandmother (Florence Lee), and seeing him she knows the Tramp isn't rich, but it doesn't matter, it is a happy ending as they both hold back tears. Also starring Allan 'Al' Ernest Garcia as the Butler and Hank Mann as A Prizefighter. Chaplin is still wonderful as the lovable Tramp with his slapstick comedy moments, great facial expressions and the famous waddle walk, and Cherrill makes a marvellous love interest. It is a beautifully told story with both very funny moments, but also surprisingly emotional scenes involving the tragic blindness using depths of pathos, a magnificent silent comedy romance. Sir Charlie Chaplin was number 50 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, he was number 24 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, he was number 10 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Men, he was number 38 on The World's Greatest Actor, and he was number 67 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, the film was number 76 on 100 Years, 100 Movies, it was number 38 on 100 Years, 100 Laughs, and it was number 10 on 100 Years, 100 Passions. Very good!
One of Charlie Chaplin's best films, 'City Lights' presents him at his best. It is funny - the scenes with the millionaire and at the boxing ring are priceless. It has that ending which is one of the best in cinema, and thus makes this film a great love story. It has a wonderful score by Chaplin himself with a number of themes which pinpoint the action and manipulate the audience into reacting to what they see in a particular way. And it is a silent film, alone is a sea of early sound features.All of this adds up to make a special experience. If you are seeing this for the first time, you won't know what to expect and you'll probably laugh, cry, and every emotion in-between. If you're seeing it after many previous viewings, you'll spot things you haven't seen before. Such was Chaplin's inventiveness.


                
The infamous Tramp (Charlie Chaplin) befriends a sightless flower girl (Virginia Cherrill) and vows to cure her blindness. Every penny as poor as the girl is, he embarks on a series of misanthropic adventures that transport him from the center of a boxing ring to the house of an eccentric millionaire (Harry Myers), who shuns the Tramp when sober and treasures his company when drunk. All the while, the flower girl, unable to see his face, mistakes the Tramp for a rich philanthropist, unable to believe that one so destitute could care so deeply for the woes of another.City Lights joins an embarrassingly long list of films that moved me to tears, though not, perhaps, for the typical reasons. On an absolute level, there's something profoundly touching in the Tramp's devotion to the blind girl, but I found myself even more caught up in what Chaplin seemed to be saying about class. That the rich characters are only capable of empathy when alcohol levels the playing field is only one part of the critique. That the Tramp exists in a moral vacuum, that the needs of others are a constant inspiration for everything he does, that his lack of attachments enables him to come to the rescue not only of the flower girl but of the millionaire himself, whose attempted suicide would have been successful if the Tramp hadn't intervened . . . these are just a few of the reasons for why Chaplin's hobo-protagonist is, ironically, the wealthiest character in the movie. Thematically speaking, it's a well-worn path (the charitable bum versus the miserly aristocrat) yet Chaplin attacks the subject in such a simple, exacting, and unobtrusive way that we forget we've encountered it before. We don't come away feeling like we've swallowed a sermon with characters attached to it. We feel like we've witnessed something fresh and new, something funny and tearful and void of baggage.Rare is the movie that combines comedy and drama quite so fluently. While farcical sequences often distract from the film in question, Chaplin's slapstick actually underscores the drama, since the more ridiculous the Tramp's situation becomes, the more impressed we are at the lengths he'll go to in the service of his friend. And the performances in the final scene are about as good as any of seen, if only because they work with so little, and still say so much.


                
Charlie Chaplin,I have heard through various sources,was a hard nosed perfectionist to the point of being downright disliked by some.He was not only the main star of his feature films,he was the creative mastermind behind the scenes as well.He wrote as well as directed.I have a hard time with anyone that difficult and based on what I have learned,probably would not have gotten along with Mr. Chaplin.Even so,I feel that his films are regarded as great because of his hard nosed attitude.Everything had to be perfect and everyone involved must know it.City Lights is another gem born of this hard nosed genius.We have our beloved little tramp making the acquaintance of a blind flower girl.Their meeting is comical,yet sweet.He falls in love immediately as does she.Through his comical,alcohol induced friendship with a millionaire who is down with life,he finds himself taking on the appearance that he is wealthy when he,in fact,is not.His love for this girl runs so deep that he is willing to do anything for her.Anything,that is,except reveal to this girl what he is in reality,fearing her love would fade.City Lights is another masterpiece of comedy laced with tender romantic sweetness from Charlie Chaplin,the hard nosed perfectionist.
