Many have reviewed Andhadhun and rated it highly and I am no different. I found it pretty damn entertaining myself. Following is just a review of the ending and how enriching that experience was for me as an audience. Hope you all like it.Watched Adhadhun again today. I never made a post about its ending the first time because I liked the Director's version of the open ending and leaving it up to the audience's interpretation.However, when I watched it again today, I realized that the film does not have any open ending if you carefully observe it.Before I go into the meaning of the ending we have to understand the phenomena of Rabbit or Duck illusion. Google "Rabbit or duck" for the image and the reference for rest of my review.For decades now, the Rabbit or Duck illusion has been presented as a test for level of creativity. What you notice in the image determines what part in your brain is more active. A lot of people look at Duck only, Some people see Rabbit only and some see both.Of course you can see both if you know that it's an illusion and you pay way too much attention to it and if you try to look for it.However, the real trick is (and this is the next level - not part of the original illusion but something that Raghavan has done here), that what if there is no illusion? But being used to the concept of illusion, we are forced to look for both Rabbit and the Duck.Andhadhun - There is no duck. It's only a rabbit.In the last scene of the movie, the waitress from the Restaurant comes outside and gives Ayushman his cane back. This Cane has a Rabbit at its handle (Raghavan starts his Rabbit/Duck illusion here)The movie begins with Ayushman's voice telling Radhika - "bahut lambi kahaani hai....Coffee? - It's a very long story...Coffee?" (This line is repeated towards the end and that's how the audience know, that Ayushman is telling the story of his life to Radhika)But interestingly, the story telling takes a pause right towards the climax (when Ayushman and Doctor in the story are driving off)...the scene cuts to London and Radhika says - "Aur phir? (and then?)"This is sort of the writer's way of writing an Epilogue solely to "create the illusion of creating an illusion". In the Epilogue story, where Ayushman tells the story of Tabu's accident and how the rabbit jumped and caused the accident - there are only 2 souls that can know about the Rabbit. 1- Tabu (who was distracted) and 2- Rabbit (because it caused the distraction)...Even Ayushman won't know because he was blind. So very clearly, Raghavan tells you that Ayushman is simply bluffing in this final piece.Now some may say that the shooter also saw the rabbit and he could have come and told Ayushmaan (blah, blah) - but I am basing my explanation on what is shown. Not on, what is not shown and is pure conjecture.Here is one more thing - Tabu dying would have been a bigger piece of Info which Radhika would already be aware of since the case was such a high profile one, but she seems to get all this info first hand from Ayushman, completely oblivious of Tabu's whereabouts until that moment.So Raghavan very cleverly tells the truth, but by that time- we the audience are so trapped in this brilliant tale of our hearts wanting to continue in the suspense, that we want to believe there is an illusion for sure.Raghavan even more clearly tells it very loud and clear that there is no illusion- by having Ayushman's cane with a Rabbit(or duck) handle, clearly saying- that Ayushman is selling the illusion because he has no way of validating the presence of Rabbit but he is telling that in his story.It is absolutely a delightful way of gripping your audience by having them look for things that they invent as they go.Adhadhundh (the original word not the movie title - notice the spelling difference) - basically means, something that happens extremely fast and recklessly without any validation or thought - Exactly what the ending is.Fantastic!
Just do yourself a favour and watch it, it's unmissable. Just let it hit you raw, won't say a thing about the movie, it's best if you don't know much about it and just watch it and be blown away.


                
Without spoiling the movie for all y'all, this is going to be the best 140 minutes you are going to spend in a movie theatre this year. Black comedy and a suspensefull thriller.


                
Didn't expect this from bollywood where Race 3 is a blockbuster.


                
After long time andadhun is big surprise for different goner fans. The content is very encouraging and thrilling part of this film.. And specially ayushman rocks.. Even tabbu is fabulous act in this film.. Hey guys.. Please go and watch
Terrific Screenplay, great acting and a perfectly organised music takes you through a 2 hour enjoyable suspense. Best movie of 2018!!


                
Awesome screenplay
Good story written
Awesome acting by Ayushmann Khurana 
And tabbu.


                
Surely the quote said above will not impact you much until you finish watching the movie. This I can say one of the best thriller presented by Sriram Raghavan after Johny Gaddar. When you guess this would be the next, it proves you false and that is what the speciality of the movie is. The storyline of the movie is simple so much so the execution of the same is favourite. The acting if we talk about, Ayushman is all way rocking, handsome and fragrance of talent. Same for tabu. Radhika Apne didn't have so much to do but she too was good. This is not a whodunit kind of murder mystery because you know who committed murder from the scenario itself. It is a different movie for all the audience and of you can crack it, try to do it in the end.....(Bunny is my favourite)


                
Like another reviewer said the movie is to be seen and anything about the storyline would be a spoiler. My 2 cents: just watch out for the numerous inside jokes on the characters such as Tabu referred as Lady Macbeth and posters of similar genre movies such as Darwaza. An ode to the past is just the prologue in his movies. Sriram Raghvan is a genius and a precious gift to the Indian cinema. 10 on 10.


                
When u see it , it seems butterfly in your stomach... Truly awesome......
This is the Best of Sriram Raghvan and Bollywood.
The film grabs ur attention from the very beginning and the biggest plus point of the movie is that it proves you wrong every time you predict next twist in the story. Also there is a dose of dark humor throughout the whole movie. Music by Amit trivedi blends very well with the mood of the film. Acting by Ayushyaman and tabbu is just perfect and their characters are very well written. The story is so gripping that you will not wish to leave theatre even in Interval. UNPREDICTABLE PLOT + GRIPPING STORY + OUTSTANDING ACTING + DARK HUMOR = ANDHADHUN. Don't forget to watch this masterpiece in theatre , otherwise you will miss the audience reactions and claps on each and every twists.
This film will be remembered for decades to come.


                
Movie keeps you on the edge of the seat till the very last minute. Last such good Thriller was 'Talaash'. I believe, Tabu has overshadowed Ayushmann with her impeccable acting. Taking nothing away from Ayushmann, he was flawless in his performance. Radhika Apte was underused but it is because script demanded that. In second half, I started to get a feel that director is stretching too far with two parallel plots but eventually everything was folded well. Must watch if you like Dark Cinema.


                
If you Born and God give you Chance to See Only 2 Movies then Select 1st Movie Named "Johnny Gaddar" and Choose Second This MovieIf you Miss this Movie then You Miss Indian Cinema


                
Don't miss it at any cost you'll leave the theater smiling.


                
This can be said as one of the most unpredectible Bollywood movie. The story telling and screenplay has been exceptional. The acting was good but the script steals it all. Other best part of this movie was leaving it open ended which was missing in Bollywood.


                
This movie just a splendid example of bollywood too has some quality content.. This movie contains almost every species of indian cinema.. Talented actors, plot full of thrill suspense... And above all it is amazingly entertaining..!!


                
It is by far the best film of 2018.
Ayushmaan and Tabu are in excellent form and so is Radhika Apte in her supporting role.
Sriram Raghvan again proves why he is the best at thrillers.


                
And once again, Ayushman Khurana has established himself as an actor who takes Indian cinema to yet another level with his superb acting. Loved 'Andhadun' absolutely. Don't miss this! Kudos to all actors for doing a wonderful job. Tabu was amazing in her role as well.


                
Just speechless ..actually an incident i want to tell you guys after i watched this epic movie.. literally i was crying after its ending scene and in my mind there was toooo many thoughts and curses for film makers like ..why ?? why mahn who gave you right to hitt my brain that badly ...and it was just like no mann plzz continue don't stop plzz i want this movie to be continue ....:'( 
 if you guys are planned for any other movie plz don't ever do that just BLINDLY trust me and go for ANDHADHUN ..its hilarious


                
Look from the fast paced direction to thw whimsical and shocking twists andhadun is a great piece of art which is too much fun to watch


                
Dont miss this movie, its a must watch. And it will be your best experience watching this in the theater.


                
Didn't expect this level of suspense and thrill from a bollywood movie seeing the standard of movies been made in recent days.
Much watch. <f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+008E>


                
One of all time best hindi movie. Ayushman, radhika, Tabu gave their best. Must watch movie. Movie is so mysterious until end. When you come out from theatre, you will still think about climax. Dialogues are just awesome


                
Best movie after a long long time! Ayushmann and Tabu at their best! Aaahhh can't stop thinking about such a masterpiece.


                
This is best movie of 2018. All the actor did well.
Everyone should watch this.


                
