Andhadhun, this world exactly describes the feelings/vibe of the movie.Really happy to see a layered movie from Bollywood.The casts are bang on.The 'lil lil things' are taken care of in the movie,may be thats why it relates.Movie got situational comedy and the comedy is pretty rich.I never laughed at a crime scene...the situation makes u laugh and its not forceful,thats the beauty of it.The movie beautifully presented the human behaviour and with smart twists.
And the casts really add the right amount of flavour to it.It's a chef's special and 'must have'.Just ask one question to urself 'Why/How that rabbit head used for the stick!!!'
This question will answer every question of urs.(About d movie).
Its a very good movie and 1 of the best from bollywood since years but surely isnt a masterpiece as it has too many plot holes and sometimes very logic-less and unrealistic.but u sure can watch it and prefer over other trashes bollywood make .this is the 2nd best indian movie for me this year 1st is ratsasan please watch it if you are looking for a better thriller


                
Good movie with good twists, Crisp editing so it will not loose grip and keep you riveted. Tabu's roll was well developed and portrayed so she showed her class. Ayushmann Khurana's performance was not bad as well although his roll was not as well developed as Tabu's.Being a novelist, I have to be honest about the story. I will say that story could have been better crafted although there are some twists and turns, you enjoy and appreciate, while there are others, which seem artificial, enforced and don't make much sense. For example, after seeing the murder, Akash (Ayushmann Khurrana) behaved like a smart and intelligent person but when he went to police station he looked like an idiot. I would like to ask this group of story writers that on that very moment where was his friend (who helped him in coming to Landan). 
Similarly, when doctor(Zakir Hussain) and his helpers tried to take out his Kidney he very intelligently escaped the dangerous situation but soon after the same people tied him on the chair and he was not smart enough to anticipate the possible betrayed. So, during the entire movie I was not able to decide that he is smart or dumb. So the major disappointments was the improper and incomplete closure around many plot elements. There could be many interesting things which could have been done with the character of Radhika Apte, in place of adding Akash's imaginary friend who helped him in coming to Landan. I think the reason behind all this is very obvious - Four writers cocked the story- Arijit Biswas, Yogesh Chandekar, Sriram Raghavan, Pooja Ladha SurtiSanjay Agnihotri
Novelist


                
Good concept and story but not a perfect execution...


                
ANDHADHUN7/10DIRECTOR: SRIRAM RAGHAVANACTORS: TABU, AAYUSHMAN KHURRANA, RADHIKA APTEWRITERS: SRIRAM RAGHAVAN, ARIJIT BISWAS, POOJA LADHA SURTI, YOGESH CHANDEKAR, HEMANTH RAOMUSIC: AMIT TRIVEDICINEMATOGRAPHY: K. U MOHANANA joyous ride of a thriller and dark humor with a confusing tale of crime and bluffs which you should definitely get on.The worst part of Andhadhun is that it ends!Sriram Raghavan might have risen to fame with Andhadhun but he started off with a National Award for his Diploma project, The Eight Column Affair. The extremely talented director has been overlooked numerous times in his directorial ventures. He has directed a documentary about the infamous serial killer Raman Raghav and feature-length films Ek Hasina Thi, Johnny Gaddar and Badlapur. The underrated piece, Johnny Gaddar, by Raghavan has similar notions of Andhadhun. Having watched all his works, I was somewhat prepared for the confusing tale and the twists before going into the movie first hand.Andhadhun is a well-crafted crime thriller with the flow of crimes which are well connected for creating enough twists and turns. The film has nuances of Cohen brothers and Sexy Beast in Particular but still manages to be original. The scene starts off with a hare running around and then cuts to the present time. In the end, the same opening scene is intertwined with the ongoing drama in Akash's (Aayushman Kurrana) life. This particular theme is inspired by Sexy Beast, a British movie starring Ben Kingsley where Ben Kingsley's character is somewhat of Tabu's character and Ray Winstone's can be replaced by Aayushman's. Despite the similarity in the theme, the content is totally different and this is the very fact that made me like Andhadhun equally as I liked Sexy Beast.Andhadhun has also credited the French gem of a short movie, The Piano Tuner, as its inspiration. They have few shots inspired too and somewhat of the plot but the elaborate illustrations of the theme are just mind-boggling.Keeping in mind that I cannot reveal much to keep this review spoiler free, above all the spoilers, if it is so. Till now I have only talked about the inspirations and the tone of the movie.The star cast ensemble is more than you could ask for. Tabu has given an awesome performance as always and Aayushman and Radhika are also quite amazing. Talking about the performance is a waste of time as it has been nailed very well.Huge thanks to Anurag Kashyap, Amit Trivedi, the gem of Hindi Music Industry has risen to such a fame that he gets lots of movies to entertain us. The music is the kind that you need for the movie. Amit Trivedi is always able to create music which contributes to the content in all possible ways.The movie is filled with events that lead to next without much confusion but when it ends, everything is questionable. It is very much confusing after you have done watching as there is no clear conclusion that the movie offers. You can derive your own conclusions but what is the fun in that. The ending makes it even more exciting as you are left with plenty of questions and answers. The answers you have can be different from others and everyone is correct because that is what the film tends to do to you.


                
Simi lives in such a high class society and there is no CCTV in the apartment she lives??
I watched "Raja The Great" in Telugu casting Ravi Theja. It was a beautifully made movie about a blind person which satisfies all the logics. This story is presented differently showcasing a dumb hero at the core as an intelligent to elevate some scenes. I liked it but not a very great movie to rate 8 or 9. It's a 7star movie and don't forget to watch it. If you are into movies like me, you would love every movie with out any disparities.


                
The script has been brilliantly crafted,it shows the protagonist not a decent man who often lies for his advantage,he lies even to us the watchers and its beauty being we get forced to believe it.Except for loopholes like showing the police the dumbest creature alive on this planet,not giving proper attention to minor details like hospital scene,traffic and so on,it carries a huge symbolism and has a modest dark done.A perfect crime thriller that leaves you guessing


                
Movie is very exciting, more than a mystery or thriller it's exciting. Acting and screenplay is a delight. Movie has twists and turns, also a subtle knowledge of Karma is depicted. The story is well written. Its silly at some places but is still exciting to watch. Definitely one time watch.


                
I have gone to watch this movie with high expectations, built up by the very good reviews on many media outlets and the very enticing plot summary here on IMDb. However, I was disappointed.
The first reason I will like to mention is, the totally deceptive and falsely enticing, plot summary, mentioned on this film's IMDb page:"He sees what he shouldn't. She sees what he couldn't. So the question is, does he see it or not?"The movie is unlike from whatever idea you might get from above. There is no suspense or doubt regarding his seeing abilities in the entire movie. There are some other hints and ideas you might get from the summary and all of them come out to be false on viewing.(this plot summary was written well before release, so I suppose it probably was the work of someone from the film making crew)
Second, the movie is a roller-coaster ride, in a bad sense. Let me explain: there are some films with twists and turns, you enjoy and appreciate, while there are others, like this one, in which the twists and turns, seem artificial, enforced and don't make any sense because they don't seem to go anywhere meaningful.Other major disappointment was the improper and incomplete closure around many plot elements. Also, there could be many interesting things which could have been done with the character of Radhika Apte, but sadly wasn't.If you go to watch this, without any high expectations, it might prove a good one-time watch.


                
Story has many ups and down but overall movie hasn't impressed much


                
Andhadhun is a thriller mixed with humor and does not disappoints. This 2h 30m film has piano piece, suspense and almost every scene is filled with humor which keeps our interest, This film managed to thrill and entertain us which made this film worth our time and money. Films like this should be supported its a must watch because of its engaging story and mix of genre. I recommend this film for its interesting story, performances and humor.


                
The movie keeps you interested from the beginning but as you digest it after the movie, we start to see some flaws which affected my rating. Akash's character appears be the most morally correct character of all but movie keeps you wondering why he keeps the simple fact from his sweetheart. We see the contradictions in other characters... Although there are songs, there are no dance sequences which is rare in bollywood movies and a welcome development for mystery movies like this. Khurrana and Tabu performed well and others are okay. Overall, a good movie to sit back and enjoy.


                
The movie runs flawlessly fine until the two(won't name) are held tied to a chair in the room. It gets boring from there and makes it hard to believe what goes on at the end. Disappointed with that.


                
A Coen Brothers black comedy twist on the French short film The Piano Tuner plays out exactly as I expected it to. Ayushman and Tabu tries to outshine each other with every other scene. While Tabu has a track record of doing such amazing roles, this must be the best performance of Ayushman who seems to be the actor currently selecting all the right projects. But honestly, all the reviews made me think this would be better than I think it would be and wanted to see what they are going to do that makes it better than the original short film, but that wasn't really the case.


                
First half s good... 2nd half s totally messed up. Der s no clarity wat d director wants to convey in 2 nd half... useless movie


                
"Andha Dhun"-Review"Andha Dhun" belongs to the noir genre and like Sriram Raghavan's movies is interesting but dark in spirit, background , lighting and humour.You have to be prepared for sudden twists and turns and shocks throughout.I find his movies a compelling watch but also somehow disturbing,as I did with this one.
Well,the movie has an interesting first half very reminiscent of Agatha Christie's plots complete with a blind pianist and a black and white cat,frequenting his bachelor's pad in Pune to complete the picture.It is immensely watchable.But for some reason I felt the second half which is Agatha Christie meets Robin Cook with the organ donation racket,largely meandering.You miss the excitement of the first half and a taut editing could have worked wonders.
What works for the movie based on a blind pianist becoming an accidental witness for a murder,is the apt casting.It is refreshing to watch Ayushman Khurana as only a blind person and for a change without any reproductive issues- he deserves to play the complete man too.Being a singer,he plays the perfect pianist and the flicker of rapid change in his facial expressions is a treat to watch.So is Tabu who has perfected the art of playing the deviant and her meanness and negativity without any remorse is chilling and stays with you long.Tabu has played this cunning and conniving widow in "Maqbool" and "Hyder" to perfection before .Radhika Apte ,as Ayushman's short-lived romantic interest,has a role which does not do her justice and could be done by any newcomer.
The surprise casting of Anil Dhawan as a yesteryear actor with a second wife,is a nice touch and plays homage to some nice songs of his from the 70's-"Annadaata","Honeymoon","Hawas" and "Samjhauta"- incidentally most of these had hummable melodies.Incidentally,I rather liked Anil Dhawan as a kid as he was perfectly soft and chocolatey and sad.This touch makes the movie relatable.Manav Vij as Tabu's romantic interest looks the perfect body builder type police inspector who is terrified of his wife,played brilliantly by Ashwini Kalsekar.
The doctor,the rickshwallah,lottery seller play their bits in this twisted web of deceit.As a thriller,"Andha Dhun" is better than most movies of this genre .It is just that it needed a tighter second half in the same league as it's crisp first half.The movie is ironical in parts and makes you think.
You should go for it if you like the noir genre.I would go with three and a half stars.
Rashmi Sarkar


                
I use to see a lot of movies which belonged to genre psychology, mystery, crime or thrill a few years ago after onset of adulthood. Today I term those movies as dark I don't prefer to watch such movies at least not on big screen. After watching the trailer I decided not to spend money on this one. Finally when I got a chance to watch it for free I was happy with my decision.Tone, Script & Story: There are critics which say by disclosing the plot they would ruin the movie experience of people who will be watching it later. I still would discuss few things. How could someone go along so easily with a crime scene if they were just experimenting? How the dialogues of the killed matched precisely for the witness? How could the witness not pay attention and consume the sweets. How come the plan, to take away ransom stand so weak? Didn't the faith in God handled arbitrarily?Direction, Screenplay, Cinematography: Direction was justified. Other factors were justified too. The cinematography doesn't demand much whatever is shown is justified. Music: Music is good, my favorite track is 'Naina da kya kasoor'. Acting: Justified.Final Verdict: If you belong to audience who has not seen movies belonging to genre psychological, mystery, crime or thrill especially from the movies released in the west you will love it (a prediction from IMDb numbers).


                
It's okay for one time watch, can't compare it with legendary movies as stated by some newspapers.
Plotless, confuses you intentionally.


                
A struggling (blind) musician who actually goes blind this movie does indulge you and keeps you interested till the very end, A highly underrated movie
A Must watch
The movie is good but not as superb as everybody's saying. Movie is going equally from beginning to end. And you don't get any excitement till interval. The movie get some pace after interval. But they leave a suspense like shutter Island in last which is totally unnecessary.
So 7/10 is sufficient.


                
I enjoyed the movie a lot. It was hilarious, had many shocking moments but also contained many plot holes. The movie was directed very well so you might not notice some of the plotholes until you are finished with the movie and you start thinking.
Anyway, things I liked about the movie:1) Pace. After the 1st 30 minutes or so, it received insane amount of pace.
2) Acting. Superb.
3) Twists. It had lot of twists, some were even jaw dropping.
4) Comedy. I lauged at many parts. Comedy was handled in a great manner.
Overall a great cinematic experience I would say. And from a bollywood standard only, I would give it 8/10.Now the negatives:
1) Some twists were very forced. After the 1st jaw dropping moment, the quality of twists was falling. Some were even ridiculous.
2) It had many severe plot holes. It sometimes felt like the makers wanted a specific thing to happen in the movie and they made it happen without thinking if it would be logical or not.
3) They tried Christopher Nolan style open ending but to me it was totally unnecessary. The movie actually ended for me at the rabit scenes (if you know what I mean).I would suggest this movie to many people but I will choose the audience carefully. Many hollywood/Korean movie lovers might actually get pissed at the major flaws of the movie.


                
Andhadhun is fabulous in making..it makes you freak out as the movie progresses.but I have serious milliondollar question 'WHAT MAKES TABU TO OPEN A DOOR AND INVITE A STRANGER LET IN WHEN THERE IS MESSY SITUATION INSIDE HOUSE.is she so dumb???what ever be the reasons directed SRIRAM RAGHAVAN had intelligently crafted it by taking cinematic liberity in this regard. Other than that movie is fantastic watch with tight screenplay and music by amit trivedi is highlight of the film.overall it appeals to all sections of audience. Just see and enjoy!!


                
Drama that keeps you interested till the end. Lacks finesse and 'believability' to make it an extraordinary movie. Ofcourse a weekend watch if you are not rationale. Tabu and Ayushman are good.


                
It's a good movie with great thriller. Superb acting by Ayushman Khurana and Tabu. There was nothing to do for Radhika Apte but she did her part with total grace. There is not much suspense moments but it's a good thriller. 
First half of the movie is just fantastic but second half of the movie drags little bit. Music is just fantastic and goes very well with the flow of the film.


                
