A lot of people exhibit their emotions and satisfaction level with the movie in their review instead of actually reviewing of the movie. I get it, this is first time, the average Indian viewer has got to see some cleverly thought provoking and engaging movie instead of standard senseless Khan movies. But for those who have seen movies like The Killing of Sacred Deer, Elle or even Atomic Blonde, this movie fundamentally does not offer anything new. The plot does have some interesting twists, performances are great, Ayushmann is natural, Tabbu is excellent as usual but that is about it. The direction of photography is sub par except few scenes, sound designing and recording is painfully doing the disservice to the movie and production designing is below average. Looks like they had very low budget. Even lighting is either over done or under done at many scenes. Editing is good for most part and probably is the only saving grace from technical sides. And this is inspired from a french short movie, which is ok because extending it to that long is good job done by Raghvan. Overall must watch but dont get mesmerized.


                
Akash(Ayushmann Khurrana) is a pianist who acts as a blind man and director has shown this thing in first 20 mins only. He met Sofie(Radhika Apte) by accident who runs a restaurant with her dad. One night a famous 80-90s actor Pramod Sinha saw Akash playing piano in Sofie's restaurant and impressed. He offers Akash a private concert for him and his wife Simi(Tabu) for their wedding anniversary. When Akash reached their home, Pramod Sinha is already murdered and he witnessed some activity related to murder. Now he can't say anyone about this murder because for the world, he is a blind person. Now all the twists and turns and mysteries start from here. What happens next is another 1 hr 45 mins for you. One of the plus points for the movie is the songs which are executed in a way that they help the plot to go on.What's Good : Screenplay, performances, pre-interval scene, climax.What's Bad : Nothing.
I've seen this film with my husband at home in the last day of 2018. it was astonished by this indian film. it's an extremely wonderful movie.
It's deeply describe the dark side of human nature, The film has a very strong logical structure, the background music is very nice,And make me think of a Japanese novel Malicious, their theme are very similar, ... It's full of a lie through and through. the liar want to make himself more kindness and nobility and want people feel sympathy with him. He told a lie to all the people who trust him a lot. The human nature is very complex and can't use language to describe.The director is actually a shrewd judge of character and harbors deep knowledge of the dark side of human nature. The movie carried a powerful message and it's thought provoking. Its worth to be recommend to your friends.


                
This was a very engaging and entertaining movie, peppered with great acting performances.But the concept is borrowed from a French short film, which I watched and it serves as an interesting benchmark for the strength of Andhadhun's storyline. And I would say while Raghavan has done a great job of converting the premise into a full length film, lots of holes remain. It's bizarre of Tabu to open the door to him in the first place, (in the original short film the pianist says "I'm blind" so she opens the door, where as here she asks him way later). Apte's character is used quite wastefully and she's missing through most of the movie. After Tabu makes up the fanciful story of Ayushmann being her lover, I would have thought the natural conclusion would be that the police go after him as he's now the suspect. Instead there's no sign of the police.The whole plot is fanciful and not very well thought out.So overall this movie fell quite short of perfection.
Andhadhun is an acting masterclass. Ayushmann acts as if he can't see what he can see. Tabu acts as if she can see that Ayushmann can see. Radhika first acts as if she can't see that Ayushmann can see, then as if she'd rather not see what she can see. But he can't see. Must see! 8/10
Story and screenplay are good but the story is very much away from reality. Police are shown like dummies. Murders are done very easily and it is not a superhero movie to do murders and escape that easily. So from the beginning it is removing suspenses out of audience.
I hope I am right in predicting that we are going back to the era in Hindi cinema possibly as far back as the 1950's and 60's where the SCRIPT WAS PARAMOUNT AND EVERYTHING ELSE CAME AFTER!Recently we have been getting a spate of movies where this has been the case and "Aandha Dhun" is one of them.This beautiful movie has you interested and on the edge all of the time with competent performances by everyone in the movie, except Anil Dhawan who was as horrible in emoting as he has always been. However, besides being overweight, he looked quite good,for his age.Besides Salman Khan who for some strange unacceptable reason delivers box office hits through his useless movies and a few flukes from some others, everyone else (including Aamir Khan) has to rely on a good script in order to achieve success which is really wonderful to see.Hope this trend continues and grows!


                
This is a brilliant movie , which keeps us hooked from the start. after the slow intro scenes, the movie picks up pace once we know the truth about the hero. and following events unfold in rapid pace and never a second we feel bored.
Lots and lots of twists :) noone can be believed.though the post climax scenes are kind of twisting. its an enjoyable movie experience. Must watch hindi movie in recent times.


                
Absolute treat. Will keep you on toes till the end. Amazing performance by all. Haven't watched a Bollywood thriller like such in a long time..


                
After seeing Drishyam and A Wednesday, this is the third Indian crime story is watched.
And again it was a delight to watch. The story has clever and unexpected twists. It has humor, proper acting. Pure content (story) over form (effects). The moment you think you understand what will happen, events unfold differently but credible. Only during the final scenes you find out what happened and even then, it leaves you puzzling about what the main character might have left out to tell us.
Anybody who likes humorous, well played, clever and unpredictable stories will not be disappointed. Enjoy!


                
Super-duper film. Every Actors doned very well acting. Entertaining, thriller as well as funny movie.Andhadhun is 2018 best movie. This is the best movie of 2018. Great work<f0><U+009F><U+0091><U+008D>


                
Ayushman is one actor who come with one film every year and get praise for his choice and goes unnoticed until his next outing. This year its andhadhun that making its buzz for quite sometime. Film revolves around our main lead played by Ayushman K(A.k)and how he gets into unwanted situation and story delve deeper and reaching denouement. Basic Premise of the plot has a great potential and by the time of intermission first half will keep you edge of the seat. First half of the film was exceptionally brilliant and in second half film gets more chaotic with too much twist and turns which ended with Nolan style ending where the climax is kept opened for viewers to interpret all on their own. Problem with such open ending is that if viewers could squeeze something brilliant out of it then whole film seems brilliant otherwise not. Well, this is one film where makers have left no stone unturned to make each actor to perform their job terrifically. Be it Ayushman , Tabu or Manav vij or even an old lady next door. Radika apte is ubiquitous quite lately but here she was reduced to less screen time. Even non pivotal role played by ashwini kalsekar did an outstanding job. Definitely hard to pick one out of all. Coming to the music and bgm I'll say bgm was more noteworthy than music especially one scene where A.K plays piano at Tabu's home. On technical side direction was the almost flawless and cinematography was good too. After all this I believe film could have been better nevertheless I'll definitely rate this film has one of the best of the year.
+ve side: Story, Acting, Direction.& Bgm
-ve side: chaotic 2nd half.
Climax can be praised or criticize depending solely on viewers interpretation.
Overall my rating would be 7.6/10


                
Never seen one like this before in Bollywood. Liked it


                
Great movie..
Apart from some 15 minutes or so in the second half that were not so believable.. the rest of it was a masterpiece


                
Nice movie with an open ending leading to many wild theories about what would have happened in the end.


                
Started as a light hearted movie and immediately jumps into an edge of the seat thriller. Ayushmam was great. Tabu's portrayal of her role is the centerpiece of the movie.The story and narration is the hero of the film.


                
Movie starts on a simpler note... Slowly after 5 mins you witness thrills you have never seen before. You laugh with the situations that are happening in movie but you are amazed as well. Though the movie gets slow in 2nd half but still it continues to thrill the audience.8 stars for the edge of the seat thrill, direction of the movie and lead actors Ayushman and Tabu


                
140 mins of mind blowing journey.
Well acted and well scripted.
A real masterpiece.


                
(Spoiler Less review)
The movie is undoubtedly one of the best I've seen this year.
The story telling is one of the smartest I've ever seen in Bollywood , and it takes a little piece from many Hollywood Thrillers in the last scene. I personally feel this exceeds Drishyam in the first half.Now coming to the second half , that's where movie falls for me.
The pacing starts to get bad , it gets hectic. It isn't that bad , but it will disappoint many big thriller fans. It starts to feel like typical Bollywood , which breaks the intensity first half sets. Its weird cause it depends on you , how will you feel about the second half.If you've seen many Hollywood/Bollywood thriller's and expect it to keep the first half magic , it will disappoint you. Although Don't hesitate watching the film.But if you're a casual watcher , not a movie freak. It will probably make Top 10 2018 for you*---------*---------*----------*---------*---------*#######(Spoilered review)#######The murder scene in the firdt half alone sells the movie for me. That scene is pure genius.Although I felt second half fells a bit short , the last kick of the can by Ayushman again won my trust to the movieReminds me of Shutter island at the end , when they try to get two endings to the movie , and leaves people in misery and generates theories.That ending is one of its kind in Bollywood.


                
This movie was refreshing with new story and excellent screenplay, Actors were good and Ayushmann deserves an applause for this movie


                
Finally a well made thriller from Bollywood after Drishyam. I enjoyed every bit of it. This has to be Ayushmann Khurana's career best performance! Tabu was also amazing!!


                
This movie has a right mixture of thrills and comedy. Tabu does a brilliant performance. It is a must watch for everyone. The flow of the movie making it more engaging.


                
Suprb movie to gooooooood story
.............................


                
As long as when it over flooded with the reviews about the movie I was very much eager to watch it on the theater but unfortunately the opportunity goes in vain cause of some personal issues. Now it came back in the form of re-release and it's my prime concern not to lose it. It's the preface and now get into the film. Obviously it is a beautiful picture right on the top were Bollywood shrugged for sometime from the recent filmographies and apart from Tamil films that run away thrashing for the couple of weeks ago. Andhadhun, just overtake the way of filming approaches and made a brilliant portrait out of the shape from the plot. It is about 'blindness' there pointing who is actually blind. And that's the question. A depiction of collage where the subject matter deviates from one level to the other, I just sit back so keen and thrill to premeditate the next. A good and a must watch film. Go and get it in theaters.


                
Shriraam raghvan has done it again...andhadhun is one of the best dark thriller in recent time....basic plot(a blind man has witness a murder yes a blind man..and then the twist turn starts,don't want to spoil by revealing the plot much as there are lot of surprise twist) bollywood has very less talented director and shriram raghvan is one of those (ek haseena thi,Jhonny gaddar,badlapur and now andhadhun)direction is excellent and clever..
Performance wise this is ayushman khuraana best role and best act..tabu screen stealer....and whole other supporting cast has given their best....screenplay is so engaging that make you think what will be next and every scene has some meaning...dialogue is excellent and there are lot of humour too....So don't miss this one anyhow u won't be disappointed this is engaging entertaining and thrilling..if you liked Johny gaddar then this one u will love it..as I mentioned in previous post before also that ayushman has given last year 2 back to back hit and this year also he will give 2 back to back hit..So andhadhun i have seen and i can say now this definitely going to be a hit due to word of mouth from critics and public....and his next release badhaai ho trailer is already on liking trend........so don't miss this entertaining dark thriller andhadhun it's a paisa vasool.. .enjoy ur weekend....


                
