Andhudhun means Blind Music and Andhadhund means chaos. What is life? It depends on the liver. Sounds philosophical. We don't know if it's the person being referred or the body organ. Everything in the movie has two meanings. It's rarely I watch any movie twice - Andhadhun happens to be that movie. Apart from the story-line, there's a ton of hidden puzzles, clues and in general the director communicating with us either paying homage to certain movies or the 70s or clues in general. This movie is not just a movie, it's a dark comedy, an experience that will leave you confused, entertained and most of all questioning what exactly happened.**If you haven't seen the movie, don't read any further. You have been warned.**I won't dwell into the story-line, that's not analysis that reading out of a book. Hint: Most reviews tell you the story. In my opinion that's bad writing and owning a website domain doesn't make you a writer. Moving on. Here are few questions that might pop up in your head and I'll try and analyze them.1) Movie starts with "Ek lambi kahaan hai, Coffee?". This might imply parts of the story-line might be the protagonist's (Akash) point of view. What is true, what is not, it's up to you to believe.2) Simi's character tries to run over Akash with the car. Another homage to "Karz" from the 70s where the actor's real name is Simi Garewal. Coincidentally Sriram Raghavan's first movie was "Ek Hasina Thi", another homage to the movie "Karz". As you can tell, the director likes to tease his audience in subtle ways.3) The Ending- Lot of questions about the ending. The director very cleverly cut the part to where they changed the scene to Europe and then continues with A-Kash's version. The truth? We will never know but my analysis is he took the deal with the doctor. A-Kash also could imply the one with the money. Another pun, another tease indicating he has the money now. And the friend he was talking about was Daani, she was someone Akash could trust. Also, at one point in the movie she was shown to talking to someone over the phone for a few seconds. Nothing happens in a Raghavan movie without a reason.4) Radhika Apte's characters father wearing a tee shirt with a rabbit printed on it. Hint. Clue. Tease.5) Akash acts as Ismael the detective, right after that they click a picture and maushi says "Ismael" please. Tease. Pun.I don't think this level of intelligent cinema can be matched up for a long time to come. Sriram Raghavan's best movie so far! Watch it only if you want to look beyond the story-line, if you grew up understanding Indian Cinema, if you like Pune, if you understand subtle dark comedy, if you speak the same language as the director. Both Hindi and Cinema language. I had two meanings there for a reason. Catch it if you can.
I saw this in a theatre. Being a fan of Raghavan movies, I was looking forward to it n I enjoyed it tremendously inspite having seen The Piano Tuner.
I liked this more than the original.
The screenplay is awesome. The writing team n the director did a fantastic job n successfully made the transition of a short film into a feature. The script never loosens its grip on the nerves.
The potential challenges of losing the heart of a short film while making it into a feature is always present but the makers of Andhadhun really succeeded in laying the foundation for future talents.
Coming back to the film, it is chaotic, hilarious n very ntertaining.
It is well paced and has funny situations as well as a black sense of humor.
Watch out for that shady hospital scene man.
The movie is well cast, with amusing performances by Ayushman n Tabu.
The director did a superb job.
Raghavan was definitely having a little fun after the dark thriller Badlapur.


                
Brilliant...This cinematic experience will not let you stay back in your seat relaxed.
Writers have knitted a pitch perfect Mystery around : Murder,Money & Man who is Blind (!). Taut screenplay and black comic narrative by Raghavan, the story's audacious characters and twists, keep you riveted.Crisp editing grips you.Cinematography is something that boasts the storytelling.Piano scenes are superbly crafted and choreographed , underlined by Amit Trivedi's music and Daniel B George's background score.Couple of acts veneered with poetic touch & Tribute to Chayahar & Chitrageet is something that needs applaud.
Tabu is showing her class. Ayushman delivers career best. Rest all are fab too.Dont miss line '"What is life? It all depends on the liver" from prologue.;)


                
It was a thrill ride with many great turns and characters are so well developed and portrayed , great performance by Ayushmann Khurana and Tabu , so cunning yet so entertaining and pace was slow at first but it was necessary for what was coming and the master idea at the end is brilliant and is not lesser than any cliffhanger.


                
I had really enjoyed this movie. I can say this is blast of the year.Comedy thrill and much more...
Just combination of everything..


                
Andhadhun is an Indian masterpiec. Literally the best thriller of India & Bollywood. The main character is AKASH(AYUSHMAN) who is a blind pianist got entangled in a case.While watching this movie remember to be very cautious about following every small detail.All right, now I am going to give a bit of spoiler and explain the end of the movie.
#SpoilerAlert
#SpoilerAlert
#SpoilerAlert
#SpoilerAlert
#SpoilerAlert
The last 5 min of the movie is a psychological part. Where Akash meets sophie and he tells her that he's become really blind. He tells her that After sedating Pramod Kumar's wife the doctor promise Akash that he will sell her organs and as a reward of saving his(Doctor) life he will transplant her eyes and he will be able to see again. But, Akash requested the doctor not to kill her and said he doesn't want his eyesight back either. Suddenly, a sound comes from the car's boot. The doctor stopped the car and went to check what happened. """""Then, you suddenly see a "Hare" beside the road.""""".
When he finished telling sofie the story then the waiter brought his stick which was also made up of hare design. Which meant his story after that is a lie. Besides, a blind persone can forget anything except his stick. Therefore, he transplanted her eye and sold out her organs.
Andhadhun what a spectacle of a movie. Story is too good and each character is well cast. This movie just changes the tone from first half to second half.
In first half its a feel good film and in the second half you get to see what sreeram sir is famous for "thril". Though this movie has lots of silent spaces between scenes in second half but you never get bored as you are so much engaged in this movie and it never lets you get bored. Please watch and make these kind of movies the biggest hits so that Indian film industry makes more of this kind of cinema.
You won't regret it and you will fall in love with Ayushmann's acting, what a great actor he is and always chooses the unconventional but entertaining scripts.
This movie is the perfect balance between indie and commercial cinema as it has both, great acting by fine actors and perfect movie masala.
Firstly Ayushman knows how to pick the right scripts. I couldn't guess what's coming next , the movie is just full of suspense from start till the end. The director will keep you guessing and your in for a surprise.


                
This movie is a perfect example of how you can tell a nail-consuming thriller in a comedic way...the plot of the movie seems to be normal but as the movie progresses, you will come to know that this cinema is more than just a usual thriller...a perfect screenplay and story-telling with a mix of music and black humor...hold your imagination horses before getting stunned.


                
Extremely thriller....Go&watch it let you in Chaos after watching full movie..


                
Very impressive film yet again by the master of thriller and my favorite Sriram Raghavan. This would be after a very long time the entire theatre experiencing a roller coaster ride along with the characters, so much fun- especially the first half, not a dull moment. 
The second half fails to retain the steam, though it gets back on track during the climax, winding up on the right note. 
It's an out an out Tabu film, very happy to notice she being utilized to her potential at last in mainstream films. 
Highly Recommended !!


                
Easily one of the best movies to come in the neo-noire thriller genre..the director keeps you guessing till the end and leaves you with an ending that could be interpreted in two different ways depending on viewer's intellect and understanding of the genre.. Brilliant.. must watch..!


                
"Andhadhund" the movie was upto it's name . The 140 min storyline is beautifully defined and directed . Climax was upto your view on the movie . Ayushman did a fantastic performance. Simmi character was the brutal one and that was defined by tabbu beautifully .


                
One of the best movies I've seen in the theater. It almost never lets its grip off you and successfully makes you laugh. Music given by Amit Trivedi is outstanding. There are scenes which only progress through the music (especially of Piano). It is brilliance from the director Shriram Raghavan's part, too. When Simi and Manohar was cleaning the wine and blood, and clearing Pramod's body from the hall, just see how the music of piano played by Akash is changing. It is quite in sync with the expressions of Simi and Manohar. And it is not the only one example, it is displayed throughout the movie ant many places. Surely, the fact that the protagonist playing piano is used judiciously.The acting of all the three characters were very good. At the very last, you feel true disgust for Simi who tried to kill Akash even after he argued for her with the doctor.My only complaint is with Sophie and Manohar's character. On the one hand where the character of Sophie wasn't explored more and on the other, Manohar's character looked weak to me as an inspector. But all and all, the movie is befitting the title - Andhadhun. Everything happening on the screen was Andhadhun. A must watch movie I'd say. Ayushmann... take a bow!
After a real long time- good suspense movie. Finally, a great breakaway performance from Ayushmann Khurrana and well supported by rest of the assemblage. Radhika Apte however, was under utilised.
Director Raghavan does a great job- yet again- after Drishyam. There wasn't a lot of scope to hold the suspense- but the way the director manages to surprise with the twist and turns is commendable. Well written stories are the need of the hour- and this movie is a great manifestation of what must be done!


                
Finally, Bollywood gets a film, where also people can discuss different theories and interprete a different climax.
[Date: January 4th]


                
There is no denying the fact that indian audience has started to grow with time. They don't care whose in the film they will watch any film which provides with pure content. With this advent bollywood filmmakers also need to up their game. And finally sriram raghavan an expert in delivering thrilling movies came up with this absolute masterpiece. You get consumed by the movie from the very beginning and the movie always keeps you guessing. All your predictions fail and you get surprised from every angle. It completely catches you off guard at many positions and believe me you'll be stunned. Moreover sriram raghvan's characterisation and screen writing is such that you cannot fully trust any character because they are terrible humans. From background score to direction and acting every thing is up to the mark. Ayushmann khurrana serves up the best performance of his career. Tabu as always plays his part brilliantly. Huge shootout to manav vij. The movie will keep you hooked and the best thing is the end which is open-ended and one of the most debatable endings after inception.


                
For those contemplating watching this movie, don't be misled by the tag underneath the title here on IMDb, or the Storyline that describes the protagonist Akash (Ayushmann Khurrana) as a blind pianist. Even a lot of the reviews say he's a blind pianist, but it's not the case that he's blind until well into the story. But it's so easy to believe he's blind because the actor Khurrana is so skillful at portraying a character who can't see. In fact the first time it's revealed that he CAN see, the tenor of the picture turns from a fairly serious romantic drama into a hilariously outrageous story that you'll have trouble believing. Not that this would have any remote chance of happening in real life, but it's pulled off like it might be able to, and that's where the fun resides.For all of the story's twists and turns, I had a hard time trying to find a plot hole or flaw in the picture. You could point to one of the near final scenes in which Akash explains what happened when the doomed rabbit hit Simi's (Tabu) car window, because he WAS blind by then, but he would have learned of it in some manner, so I'm willing to concede a little on that point. Where I'm definitely at a disadvantage is in not having an Indian background, because in reading some of the other reviews, some nuance and perspective is laid out that definitely adheres to that nationality. But from where I'm coming from, this was one of the most uniquely creative stories I've ever seen, which is something hard to come by after watching and commenting on a few thousand movies.The best part of it all though has to be that very last second of the movie when Akash departs the French restaurant and leaves Sofie (Radhika Apte) to contemplate what might have been. Instinctively I had a feeling that his sight was restored, but it was the Keyser Söze manner in which it was revealed that proved the icing on the cake. I'm tempted to watch the movie all over again, but I know I'll never be as surprised again as I was the first time. If that sounds like a recommendation, take it for what it's worth and catch this movie.
After hearing rave reviews of this movie, I decided to give it a watch and boy I am blown away by this gem of a movie. This is as best as they can come. Every movie lover's dream.
The characters all are flawed, and the situations which they get into, brings lots of laughter, shock and awe. It felt like reading a novel (reminds me of Crime and punishment - The great Fyodor Dovetovesky) and u could feel empathatic to Ayushman khurana's position. The twists and turns never end until the last scene and the director cleverly leaves with a puzzle. Hats off to the writers and we need many more of these to fall once again in love in with movies.


                
I Know many indian movies rely on Plot Twists, but i think this in particular
tried to stay away from "too twisty" and "overdone with dance videos".
many aspects of the characters are heavily believable and that's what makes it so enjoyable and thrilling. Amazing.


                
Too late for the party. There has been a deluge of hosannas for this movie, that made me lose Intrest in watching it in a conventional manner.So I took a quirky and raghavenseque way to compensate. Partly so , as a tribute to his earlier works. I skipped watching the movie and read the downloaded script start to finish.And boy. It was better than watching the movie, I tell ya. What deliciously evil characters. Simi will go down as one of the most stunning villains in Indian movie history. It was a treat to my senses to imagine how Tabu would've played her. Can totally imagine Ayushmann as a piano player tragically forced to living his own lie. The stumped Sophie left hanging between Akash's version in the end is a stylish prank on the viewer/reader, which is what an intelligent narrative is all about.Rest all characters add up to the madness and mayhem in a measured and appropriate way. Esp Anil Dhawan as Pramod Sinha is a master stroke, imagining his portrayal as I read made the music and bgm (my mind, my version) come out in my head.Tailpiece : This script reading session is my kind of revenge to my family who made so much conversation when this movie came on TV and I couldn't get myself to watch it beyond the first rabbit scene. I switched TV off. This seems perfect payback to them and enjoy the storytelling uninterrupted with an interval break to boot ;)Raghavan Sir - here is eagerly waiting doe your next.


                
This movie is uniquely different from mainstream, specifically because of good screenplay of a thoughtful story. Whenever I thought that the next part is predictable, I was wrong. No overacting, no elongated emotional fuss, only the things it is supposed to have.


                
No spoilers. There is a lot of drama and comedy when the protagonist is blind. The expressions of other characters are highlighted . Last time I enjoyed the same was Aankhen (AB, Akshay , Arjun, Paresh). Amazing acting by everyone. Superb story. Even the smallest role of the cabbage farmer was perfect. Just one small inconclusion about the person in the lift remains, but that doesn't matter when we sum up the movie. Do not miss the minute details else you will be guessing what was the actual conclusion. There is just one version of the ending. And the hint is right there in the movie's trailer too. Don't miss this movie. If you enjoyed watching Race 3, then definitely you gonna comprehend this movie (after watching this 3 times)


                
Tabu ...The show stealer.....What a climax....Open-ended climax


                
You cant afford a single second of this gem. Its different from Bollywood style. From starting to end we know everything and we don't know anything. You'll carve for more and more. Its the best acting of ayushman khurana. Radhika and tabu is so natural and superb. Background score is superb. Its must watch for 2018


                
