for some unknown reasons, i almost never liked crowe until i saw this movie. He played the role so beautifully and totally absorbed into being john nash rather that just a typical Hollywood actor. I bet he must have done his homework thousand times before finally bring it to the screen. The way he walks, the way he slide himself between the gate at the abandoned warehouse where he thought was a Russian secret movement operation center, the way he talks, in fact, everything, was portrayed perfectly that it actually concealed that very russell crowe that i never actually liked.The movie was somehow close to me as my uncle, who was a genius,also suffered from schizophrenia, but passed away years ago. I cried when nash was seen sitting on his house balcony because i remembered that was how my uncle used to sit for hours, solving puzzles. the only difference is that, nash had all the chances and supports from peers and the society but my uncle never did. It was a shame.Connelly was good as ever, and she had always seen carrying this type of role. Loving yet not so mushy, smart yet vulnerable at time.Despites all the comments about the movie not being so realistic and not really based on the facts of Nash, i still think it deserves one the of the most beautiful movies i had ever watched.


                
John Nash is something of a mathematical wizard. Constantly searching for something with which to make his name, he finds his calling by code breaking for the government. But with that comes a sense of paranoia and pretty soon John is sliding desperately into schizophrenia.There is a school of thought that says any decent film about the mentally ill or afflicted is a sure fire way to attract the awards givers. Personally it bothers me that it bothers me that people view these films in this demeaning manner. If a story is worth telling then lets get it out there for all to see. Would the cinema world and all those stuffy film lovers really be happy if film makers didn't tell these remarkable stories? A Beautiful Mind is one such picture that divides opinions, although exemplary made and well put together, it doesn't adhere quite to the facts of Nash's life-it's an interpretation that smooths out the drama by way of delivering a safe and watchable biography. It was nominated for eight Academy Awards, winning four for Best Film, Best Director {Ron Howard}, Best Supporting Actress {Jennifer Connelly} and Best Adapted Screenplay {Akiva Goldsman adapting from the book by Sylvia Nash}. Yet as great as that roll call is, the big surprise is the omission of a win for Russell Crowe in the Best Actor category. For as tidy and engrossing as the film is, and it is folks, it's because of the big Kiwi that the film breaks free of your standard emotional heart tugger. It's a superlative performance from Crowe and him not winning is probably more to do with his much publicised dust up at the BAFTAS a few weeks before the Oscar ceremony: than his undoubted acting ability.The film as a whole should not be viewed as a representation of John Nash's life, many important things from Sylvia Nash's book have been omitted. But crucially it's important to note that in making this film, the makers have brought Nobel Prize winner Nash to the public's attention, whilst simultaneously giving awareness to the sadness of those suffering with schizophrenia. OK, so it's far from perfect in its portrayal of Nash the man, but ultimately the cinematic world is a far better place when the likes of A Beautiful Mind are being made and the film lovers are flocking to see it. And then some. 8/10


                
Now this is the Russell Crowe I know and love.  The Insider, L.A. Confidential... and now chalk up another calculating masterful performance.A Beautiful Mind tells the autobiographical story of John Forbes Nash Jr. a distinguished professor from Princeton who went on to make some great theories and win the nobel prize.  The centerpiece of the story is the fact that John Nash suffers from schizophrenia a debilitating condition for most people which leaves them helpless.  Thus it is amazing that Nash has been able to achieve what he has.  For the most part of the story his hallucinations turn out to institutionalize him at one point, when he thinks the Russians are trying to secretly send him coded messages through news publications.First off the main performance by Crowe as Nash is amazing.  This is the performance that I know he is capable of, complicated, passionate and serious, none of this gutteral one line BS that he uttered in Gladiator. Here we have a marvelous performance that Crowe spins as we watch Nash fall into despair, every twitch, eyes darting, and Nash's helplessness this is not an easy task for any actor.  Nash is a recluse, almost an autistic savant, we see how he trys out his theories by writing on glass windows and stuffing himself in a corner of the library.  He is seriously gifted, but a social misfit.  Early on we hear how Nash describes how a grade school teacher mentioned that he was born with 2 heapings of brain but only 1/2 of heart.Ron Howard's direction is great in exposing Nash's life.  Probably the best scenes involve the use of how Nash comes up with his theories such as why the dynamics of a colleagues tie is so bad, or how a plan to get all of his college buddies laid leads to a theory that makes him famous.Also what else can I say about Jeniffer Connely who plays his wife in the film.  She is passionate and gives a full perfect 10 performance as well as the wife who is trying to survive with a husband she can't help.  But the greatest achievement of this film is how it portrays mental illness from the perspective of the person suffering it.Most films that deal with someone with a mental condition always place the focus on the people who are outside the person suffering, watching from a distance, trying to understand.  Here we have a film that literaly puts us in the mind of the sufferer, as to what it is to live with such a debilitating illness.  We get Nash's sense of accomplishment, but also his demons and paranoia.  And probably the most important thing is that we understand that mental illness isn't something that gets cured, the people have to live with it, and it never goes away.Also Crowe and Connely age in this film wonderfuly, so many films try to age actors/actresses in makeup and it doesn't work, but here it is done flawlessly..Minor faults in the film deal with that some of the supporting characters are reduced to props and people we don't know, and at one point the film bogs slightly when Nash is trying to return to Princeton to study.  But these points are minor since the performances of the main characters are so well done, and the stories focus is on them to begin with.Crowe will probably get the best actor for this.  Great film.Rating 8 out of 10.
"A Beautiful Mind" is a film about the mathematician John Nash. It is very cleverly written and directed, as about mid-way through the film you learn something very, very interesting about the film. I'd say more, but I don't want to ruin it--especially since the film makers did such a great job in presenting Nash's mental illness--something he's struggled with for many years.I enjoyed "A Beautiful Mind". It was a lovely semi-fictional biography of the life of a brilliant mathematician. But, as I just said, it's SEMI-fictional--meaning a lot of the film just never occurred and the story of the man's life was often sanitized. The result is a very uplifting film...but one that is also a bit phony. And, as a retired history teacher, I hate this about the film. Additionally, I think the 2002 Oscars was a rather poor year, as although the film did win the Best Picture award, the competition wasn't particularly strong. As a result of all these factors, I think the film is overrated. Does that mean you should not watch it? Certainly not. Just understand that Hollywood often gets it wrong--and they did here. And, incidentally, another thing that is just plain wrong was Russell Crowe's accent. I don't know where he was supposed to be from, but it was no where near West Virginia.
A Beautiful Mind is a fantastic true story of John Nash who is suffering from an illness which is making him struggle with his Math work at the University. To make matters worse, he gets involved in with a conspiracy with the Russians.The film has almost perfect directing by Ron Howard and the acting by Russel Crowe and Jennifer Connoly is also perfect, it is so very much deserving of the 4 Academy Awards. The Film although had some inaccuracies with real life.I would recommend this film to everyone interested in the life of John Nash. A must watch.


                
Although this film was slow paced, it was kept a float with Russell Crowe's best performance.The screenplay was excellent, as was of course Ron Howard's directing.The writing was great and I found the story kept my attention throughout the entire film.The performances by Ed Harris, Jennifer Connelly and Christopher Plummer where excellent.Certainly worth seeing.It's an 8/10 from me!


                
By the time Russell Crowe (as John Nash) married Jennifer Connelly (as Alicia), I had serious concerns about "A Beautiful Mind". My first question revolved around Mr. Crowe's Princeton roommate, Paul Bettany (as Charles). I could not understand why Mr. Bettany did not pal around with the college bar crowd. Crowe was there, with a group of other students, but no mixing with Bettany. Why? Obviously, Bettany loved to imbibe; so, he should have been the life of the party, I thought. With that question nagging me, I continued to have questions. Like was up with the two men at the later party? I wondered<U+0085> Then, the final straw - Crowe uses his secret "code" to open a security gate; and, the gate swings open without closing behind him. This was not a very secure gate. Anyone wanting to gain admittance would only have to wait for Crowe to open it up, and walk in after him (if not climb in ahead of him). And, why wasn't Bettany at the Crowe's wedding? Just when I was wondering how to get in touch with director Ron Howard, the truth dawned on me. I was expecting a more traditional film. A couple of surreal moments should have tipped me off; for example, Crowe's barroom deduction concerning the students' chances of "picking up" a blonde women. Still, I didn't fully appreciate what was going on. Was the rollicking car chase with Ed Harris (as Parcher) supposed to be an illusion? Then, I wondered about the characters "Charles" and "Marcee". I understood "Parcher" as a manifestation of "cold war" paranoia. But, I do not understand what, precisely, "Charles" and "Marcee" reveal about the title character, other than a propensity for creating illusions. The three imaginary characters are the most important in Nash's life - maybe if I knew what they were around for, they'd go away. Eventually, the film confirms suspicions. I can almost see clearly now.******** A Beautiful Mind (2001) Ron Howard ~ Russell Crowe, Jennifer Connelly, Paul Bettany
Ron Howard brings forth one of his best and most serious films to date, A Beautiful Mind.  It examines a mathematical wizard named John Forbes Nash Jr. who created a discovery in game theory that is still used today for a number of things.  But the film isn't so much about math (what film is?) as it is about the man's struggles with a disease in his mind that drives him to madness yet somehow is able to try and fight it to the best of his abilities, which aren't always as high as they could be.  This man is played by Russell Crowe who gives another top shelve performance to add with The Insider, L.A. Confidential and Romper Stomper (Gladiator I don't really count as a top shelve performance), and he plays Mr. Nash so well it doesn't need to be thought that he's immitating him as much as being him. 
Crowe's Nash starts off in the film at Princeton university where he wants to distinguish himself with an original idea and soon comes up with one that defies 150 years of mathematical practice.  Things look good, especially since he starts dating a graduate student (Jennifer Connelly in an Oscar caliber performance to be sure) who is smitten with him.  But then things start to get troublesome- Nash is asked by a member of the defense depot to break codes that could be in newspapers, magazines, etc to help out the government.  Soon he feels paranoid the Russians are after him, and this leads him into a mental hospital (under Christopher Plummer's care) where he learns the entire consipracy is in his head (schitzophrenia).  Then the plot thickens as Nash battles with his disease, medication or not.Sometimes it's almost too much, but Howard delivers overall a great and compelling tale throughout nevertheless and Crowe shines (the rest of the cast, real or not, are also quite credible) with all the talent he has. Grade: A+ or A.


                
I love how this movie starts with John Nash being so sure of himself. 
For me the love part is when he falls in love with his wife. It is amazing to me that love is so strong that she never gives up on him and although he never stops seeing his visions, she was always there by his side. Proof that behind every wise man is a powerful woman. My hats off to Alicia Nash for the strength. It does break my heart that the whole time these were visions and it makes it hard to believe until they break it down for you and show you the evidence.
You'll recall the scene in the movie when John Nash (Russell Crowe) is given an initial tour of Wheeler Labs, and he questions the presence of Big Brother watching from an elevated catwalk above the main floor. A hint to the viewer that what Nash is experiencing occurs later in the picture when William Parcher (Ed Harris) meets Nash for the first time, and refers to himself as 'Big Brother'. If in fact Parcher was a real person, it's doubtful that anyone at Wheeler would have revealed Nash's observation to him. That's what struck me the first time I saw this film and then again when I watched it once more this morning.Well, like a lot of movies based on a true story that I initially find compelling and worthy of the highest rating here on IMDb, I'm left frustratingly disappointed that the screenplay distorts the facts in order to give the most appealing impression possible to the viewer. The main one here was Nash's relationship with wife Alicia, portrayed by Jennifer Connelly. Their first marriage only survived for three years before his schizophrenia drove them apart, resentful over the fact that she had him involuntarily committed. Their romantic relationship then rekindled after he won the Nobel Prize, and well after his mental illness had subsided.What I liked about Crowe's portrayal of Nash was the way he came to grips with his delusions and later treated them with a dose of good humor - "There's no point in being nuts if you can't have a little fun" is what he stated to his friend Sol (Adam Goldberg) when he came to visit. Later on, reinstated as a teaching professor at Princeton, he self assuredly asked a student to verify the presence of a 'new person' he hadn't seen before. Those subtle instances helped reestablish Nash as someone who recognized that he was mentally ill, and that he needed to control his health with the proper medication.For anyone dealing with mental illness within their own family, I think this film can be an eye opener about the fear and hopelessness that the sick person experiences. I state that from a personal perspective having observed now adult children going through the pain and embarrassment of delusional fantasies that at times became downright scary. In that regard, the movie presents a reasonable perspective that illnesses like schizophrenia can be treated with the proper attention, a dedicated medical provider, and the correctly prescribed medication. I've seen it happen more than once.
A Beautiful Mind is directed by Ron Howard and stars Russell Crowe and Jennifer Connelly, and is about the life and career of John Nash, a mathematician who is studying at Princeton. Despite being a somewhat arrogant man, he maintains respect from fellow students and even attracts a women into his life.However his world comes to a crashing halt when the life he thought he was in no longer exists...The film is predominantly focused around the subject of mental illness. A topic alien for some, for others it makes the film really hit home. The film does a great job of explaining the basics while leaving out all of the difficult jargon and technical terms. It makes it become a learning experience for viewers.The chemistry between Russell and Jenifer is outstanding here. They play off each other so well, making a close bond between them develop very quickly and with so much richness. A highlight of this for me is the first date they go on together. Its a beautiful collection of small scenes and for me could of been a vignette standing on its own.A valuable message is made here. People with mental illness just want to be understood; to not be judged for the things out of their control. It is not their fault, and Alicia could see that in John. I suppose that this can be relatable for everyone and not just mental health sufferers. Accept people's quirks and only see the good in someone.I do have only a few slight reservations with this film. It isn't a true depiction of who John Nash was a person (Russells character being greatly romanticised), and the time line of events is incorrect at the end. However these are a few minor nit picks to what was an incredibly heart felt film, that wanted to spread whatever education and awareness it could around a subject people generally find uncomfortable talking about, but in this current time is gaining more a more momentum.Overall this was a very powerful film and deserved all of the acclaim and awards it received. I urge anyone who is unsure or who hasn't experienced mental illness in some form, to watch it. You may learn something new.
This is a beautiful story, but the reality is not beautiful at all.There is some real world biography I searched: First, their son never attends to Harvard, their son also suffers from schizophrenia.Second, Nash and Alicia divorced after Nash occurred his psycho problems. Yet they have been lived together in the same house. And remarried after the movie released. Personally, I believe there is only a little romance appeared in reality. According to Dr. Nash's interview, it seems like he healed himself without medication but by his strong will. Third, Nash was in love with a nurse before Alicia, and they have an elder son.Lastly, no matter how Nash personal life was, John Nash is a genius for no doubt. It is a beautiful story.


                
Ron Howard's "A Beautiful Mind" is an adaptation of the Pulitzer Prize-nominated biography of American mathematician John Nash. Beginning at Princeton University in the late 1940's, the movie focuses on his early contributions to economic theory and his subsequent, prolonged struggle with mental illness.As is often the case with biographical films, the script is fairly loosely based on the actual events. Some may take exception to this but I feel that the changes serve a valid dramatic purpose. Additionally, the means of portraying Nash's mental state required some artistic license. Again, I feel that this is handled effectively, though who really knows if it's particularly reflective of Nash's actual experiences?In any case, the story is an involving one that spans many years. The factual basis provided an intriguing foundation for screenwriter Akiva Goldsman to construct a script that puts the viewers in Nash's shoes. The paranoid atmosphere of 1950's America supplies an ideal backdrop for Nash's unravelling sanity while the aftermath is just as interesting. It should be noted that Goldsman was rewarded with an Oscar for his efforts.Of course, much of the credit for bringing Nash to life must go to Russell Crowe. Fresh off his Oscar win for "Gladiator", Crowe found himself nominated for an Oscar for the third year in a row, this time for perhaps the best performance of his career. He wasn't on his own, though. The lovely & talented Jennifer Connelly took home an Oscar for her portrayal of Nash's devoted wife. The supporting cast wasn't bad either, featuring Ed Harris & Paul Bettany in memorable roles along with the likes of Judd Hirsch, Christopher Plummer & Adam Goldberg.Ron Howard's direction is solid, as usual, though I'm not convinced that he deserved to win the Oscar that year over some very tough competition. Nevertheless, "A Beautiful Mind" is a well directed film, both visually and performance-wise. The Oscar-nominated score by James Horner is also notable, as is the Oscar-nominated makeup that convincingly aged Crowe & others over the course of decades.All in all, "A Beautiful Mind" is an effective film that ranks as one of Ron Howard's best in a career studded with several crowd-pleasers. Arguments could certainly be made for other films as being more deserving of 2001's Best Picture Oscar but the movie was by no means undeserving. Just don't go into it expecting stringent adherence to the facts.


                
This is the classic work upon which modern-day game theory is based. What began more than sixty years ago as a modest proposal that a mathematician and an economist write a short paper together blossomed, in 1944, when Princeton University Press published Theory of Games and Economic Behavior. In it, John won Neumann and Oskar Morgenstern conceived a groundbreaking mathematical theory of economic and social organization, based on a theory of games of strategy. Not only would this revolutionize economics, but the entirely new field of scientific inquiry it yielded--game theory-- has since been widely used to analyze a host of real-world phenomena from arms races to optimal policy choices of presidential candidates, from vaccination policy to major league baseball salary negotiations. And it is today established throughout both the social sciences and a wide range of other sciences.This sixtieth anniversary edition includes not only the original text but also an introduction by Harold Kuhn, an afterword by Ariel Rubinstein, and reviews and articles on the book that appeared at the time of its original publication in the New York Times, the American Economic Review, and a variety of other publications. Together, these writings provide readers a matchless opportunity to more fully appreciate a work whose influence will yet resound for generations to come.


                
Ron Howard is always great at adapting true stories into well- structured biopics. Whether it be Rush, Apollo 13, Frost/Nixon, or A Beautiful Mind, he has a knack for representing real people well while also adding some movie magic in there as well.The first time I watched A Beautiful Mind I was blown away by it. Not only did I think all of the actors did a tremendous job sinking their teeth into each role, but I couldn't believe how fascinating John Nash's life was. This is a man was a student at Princeton and made significant contributions to the world of mathematics and economics (including proposing several theories and equations), all while being diagnosed as paranoid schizophrenic.Russell Crowe gives one of his best performances as John Nash, in what also may be his most challenging. Crowe has to make it believable that he's both one of the brightest minds in the world but also someone who is seriously struggling with mental illness. He has great chemistry with his love interest, Alicia Nash, played by Jennifer Connelly. In fact, I think this film is a better romance than it is a biopic. Connelly, who won an Oscar for playing Alicia, is a revelation here. She had impressed in previous films, but there's something about her balancing the sweetness of Alicia's personality with her turmoil filled personal life.I think the main issue with A Beautiful Mind is its pace. At 138 minutes, it's right about at the length of your usual bio-drama, but it doesn't feel like it. The film moves at a really slow pace, especially before we realize what Nash is going through mentally. Part of the reason for this is that I found it hard to approach the complexities of his work. The story is interesting, but I can't say I knew exactly what was going on half the time. If the film would have found a way to make all the equations and theories dumbed down for the general audience, the film would have felt much smoother.Overall, the film is well done. I love James Horner's score, Roger Deakin's cinematography is beautiful, as is the romance between Connelly and Crowe, but I think it lacks in re-watchability and pacing.+Romance+Score+Strong performances+Extraordinary story-But difficult to follow at times8.5/10
My Personal Rating - 7.8/10 - The Acting is good, the plot is good, the story is at least interesting, the cinematography is decent what a good film. may not be for anyone but i'm telling you know, this film is decently crafted, you should watch this if you love good drama driven about a intelligence man . i'm gonna admit, even i was hooked. this film is worth your time.


                
I love this movie so much! Wow what a great story and I cannot believe that it's based on a true story. The acting is so great in this movie! Russell Crowe is so amazing in this film!! You really feel for his character and you feel bad that he has this illness. Russell Crowe is such an interesting and unique character as well and he is so smart and you really go into a journey with him. I love that this movie really show that mental illness is a real thing and that it shouldn't be stigmatized at all. This movie makes you feel for those who are dealing with mental illness and you want them to get the help that they need. I will always love this movie and it will always be a favorite of mine and it will always be a favorite of mine.


                
The story of John Nash, Nobel Prize-winning economist. We see him from his days as a student at Princeton University to his later life. Just when he seems to have everything going for him - a beautiful, loving wife and a successful academic career - he is diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia. The lines between reality and his imagination, driven by his powerful mind, become blurred...Powerful, emotional drama, largely based on a true story. The way Nash is able to overcome his disability and become one of the foremost minds in the field of economics is amazing, and a sight to see. The demons in his mind also provide for some great drama, especially discerning what is reality and what is a function of his mind.Won the 2002 Best Picture Oscar.


                
I have the health condition of clinical depression and anxiety by being bipolar with schizophrenia added to the mix. I say it's a curse because I don't handle everyday pressures from work, stress, marriage.. life well at all. The accumulation of it builds up and I repress it, in denial. It has cost me my job, home, wife, friends, etc. Little did I know 90% of marriages end in divorce with one partner that is bipolar. I'd wake up every morning with terrible stomach problems not even realizing it was anxiety. I guess as a man you just suck it up, but it caught up with me as work became more demanding. Thankfully with the help of medication it is managed somewhat although it makes me lethargic, tired, have memory/concentration issues, and not be as coordinated.Thing is, it is also a gift. Without sounding like a prideful person I am very intelligent. Certain things just come easy to me. Definitely not mathematics, like the movie, but in using logic, reason, and discernment. Thinking deeply on matters. I take any negativity in my life and try to flip it into something positive, using humor or finding a solution, a way around it mentally. Anyways, thanks for reading my post. Good luck to you if you are battling any health or family issues in your life. We all are it seems.


                
Great film. The story is realistic that follows the real life of John Forbes Nash Jr, a math genius that suffered over the years due to schizophrenia. He is one of the few famous lunatics, and could saw the world in a way that we no one could imagine. What surprised me the most is that he overcame the mental disease by his will and after fierce battles with his inner self, he won the Nobel Prize in 1994 for his game theory in economic.During the hard time, his wife, Jennifer Connelly. The perfect lady who had a beautiful mind hadn't giving up him all the time, and saw him through the illness. Nash gave a acceptance speech as follows when he won the Nobel Prize."I've always believe in numbers, in the equation and logics that lead to reason, but after a lifetime of search pursuits, I ask, what truly is logic, who decides reason, my quest has taken me through physical and metaphysical, the delusional, and back. And I have made the most important discovery of my career, the most important discovery of my life, it is only in the mysterious equation of love, that any logical reasons can be found, I am only here because of you, you are the reason I am, you are all my reasons."
Ron Howard's "A Beautiful Mind," contains a visual treat that I won't soon forget. I'm talking about a scene a little over halfway into the film, where our protagonist John–played by Russell Crowe (of "Gladiator" fame)–sits in the kitchen with his wife Alicia, played by Jennifer Connelly ("Requiem for a Dream", "Blood Diamond"). He's beginning to fall back into his disorder, and sits at a table, playing with a strange suction cup unicorn toy. Alicia is starting to grow increasingly more frustrated with John, and steps over to the refrigerator.There is a clear divide in their marriage, and even though it is portrayed so clearly on-screen, we are provided with a powerful, yet subtle reminder here. A wall literally separates the two of them, their backs are turned to one another, and although they are having a conversation, they are both concentrating on different things.This is the kind of provoking imagery that Ron Howard has put together for his audience, along with ASC Roger Deakins ("No Country for Old Men", "Skyfall", "Shawshank Redemption")."A Beautiful Mind" follows the true, yet flawed, story of a brilliant mathematician, named John Nash, who struggles to live with schizophrenia. We begin our excavation into his life starting first at his entry into Princeton, and our journey ends with Nash in old age. As grumpy and–for the most part, socially inept–an old fart as he was in his younger years. Regardless of his laughable social ability, he makes lifelong friends (and gets hitched) despite his strange behavior; even though he's kind of a jerk. He is quite lovable. Whether this is the beauty of Crowe's fantastic work as an actor, or the tediousness of a well-designed script, I will leave that decision up to you.Even though we focus mostly on Nash, we do spend a good portion of time with Alicia. I must say that I truly appreciated her character's devotion to John. Unfortunately, many times in film, a love interest is thrown in as an afterthought to spice up the sex appeal, but here is not the case (although, Connelly looks somewhat stunning as an older woman). What I admired most about her screen time is her unrelenting sense of hope. Granted, she does grab their child and begins driving away at one point (but you would too if your husband nearly drowned the little tot.) Alicia inspires a true feeling of redemption for Nash's character, and she sees it through until the end. A marvelous picture of the difficulties of marriage and endless perseverance through it, I assure you.Of course, Howard would never let his audience go without extra fun, and this comes in the form of actors: Christopher Plummer, Paul Bettany, and Ed Harris, who play respectively: Nash's psychiatrist, Charles (one of Nash's friendly hallucinations), and Parcher (a government agent hallucination, hell-bent on pushing Nash to decipher non-existent Russian codes from various publications and magazines.)Something that Howard does excruciatingly well here is not spoon-feeding the story to his audience. The plot isn't simple, even though the "Fight Club-esque" reveal of "multiple personalities" is somewhat predictable; if you know much about the film. It definitely isn't a tidy film presented in a gift-wrapped box. There are a few short scenes that make you just a bit queasy to help you understand more fully just how emotionally and physiologically painful Nash's condition was on himself and those around him. It is necessary in my opinion.There is a bit of cheese, in the form of a special pen gifting scene directed towards Nash, representing the level of respect that he had gained over the years, again, despite his medical condition. To explain the symbolism of these "pens," one should simply watch the film to understand. Very shortly afterwards, Nash gives his acceptance speech for the Nobel Peace Prize. As he gazes out into the audience, he says, "I have made the most important discovery of my career – the most important discovery of my life. It is only in the mysterious equations of love that any logic or reasons can be found. I am only here tonight because of you<U+0085>" His eyes fixate on Alicia, as he toys with a pocket square in his coat; a nod to an earlier moment in the film.These moments are excusably cheesy, and serve to fully send home the idea that if it was not for the persistence of Nash to push through his disease in his fashion, and if it was not for Alicia's complete devotion to him as a wife, he likely would have driven himself mad and lived in an asylum for the remainder of his life. Fortunately, this is not the case, and in light of his random outbursts at home and on-campus at Princeton, he is able to live out a strange, yet somewhat regular life.We feel only the utmost sympathy for John and Alicia, and by pushing against all odds, they find victory. We love these stories, don't we? The academy loved it enough to present it with four Oscars, including Best Picture. Isn't that nifty?The only blotch I found on this wonderful tale is the true story of John Nash. In real life, he didn't actually begin experiencing hallucinations until after his marriage with Alicia. He also had a child with a previous girlfriend, and Alicia eventually divorced him and married someone else. They remained very close friends however, and she provided him a place to stay, and helped him through his disorder. A few Hollywood modifications, to be sure, but its always a little sad when the movies are prettier than real life, isn't it?A humbling response is knowing that Nash was, and still is an astonishingly brilliant man. He still keeps office hours at Princeton, and he still walks to school everyday. An impossibly smart and beautiful mind.
Mind!Real! Imagine! Really, mind that difficult locution for solve. A Beautiful Mind is a exceptional film.At first, I will mention about subject of the film.john Nash's life which is subject of the film is impressive.In film, John Nash who schizophrenia mathematician was seeing him friend and a child who weren't real.He was talking to them.A psychiatrist recognized its but he wasn't accepting for a long time so lived very problem. He's wife and friends supported him. After a long time, he continuing to see its but he didn't mind. So he has a better life than old life and he won Nobel Prize. I think John Nash's life is exceptional and accept to me.Stars were great.Specially, Russell Crowe who headliner was great.Events were fluent. I didn't bored while I was watching film .This film which one of the best psychological movies.After I had watched film ,I understood really If you want to achieve something ,you will achieve.I think A Beautiful Mind which everyone should watch.
I own the DVD of this movie and have watched it more than once. It's an outstanding cinematic work which tells well the true story of the incomparably brilliant mathematician John Nash, a schizophrenic who leads a very traumatic life, due to the fact that overusing his beautiful mind leads to such a frightening life. I am impressed with the depiction of the story which goes all the way from 1947 through 1994 when Nash received the Nobel Memorial Prize for Economics. The versatile Russell Crowe came across well in the character depiction of the overtaxed scientist who refused to take his medicine for his degenerative disease. Ed Harris convinced people that they should hate him for the harm he brought to Nash, even if he was a phantasm. Christopher Plummer was very good as the caring doctor, Dr. Rosen. Jennifer Connelley (my favorite) played her part well as the very concerned and very loving wife. Vivien Cardone, whose age was only in the single-digit column when the movie was produced, was outstanding as the little girl Marcee Herman who was taken with him; the character Marcee herself was a phantasm. Paul Bettany was excellent as the practically-vicious Charles, Nash's roommate; Charles himself was a phantasm. The only thing that family members should have been concerned about were the graphic and scary scenes, such as Nash's shock treatment and his cutting himself on the wrist. But overall, it was an excellent production. It was another great feat for producer Ron Howard, and, of course, for Universal, Dreamworks, and Imagine Productions. Intriguing in its own right, I'm glad I saw it.
I guess my main problem with this movie is that it has tinkered to much with the real John Nash, his life, and illness. Probably if the movie had been a documentary it would have been to boring, but great liberties are taken around his personal life etc to cast doubts over its overall integrity.That said, it is a movie that forces the viewer to engage, and even might demand that critical viewers reflect on their own mental issues. As a recovered (hopefully) alcoholic I never underestimate the power and nature of the deranged mind.It was an interesting choice for Russell Crowe to play the part of Nash, and certainly the support crew is superb. Crowe does a good job but coming so close after Gladiator I do wonder if there might have been another choice.At a personal level I find this challenging and while I watch it about once a year sometimes I need to turn it off. Not perfect, but challenging, and pleased to see it hanging in to the IMDb Top 250 list.


                
This film is really good. It seemed to start of a bit slow and some of the early scenes, involving Mr Nash at Princeton were a bit boring for me. There are a couple of good scenes at this stage however, such as when they visit a bar and Mr Nash deduces him and his comrades potential success rates with a group of young co-eds. Moving on...the film really picks up pace by the time you hit the half way mark and there are some quite brilliant scenes involving Mr Nash, Mrs Nash and the schizophrenic illness that is a having a profound and wearing effect on them both. Mr Nash is in denial, whilst Mrs Nash is at her wits end. When Mr Nash does finally come to his senses it is the result of what is is quite a harrowing scene, and the revelation is filmed beautifully. From this point on the film becomes more and more interesting as we follow the different strategies Mr Nash develops in order to cope with his illness, some of which are successful, others are not.Anyhow, to conclude, the film is a really great portrayal of somebody with a schizophrenic disorder (and I'm schizophrenic so I do have a clue - though I do doubt it is a degenerative disease as is suggested in the film) and everything from the acting to the scripting is really good and like I said, once you get past the first 45minutes of the film, the up to this point, merely passable film becomes a 4*(8/10) take on mental illness and of course John Nash's brilliant work.
