A Beautiful Mind
Director Ron Howard has experience in playing with his audience's heartstrings. Remember in Apollo 13, when the fate of the astronauts was uncertain? (Ok, so if you remember your recent history, you knew.... but still!) Or remember in Parenthood, when Steve Martin's kid was about to make the crucial catch? Ol Opie can still pluck those strings with the best of them. (And you know, he'll never stop being called Opie, even by those of us who never saw The Andy Griffith Show during its initial run.) And plucking heartstrings is not a bad thing at all, not when you can do it in such a sincere, noncloying way as the masterful Beautiful Mind presents to its viewers.John Nash is a mathematics prodigy who has a decided knack at solving previously unsolvable problems. He's socially dysfunctional, rarely looking anyone in the eye, but pours all of his energy - and soul - into producing one original idea, an idea that will distinguish him from all of the other mathemathical minds at Princeton University.But John, like most who have had movies made about them, had his ups and downs. He meets and falls for a beautiful student of his named Alicia (Jennifer Connelly), and they produce a baby. But John also suffers from tremendous delusions and is diagnosed with a form of schizophrenia. Schizophrenia's a tough disease, folks - it's still not fully understood, and Nash was diagnosed with it in the middle of last century. He spends time in a sanitarium, as doctors struggle to find a cure.Russell Crowe is absolutely powerful as the confused and confusing Nash. Although the marquee says "Russell Crowe", you'll immediately forget this is the hunky guy from Gladiator. I mean after all, he's playing some nerdy scientist dude! But Crowe completely disappears in the role, and he's unforgettable. Actors kill for roles like this one, because it gives them a chance to show off their acting chops. For many actors, this is the kiss of death, because then they're exposed as poor thespians. But not for Crowe; if anything, this proves once and for all that he's a grand master of acting. I realize that sounds like overkill for him, but I think that when actors are labeled as a "hunk" - their skills as actors aren't seen as very substantial. Hey, looking darn good worked against Tom Selleck, and to a degree it has worked against Crowe as well.And he ages well, too. The movie takes place over a fairly extended period of time, ending with Nash's acceptance of the Nobel Prize in 1994. The makeup on Nash is neither garish nor schmaltzy; he looks completely genuine. And that's the essence of Crowe's performance. It's sincere, never trying to win over the audience with a sly wink here or a toss of the hair there. Crowe shows remarkable poise, elegance, and is utterly astounding in the role.His supporting cast is more than able. Jennifer Connelly is better than I thought she would be; in most roles, she's the eye candy. But this role had meat to it, and she held her own. It wasn't an easy role to play, and she pulled it off. And her scenes with Crowe do have that movie magic that each of us looks for when we go to movies, that one moment, that compatible chemistry that leaves audiences mesmerized.And yes, this does have some very, very touching moments. The final scene, while predictable (even if you don't know the outcome in real life), will bring more than one tear to the eye. Yes, I'll admit it, it got me right here. But it's okay; I did that old 'guy-crying-in-movie-theater' trick. If you feel the brime falling from the lid, you make a motion toward your cheek and then you scratch vigorously; people might think you have a skin infection and move away slowly, but at least they won't think you're a girly man.At any rate, it's certainly one of the best movies of the year. Everything's in place: the direction, the photography, and especially the acting.


                
"A Beautiful Mind" is an exceptional story, but it is only and exceptional film because of its director.  Ron Howard does an amazing job of engaging his audience, introducing a brilliant main character, and making the audience experience the reality of mental illness.  This could have been an unbelievable story to which very people could relate; however, the directorial mastery Howard exhibits throughout allows the audience to accompany Nash on his journey and awareness of his illness.  Anyone who has been close to the frailties of the human mind will appreciate how respectfully and honestly this film approaches the subject.  Howard is able to portray all the complex reactions to mental illness while maintaining the humanity and dignity of the patient.  Superbly directed, wonderfully acted by Crowe and cast, this film succeeds on every level.


                
The more I watch Russell Crowe, the more I am becoming a big fan of his acting talent. Here again, he demonstrates his skills in a role that had me spellbound. Of course, mentally-ill people are usually fascinating. Look how popular the cable television show "Monk" has become.Crowe's character, mathematician John Nash, is not nearly as eccentric as "Monk," but his schizophrenia makes for a fascinating portrait of a very troubled man. This is another of those Ron Howard based-on-a-true-story films, so don't take everything here as gospel truth....because it ain't so. (One example: in real life, Nash's wife was anything but as supportive as Jennifer Connelly was portrayed here.)The first time I saw this film I was disappointed. Maybe I expected more, maybe I felt the story was unfair to the viewer and I felt like this was just one more attempt at Liberal Hollywood to make fun of those in the 1950s who were opposed to Communism. Well, on the second viewing, just a few weeks ago, I didn't have a problem with any of those things, just enjoying the performances and the classy-looking cinematography, thanks to one of the best cameramen in the business, Roger Deakins. I'm not always a fan of director Ron Howard, but his films are usually interesting and pleasing to the eye. He and Crowe seem to be a good pair, too, as witnessed by 2005's "Cinderella Man."For those who enjoy a cerebral thriller, this is a very intriguing film. Ed Harris, Paul Bettany, Adam Goldberg, Judd Hirsch, Josh Lucas and Anthony Rapp all deliver solid supporting help and, if you haven't seen this, this story will deliver a big surprise. If you know the ending, a second viewing is even more interesting as you trace Nash's actions from the beginning.


                
The story of John Forbes Nash doesn't seem like the subject matter anyone would want to make a film of, but Ron Howard brings forth his life-story in a way that makes one forget he was also the man behind 80s fluff such as SPLASH and WILLOW.A life destined to excel once he discovers and cracks his "game theory," John Forbes Nash is, however, a man disconnected with his surroundings and reality. He can't even approach a girl without fumbling his way through an especially creepy introduction, and at the same time he can't stand losing a simple mind-game with his friend. At the same time, four other people make their appearances in Nash's life and all three are destined to change his life forever.The first of them is a college friend Charlie (Paul Bettany of GANGSTER NO. 1) who later introduces Nash to his young daughter Marcee, Alicia (Jennifer Connelly), whom he marries, and a sinister figure: William Parcher (Ed Harris). Parcher has special designs for Nash: he wants him to use his keen code-cracking skills for special top-secret assignments involving the Russians and other obscure elements and on one night Nash gets to see just how dangerous the enemy is as he and Parcher are shot at after Nash delivers some information to a strange mansion posing as an intelligence office.It's not long before Nash becomes consumed with finding the perfect code and aided by the omni-present Parcher, who supplies Nash with a security code embedded into his own skin, he dives headlong into a nightmare of numbers and codes and soon enough collapses into full-fledged schizophrenia which will require shock treatment and an arduous recovery period. Alicia, instead of moving on, forcefully stays by his side even when he has a dangerous regression and almost kills their baby child.Stories like this require a tight script and thorough knowledge of the circumstance of mental illness as well as the person in question, in this case Nash. Howard directs Nash's progressive descent into his mental breakdown with ease and in a way where we're not sure if anyone who surrounded Nash is real -- the way he introduces Charlie, Marcee, and especially Parcher and the covert office is spectacular and shows just how strong schizophrenia can be in inducing its victims to completely believe what they are seeing and hearing.And then there are the performances. I don't think I need to say anything which hasn't been said of Russell Crowe. He is, right now, the only living actor who has the guts and balls to put his masculinity aside and dive head-first into the roles he plays. His screen presence oozes a magnetic, masculine power (and in one scene it's clear the man is built) but that doesn't overcome his characterization of Nash. If anything, he uses his physicality as an asset to clumsily walk around, and there is one scene later in the movie when he has returned to teach classes. He walks with the shuffle of someone who's lost in his own world. It would be hard-pressed for anyone to see the staccato waddle and the glazed eyes that he wouldn't be talking to himself in full-fledged conversations, and the hippie who mocks him, unnoticed, expresses Anyone's reaction. We know this is a genius, but one who has become damaged goods.Then there's Jennifer Connelly. An actress who as of yet has avoided selling out to blatant commercialism, her presence is as powerful as Crowe's. Quiet but intense, she is the foundation of which Crowe's feet rest on and without her he might as well be dead. Just one scene, when she is about to discover just how crazy her husband is and his colleagues are trying to stop her: just watch her reel around and casually but with authority slap one of them squarely in the face and continue on, undeterred. Marvelous acting. Her Oscar is justified.The entire supporting cast is uniformly brilliant. Ed Harris nails his creepy role as the imaginary Parcher. Paul Bettany gives off friendly dependency -- the friend who won't go away, even though he, too, isn't real. Judd Hirsch, Adam Goldberg, and Christopher Plummer provide solid support in small roles.A complex movie about mental illness as well as the power of love and the triumph of the soul (even if love -- the devotion between Alicia and John -- is excruciatingly strained at times), A BEAUTIFUL MIND is truly, a beautiful experience and justly won the Oscar for Best Movie and Director and should have also won Best Actor, but Russell Crowe will stick around for quite some time giving powerhouse performances. He is one strong actor to follow. I know I will.
A poorly tailored trailer does not begin to describe what is one man's journey from the heaven of clear thought to the hell of schizophrenia.Russell Crowe does an excellent role as John Nash, a mathematician who revolutionizes Group Theory, only to have his mind crash into confused and split views of the world.Jennifer Connelly is superb as his wife. It is through her that we begin to understand the range of problems and pittfalls Nash is facing, most of his own devising. She deserves an Oscar, period.The director has arranged beautiful 'red herrings' to kept viewers guessing and it works suprisingly well. Ron Howard's best work to date.A beautiful movie to decribe a beautiful mind.


                
Schizophrenia, a disease of the brain, is one of the most disabling and emotionally devastating illnesses known to man... It is characterized by a constellation of distinctive and predictable symptoms... These include thought disorder, delusions, and hallucinations... The film recounts the story of John Forbes Nash Jr., a Princeton brilliant mind, who rides up to the heights of mathematical prowess, down through mental breakdown, and finally up to regain the equilibrium... Russell Crowe ventures on a journey of fear, humiliation and vulnerability, giving a real and moving portrait of a troubled man whose gifts were his downfall... We see him impolite and rude, too smart to have to attend class, lacking social skills, insulting the great ideas of his colleagues, calling their work derivative, and declaring, "To find a truly original idea is the only way to distinguish myself."Nash is obsessed with patterns... He spends his days writing perplexing formulas on his dormitory window in search of a breakthrough idea... He gets it one night, while out with his fellow scholars at a local bar where a stunning blond grabs their attention... He recreates the design of a classmate's tie reflecting light through glass... He follows the movements of pigeons as they compete for food... He stares obsessively at too many numbers, and reveals his natural ability helping the Pentagon crack the mathematical codes the Soviets are using...He becomes friend with his roommate, Charles Herman, who is everything he is not <U+0096> charming and charismatic... He somewhat refines his social manners enough to win the love of a beautiful physics student who would become his wife...Then he begins to look for secret messages in newspapers and magazines, interpreting vague, undecipherable connections between letters and numbers... His mental derangement grows to uncontrolled proportions and the lines between reality and delusion begin to occur as his hallucinations take control of his life in every instant... Nash soon begins to understand the nature of his mental illness and, while he is never cured of his hallucinations behavior, eventually keeps struggling to overcome it...Crowe imparts every facet of John Nash's personality with clarity and feeling... He wins our sympathy merely by showing us a man climbing to the top, falling to the very bottom, and through love and determination fully, recapturing his potential once again...Jennifer Connelly begins to establish herself as a young actress to watch for... She exudes class and sophistication... She makes a marvelous loving wife forced to face the realities of schizophrenia... She tries to do what's best for her husband, but in the face of adversity to take the decision she does, it is inspiring to think that love is the seed of all hope, and what makes the ride worthwhile... Paul Bettany gives another charming turn as Nash's only true friend... He is able to extend any sympathy or understanding, frequently pushing Nash to leave his inquiries for a pizza and beer break...Ed Harris looks nicely menacing in his black fedora... You never know if the man is real, a delusion or both as he constantly drives Nash to the verge of insanity and beyond... Adam Goldberg makes a quiet impression as a Princeton alumnus...Ron Howard evokes the beauty of Nash's mind, and brings us with tenderness, the story of a tortured-genius... His choice to shoot much of the film from Nash's point-of-view is both effective and intriguing... The film peacefully highlights the value of a very clever man who gains a beautiful heart, mainly through the love, faith and strength of his lovely wife...
Ron Howard has given us a film that's so different from the formula-oriented fare we receive from Hollywood, that this film, although studio born and bred, plays very much as an independent film. The madness of John Nash is approached by the director, and the writer, Akiva Goldsman, with great honesty and restraint. The production has a look that tells us we are seeing the events in the life of this crazy mathematician as it really happened. Nothing seems to be out of place here with the right touch of atmospheric detail in showing the past, when Mr. Nash went from being an up and coming star in Princeton to his being selected for the Nobel prize in 1994, with enough time going into the schizophrenia that almost ruined his academic life, as well as his own marriage.Russell Crowe plays this tormented soul with utter understanding of the man he is portraying. At no time does he strike a false note or gets too carried away with his own acting. That shows a firm hand by Mr. Howard, whose command seems to be behind every shot of this film. Ed Harris is one of the best actors around and let no one tell you otherwise. He expresses so much with the simplest gestures any actor can make. His kind of acting is seamless from film to film. Here he gives a great and understated performance as the man in John Nash's nightmares and make-believe world.The biggest surprise though, is Jennifer Connelly. She demonstrates here as well as in previous work, mainly her previous work in Requiem of a Dream, that she is in a league of her own. She's that rare breed of actresses that go from film to film acting in roles that she disappears into without any fanfare or hype. Congratulations to Mr. Howard for this film.
A beautiful mind was another superbly directed and acted movie both by Russell Crowe and directed by Ron Howard. The way Howard normalized Nash's schizophrenia and tried to get the audience to understand it more was an achievement in itself. At first it is hard to realize Nash's condition with all his eccentricities, abruptness and his incredible intelligence it becomes hard to know he is crazy. The way his delusions seemed so real it became hard to know when it was real and when he had his delusions. Some may criticize the movie because of the spy stuff and other stuff added as just another Hollywood thrill. This just shows the skill of Ron howard to create a picture of insanity identical to reality. While Russell playing nash you never question how realistic the portrayal is, he doesn't rely on makeup or anything elaborate, his walk, words and voice is what makes the character more alive. The performance of Jennifer Connelly was a very added addition to the movie. The chemistry between Crowe and Connelly really gel and you feel that they belong to each other. Every part of the movie came together perfectly and they all complimented each other that made it a more inspiring piece of work. A lot of people should see this movie not just cause Crowe is in it or of who made the movie but because of what you can learn by watching it. Hopefully learning compassion when dealing with the mentally ill. By new found knowledge the next time you see someone talking to themselves or someone you know has a disorder you might understand what they might go through and that they will be needing your continued love. Since they will be just as frustrated and confused as you might be. If you wanna see a movie where everything fits and everyone is at the top of their game then this is a movie for you.


                
Russel Crow's acting in this story about a brilliant mathematician with schizophrenia is a difficult story that was well told. The movie and the acting especially spoke to me about how anyone even smart and talented people can be born with a disease and will have to be taking things one step at a time. Also the story hits close to home for me because my grandfather who was an inventor and electrical engineer also was battling schizophrenia before he passed away. The realism that Russel Crow portrayed in the moments when he wasn't quite clear and also how he was later able to get control over his beautiful mind really was well done and shows the amount of research that he must have done for the part. Really Great! I recommend you see it if you have not seen it!
This movie is just brilliant. The acting is brilliant. The portrayals of that period in time is brilliant. The directing is brilliant. It's brilliant. The movie may not be as accurate as the reality, but it displays the effects of schizophrenia on the mind and of those around in a way that is accessible to everyone. I would really like to read the biography of John Nash now.Russell Crowe does a fantastic job getting into his character, that he pretty much becomes John Nash. He is like Eddie Redmayne in Theory of Everything, or rather Eddie Redmayne is like Russel Crowe and Theory of Everything is like A Beautiful Mind of 2015. Jennifer Connelly (who seriously looks like Demi Moore) is great in this too. I won't get into how her character is entirely centred on being a care taker, but perhaps that's how it was. Anyway, her acting was great and the emotions she portrayed could be felt. The rest of the cast too were brilliant and you could really feel how in character they were.Ron Howard did a great job directing this to be a masterpiece. I would expect that it would be hard to connect with this kind of character and to keep the audience involved in the film, but Howard does it perfectly. Also, Crowe portrays Nash in a semi-charismatic and witty way and as the audience, we are just drawn to him. Great job on both their parts.The editing and make-up are pretty phenomenal too. The editing of time passing and cuts of scenes make the film engrossing to the viewer. The scenes during and after the revelation of his mental state mimic his inner turmoil as the mood of the film tones down from there to one that is more sober. The make-up is especially noticeable as the characters age and there is a dramatic difference between their appearances – in a good way. It's incredible how make- up can do wonders.I don't really find this a problem in the movie, but it did add and or change events from reality. For one instance the ending scene with the pens is not a custom at all, and the relationship between John and Alicia was much more rocky than was portrayed. As a portrayal of real life situations and people, I feel like they should have respected what happened instead of 'Hollywood-izing' it. I still love the movie though.Read more movie reviews at: championangels.wordpress.com


                
At first glance, A Beautiful Mind is an inspiring tale about a "genius" mathematician who struggles with severe mental problems. And as long as we can focus on that first glance, the film provides compelling entertainment. I found myself caught up in the movie. Director Ron Howard (Splash, Parenthood) delivers an intriguing story about a man struggling to maintain clarity as his prodigious powers of imagination bring him inspiration, delusion, true love, and trouble. How rare is this? A film out of Hollywood in which the hero's most heroic endeavour involves restraint and self control! But A Beautiful Mind presents itself as the true story of John Nash, whose mathematical breakthroughs have apparently changed the world. And there's the rub. I came away from A Beautiful Mind feeling inspired to learn more about this fascinating character. And the farther I moved from the movie, the more I began to see it for what it is: a fantasy, at best<U+0085> and at worst, a rip-off game by con-artist. Strong accusations? I suppose so. And for the record, I don't expect films that are "based on a true story" to be 100% factual. It's impossible to tell a story that is entirely true to its inspiration; we all invent fictions in order to convey aspects of the truth that are most important to us. But shouldn't movies that claim to be "based on actual events" seek to bear some resemblance to those "actual events"? Is it too much to ask that the film makers and storytellers be reasonable in their embellishments? Watching this film, we endure the hardship of John Nash's mental problems right alongside him. Howard, who has proved time and time again that he can build a decent, workmanlike motion picture does his typically adequate job of telling the story. And the great Russell Crowe brings a lot to the production. Crowe, who deserved an Oscar for his work in The Insider (but received one for Gladiator instead, alas!) is fantastic. He transforms himself into this staggering, bewildered, tormented soul. In spite of a bland script, he gives us glimpses of a hurting spirit, an alienated boy, incapable of discerning the difference between fantasy and reality. It's hard to watch. As we watch Nash grow old, Crowe's performance and make up (some of the finest ageing make up I have ever seen) deliver a completely convincing human being burdened with challenges most of us have never imagined. Nash is a character who isn't comfortable with what we consider "normal life." In social circles, he's brusque and rude. Around women, he's awkward and downright insulting. At work, he ridicules the "great ideas" of his genius peers, calling their work "derivative" and declaring, "There's not an original or innovative idea in any of it." Nash's troubles stem from schizophrenic hallucinations, and A Beautiful Mind is the story of his struggle to reject false realities and hold fast to what is true. But he is calm, collected, and right at home whenever he's breaking codes and solving mathematical problems. We can see the potential in him, and so, in spite of his unkindness, we find Nash sympathetic. We root for him when he is drawn into working for a harsh and manipulative government operative (Ed Harris.) And we also root for him to overcome his social awkwardness when an admiring student (the radiant Jennifer Connelly) starts courting him. As a result, A Beautiful Mind stands apart from most Hollywood hero epics, in which we are told again and again to obey our hearts and our impulses. This story dares to suggest that the path to fulfilment and peace requires that we deny of self-destructive impulses. This is the most resonant chord in the film's dissonant symphony. At its heart, A Beautiful Mind is a parable about self-control, and about becoming a better person through the transforming of our minds.It's a shame, then, that the movie contradicts itself.For the sake of crowd pleasing, Howard abandons the thought of restraint when Nash is tempted into romance by a student named Alicia. The allure of a glamorous romance gets the better of him, and their plunge into passion is portrayed without any question about the propriety of such behaviour. Further, we are baited into cheering when Nash lashes out at those around him, because it makes for good spectacle.
Having seen A Beautiful Mind a few times now, it never ceases to amaze me how well this movie is put together. From the writing of the screenplay to the cast and crew, this film is top caliber and worthy of all of the Oscar nominations and accolades bestowed upon it. This movie is at its best when viewed the first time, but each time after I seem to notice something that I had not before. That is the genius of this film.Director Ron Howard leads a talented team of actors and actresses to deliver one of my all-time favorite movies. John Nash (actor Russell Crowe) is a mathematician who is battling the debilitating mental illness, Schizophrenia. Alicia Larde (actress Jennifer Connelly) is a student at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (M.I.T), where John Nash is a professor, who falls in love with and eventually becomes his wife.There actually two good stories intertwined to make A Beautiful Mind the classic that it is sure to be. The first is the life and accomplishments of Nobel Prize, for Economics, winner John Nash; the second is insight into the disease schizophrenia, and the effect it has on John and those closest to him. Similar to Teddy Daniels, Leonardo DiCaprio's character in the movie Shutter Island, this disease takes over their lives. Eventually removing the separation between reality and fantasy.My first insight into the quality of this film appeared when John Nash, a self-described loner, is attending Princeton for Graduate school; he is housed with a roommate named Charles, (actor Paul Bettany). Charles is boisterous and out-going, where Nash is the serious workaholic. Charles is also a delusion of John's mental illness. Throughout his time in the film, Charles is ingrained into the scenes, whether it is playing pool or standing outside the Helinger's office, Hellinger is played by Judd Hirsch. The nuance I did not notice until the second viewing is that Charles, and similarly with the other delusions, only interacted with John Nash. Even when Marcee, Charles' niece (actress Vivien Cardone), was running around the Princeton campus chasing birds, none of the pigeons took flight in fear of her. The timing and tempo of the movie, made these characters appear as they are the same as John and Alicia themselves. It made later characters, Dr Rosen, more difficult to discern as real or not.Another quality of the film that I enjoyed was the use of invisible sound. There is a point in the film where Alicia is gathering clothes from a clothes line, she hears what appears to be cryptic radio chatter. These noises appear to be coming from the inside of a small garage at rear of the property. When she goes to investigate, she discovers just how far along her husband's illness has progressed. He was supposed to be taking medication to keep his illness under control. With this discovery, she knows he has stopped taking his medications and that theirs sons life is in danger.One of the more memorable moments of the film is a conversation that John has with Charles atop the roof of their dormitory at Princeton. It happens the day they find out that they are roommates; John is explaining to Charles why he isn't good with people. John tells Charles, "The truth is, I don't much like people<U+0085> And they don't much like me". Later in the conversation, they delve into why John is so driven to work as hard as he does; John states, "find a truly original idea. It's the only way to distinguish myself. Only way to truly matter". To me, those are very powerful insights about John Nash. The fact that he is having this conversation with a person created from his illness is telling to the seriousness of his disorder. John graduates Princeton and gets a job, teaching at the Wheeler Lab, on the campus of M.I.T. During his time there, he is contracted to do cryptography work for the Department of Defense (DoD). After finishing one of his jobs decrypting Russian code, John meets Parcher (actor Ed Harris). Parcher seeks Johns help decrypting more Russian code to help foil a plot to detonate a mobile nuclear device on US soil. Parcher, like Charles, is a product of John's schizophrenia. Where Charles seemed to befriend John, Parcher seemed to use patriotism and fear to get Nash to do what he needed him to do.Eventually, with the help of Alicia and Dr. Rosen (actor Christopher Plummer) John comes to realize that Chalres, Marcee and Parcher are not flesh and blood, but part of his illness. This is the turning point in the lives of John and Alicia. Up to this point, John has been in denial of the diagnosis from Dr. Rosen, even so far as to claim Dr. Rosen is a Russian doctor trying to silence him. John almost drowns his son in the bath tub, claiming that Charles was watching him; then he shows Alicia out of the way as he thinks Parcher is about to shoot her for treason. When faced with a return to the mental hospital for more treatment, John tells Alicia that he now knows that these people are not real, he explains to her, "I know they are not real, Marcee never ages".Through all of the highs and lows that are John Nash's life, there is Russell Crowe giving a superb performance. All of the symptomatic subtleties, from the unusual walk to the way he talks and averts his eyes; Russell Crowe is most deserved of his Oscar nomination. His portrayal, of both, John Nash and of a man battling a mental illness would be worthy of a nomination for either performance.
As the film "A Beautiful Mind" unfolds the truly unremarkable, mathematical genius John Nash goes through many highs and lows before finding his place in life. John studied at Princeton University where he began his lifelong friendship with his dear friend Charles. After John graduated, he began to teach and also work for the government. His work for the government was classified, therefore not even his wife Alicia knew what his work involved. Many years passed and John became terrified the Russians would get him due to his work with the government. It is then discovered John is suffering from Schizophrenia. Alicia's undying love for her husband leads him to becoming a very successful man and winning the Nobel Prize.
John Nash arrives at Princeton University because of the prestigious Carnegie Scholarship for mathematics. Nash comes under increasing pressure to publish, but he refuses until he finds a truly original idea. His inspiration comes when he and his fellow graduate students discuss how to approach a group of women at a bar. Hansen quotes Adam Smith and advocates "every man for himself", but Nash argues that a cooperative approach would lead to better chances of success. This leads to a new concept of governing dynamics which Nash develops and publishes. On the strength of this he is offered an appointment at MIT where Sol and Bender join him. He considers his regular duties at MIT uninteresting and beneath his talents, so he is pleased to be given a new assignment by mysterious supervisor, William Parcher of the United States Department of Defense, to look for patterns in magazines and newspapers in order to thwart a Soviet plot. Nash becomes increasingly obsessive about searching for these hidden patterns. He meets Alicia and marries while working at the US Department. Throughout this time he develops his schizophrenia and imagines people created by his mind. Alicia finds out that Nash has schizophrenia and that Charles, Marcee and Parcher exist only in his imagination. Alicia investigates and finally confronts Nash.Nash is the life and inspiration of this movie. He is a dramatic character and interesting. One wonders if the voices one hears is what he heard. I recommend this movie and to understand it deeply watch it more than once.
I like the story of this movie. Though it is not accurately telling whole story related to Nash's real life journeys, but still the film and story is nicely adapted and executed.


                
A Beautiful Mind is a very unique movie. Russell Crowe plays a college professor named John Nash, who is a paranoid schizophrenic. And like the poster says, he saw the world that no one could have imagined.Russell Crowe is a great actor and did a very good job playing the character. Especially toward the end (SPOILER) when he gets older. He did a great job on playing on older version of the character. The story was pretty well developed and was paced good for a 2 hr and 15 min movie.Ron Howard is a very capable director, and it goes to show that A Beautiful Mind is a beautiful movie.
Russel Crowe just nails with his captivating performance.A tale of a genius Mathematician and Economist presented most effectively.Will make you emotional for sure


                
I was watching this for a school assignment one day a couple of years ago, and when I was watching this I was not really sure how to think of it at first as I felt like it was just sort of trying to show people how anybody can be special and as a result was sort of a propaganda piece. But I would not really say that this is the case when I think about it. The acting is well done and I really like it captured the way that things were back in time for people with some form of mental problem. The things I always like most about this movie were the scenes it showed him being questioned by those 'government agents' and how we would later learn that none of them were actually true
Director Ron Howard has had his name attached to some pretty prestigious projects over the years, such as "Apollo 13", "Cinderella Man", and "The Da Vinci Code", to name but a few. "A Beautiful Mind", however, is (pound-for-pound) probably the best Howard-directed movie of the lot.For a basic plot summary, this film looks at the life of John Nash (Russell Crowe), a brilliant (but quite eccentric) mathematician who is approached by shadowy government figure Parcher (Ed Harris) to work as a code-breaker to help expose a Soviet Union bomb plot. As Nash becomes obsessed with his work, wife Alicia (Jennifer Connelly) begins to wonder whether or not John is truly "working" at all. To say any more would completely ruin the plot.I could write an essay on why this movie is so great, but to do so would give away key plot details that would ruin the experience for you. Suffice it to say, though, that there are plot twists that you won't see coming even if you know that some are coming! Plus, thanks to the direction of Ron Howard, this is the kind of movie that really isn't even about the "twist". It is more about the extraordinary life of Mr. Nash.The acting in "A Beautiful Mind" is also top-notch. As I've said in other reviews of movies starring Crowe, I cannot recall him EVER turning in a bad performance on screen. I mean, the same guy who can play a Gladiator in one movie and and boxer in another ("Cinderella Man") can almost effortlessly (although I'm sure it isn't) transform himself into a much more cerebral role here. Co- stars Connelly and Harris play nice supporting roles as well, especially Connelly as Nash's wife who quite literally cannot believe what she is seeing from her husband on occasion.Thus, I consider "A Beautiful Mind" to rank among my personal favorites. It has an intriguing plot, yet focuses heavily on the characters to make you really feel for them. Not only does in continue the "Russell Crowe streak of perfection", but it also cements Howard as a top-notch director.
Russel Crowe here gives one of the best performances ever. I liked also the tiny visual effects used, in a very gentle way. Especially the math scenes. All the other actors played very well but Russel gave a real meaning to entire film. The music was amazing. Cinematography could be stronger. The editing was perfect. The movie fascinated me about the life of this man, and I sought more information, finding that for many years he was a recluse, wandering the campus, talking to no one, drinking coffee, smoking cigarettes, paging through piles of newspapers and magazines. The ending...oh my God the ending was amazing. His final speech is the real meaning of love.
This film tells the story of mathematician John Forbes Nash, Jr. (1928) in this film starring Russell Crowe, who made his studies at the University of Princeton in 1947, Nash is a very bright student but finds it difficult to establish relationships with others, Nash is haunted by the fact you discover an original idea and we can develop the theory of games that leads him to have a seat at the MITdi Boston, Mentra works met his future wife Alicia (Connelly), John discovers that he suffers from schizophrenia and this prevents him of showing his great intellect to the whole world, after being subjected to electroshock in many psychiatric hospitals, John is able to deal with his schizophrenia and show the whole world that his theories in 1994 will win the Nobel for Economics. Beautifully played by Russell Crowe and Connelly, this film manages to move and engage you in the story thanks to the screenplay written by Akiva Goldsman and thanks to the soundtrack composed by Horner, beautifully directed by Ron Howard, but what the film is well acted, well- written and well directed, I did not like one thing, the film is based mainly on Nash's schizophrenia, but does not show his discoveries, the film goes forward in time saying that Nash has made the findings, but the findings are not in the movie shown, but only mentioned, I personally would have done even see the discoveries made, but belonging to this small defect is a film absolutely perfect, well acted, well directed and well written, and especially with a beautiful finish that between the title of the tail feels All Love Can Be beautiful song sung by Charlotte Church. Winner of 4 Golden Globe Awards 2002: Best Drama, Best Actor in a Motion Picture Drama, Best Supporting Actress and Best Screenplay, and 4 Academy Awards 2002: Best Film, Best Director, Best Supporting Actress and Best Adapted Screenplay. A film that I absolutely recommend because it is a very moving film and thoughtful, and it is in my opinion one of the best of the decade film :2000-2010.


                
This film touched me deeply, and "A Beautiful Mind" should not be ignored and should be viewed by those who feel out of place with themselves and try their hardest to show their potential..but never seem to be able to get it across to someone. As a person, I do not particularly care for Russell Crowe. The whole hoopla behind the Academy might have done him in for an award, but nevertheless, Crowe shines as John Forbes Nash, Jr. in "Mind". His performance was that of how the old times in cinema used to be--very in touch with their characters, and flawless in their performances. Russell Crowe is comparable to Tony Curtis's portrayal of Albert De Salvo in Richard Fleischer's "The Boston Strangler". Although they are complete different performances, Crowe delivers his with the same impact of Tony Curtis's character. Mr. Crowe was phenomenal, and to my wishes, was not overlooked by the Academy but simply given a close race against Denzel Washington. Many people disagreed with Nash's schizophrenia not being unveiled until the middle of the film, and I will admit that it was upsetting to me, but the good aspects of this film really overshadowed the slight flaws of dislike within the movie. I was more disappointed that Nash was not in fact doing all these things for the government and aiding us at the times of the Cold War. However, Nash's true genius made up for this factor and allowed the viewer to see that he truly was a genius but just one that simply had to overcome an obstacle that was so slight compared to the intelligence he possessed.
This Best Picture Oscar winner is based on the real life of Mathmatician John Nash who won a Nobel Prize for his work yet was constantly challenged by his mental illness of Schitzophrenia, we see Russell Crowe take the lead role and as usual he does not disappoint. In fact the acting in this movie is pretty much flawless and very well cast. Jennifer Connelly (winner of Best Supporting Actress Oscar) is fantastic as the loving yet somewhat emotionally drained wife.This movie does take a fair while to really get going and for those of us who didn't get the highest mark in maths at school a lot of the jargon will go over our heads. But be patient by about the 40 min mark things start falling into place and the pace goes up a couple of gears with a few twist and turns along the way.The Cinematography is beautiful thru out so I have no complaints there. In fact I don't have many complaints at all its pretty much a flawless movie thou for me it just misses out on the full 10 marks because as previously stated there's a lot of things that went over my head and it takes a while to gain a decent pace. I would def recommend it to fans of Biopics and Drama.If You like movies such as 'The Aviator' 'Good Will Hunting' and the 'Bourne'series then you should enjoy this movie and vice versa if you enjoy the movie and after something similar those mentioned would be a good place to start.Thanks for reading really hope you enjoy this movie.
This movie is very loosely based on the life of one John Forbes Nash, Jr. There are definitely some additions to his life in this movie, but, from what I read about his life, there's still quite a bit from his real life in the movie, which is one of the reasons why I give this movie a perfect score.First, let me tell you a little about Nash: He was a genius who worked in game theory, differential geometry, and partial differential equations. However, his life was plagued by the unfortunate disease known as Schizophrenia. He spoke of characters, such as Charles Herman and William Parcher, characters who did not exist. His life became one nightmare after the other during this time, as these visions would threaten everything in his world, including that of his then-wife.Ron Howard definitely deserved the best director award here, but if anything, it was the acting that got me hooked. Russell Crowe does a very good job as Nash, who, all his life, wanted to look for an idea. Jennifer Connelly is amazing as Alicia Nash, who starts off as a student of Nash's, and ends up becoming the wife who fears for Nash. Connelly definitely deserved her award for this; If any other work of hers parallels "Blood Diamond," it is this one. Ed Harris, of course, is always great in every movie he's in, and this one is no different. He plays the Parcher delusion, who is an agent for the Department of Defence, and is trying to get Nash to help them fight the Soviets. Paul Bettany is great as the Charles Herman delusion, who becomes Nash's best friend throughout his university years. Josh Lucas is great, and those who remember watching "The Sound of Music" when they were younger will be delighted to see Christopher Plummer on the screen here.All in all, "A Beautiful Mind" is a well-acted movie that is both a touching love story and an educational look at any type of psychiatric disorder. 10/10 for me.
A beautiful,insightful and very moving film which is a joy to watch. The script and direction are superb and the film zips along at a 'page-turning' rate which will continually have you asking 'what happens next' as it is a rolled up thriller, love story and biography in one. For me, it was also a revelation in terms of Russell Crowe as an actor. I had admired his playing in 'Gladiator' and thought he was good fun to watch in 'Master and Commander' (while, on the other hand, I had thought his 'Robein Hood' was a disaster and a waste of talent all round - not least for including the usually marvellous Cate Blanchett in its proceedings as well!) In this film, though, Crowe is a revelation and shows some of the best movie screen acting I have ever witnessed. His portrayal of the lead character is achingly beautiful, with many high points (culminating in his 'Nobel Acceptance Speech' which had me on the verge of tears!) A marvellous film all round!


                
