If you like Victorian crime shows like Ripper Street, Whitechapel, Sherlock Holmes etc. then you will love this. There are two differences which make Peaky Blinders stand out. The first is it isn't set in London. Why is this a good thing? It's a nice change of scene, change of accent and culture. Peaky Blinders give you a great sense of what Birmingham was like at the time. The second reason it stands out is it is told from the criminals point of view. You get a feeling of belonging to the Peaky Blinders and despite all the terrible acts they carry out there is a fundamental decency somewhere deep down in Thomas Shelby.The cinematography is great, the storyline is great the only thing I would challenge is the accents. They sway in and out of the Birmingham accent but its a decent attempt and probably unnoticeable to anyone not from Birmingham. I've heard that they didn't want the accents too strong because it will be airing in the US. Anyhow...I'm loving it!


                
I for one am a huge fan of this compelling series. A wonderful dark industrial landscape, great soundtrack, rich characters that have real depth played by quality actors, all to the tune of a great script and an interesting time line. You an clearly see the similarities with the high quality US series and they have gone for this market and there is clearly lots here that could make it a fantastic long running series.Sadly, I am concerned that the BBC won't be able to retain the quality levels and we won't see it evolve in the way that the sopranos (yes I compare this show to the sopranos and boardwalk empire) evolved. Please push this internationally, let's keep it on our screens and see it develop. This period in UK history is rich with trauma, upheaval and change, the backdrop of industrial Birmingham is new and trumps the well trodden New York, Chicago, and London gangster scenes. For writers and producers this represents very fertile ground and allows innovative story lines to emerge.Keep peaky blinders on our screens..... The campaign starts here!


                
Dirty Pretty Things was good - excellent script, cracking acting... but it wasn't Peaky Blinders and this latest effort by Steven Knight is sublime! A couple of the Midland accents left a little to be desired but that is absolutely the only fault - and one to be easily ignored in the face of great writing, casting and direction.Sam Neil does "villain" with such ease that it's hard to recall all his non-villainous roles, or at least hard to remember them fondly. And his Northern Irish accent is excellent! Muphy proves, beyond doubt (if you had any to begin with), that he's not just a pretty boy - he kills this role in so many ways.A dark and Macabre, moody, sexy British drama - something for the BBC to be proud of. And it's been a while.


                
As a big viewer of the fantastic US drama series that have been available for the past 8 to 10 years, I am surprised and impressed with this series. It is thoughtful, has enough twists to keep us slightly off balance and the lead character - Tommy Shelby - is mesmerising. It also feels very real, which one would expect of the BBC, and I find myself thinking about it long after I finish watching each episode, so I guess that makes me engaged. such a shame only 6 episodes though - that is where the American series really do generate cult followings. Hopefully, Series 2 is being greenlight as we speak. And thank you Red Bee for the sub titles!


                
After watching broad-walk empire and finding it one of the dullest shows driven by boob exposure and shock value, and just as I thought that T.V is being dumbed down... Peaky blinders arrives. With a take on historical facts put together into this genius piece of art. I have to say i'm breathless . The acting is both engaging and real , the directing is done to absolute perfection , and the feel of the whole show brings darkness and a slight sense of humour that keeps you entertained. Also a show that doesn't parade naked women around every 5 seconds deserves a full 10 / 10 on that fact alone! Clean , dark , funny, alive, and real! My perfect show finally on TV! I just hope they make more!!!!!


                
This is my first review and I just had to do it. This show is outstanding in every aspect! acting, background music,the customs, details, its just unique. When I compare Peaky Blinders with other TV shows that use drugs, sex, and violence to shock the public and get high ratings for that, this sincere work is on whole different level; classy, elegant and simply amazing! Cillian Murphy is at hes best, pure excellence! Aldo its not only him, the whole crew is excellent, especially Shelby brothers and Tom Hardy (this is probably best acting of Tom Hardy ever).I have never rate any TV show or movie 10/10 until I watched this show. I am a HUGE fan of Peaky BlindersKudos to Stephen King and whole cast! Keep up with this masterpiece!


                
Cillian Murphy plays an excellent role as a de-mobbed Sergeant Major who is not about to put up with poverty after returning from Flanders Fields. His leadership qualities have been honed by trench survival and a nothing to lose environment in working class Birmingham. Small Heath was as much an economic migrant stronghold then as it is now and probably always will be. The cinematography creates a Dark Satanic Mill environment where the city of a thousand trades is expressed as a dour backdrop to young and hopeful Brummies whose aspirations don't always keep them within the law. Their violent demeanour is secondary to the story and overshadowed by sharp Edwardian fashion, haircuts and their willingness to overcome adversity one way or the other. There seems to be some integrity to their unlawfulness which could almost be forgiven.The subtext between Londoner's, Gypsies, immigrant Chinese, Italians, Republican and Norther Irish factions, spice up the plot making it interesting and varied to the main plot of stolen guns from the BSA works. " We've got the machine guns now Tommy and they're in the mud"Based on truth the Peaky Blinders is a refreshing drama about the criminal classes not based in London or Chicago. Such a nice change even though Thomas can't sleep without his opium pipe. Some things never change. I'm not one for watching things twice but I have watched all three episodes at least twice as a week is too long to wait for the Shelby's exploits. Steven Knight NB - please write more episodes immediately, you've hit a seam now please mine it for all it's worth.
Staggeringly good. A truly astonishing, lyrical, poetic and immediate invocation of the violently humane and brutally resilient England that crawled from the abyss of The Great War. This is four dimensional television: where the past redefines the present. Permanently. Also The tense scene between the IRA man and Tommy was the best few minutes of drama I've seen for years. Faultless acting, especially from Cillian and Tom Vaughan-Lawlor. Brilliant British Television. I'm just so glad the BBC has commissioned another series, because this show deserves another 4 series if the writing stays this good. Moreover the comparisons between Board walk Empire are annoying. This has a completely different atmosphere not least because of the working class British setting and the music.
Having never heard of this show prior to seeing it on Netflix, I must say I was quite intrigued right off the bat. With a rather unusual name, it stuck out like a sore thumb in my recommended section. After finishing the first season, I immediately watched all 6 episodes again. Now that i've finished it twice, I can easily say this is one of the best shows on British TV currently, and can stand toe-to-toe with anything HBO or Showtime has to offer. "Peaky Blinders" touches on a relatively unknown and fascinating portion of British history, and is supported by some of the finest acting I have ever seen on TV. Let me preface this by saying I am an American living in the midwest, so the subject material in this show is something I never knew existed. "Peaky Blinders" takes place in post WW1 Birmingham, which is a time and place I can't say I was very familiar with prior to watching this show. Following a street gang who runs various racketeering and gambling enterprises called the Peaky Blinders, the show unfolds as a northern Irish detective(Sam Neill) comes to Birmingham to sort out a case of stolen machine guns. Things immediately start off with a bang, and rarely let up throughout the 6 hour show. Cillian Murphy plays the stoic, admirable leader of the Peaky Blinders, Tommy Shelby, and is easily one of the most likable anti-heroes I have seen both in TV and film. His character is smart, savvy, and equally ruthless, and despite all this, you find yourself rooting for him throughout the show. This is a phenomena similar to that of The Soprano's Tony Soprano. That is, no matter how many terrible things these characters do, we always find ourselves championing them and hoping for their success. The writers do a fantastic job humanizing these larger-than-life characters, making them relatable to the everyday person. Next, i'll touch on the acting. Sam Neill and Cillian Murphy easily steal the show here, making both their characters incredibly fun to watch. Neill does a fine job with his northern Irish accent, and while not entirely perfect, it is indeed very believable. Cillian Murphy, on the other hand, nearly knocks the very difficult to impersonate "Brummie" accent out of the park. He speaks too slow at times, which is an unfortunate perception of how Birmingham folk speak, but for the most part he does a fine job and continues to show why he is one of the best accent impersonating actors in the biz today. The supporting cast does a solid job at this, too, which adds to the overall immersion of the series. Overall, everyone is believable for the time period, as nobody really knows what the dialect was like post WW1. Apart from the fine writing and acting, "Peaky Blinders" has some pretty incredible set pieces as well. Birmingham is well portrayed as the industrial giant it was after the war, and throughout the show you see some period sets that will blow your mind. From narrow, cobblestone streets to steel mills shooting fire into the streets, you really get a feel for what this time may have been like. The city of Birmingham has been leveled since WW2, either by bombs or city planning, so there was some artistic interpretation as to how the city would look. Despite this, the show does a tremendous job building the city from the ground up and making it seem believable. For me, this brought the time period to life and gave me some insight on what the city would have been like in 1919. In "Peaky Blinders", Birmingham is a character all on it's own, which adds a rather interesting backdrop for the actors to work in. Without giving too much more away about the plot of the show, if you are a fan of crime dramas and period pieces, definitely check this show out. The acting, writing, and special effects are all top notch, despite the show's relatively low budget. The creators definitely chose their spots as far as how to spend the budget they had, and they did an admirable job doing so. The first season must have done quite well over the pond though, as the second season will feature one of my favorite actors currently, Tom Hardy. Don't let the funny name fool you, as "Peaky Blinders" is one of the best shows out right now, period.UPDATE: Season 4 was just released in the states on Netflix, and I had the pleasure of binging it in two days. "Peaky Blinders" is still a fantastic show, even with a slight drop-off in season 3 (in my opinion). Season 4 came back much stronger, though, and I give Knight a lot of credit for keeping this show alive and interesting across all these arcing seasons. Without giving anything away, I must say that Adrien Brody did a fantastic job in season 4 as the primary antagonist which is something I thought season 3 lacked. This show is still top notch, and Cillian Murphy continues to impress with his acting ability as the nefarious Tommy Shelby. If you haven't watched this show yet, or perhaps haven't completely followed along, do so "by the order of the Peaky Blinders". ;)


                
What I figured out abouf 2 episodes in is... This show has a striking resemblance to a 1920 Irish version of sons of anarchy lol its super good though! Very happy so far!


                
Its not often I give anything a 10/10 but Peaky Blinders is one of those exceptions............I honestly thought the BBC would never again make a drama of this calibre, but how wrong can you be. Set in Post war Birmingham, England it follows the story of the Gangster stroke book making Selby family who run their gang called the "Peaky Blinders" who hide razor blades along the hem of their peaked caps and use them to devastating effect in violent confrontations. The two older Selby Brothers Tommy and Arthur are both veterans of the First world One trenches and are as tough as the old boots they once wore and learnt how to fight in one of the worlds toughest arenas and on the means streets of Birmingham. This is a true gangster drama which is breathtakingly unique and dispenses with old gangster clichés and most stereotypes, The acting is first rate, the characters are human and believable right down to the Unionist bigoted Northern Irish policemen moved from Belfast to Birmingham and the sinister IRA elements, throw in some tinkers, gypsies and London crims and it completes a masterpiece, the modern musical score used is not out of place and adds to the dramas uniqueness. Move over Boardwalk Empire there's a new kid on the block.
Why is this not being shown on the major channel at prime time ?? Not only is it beautifully shot, the cinematic shots draw you into the life's of the characters, putting you on a personal level with them, I was left felling disappointed every time it finished and eager for the next episode. Murphy delivers a fantastic performance , as if he was made for the roll, not to mention really suiting the period clothing !! The tension in the story line had me on the edge of my seat, I so wanted a happy ending....... Please make another series, loved ever second of every episode....... This will stick in my mind as friends in the north has for years to come. Brilliant.


                
You find a "television" series once in a blue moon which blows your mind, and Peaky Blinders has accomplished that in my mind. As of this writing, I'm on S03/E06, which I think is the most well-written and explosive episodes of the series. It's also one of the most amazing series that I have seen. These seem more like mini-features, with almost a full hour of drama. By the time I started season three, I started saying aloud how I love Peaky Blinders and its characters. They thrive on a combination of excellent storytelling and photography. "Breaking Bad" is the only other series that I know which have become the platinum standard of any series that I know exist. I venture to believe that Blinders beats out Game of Thrones as well. The main reason why Thrones and Bad don't live up to what I've experienced with Blinders? The sheer boldness of how the show compels you to understand and even empathize with people who make a living out of doing just about everything illegal that they could ever muster, in a place where just about everyone seems to be about some kind of illegal activity. The complexities of the characters demand that everyone must sell who they are and I cannot for the life of me, find any character who is a "weak link" to the series. Game of Thrones is a terrific series as was Breaking Bad. Yet GoT has a number of slow moments. Breaking Bad, while rather straightforward regarding the plot, was just somewhat unbelievable when viewed through the lens of real-life probability. Blinders is deeper and more raw, without looking to any sense of patronizing emotions to give a sense of redemption. Blinders takes off the blinders by asking which holds more value, between family, friends, relationships and business transactions. Or, whether money is really what can repay the emotional anguish of those casualties called "relationships." Blinders has been throwing some really interesting plot twists and I've finally been blown away at where this series is heading. I remember the first season where a young Winston Churchill was introduced, and I feel that was probably the slowest part of the series - even GoT suffered from the need to explain who/what was happening, while Breaking Bad simply jumped right into a whirlwind of trouble thrown the way of Mr. White. Stick with this however. These characters have truly embraced their roles and the photography and writing seem to actually have gotten even better. I'm not one to ever have been interested in an emotional investment of series characters but this so far has been my finest emotional investment. The violence sometimes is quite intense. So much so, that my wife stopped watching by the second season. Considering the date in which Blinders is told, I expect that the violence might be rather extreme. Perhaps I'm being unfair in even speaking about GoT and Breaking Bad, two other exemplary shows which made me loyal to their broadcasts. But Blinders keeps raising the production bar like the other two haven't quite done.


                
The show may walk on a slow rhythm in the beginning but let me tell you this, I've finished the show and to be honest with you all .. Peaky Blinders is one of the best shows aired this year. it's steady, solid and beyond amazing. Cillian Murphy performance is literally great along side with Sam Neill, Paul Anderson and Helen McCrory. The show tell the story of a man "Thomas Shelby" Shelby family is a big name in Birmingham they're the good bad guys against the good bad cop Inspector Chester Campbell played by the great actor Sam Neil but this is not all. the show has deep events and deep story behind it as it's continue.The show is well done in directing, lighting, sets, acting (Really Hight Production Values) and the whole good scenes as the show goes by it becomes more emotional more clever and less mysterious.I advise everyone to give Peaky Blinders a chance. It is a great show created by Steven Knight and I'm sure all of you will fall in Love with Peaky Blinders like I did.
This was a great surprise, I agree with the prior review Boardwalk Empire falls flat when compared to Peaky Blinders. The acting is topnotch, The story line is awesome, I love how real life characters are added to the story, very good character development, the costumes the scenery are very convincing, I'm watching the first season back to back, that's 6 episodes an hour each. I can't wait for season 2. Cillian Murphy as Thomas Shelby was an excellent choice he becomes Thomas very convincing, Sam Neill as Inspector Chester Campbell is also dead on, he does a great job, and then there's Helen McCrory as aunt Polly & Annabelle Wallis as Grace two beautiful women perfect for the rolls they play, I can go on and on but I'll stop suffice it to say Peaky Blinders is now my favorite show and a must watch.


                
This is such a binge worthy show that I'm holding back the last couple episodes like slowing down before the last few chapters of my favorite book. I'm not ready for it to be over just yet. As someone else mentioned, this show is all about character. You can't help but root for the Shelby's, regardless of how horrible they are. There's a line in the first season, "You are bad men, but you are our bad men." Pretty much sums it up. Cillian Murphy is the backbone of this show. He says more in his face and through his eyes than any of the dialogue that comes out of his mouth. Although, don't be mistaken, the writing is excellent. However, being the ignorant American I am, I finally had to turn the subtitles on! My ears got used to the strong accents for the most part but I found myself rewinding at least once an episode to either catch a phrase I wasn't familiar with or because the dialogue was too quiet. So I just said to hell with it and turned the subtitles on - now I'm catching way more. I also wasn't familiar with too much British history between World War 1&2 - so I've found myself looking different bits up to find out more. We've had American gangsters in film for years, but this is a fresh and new experience. I mentioned Cillian Murphy but the other stars of this show are incredible in their own right. Helen McCrory's Aunt Polly could hold her own against Gemma Teller any day. Paul Anderson and Joe Cole are perfect as the brothers. Anderson tortured and erratic, Cole steady and loyal. Annabelle Wallis and Sam Neill are both compelling and Tom Hardy is Tom Hardy, if he's ever bad I haven't seen it. If you like a show that's character driven but with an exciting, dark backdrop - definitely worth checking out. TV has really gotten better the last few years.


                
Peaky Blinders is essentially the television show that every cable network wish it had. It is smart, fast moving, and cinematic art. I did not think I would love the show as much as I do. The great thing (but also unfortunate) is that every season consists of six episodes. Every episode is another important piece in the story of the Shelby Family and the screenwriters really pack it with a lot of umph. There really has not been an episode yet, that I have been disappointed with. In fact, I actually find myself wanting to watch the next episode after finishing one, because I just need to know the fate of the characters.As mentioned, six one-hour episodes are rather quick to get through, and you find yourself wanting more. (But really it seems like the perfect length, as every episode is a fundamental stone in the foundation of the story).From a cinematic standpoint the series is beautifully done. The set looks great and you feel taken back in time to England in the 1920's. It is definitely this artistic work that is hard to find in television today.The writing on the show is incredible and mixing that with the cast makes the show explosive. You will find yourself rooting for one of possibly the worst gangsters on television and that is no easy task, as the Shelby Family has more than a few skeletons in their closet. But it is this talent of the cast that makes you care about these characters. Overall, the cast seem to really be enjoying themselves with the characters they play. If you are looking for a smart television show that keeps you on the edge of your seat - this is the show for you!


                
This is an amazing show, has all elements of what a successful show should have. You can quickly become engaged with the drama and the characters.Cilian Murphy is mesmerizing as Tommy Shelby,never knew he would be so charming and menacing at the same time. I hope they don't stop making this any time soon.


                
What starts off as solid "gangster" tale just reaches new heights by season 3. I am thoroughly impressed at progression of everything, from the story to the characters, to the sets, to the dialogue. It ranges from dirty ghettos (yet beautifully done) to lavish palaces. The acting is brilliant from every character, and the direction gets better and better. The circumstances just completely change every season, which keeps things fresh and interesting. I must say that even though 6 episodes per season is short as it makes the wait till the next season painful, it actually works in favour of the show. This British format allows the 6 episodes to be jam packed with pertinent and juicy content. You never sense that it's dragging because a lot of things happen in every episode, whereas many shows compromise quality by adding unnecessary side characters and side stories to buffer the shows to 10-12 episodes.


                
Peaky Blinders is an absolutely magnificent series. The "gangster" genre happens to be right up my alley but this show has so much more going for it than just an entertaining topic. The sets from 1919 England are fantastic and while the characters reside in a dark and dirty world there is a haunting beauty to it. From what I know the story is loosely based on historical figures which makes the storytelling all the more incredible. Most everything that transpires is believable or close enough that it never detracts from the story. Finally, the acting. Cillian Murphy is a powerhouse as the leader of the Peaky Blinders. His performance draws the viewer in and holds them close. Throw in a great performance from Tom Hardy and virtually every supporting cast member and the acting is bulletproof. It is a crime to me that Peaky Blinders is not a world renowned television show at this point. I recommend it 100%.


                
Looking for something to watch on *.* last night, I found what I thought was a movie, watched the opening and subsequent scenes and became "hooked." I then realized I was watching the first season, 1st episode of Peaky Blinders. The story line took me further and further in until I decided I just had to keep watching and was going to attempt to watch the entire 1st season. The end of the first episode left me anxiously looking forward to watching the next and so on. I can't wait for the second season. I was sitting here watching the first and thought to myself that Tom Hardy would be perfect for this show, then I get online to read about when the second season is going to be released and I see he's in it. My excitement went from a 10/10 to a 15/10. I only wish that there were more episodes in a season but fantastic show all around. Have had it on repeat since it dropped. Perfectly executed. Brilliantly scribed. I suspect it will do well here in the states. My new addiction.


                
If there is one "sin" in this totally perfect series, it is that it is precisely much too perfect; almost overwhelms me to experience all at the same time: fantastic turns of the plot, location, customs, acting, light, photography, camera use, and... audio and music! Kind of baroque experience. 
Music would be obvious for anyone seeing it (please, connect it to a good audio system and play it loud!), but I mean audio also: the way it often transfers from the wide scale scenery to the intimate one in the same take, just using audio is nothing short of spectacular. Another of the many remarkable things in PB: some chapters (specially at the opening) are a simply a poem in the use of traveling cameras, color punctuations (the sparks or fire bursts for example, red colors going all over the screen in a time sequence: a mesmerizing visual pleasure).
I think this must be seen several times to really appreciate all the beauty that's inside it.


                
I'm pretty sure it's the best TV show I've watched. (and I've watched a whole lot) The character development is amazing, every character is unique, yet interesting and vital for the progression of the show, the writing is phenomenal and the setting is also on point. The way the viewer feels about the characters, and the amount of complexity and depth of their personalities is also worth mentioning. The acting of course is perfect, not only Murphy but everybody delivers an awesome performance. Great OST, that consists of artists like the White Stripes, the Arctic Monkeys, Nick Cave, David Bowie, Leonard Cohen.WHAT ELSE TO ASK FOR??? You'll definitely LOVE it!


                
I have to say that this show has a surprisingly great acting from the support cast. Every character feels unique and you'll definitively remember them. In most TV shows you'll have a main character with good acting but with a horrible freaking side cast that makes things unbearable to watch. This series tells story that's great but most importantly feels UNIQUE which is why I felt so hooked up on it. It takes place in a early 1900 century post first world war with a story revolving around ex soldiers who tries by any means to climb up the socio-economical hierarchy.


                
War, guns, knives, challenges, plot twists, excellent sets and costumes - it all takes one to the depths of the marrow of the bone in the art of entertainment. Hits hard every sense. Smell Tommy's cologne through the musty offices. Hear Tommy's raspy orders stemming from anger or seduction while whistles blow and voices mumble in the darkness. Deliciously taste that clean whisky and sweet gin, mixed with the taste of salty sweaty temples. Touch the hard cold steel, the hot fire, and the soft red silks. Such deliciousness in every way. Capitavating, enrapturing mind-mending mood-molding storytelling and a favorite always and forever. Obviously a 9. Oh but those blue, blue eyes thrusts it to a 10 score. From one set of striking blue eyes to another, ah for another season.


                
