Why do they have to inject every single f-ing series with some women's rights BS ?It's as if a series is not valid nowadays if you don't put in it:1) women in positions of power that wouldn't have existed at that time and/or place
(e.g. a woman co-head of the Shelby crime family, a woman leading a band of gypsies??, another woman leading the Sinn Fein delegation that "chooses" Tommy for the murder of Grand Marshall,and, as if that wasn't enough, the Russian duchess leading the conspiracy )2) some women's rights issues (e.g. in the third season all the women marching for "equal pay" and "equal conditions") 3) unnecessary situations/scenes of women exerting power over men or taking revenge (e.g; The Russian duchess treating her husband as if he was her lap dog .... ringing a bell and he shows up ? come on, isn't that a little too much?, Poly killing Inspector Campbell who took advantage of her, etc)Other series like Frontier are the same load of crap. If the producers or directors have some kind of "sexism guilt trip" ,go sort it out at home.


                
What a waste of a promising theme. As I stood in front of my laptop screen I found myself wandering a simple why?
Why am I watching this??
At first it was curiosity and IMDB rating. And the crime/mafia theme.
After s01e02 I was convinced about the value of the show but stayed for my girlfriend's sake.
Zero character building. Plot holes the size of craters. 
It almost looks like a parody show in the last 3 episodes of season 1, You don't know weather u should laugh or cry. Characters keep staring like zombies, smoking, posing like models in photoshooting. 
There is no acting, no directing absolute nothing. Only money. costumes, sets and music. Its a shame Sam Neil is in this. And actually the only one who tries a little acting. 
2 stars is generous.


                
It is bizarre to represent EVERYONE as a chain smoker who never eats a bite of food. The creator(s) of this series are obviously smokers who want to legitimize their suicidal habit without any sense of reality. The drama is compelling, but it makes one wonder if there is any truth behind the story when there is not one character who has the intellect to resist nicotine and alcohol addictions. Anyone who engages in these self destructive habits would not win a fight, race, contest or competition in the long run with someone who nourishes his/her body. Any actor who chooses to legitimize smoking is causing kids to take up the habit which is what the tobacco companies want. You have no sense of moral responsibility to your fellow man. Disgusting.


                
While im watch the first season i just waiting to be impressed specily when some my idiot friends recommended it to me but unfortunately 2 days of my life waste foe nothing on that.


                
I don't understand why they speak Romanian at one point betweent themselves. Either they are Romani gypsies or Irish gypsies, none of them speak Romanian.
I understand Romani and Romania sound the same, but they are totaly different things.
The Romani, colloquially known as Gypsies or Roma, are an Indo-Aryan ethnic group, traditionally itinerant, living mostly in Europe and the Americas and originating from the northern Indian subcontinent.
On the other hand, the name Romania comes from the latin word Romanus, wich means citizen of Rome. As Romania was part of The Roman Empire for a long time.


                
