Did anybody else notice how once Netflix took this show over there was way more unnecessary torture, violence, gore, and creepy sexual encounter scenes?The first 2 seasons were tasteful and left me wanting more. Cillian Murphy is amazing. Grace really sucked but it is what it is. Season 3 has been borderline ridiculous, we turned it off in the middle of the 2nd to last episode. The gore was pretty much gratuitous, the sex scenes super duper weird and uncomfortable. Like, why tho? Why were these scenes necessary? They didn't bring any more understanding to the story. Hopefully they can get their priorities straight moving forward. I really enjoy this show otherwise.


                
Wow! Exciting! A much hyped good looking and edgy new crime drama. Can this pull me away from unsatisfactory emails and muted responses to my spontaneous Facebook posts? I relax and stare at the High Definition screen diligently.
 
Thrown into a dirty, industrial, post WW1 Birmingham; struggling for opportunity, devasted by the horrors of the most critical war in history and acutely aware of the quick riches to be made in vice, we follow the fortunes of the Shelby family. Ruthless, savvy and turned out with surprisingly good suits and haircuts, can their struggle satisfy the demands of my hum-drum, easily bored and passive life?Not short of intreague; communists, police, government forces, rival gangs, The Church, aristocracy and some mysterious Russians amongst others, all whisper, cahoot, shout, shoot, steal and kill in a violent and complex web of crime, seduction, lies and murder. Sensorarily and emotionally you will be bombarded. Characters built up to be wholesome are mercilessly butchered and the Brummy tongue transports you away from familiar Guy Ritchie Sherlock Holmes cockney London into a bustling, urban population gasping for an identity of their own. Powerful performances do keep you gripped, Most notably Paul Anderson as troubled Arthur; destructively battling his demons head on, never quite finding a path to salvation. The sometimes brutal deaths of innocents, not to mention the often brutal and vicious deaths of the guilty form a dark cloud over developments. Murder, near murder and beatings become common place, often uninspiringly used as a plot mechanism. The main characters, in spite of what we know about their level of involvement in the latest nefarious plan, have no release, outlet or spiritual motivation. Not one character breaks the mould of a tortured individual; paralysed either by duty or fear, reluctant moll facing a moral dilemma or a key decision maker weighing up politics and the bigger picture. And so they whisper, cahoot, shout, shoot, steal and kill into further turmoil before the grand resolution, which Shelby leader Tommy (Cillian Murphy) is burdened with all collective hope to make it good.What troubles me is that because the lead characters are so torturously greyscale, I find it hard to justify the ultraviolent, scheming and totally immoral lifestyle they choose. For every life Tommy Shelby saves countless die, some he kills with animalistic brutality by his own hands. The palpable relief felt by the audience at the end of each climax isn't that of joy, hope or victory; merely satisfaction that a tumultuous catastrophe has been averted and the characters you've been rooting for are more or less intact.Peaky Blinders leaves me entertained though morally perplexed. Despite its style and good acting, I feel unrewarded. It certainly distracted me from a life far removed from the Shelby post Great War Birmingham canals, though ultimately I'm no happier or informed and scarred with vivid graphic images of murder and death.


                
Peaky Blinders had an opening scene with plenty of CGI and a Nick Cave song. It makes its signature move by showing that this is a BBC drama production which will not be all frills and bonnets like a Jane Austen adaptation.This Birmingham of the 1920s is post Industrial, grime and dirt with demobbed gangsters fighting the demons of the trenches with a soundtrack provided by Nick Cave and The White Stripes.Comparisons have been made with Boardwalk Empire, I am reminded something close to home. The 1970s Birmingham serial Gangsters which had a multicultural facet to its story line, novel for the time.Peaky Gangsters has a black preacher, Chinese, Italians, Gypsies and Irish from both sides of the divide.Sam Neill gives the most arresting performance with an Ulster accent. A man of morals but maybe loose principles who has arrived in Birmingham to locate some guns and bring law and order.It's easy to forget that the New Zealand raised Neil was actually born in Northern Ireland.Irish actor Cillian Murphy on the other hand takes a break from flirting with Hollywood to do a Brummie accent as the Great War veteran who is the leader of the Shelby family and has ideas to make it big.He faces demons from the war, has principles but is also ruthless. He is ably supported by actors playing his brothers and Helen McCrory who plays his aunt.The series had its critics with its modern soundtrack, some dodgy Birmingham accents but it was an interesting story well told but rather few of the moves were signposted, you could guess rather early on which character will be doomed by the end of the series.A second series has been commissioned and although this not perfect, it is one of the better British dramas of 2013.


                
Its got some odd clunky bits that kind of jar IMO.The music isn't bad, but it seems like they're trying too hard to make it sexy/hip/cool/whatever. Perhaps they thought period music would turn folk off? Dunno.I hate spoilers so wont mention specific scenes and others will love or hate it regardless of my opinion and thats as it should be.They've gone to a lot of trouble in many aspects and I reckon its well worth watching and stands high in comparison to much of dross on the tellyIf I overlook the parts that had me saying "huh? C'mon!" or broke the bubble of suspended disbelief needed to enjoy any program or movie, then on the whole its pretty good and an interesting and unusual drama.
Superb decors and costumes with striking music...but not enough to cover dull scenario, cliche dialogues and slightly above-average acting by great actors. Show starts to repeat itself already after first reason.


                
Incredible actors, production, setting, editing etc except it lacks a compelling story. Season 1 was great but by season 2 it was clear they didn't know what they were gonna do it with. It became terribly unbelievable and the characters have a switch in personality. The character development in the first season is completly forgotten. I do believe the first season is worth the time


                
In here we found some talented actors in unconvincing and unsympathetic characters, beautiful musics but out of the contest, decent main story with simpleton stretched uninteresting side stories. In summary it is simple and not really engaging.It has many nice ingredients used to appear good which indeed are not convincing at all.Right now, about the recent series, for a more demanding audience, I highly suggest "The Knick" and "House of Cards".I give this series,7/10


                
When I first saw Peaky Blinders, I was so excited. It's a gangster drama series in the spirit of Boardwalk Empire but set in 19th- century England, a setting so rarely shown in movies or TV shows. It showcases the talents of Cillian Murphy (one of my favorite actors), Sam Neill, and especially the impressive Helen McCrory. The show also has very high production quality: good set, good costumes, and fantastic cinematography, all of which helped build up an amazing, immersive feeling for the series. The writing was less impressive at first, since things seemed to be a bit too easy for the main character, Thomas Shelby, but it got significantly better by the end of the season when many things that were set up at the beginning started to get connected. Then the much anticipated season 2 came, with even more great actors added to the cast (Noah Taylor, Tom Hardy). It seemed like the show could only get better, but it didn't. In fact, it got a lot worse. The 'amazing' Thomas Shelby now got even more unbelievable, while his intellectual rivals in season 1 like Inspector Campbell or Aunt Polly are greatly degraded to weak and pathetic characters. Moreover, Thomas and his family members just kept getting out of all kinds of dangerous situations in the most ridiculous ways. A lot of characters in the show feel like they have run their courses and should have been killed off long ago, but somehow the writers still found ways to keep them alive. This kind of writing not only made the show very predictable and boring, but also resulted in many characters became annoying and ridiculously different from their own selves in season 1. Even the newly added cast couldn't save the show since they have very limited screen time due to the huge amount of characters the show is keeping around. The worst thing is that the show contains some very obvious continuity mistakes. I don't know how that was even possible, considered that it only has one main writer throughout.In conclusion, with this kind of writing, I won't have much expectation for the future of this show.


                
Great acting, great casting, solid CGI, good (but not quite spot-on) attention to historic detail, and overall good writing are let down a bit at points where the show should shine the most - it's various climaxes. Unfortunately, these simply beggar belief. While the motivations and action during the remainder of the series is very believable, the first season shoot-out with Kimber is almost absurd, as Ada's intervention with her baby seems a stretch, and Kimber's stand-around-and-wait-to-be-shot attitude is simply ridiculous. It seems even less likely that when shots were fired, everyone holding a gun wouldn't have opened fire themselves... out of terror/adrenaline, if nothing else.Likewise, the Tommy/Solomons face-off at Solomons' desk overreaches. It seems Solomons' men would have watched Tommy very closely and would therefore known there was no way he could have planted a grenade. That they wouldn't have suspected something with Tommy tying his shoelace (the most elementary of diversions) is hard to fathom, and spooling out a trip wire would have been literally impossible to do without anyone noticing. Moreover, Solomons is borderline nuts, and he would almost certainly have gone to intervene in the detonation of the imaginary grenade before dropping his negotiating position by 65%. These points are simply not believable, and they seriously undermine the integrity of the show as a whole... Apart from these glaring flaws in the writing, Peaky Blinders is an enjoyable watch and warrants mild praise.
I would have given it 10 stars except for the damn loud music or what they try to pass off as music. It keeps one person busy with the remote control muting the sound every time a scene changes. That's totally uncalled for and ruins an otherwise good series.


                
This show starts out in an amazing way. The atmosphere, the lighting, the acting, everything fits. It's a great start to a great show that should've quit while it was ahead.This show has the same problem as House of Cards; when the main cast isn't king yet, they ironically run the show. But when they are, the show itself fails to keep its intricacies and loses its charm. Antagonists are killed on a whim, revenge is sought from places you could've never expected and new actors can't safe the show.So my advice would be to watch up until season three, and then leave it be. Trust me, it'll do you no good watching any further. Once again a show is being stretched out too long and quality suffers. It's an unfortunate thing but we still got to have three amazing seasons.
