Peaky Blinders is one of the most unique British dramas ever made. I would even go as far as to say TV history in the making. Negative critics of the show seem to have overlooked the fact that this is the first time ever that this side of British gangster-lore has been documented. Off hand, the only thing that comes close to this style of gangland depiction is the first half of Once Upon A Time in America, were we see the heroes struggling to escape the deprivation of ghetto life. This is where Peaky Blinders stands out from the typical run-of- the-mill crime show. There is nothing glamorous about being a gangster in this world. As far from LA Confidential glitz as you can get, the viewer is forced to get down and dirty in the horseshite-ridden streets of post WW1, working-class Birmingham. The attention to detail, the costumes, the sets, particularly the Lee family dwellings, have all been created to the highest standard. As is the quality of acting, which is undeniably as good as you'll find in any prime-time British drama.Even though people on this particular forum have not had much positive feedback about the series, believe me, the connoisseurs of this genre have been very impressed thus far. Furthermore, the show seems to be building up to climatic ending rather than simply documenting a day in the life of a Peaky Blinder. The more observant viewers will see subtle 'tie-ins' between each situation and be able to follow the flow of events without obvious prediction. This is what the drama audience thrives on to stimulate analytical debate after each episode.If it doesn't get rave reviews, I will be disappointed but not surprised, as Peaky Blinders has all the makings of an artistic and timeless cult series, possibly appealing more to purists and true fans of the cult/gangster genre. Well done BBC.


                
The premise is very well conceived and overall fulfilling. This may be the show to look out for to make it through the long stretch. High production values, brilliantly realized and meticulously detailed...intriguing characters that are unique and well written...fantastic cast all structured in a solid engrossing narrative. The integration of modern music gives it a very other dimensional feel that is richer and has more urgency than that of other period pieces which often come off as caricatures of themselves (cough- boardwalk empire). Authentic and powerful, I see this ascending to peoples must watch list. It is exciting to see where they are going to steer this one.


                
This second season has exceeded its expectations and has brought more action, drama and suspense to our television sets. The creator Steven Knight has captured in my opinion one of the most realistic and exciting series available to date. The casting for Peaky Blinders is excellent and 'Tom Hardy is outstanding' his cockney accent and attitude is together funny and scary, along with top hat and cane his appearance is a statement in itself. Tom Hardy is recently becoming my new favourite actor from this and his fantastic performance as Ivan Lock in 'Locke', another accent changing role which he executes flawlessly. Another great performance in this season in particular is that of Sam Neil, who plays Inspector Chester Campbell, A manipulative police inspector with cruel intentions. He is despised by all due to his excellent acting in this role, you forget he is the once loved Dr. Alan Grant in Jurassic Park. Helen McCrory also gives a fantastic purpose to the series and gives a wonderful loving but stern performance, (a woman not to be crossed) with an impressive accent considering her well spoken voice. Not forgetting the Peaky Blinder Mr himself Cillian Murphy gives a attention gripping performance leaving you admire him but yet still fear him. there's nothing the Peaky Blinders wont do to become kings of Birmingham! I look forward to what the next season will bring, I'm hooked! 'To the Peaky Blinders'.Justin Kemp


                
When i first saw this advertised on BBC 2, i immediately thought i'm going to like this... and i did.Peaky Blinders is beautifully written, directed and of course acted. The amazing cast and crew were able to give it that 1919's feel with the help of the costume department and they have the best soundtrack, thanks to the music department. Cillian Murphy gives a fantastic performance as Tommy Shelby, the man who was born to make his business successful and Annabelle Williams also gives a good performance as Grace Burgess, the bar-maid with a few secrets of her own. They're accents are spot on and never slip through out the whole six episodes. Sam Neill is perfect as Inspector Campbell, who would like nothing better then to see an end to the peaky blinders and recover what doesn't belong to them. Helen McCroy all so stars as their Aunt Polly, the strong female of the family, who is like Tommy's concision and helps handle him when things go wrong.Peaky Blinders has war, loss, love and laughs, everything you need to create a great piece of Original British drama.
I'll just get my buzzkill out of the way before praising this series...I am a feminist at heart and I get annoyed when the women seem only to serve as love interests and naked yum yum time for the males who dominate the stories. The only woman I've truly been able to admire is Polly (Helen McCrory) but even she seemed to be lost in generic maternal yawnishness for most of series 2. It was only during that moment we all wanted to come, the "Don't @!#% with the Peaky Blinders" incident in the s2 finale, that I said, "Well...there she is...good to5 have her back." Polly is nothing less than a badass b@#$t, the true leader of the Peaky Blinders, the one who makes the final decisions. Please, no more mama crap?!! I've never been able to latch onto Grace (Annabelle Wallis) because from the start, she presented as a "half-hearted" operative, assigned to infiltrate the gang. She seemed wimpy, and of course, fell too easily in love. What were her motives for becoming a spy in the first place, aside from that sketchy IRA bit I mean? She was even more disappointing in S2. I may change my mind...is she the one person who makes Tommy Shelby (Cillian Murphy) think about other people? Is it she who makes him think about how grabbing up all the goodies you can during your limited days on this miserable ball of mud isn't necessarily the key to contentment? If she is indeed this special of a person, I will like her more in the future. In the meantime, May could have been a really great flipside to Grace, but she's just another love interest. Nothing really special happening with her.Crime, gangster and mobster stories are not my thing. I think these kinds of men are the dregs of society who will wipe their shoes on anyone in their path to get the things they think they want. Tommy, Arthur (a highly amusing Paul Anderson), John and the other Blinders are damaged men. They came home from brutalities we can only imagine. Their life experiences have left them...disallusioned to say the very least. Now they want what they can take. They hate the law because they feel they served their country and something is owed to them. I get it. But using people, lying to people, stomping all over people on your way to the top? We all know that on their deathbeds they will be no happier, no more fulfilled than they are now. It never ceases to amaze me. People just don't stop. Each side has to have the last word. It is war, and war is hell.Sounds like I hate this show? Not at all. My ability to cheer on Polly while knowing she's a ruthless bitch is what entertainment is all about. Sure they're the dregs of society. Sure they're loathsome, but they are, like it or not, our protags. I find it so much easier to love and identify with Polly and Tommy than with Sam Neill's scumbubble of an agent to the Crown. He's supposed to be the good guy, but he's really slimy. Kudos, Mr. Neill!!! Actors who love their craft can be so good in a role you end up hating their guts. No I can't say I find it perfection, but it' a great series, riveting in all its repugnance, very beautifully acted and written. It just needs stronger females aside from the formidable Polly.
I hoped I had found a diamond in the rough, because I had not heard a lot of people who already knew it. I was not at all disappointed. Rough and filthy sort of scenery with good quality filming and acting to start with. Now I would advise everyone to keep watching, since the characters really do deepen throughout the episodes. Also for the ladies watching, we are not left out ;) !In my opinion 'The Peaky Blinders' is making promising progress to being one of the big series of this time. Looking forward to the second season very much! Your devoted new follower,Z. Inderwisch


                
They really brought back the past with this...i like the old days gangs and mafia and famiilys & that were into business and crime


                
I like Peaky Blinders. The story and dialogues are allright and the acting is good. But why do trees carry leaves during winter? Is there a micro climate in Birmingham? There are some intriguing characters (with matching actors) walking around in this series!


                
Interesting story , outstanding director.. simply
Perfect art


                
These are the words that come to my mind when I think "Peaky Blinders". All in a good way, it is an exceptional and it's fresh, new, original series that is worth your time!It's an old - schoolish kind of a TV Show. The main characters aka The Shelby family are gypsy/British breed gangsters from Birmingham, they are cool, very well written, acting is one of a kind, also side characters are very funny, refreshing, smart, and did I mention the acting is just WOW! Probably the main best thing in Peaky Blinders is the great job writers and actors did in portraying their characters.The atmosphere will make you feel like you yourself are in the show(maybe even get a haircut), with post WWI timeline of the show, they greatly present some of the key things like revolutions, strikes, post-war trauma, hard times, poverty, fashion back then, industrialisation etc. It is so on point and so well done, it's an art.The plot pretty much changes from season to season, as the Shelby name famously grows all over England, all doings of one Thomas Shelby, who always wants more and more. The transition from the first episode of season 1 to end of season four of Peaky Blinders and their rise (with falls) is like painter painting a slow, perfect contrast. It is the ultimate "started from the bottom" story of Tom Shelby and Peaky Blinders.It is also funny, witty, thrilling, tragic and dramatically driven series full of adventurous spirit. They show ups and downs and how a family is sticking together through it all, thick and thin, good and bad, life and death.One bad thing I'd have to say is sometimes it may seem dull(given it has so few episodes per season) and it's not for people who aren't interested in listening a lot about British politics, which is often a theme of discussion in the show and it is often a vital part of it. Also it does not contain very much action.I'm not hugely overwhelmed by Peaky Blinders, but I would definitely recommend it to everyone because it is and absolute art form if you are looking for a feel of a life post war, if you are a sucker for variations and transitions, very likeable characters, nice love stories and some sad tear-jerking scenes to go along with it.


                
The wife and I started watching this on Netflix while surfing around looking for something that might be interesting. From the beginning, I enjoyed the way it was filmed and the subject matter, while she was a bit indifferent to it. But the more I watched, the more interested she got in the story lines, and now we're both hooked. Yeah, it's a bit far-fetched at times, but it's hard to find anything of this nature that isn't, and we just overlook it for the most part because we enjoy the suspense. However, some of the criticisms I've read from other users that I agree with are:the music - can get very loud and annoyingthe difficulty understanding some of the accents (for an American ear) - I had to keep trying to interpret for my wife, but even I had trouble with some, especially Tom Hardy's and Paul Anderson's, so we just started watching with the CC turned on. Much better now.Adrien Brody's Godfather-like portrayal of his character - I keep waiting for him to make an offer they can't refuse.Annabell Wallis' nose job from season 1 to 2 - looks like a completely different personThe ape-like gait of 'Arthur' - I keep expecting him to start swinging from the treesThe over-use of slow motionNonetheless, we'll keep watching.


                
A very stylish gangster show which although produced by the BBC which usually spends limited budgets, makes the most of its presumably low budget. The camerawork is excellent, the vibe is cool and the music really fits even though I know some people have a problem with it. It's one of the best current British series.The Shelby family is what makes it most interesting, getting absorbed in their lives. Often the question that is implied (and outright spoken at the end of Season 3) is why put yourself and your family through all this torment for money? Isn't it better to be poorer but safe and happy?The attention to detail is also fantastic and brings post-WW1 England to life in its grimy glory. It's great how the plot is interwoven with the politics of the time, including the Irish Republicans, the red scare in the East and the rise of socialism among the working class in England.Peaky Blinders is not HBO-level though, and here's why: while it touches on many issues of the time, it doesn't explore them. It's a kind of surface-level rummage that doesn't go deep enough. Here's a great example that summarises the level that Peaky Blinders is on: two characters, one black, walk into a pub and get into scuffle with a racist man. Later in response the Blinders burn the pub to the ground in revenge. That's it. That's the way Peaky Blinders deals with the issue of racism in the 1920s. It covers a wide breadth of issues, but rarely says anything interesting or new about them. Instead, almost all of the intrigue comes from the overarching plot and the characters.But the characters are a bit dodgy sometimes too. Many are cardboard cutouts and one-dimensional stereotypes, like the Evil Irish Inspector, the Crazy Russian Woman (who plays Russian Roulette of course) and the Evil Irish Priest who probably molests children in his spare time. Some of the plots are clichéd as well, most of all the one in Season 1 that uses the "undercover agent falls in love with the person she's investigating" trope. There's also quite a bit of filler that sometimes makes Peaky Blinders feel like a mediocre soap opera.Those are harsh criticisms, but Peaky Blinders is well plotted and worth a watch.
Missed this highly regarded series when first broadcast some years ago but was encouraged to watch it by friends and caught up with series one over the festive period. Personally I had no knowledge of the gang-wars in post WWI Birmingham involving the Irish, gypsy and the local community, but found the story of middle brother Tommy Shelby's seemingly irresistible rise to kingpin status wholly involving and entertaining.It's easy to compare this drama with Scorsese's Hollywood take on the gangs of New York, but I hated that film with its cliched characterisations, violence just for violence sake depictions and some terrible over-acting, especially by Daniel Day-Lewis. There's very little of that in "Peaky Blinders" as it makes very few false-steps with a believable array of characters, carefully injected but not overdone scenes of brutality and convincing playing by its well-cast ensemble.Central to everything is the coming-man Tommy, played with cold-eyed efficiency by Cillian Murphy, usurping his older brother Arthur (Paul Anderson) in the process. There's a tearaway younger brother too and a sister who happens to love Tommy's one-time best pal, now a firebrand Communist agitator and a matriarchal aunt cannily played by Helen McCrory.The scene setting of the Birmingham slums, streets and factories is superbly done almost like a time machine has planted the viewer right there all those years ago. The linked stories of the six first episodes crescendo to a thrilling climax as Tommy takes on his established rival, a big-time racetrack bookie and takes in the involvement, make that entanglement with a pretty new Irish waitress who isn't all that she seems.However a senior police officer's mutual fascination with her was really the only missed step in the narrative especially its rather silly, overdone culmination at the conclusion of the first series finale but I now can't wait to further witness Tommy's inexorable rise in future series in what may be the best reason yet for binge-watching boxed sets to my knowledge.


                
The idea that the MAFIA, OMG the MAFIA!!!!!! is in town, is ridiculous if you believe the Shelby's are now major industrialists with vast capacity, unbelievably violent and smart then the mafia threat is ginned up. Also, the whole simultaneous hanging thing and then the commutations is equally silly. It's like a kung fu movie in it's plotting, But, and here's the thing, it's well acted and shot, each scene is compelling, the characters are well motivated, so the plotting is just an excuse. The background of the great war is tremendously saddening, the damage, the waste, how the violence in the war is replicated in the "here" of the series. In general, a tremendous sadness permeates the show, so just roll with fantasy plotting.
I cannot describe how much the first season touched me. not like in a sad way but purely the characters and the clever way of filmmaking. I think that Peaky Blinders is one of the best examples of telling a story through image. the combination between the brilliantly written script and the way of telling is so 'fookin' clever. the directors are so conscious using the watchers' knowledge that you feel immediately close to the Peaky Blinders. I never doubted their honesty for example. and i seriously love Thomas Shelby. oh my god that man... this is not a series which is building on the plot or the cliffhanger. I feel like every episode has his own plot and feeling. the character of Tommy is a person who thinks about every decision. it can happen that three episodes later you find out that he knew all the time that this particular event was going to happen. and that's the reason why he is the puppet player and not the police or any enemy (which he almost every time makes to his allies)i love it.


                
I must say, the first two episodes of the series were difficult to get through as it us more talking and less action, so I do understand the bad ratings. But for those who gave up after 1 or 2 episodes: those episodes sets up a continuation for the rest of the show, which is totally worth it.I love everything of it. I am seriously blown away by the setting and how they created it. beautifully done. I also believe that the director used less coloration to give it a bit of a darker look.As for writing: great job. No plot holes and if there are some, they'll get filled up in later episodes. The were a lot of things that left me questioned, but eventually, all the pieces of the puzzle will fall in place.The acting is great as well. I have even more respect for Cillian Murphy after this show. I like how Ada shows her feminism, although it looks like every woman in this show is stepping up.All in all, the director did a great job reflecting time and place for this era in history. Awesome work!


                
So far this series is very entertaining. Plenty of action and different characters makes it easy to enjoy and pick a favorite. I did notice a HUGE ERROR in season 2 episode 4 that makes a large impact on the plot of future episodes. Canada was NEVER part of the prohibition laws followed by America, in fact they were the number 1 supplier of alcohol to America during that time. The following is a quote from Wikipedia; After Edward, Prince of Wales, returned to the United Kingdom following his tour of Canada in 1919, he recounted to his father, King George V, a ditty he had heard at a border town:Four and twenty Yankees, feeling very dry, Went across the border to get a drink of rye. When the rye was opened, the Yanks began to sing, "God bless America, but God save the King!"[40]I'm not sure how to forward this information to the writers of the show but it is in my eyes important to do so.
I felt the need to review this show because it's still somewhat underground. I'll be honest in saying I do not enjoy most television shows or movies because of copycat concepts and clichés, and I'm awarely ignorant in the sense that I will not watch anything that hasn't been critically acclaimed or recommended. This show, however, surpasses the quality of many others, and by far.On a general level, the aesthetic is superb. Everyone involved successfully does their part at capturing and conforming to the Birmingham lifestyle of the late 1910s and early 1920s. From the industrial environment, to the grungy characters, the dark formal wear, the raging alcoholism and chain-smoking, the loud rock music (and sometimes beautifully calm tracks), this show nails it all.But where it truly excels is with its writing and the actors' performances. Admittedly, I haven't seen many films with Cillian Murphy, but based on his interviews, he doesn't seem like the type of individual who would be able to relate to this role. Despite that, he seems to become entirely lost in the character of Tommy Shelby and he consistently pushes the boundaries as the writing develops. His character effortlessly shifts from a calm, intelligent individual with a cold stare to an enraged animal. And even though we know his character isn't a good person by any means, we tend to like him and sympathize with his struggle in most situations. He's a likable badass, and the same can be said for most of the Shelby family who each have very clearly defined characteristics.I've read some other reviews in which people said the writing was ridiculous or the relevance to real history wasn't accurate. I respectfully disagree with these reviewers. After you've seen so many terrible popular shows, you can't even consider the bulk of this show (15 episodes) out-of-line or ridiculous. Keep in mind, unless you're watching a documentary, you will never see a show that's more than half true to history. Easily an 8-9/10 because nothing ever deserves a full 10. Go watch it.


                
The acting is superb in this gangster period piece. At the beginning, the story is based on a true story based in England which brings charm to this tv-show. The quality of the scenario puts you in a good position where you will have to watch all the episodes before getting satisfy. Cillian Murphy is so good in is characters. The cinematographic style is different compare to other tv-shows. They have won a lot of praise for its writing, acting, visual style, etc. 
If you have some time and you want to begin a new tv-show, do not thing anymore! Peaky Blinders, it' what you need.


                
Let's fight this gang
omg this gang is so much smarter and more powerful than us
Oh thank god for Tommy


                
The show is good, very well made in terms of ambience (clothes, locations, etc), good plot.But truth be told it reminded me a lot of Sons of Anarchy.Bad guys, doing bad stuff, but in the end you have mixed feelings towards them - between liking them or wishing them to have a bad trade.A senior woman with a mother figure playing an important role as well (just like SoA).On the bad side, I believe the caracthers should be more explored.If you like SoA, you will like this.
And if by any chance you haven't seen SoA yet, give it a chance after Peaky Blinders.


                
Why the f...k would Cillian try to speak in Romanian language while speaking with a gipsy leader from 1919? First: that is just offensive to all the Romanian people, because they have nothing in common with the gipsies living in Romania, given that gipsies in Romania are speaking their own language . Second: gipsies that live in England and Ireland speak an entire other language that no englishman or irishman understand. Third: even romanian language was totally different in 1919. Gipsies have always been a migrating population, living all over Europe, so I don't understand why such a great television full of professionals like BBC would associate them with Romania. That's just lack of thinking. But a great show. And PS: Cillian could have tried harder to learn the few lines in romanian. It really isn't that hard :)
This show started a bit slow for me, and has some weird anachronistic feelings or music at times, but overall, this is hugely entertaining. I don't know why some reviewers seem to hate it so bad. One or two simply went on a tirade about the amount of smoking in the show! LOL. It takes place in a gutter environment of the working and criminal class in the early 1900s!!! Of course they are smoking and drinking. Hell, the preachers and mothers smoked in those days, right up to the 1970s. Plenty of intrigue, violence, and competing criminal and political factions to go around. The whole atmosphere captures the grim and dirty feel of the work and time period.The protagonist is a good actor, and I don't really see any bad actors in this.The formula and gangster thing may have been done before, but I see some really original spin on it from this show. So far, it has generally gotten better and better. I've been waiting a long time for season 4, and I binge-watch whenever a season comes out. I'm satisfied and intrigued...
It has been compared to Boardwalk Empire but that show knew how to follow through when a good ding-dong was required. This show kept walking up to the mark then retreating. Follow through and do something decisive that has consequences. The big showdown in the final episode, great build up then splat. It also had a Guy Ritchie vibe to it, which isn't a bad thing but then you realize how good his scripts are and how mediocre this script was, maybe that's a bit harsh, but it could have had a bit more pizazz, no need to be so sincere. Other than that great lead and atmosphere. I'm looking forward to the new series, especially with talk of Tom Hardy appearing in it. To hell with it, I'll change my 7 to an 8.
Acting, Production, Style, Plot, Camera. Everything is great, but unfortunately it lacks action. If it lasted for 40 mins like most TV shows do that wouldn't be a major problem, but it's difficult, for most people to watch continuous dialogues for 1 hour straight without any action eg (fighting, blades, guns, gore)


                
