The BBC haven't made a mini series as good since 'Edge of Darkness' in 1985. Although 'State of Play' doesn't quite match that seminal classic it is still superb. It is an oasis in a very large desert of quality programming from the once mighty BBC. Apart from the 2001 co-production 'Conspiracy' the BBC drama output is a poor shadow of what it used to be in the sixties and seventies.The six episodes of 'State of Play' need close attention but once the plot gets going it is a roller coaster ride to the last few minutes of the last episode. The journalists, the politicians and the police prowl around each other as the conspiracy is unravelled. It is not just a driving narrative however, there are real people with real emotions caught up in the action. The six episodes allow several characters to become rounded and interesting. High praise indeed for Paul Abbott, the writer. It gripped from start to finish.The acting is excellent. David Morrissey and John Simm as Stephen Collins and Cal McCaffrey play brilliantly off against each other as truths are eventually discovered. The last scene between them is corker. The journalists are the heroes but they are also flawed and troubled. All the actors playing the journos were great but I thought Kelly Macdonald as Della Smith was exceptional. Bill Nighy had some hilarious lines which he gave full justice to. Forget Hollywood star names, these are proper actors.Apart from the human characters the other character that is well portrayed is London itself. London has many faces and the series brought several of those out. From nights by the Thames , to the bleak housing estates, to the pretty suburban streets, to the formality of Parliament, to the sounds and almost the smells of eight million people jostling together. All photographed atmospherically. As a Londoner it made me look at my city again.I'll run out of superlatives soon, so I'll just say it is a great achievement by all the artists concerned. Apparently another series is being considered and hopefully that will be just as good.


                
What makes a good political thriller?  Some things are obvious.  Firstly, strong believable characters.  Secondly, a fast-paced, complex, dazzling plot. But the plot must resolve into something comprehensible - there may appear to be one hundred mysteries, but beneath the smoke and mirrors, there must be one story.  Anyone can write an infinite collection of coincidences and conspiracies - but a strong story makes simple sense in the end. Finally, a political drama needs to say something authentic about the current state of the world.  If the final conclusion is that the Prime Minister has a prediliction for drinking the blood of teenage girls, then however plausible this is made to seem, an opportunity has been lost - if politics really is the subject matter, and not just the setting, then the personal drama must make some wider political point.  Paul Abbott's 'State of Play' succeeds gloriously on all these points, and confirms his reputation as among the the sharpest writers in British television today.Director David Yates also deserves credit, for keeping the mood tense but unmelodramatic throughout, while the cast show uniform excellence in bringing Abbott's characters to life.  Abbott has commented that he knew he would have failed if any of his (largely journalistic) heroes could be sumarised as "mavericks" - a simple lesson ignored by ninety percent of writers today.  Instead we have real, three-dimensional portrayals. What's especially impressive is how well the female characters are realised - neither passive decoration nor kick-ass post-feminists, but believable, not necessarily glamorous women - the contrast between the sexes has a low-key ring of truth.  David Morrissey as the MP around whom the storm breaks is also excellent - when politicians are held in universally low stock, 'State of Play' avoids all the easiest shots.  If one of the tragedy of politics is that many of its protagonists are first rate idiots, another is what it makes out of those who are not.  Morrissey's Stephen Collins is never sympathetic, and yet comes across as the sort of man you might almost choose to try and run the country.  Paul Abbott, meanwhile, is certainly the sort of man you'd choose to write a drama.  In 'State of Play', he has produced the best British TV series since 'Holding On'.


                
What a trip watching this masterpiece. It's a fast moving intelligent thriller that had me glued to the couch... more addictive than Crack! The acting is convincing, the plot is thick, the script is delicious and the characters are vivid.It's not often a TV production comes along leaving you hungry for more, but the BBC have a knack for picking quality and producing some of the best programming in the world. This is the stuff that leaves American entertainment for dead. No gadgets, explosions or tough guys! Shame on them with all their money and their smarts, it's the BBC that delivers time and time again.Hats off and if you haven't seen it yet don't put it off.


                
Paul Abbott is a genius. His writing here is taut and intelligent, just like anything else he has done. This BBC production is truly flawless. From the writing to direction to the acting, it is outstanding. This is exhilarating and challenging TV that, though politically-charged, crucially develops interesting characters that you can care about. The plot is complex, as the best political thrillers are, and delivers a TV drama that hopefully shuts up those who say that us Brits can't make TV like the Yanks. Yes, American TV is great but the marathon seasons and multiple writers are exhausting and create bloated, sometimes frustrating TV. Look at Lost, it is as easy to hate as it is to love and becomes dull frequently in the flabby, direction-less mid-season hell. Not here though. Six streamlined parts that never let up the pace and never loosen their grip on the audience. 'State of Play' keeps you hooked and leaves you begging for more, as with all great pieces of entertainment. You'll be sucked into this world and won't want to leave.Credit must be equally divided between its makers, and the direction is every bit as thrilling as the writing, and ,accordingly, David Yates is moving on to bigger things with the Harry Potter franchise. The tremendous cast all deliver as you'd expect, with David Morrissey and John Simm excellent as the leads and a stunning supporting cast that includes Kelly MacDonald, Philip Glenister, Polly Walker, Patrick Brennan, Shauna MacDonald, Rebekah Staton, James McAvoy, Marc Warren and, of course, the ever-delightful Bill Nighy.More joy is found in the pulsating soundtrack, tight editing and cinematography.Overall, 'State of Play' is among the most thought-provoking and exhilarating thrillers you'll ever see and is quite possibly the best thing to have been on TV; British, American or otherwise.


                
It isn't often that something literally comes along and changes the standards of a viewer for an entire genre. By the time I got through the nearly six hour of State Of Play the first time around, that was exactly what had happened to me. Having watched it again in virtually one sitting I am once again surprised not only by how well the mini-series holds up during a second (or in my case third) viewing but just how high the quality of the mini-series really is.To begin with, the series features one essential element for any good story: good and believable characters played by fine actors. The cast of the series is top notch and is led by John Simm as newspaper reporter Cal McCaffrey and David Morrissey as British politician Stephen Collins who both give two incredibly gripping yet believable performances. While this is true of the entire series this fact is especially true during the final minutes of the series when things effectively become a two-hand play between Simm and Morrissey and their respective characters. It's easy to imagine how these characters could have been played differently but here, in this series, these performances are (to use words I don't sue very often) absolutely perfect.That's not to say that the rest of the cast is lacking by any means, far from it in fact. The supporting cast features fantastic performances that are just as gripping and believable as the performances of the mini-series two leads. The cast ranges Kelly Macdonald as reporter Della Smith, James McAvoy as reporter Dan Foster, Polly Walker as Coliins wife Anne, Stuart Goodwin as the mysterious Robert Bingham and the ever magnificent Bill Nighy as newspaper editor Cameron Foster. There is many more of course many others, but these are just a few of the fantastic performances to be found in State Of Play.There are also the production values to consider as well. One of the best things about State Of Play is the fact that one could believe that this could whole sequence of events is really just a headline away at any moment. Much of the credit of that goes to the production design of Donald Woods and the costumes of Claire Anderson both of which anchor the series firmly in reality. Then there's the incredible fly-on-the-wall cinematography by Chris Seager which manages not only to compliment the reality of the production design and costumes but gives the entire mini-series a documentary feel as well, all of which is helped by the editing of Mark Day. There's also the sparingly used, but highly effective, score by composer Nicholas Hooper which does what a good score is supposed to do: give additional emotional depth to any scene it appears in. All together the result is some of the strongest production values you're ever likely to see in a TV mini-series.The real success of the realistic feel of State Of Play lies not in how good the production values are but in the writing of scriptwriter Paul Abbott. Abbott has created a story that feels as though it could be ripped from tomorrow's headlines in a cautionary tale about the sometime fuzzy line between major corporations and those in government whoa re supposed to oversee them, in this case the corporation being a fictional but plausible British oil company and its lobbyists. The mini-series also takes a look at the modern news industry, how it gathers news, where it gets its information from and how pressure can be brought to bare if there's a story too damaging to those in high and powerful places. To do all this successfully and believably, Abbott forgoes many of the thriller clichés of rather tired action sequences and instead (and rightfully in my humble opinion anyway) focuses on the characters and their dialogue which leads to close six hours of fantastic dialogue and an incredible plot. If anything makes State Of Play worth seeing it is the plot which sets a new standard in just how many twists and turns one can fit in a seemingly easily clichéd plot. The result is a complex a mini-series that leaves a first-time viewer ever seeking answers and those who've seen it before looking and finding new clues with every viewing. In short: it's a first class script without any doubt.So what is State Of Play? It is a fantastic thriller containing some truly fantastic yet believable performances, fine production values and a first-rate script that never sinks into clichés. Yet it also something that is increasingly rare today. By doing all of those things it succeeds in doing something truly spectacular: it changes and raises the standards for an entire genre with it. If you can say nothing else you can say that State Of Play is what a good thriller ought to be.


                
I take issue with some of the people commenting on "State of Play" who declare that they believe it to be "as good as American TV" or some other such nonsense. That's ridiculous! Perhaps it's a generational thing, but I have always thought that British productions, particularly drama, are light years ahead of American TV and the actors are in a whole different galaxy. The original "State of Play" is brilliant, suspenseful and a pleasure to watch. I cannot believe that there is going to be a "remake"! I love Helen Mirren and Russell Crowe, but there is absolutely no need for this series to be remade. Why can't they write something original for Mirren and Crowe? The Brits are the best. Period!


                
Actually the whole cast is - Bill Nighy, David Morrissey, Kelly Macdonald. What a terrific ensemble piece. David Morrissey's performance was very reminiscent of his role in the equally good "Holding On' I thought.John Simms as the prime investigative reporter was definitely the standout though - a cleverly scripted excellently directed piece that convincingly twisted and turned throughout the five episodes. Totally gripping and highly recommended.
This is what I call top class stuff. I haven't had much interest in British mini series for the past years. I loved the Dennis Potter series and "The Crow Road" I thought was excellent(since than I've read almost all of Banks' books). When it comes to thrillers, "Taggart" was good for quite some time, but has been going rapidly down the drain. So I was pleasantly surprised when I accidentally watched the first episode of "State of Play" and was absolutely hooked. The story is tight and exciting and the cast is wonderful. Even the cop who gets killed in episode 1 is a great character. John Simm, David Morrisey, Bill Nighy: all excellent, and I think I almost fell in love with Kelly MacDonald. Bravo. For a long time the best TV material has been American(Six feet Under, The Sopranos). I hope I'll see more stuff like that in the future.
I missed this on original transmission (what was I doing in 2003?) but had heard so much about it from Life on Mars fans that I finally got round to buying it on DVD recently. Oh how wished I'd seen it before now.Its tight, fast paced, beautifully directed and filmed. All of the primary and supporting cast are excellent but special credit must go to the ever outstanding John Simm plus Kelly MacDonald and David Morrisey. The thought of Brad Pitt playing John's role in the Hollywood remake makes me laugh and cry in equal measure and not in a healthy way!! What's particularly brilliant is all the characters are three dimensional and believable. As has been said no cocky maverick reporters, no kick-ass post feminist female reporter with a chip on her shoulder. Just a group of professionals who find themselves through Cal's personal connections on the biggest story of their lives. Credit for that lies in excellent writing from Paul Abbot.The story starts and concludes on the apparent suicide of the personal assistant of the Chairman of The Energy Select Commitee, Stephen Collins (Morrisey), whom it transpires were having an affair.By accident and due to an unrelated story his friend and leading Herald reporter Cal (Simm) discovers evidence that her death may not have been suicide. From there the story snowballs until the highest reaches of the Government are implicated in a series of griping twists each one leaving you slightly more stunned than the last.Some people have said the concluding episode is a let-down but I must disagree. It actually makes a great deal of sense in the context of the story because the one thing they can't find in the whole story is that clue that leads to her murder. None of the key players in the conspiracy are able to shed light on it.The revelation as to how she actually died is extremely well played. Its dropped in casually and its not until you realise what has disturbed Cal so much, that it dawns on you that casual drunken outburst is the biggest twist of them all.Its this revelation that makes the ending so powerful because it isn't happy. Cal has published the greatest story of his life, but its the one he least expected or dared imagine could be true in his worst nightmare. State of Play is ultimately a story of betrayal.State of Play would be worth watching just for the ever brilliant John Simm (Brad, you'll need to give the best performance of your life to be half as good), the fact its six of the best hours of television I've seen just sweetens the deal. Watch it, Buy it. SEE IT.
The BBC dramatic standards have been slipping, either trying to hard to compete with HBO (The Last Enemy), letting shows jump the shark (Spooks) or simply being too cheap and just make shows like Strictly Come Dancing. But when the BBC get it right it can be some of the best television available. With State of Play we get a brilliant written, deep show, with a great director and an fantastic cast. A show so good that Hollywood remade it into a film stating Russell Crowe and Ben Affleck.The mini-series starts with brutal murder of a 15-year-old petty criminal and the suspected suicide of Sonia Baker, a researcher for Simon Collins MP (David Morrissey), the chairman of the Energy Select Committee. At first the two events seem unrelated until newspaper reporter Cal McAffrey (John Simms) starts looking into it. Both men, with the backing of the Heard newspaper, including junior reporter Della Smith (Kelly MacDonald), editor Cameron Foster (Bill Nighy) and free-lancer Dan Foster (James McAvoy). Slowly all parties discover a conspiracy involving big oil, political corruption and sexual scandals. Simon Collins himself was having an affair with the dead researcher and his marriage falls apart. Cal ends up getting close with Simon's wife Anne (Polly Walker) and has to balance his friendship with the two. Cameron has to balance his editorial responsibles and Della and Dan set out to prove themselves as journalists.I am a politics nut, so this series easily appealed to me. Often programmes and films about British politics is treated as a comical subject. This series treats it seriously, much like the West Wing does with American politics (if a bit more far-fetched). The show follows the traditional British view of being cynical about politicians and ideology. However the show is wrong about how Select Committee Chairpersons are picked. The film also shows the underhanded way oil lobbyists world (oil is such a easy villains for us Brits). The show also looks at many aspects of the press, from its relationship with the government and politicians, journalistic ethics and Chinese walls between a paper's editorial staff and the ownership. The film looks at journalists and politicians as individuals and wanting to serve the public. The series has a great complex plot, you don't know where its going next and shows how hard journalists have to work. Peter Abbott does a wonder job.David Yates has proved himself to be a good director. The State of Play and his other mini-series Sex Traffic was prove enough for him to a land a small feature film, Harry Potter. He makes the series look very cinematic, like an excellent thriller feature. He keeps the tension going, get the best out of his actions and has some wonderful shot, especially tracking shots. He is a skilled man.There is a great cast, David Morrissey and John Sims are both very good actors and were excellent in the leads. Both character are very faulted but you take an interest in what happens to them. There is a great support cast, with actors like Kelly MacDonald, James McAvoy, Bill Nighy and Marc Warren. Bill Nighy was perfectly smiley but a cares about his people. Kelly MacDonald is excellent as the young idealist. There was no weak link and all the major characters are fully developed. Even the bad guys have reasons for what they are doing, and not just for money.The series is cheap on amazon and play and it is worth having. Highly recommended.


                
One day in London two people die; a woman who is a research assistant for an up and coming MP who ends up under a tube train and a young ne're-do-well who is shot in the head. They have nothing obvious in common but it emerges that the latter and called the former shortly before her death. Reporter Cal McCaffrey is convinced that there is a story and starts investigating. He has a slight personal interest as the MP the woman worked for is his old friend Stephen Collins<U+0085> who it emerges was having an affair with the woman. As the series progresses the situation becomes more dangerous as conspiracies are exposed and people in power, both political and financial, bring pressure on the newspaper McCaffrey work for.This is definitely a superior series; the plot is gripping from the start and details are revealed in an interesting and believable way. The cast is top notch; most notably John Simm and David Morrissey as McCaffrey and Collins but there are also fantastic performances from Kelly Macdonald, Bill Nighy, James McAvoy and Polly Walker to name just a few. The series contains some impressive twists, including a conclusion that I didn't see coming but still felt believable. As well as a fine drama there are moments of unforced humour, mostly provided by Bill Nighy as the paper's editor and Marc Warren as a man who knows more than he wants to tell<U+0085> the scene where he tries to run from the police while wearing a neck brace was priceless. Overall I'd highly recommend this to fans of a good mystery with political undertones.
This is one of the best BBC series ever shown. Have watched it a few times and some of the stars are now house hold names absolutely brilliant though and well worth a watch though may look slightly dated now.


                
State of Play - British 6 part series from 2011 streaming on BritBox or NetFix DVD. Wonderful writing, very smart directing and editing, brilliant acting by everyone. Tight storytelling. Every word, every scene, every actor makes a difference. Binged it because I couldn't stop. How did I miss this until now? But I've seen it now. I'll watch it again because I know I've missed something interesting.


                
The BBC seem to know how to make good drama. Everything I've seen from the BBC has been excellent. I bought the DVD a few days ago never seen the series before and loved it. David morrissy (Basic Instict 2) was superb in his role as an mp and Bill Nighy (Notes on a scandal) as the boss of the newspaper i thought that was one of his best roles I've seen him in. James McAvoy (Last king of Scotland) was really good in this as well. The BBC seem to be the only people that know how to make political drama's properly. There is a remake of the series being made by the yanks which will star Brad Pitt and Edward Norton which i think is a disgrace that it is being made which will come out in 2008 for those who wish to see more of this type of story.


                
When I started searching for this mini-series, I got confused because there's a US movie with Russle Crowe that has the same exact title, and the plots are even similar. Although the Russle Crowe movie is pretty good, it doesn't hold a candle to this British mini-series. Seriously, I loved every single second of it. The plot had exciting and unexpected twists and turns. The character development was deep and realistic. There aren't any one dimensional cut and dry good or bad guys. Everyone has very apparent flaws, just like real life. I would definitely recommend this to anyone that likes good well written character driven political thriller type dramas. You won't be disappointed. I wish American TV mini-series were more like this. I have more reviews on my blog at www.sociallyurban.com If you're interested in checking it out.


                
I saw the Crowe film, State of Play, at the cinema, quite liked it (despite his accent) and found what I thought was the DVD in a shop with the price tag of £4. Too good to be true, I thought and I thought right. Imagine my disappointment when I got home to find it was a TV series that I hadn't seen when broadcast. My wife said to give it a go so we settled down to watch.We saw the first three episodes straight off, just as if it was an unputdownable book. We rushed our dinner the following night and then viewed the remainder. Less than a month later we saw the whole series again. It is that good. Brilliant in fact, the best BBC series since the '95 Pride and Prejudice.There were no weak performances, as one would expect with the likes of Bill Nighy, who was excellent, Kelly Macdonald, who is always good value but excelled herself here, John Simm, in his best performance so far, David Morrissey, who got the character to perfection, Marc Warren and oh, so many others.The script was clever, with some lovely one-liners, and the plot developed at a pace that was intriguing. I'm glad I hadn't seen the series when it first came out as I don't think I could have taken the gap between the episodes.The character development was far superior to the film, but then it was nearly four times longer so it was entitled to be. Some of the actors in smaller parts made them their own, most notably James Laurenson who was really horrible. Deborah Findlay was the perfect secretary. No so bit-part Polly Walker was excellent as well.There were little running jokes all the way through that lightened the film at just the right moments.The ending has come in for criticism but it was essential to give a reason for everything. I can't see the problem. Simm's choice, and his reasons, at the end is critical to the story.Bill Nighy had the best script. He owes the writers a few pints.I have just seen it again, courtesy of some awful weather, and it was just as brilliant as I remembered it. I don't want to criticise the film – although as half Irish I did find Crowe's accent, when he decided to try for it, somewhat wearing – by comparison as it has limitations that were not restricting this wonderful series but I have not bothered to buy the DVD of the film.There are few series/films you must see but this is one of them. I rate it at #2 in my top 10 TV films/series, and I'm not sure it shouldn't be joint #1 with Pride and Prejudice. It is that good. No, not good, classy.


                
