It is not often that really good series based on politics, suspense and a bit of romance + comedy hit our idiot boxes. However, State of Play manages to do all this with such finesse that I was left spellbound. What starts of as a simple murder case becomes so huge that it really boggles the mind. And at all time, it does not seem one bit over-stretched or silly. Add to this three subplots and what you have is a series that is of immense viewing pleasure. All in a runtime of just 300 minutes.If you want your TV series to be intelligent, do yourself a favour and watch this series. Now.


                
This BBC TV mini series is so far ahead of the remake released as a theatre movie earlier this year, that it could almost be another piece entirely. OK, maybe that's an unfair comparison as the TV series had 6 hours and the movie had a little over two. But it's telling to make the comparison and take note of what the main differences are, and what they say about the current state of the film industry.The TV series featured an ensemble cast of really good solid actors with a few real stand outs (Bill Nighy, David Morrissey, John Simm, Kelley Macdonald) playing a convincing crew of real characters. The movie is a vehicle for a Big Star (Russell Crowe) with most of the other parts being reduced to stereotypes. The TV series had some well rounded female characters with real lives and real motives and faults – just like the men. The movie has as its women a ball breaking newspaper boss (Helen Mirren), a high glam stick thin side kick for Crowe (Rachel McAdams) and a cardboard cut-out as the wife (Robin Wright Penn). So we have The Bitch, The Cutie and The Fallen Saint – pretty much the usual Hollywood take on women. (Although to be fair, I will add that many of the male characters are played as stereotypes too.) Of particular note is how utterly underwritten is the character of Anne Collins, wife of the straying politician, in the movie version. She is reduced to a very passive role, with very few lines. In the TV series, love her or hate her, this is a woman really enjoying getting her kit off and having a revenge affair.Given that the action and intrigue had to be stuffed into a third of the time, what the movie sacrifices is, of course, the female characters. Unless they are cute. And that just about says it all. The TV series is excellent and rewards extended viewing, and requires a little more than our usual gnat like attention span.
So State of Play is a movie, a remake from State Of Play, a miniseries (6 episodes of 1 hour) that aired in 2003 on the BBC (UK). As the movie is a remake, I will state the differences and why this movie is so bad, compared with the original. Main reason : the cast. Here, in the movie,you have Russel Crowe (playing Cal MacCaffrey - established journalist), big movie star with long hair that could be an add for a shampoo as a reviewer already said. You also have Ben Affleck (Stephen Collins), Cutie actor who is as credible as a politician as a tomato trying to look like a green bean. Another Cutie as a woman this time (playing Della Frye, a newbie journalist), the "Girl who has no use in the movie but looks good and that's enough". And the only good actress with an interesting role plays the Editor. And that's all. The whole movie rests on 4 actors. In the BBC miniseries, between the great John Simm (MacCaffrey, has played the Master on DrWho), David Morissey (Stephen Collins, playing in The Walking Dead), James Mc Avoy, Bill Nighy, Kelly McDonald (Della an accomplished journalist, see the difference with the movie?, now playing in the Boardwalk Empire), Polly Walker and so on... See what I mean ? The miniseries is an ensemble cast series, and that's what makes its greatness. As for dummy things in the movie : at the end, Russel Crowe (scuse me, Cal MacCaffrey) sits at his desk and writes his 10 pages article in two hours. I didn't know being a journalist was so easy ! In comparison, in the miniseries, Cal Mac Caffrey (John Simm) changes only the title of his article ... The movie was all about Russel and his hair, Ben and his good look, The Girl and her I don't know what. The miniseries was all about the characters and their depth, the well crafted story, the authenticity of its not world known actresses and actors... I know what I prefer.
Scene-by-scene this thriller/drama really sucked me in. Once engaged it was hard to stop watching--it's the movie equivalent of a book you can't put down, since you want to know what is going to happen next. The production values are high in all categories. I particularly liked the framing suitable for wide screen viewing with the characters posed against backgrounds that make great use of color to accentuate the mood.The story of a newspaper reporter digging into a murder that ultimately involves high-level politicos requires close attention but, with a six hour run time, things unfold at a pace that can be digested.The ensemble cast is beyond reproach and Bill Nighy is simply superb in is portrayal of the editor of a large London newspaper. The score is not overly intrusive and it complements the action to engage you emotionally.The problem is that when it was all over I felt a bit letdown. In order to tie up some lose ends I think I could benefit from a second viewing, but the six hour time commitment has prevented my doing so. And maybe my sense of letdown was due to the fact that something that I had enjoyed so much was over.


                
I've never been keen on political matters and many of the things that were said in this series made absolutely no sense to me. Some of them i got, others were just gibberish. But that was such a minor detail compared to the beautifully written script by Paul Abbott and the great performances of the leading and supporting actors.Now, what's really interesting is the scenario. Beyond politics, yet always involved with. Three murders that, at first, seemed unrelated are leading a politician's personal life in distress. Once the press gets its hands on too, things can only be worse or right.Quick, funny, rich and strong conversations, i really enjoyed the filming locations in London. It gave the story an appropriate atmosphere for a mystery case. I thought David Morissey's acting was fantastic and with John Simm they played in an amazing theatrical way. Bill Nighy is a catch-phrase man -again- always classy and we also see some of the first steps of James McAvoy, another great actor.If you're a fan of -such genre- British television shows, i think you're going to like it. If you're experimenting, you may try it.


                
