There have been many films made dealing with an individual who's outer appearance is completely at odds with their inner character. Some of these films are quite good but this is by far and away the very best. This is probably one of the most perfect films ever made. It succeeds on every level. Visually it transports one into a dark, grey, industrial nightmare of a world. It's within this world that we come to discover true beauty. It lies within one hideously deformed, abused and unfortunate soul who is being kicked around in this hellish existence. The screenplay, acting, direction all come together to create this extraordinary viewing experience. You really feel like you get inside this man and his tortured existence. The ending is one of the most effective and completely engrossing I've ever seen. Rarely does a film find a way to leave us with such a sense of closure and lingering fascination. The thing that really makes this film truly great is it changes the way people see themselves, other people and the world. I can still remember the palpable air of silence and awe over the audience when leaving the theater both times I saw it on the big screen. There's a transforming quality about it. You only need to read the many other user comments to see how people were moved and changed by this film. If you haven't seen it, it's a must!


                
This movie changed my life forever. To see someone so beautiful, dignified, and unique, hidden behind a body and face that society considers ugly, made me realize how the body is a decaying pile of dust, but the soul is a breath-taking and uniquely formed indestructible diamond.I believe that everyone should get a chance to see this film, for those of an open mind, and a caring soul, there is nothing else like it.It also shows the detestable ways some people treat others. I felt at first pity for John Merrick, but then my feelings changed to admiration, as the film went on. John, in the film starts as a severely deformed mute figure being badly mistreated, as the story progresses, he becomes the hero. A bold and courageous man, standing against the  evils of modern society.Joseph (John) Merrick, was a man so one-of-a-kind, that someone else like him physically or emotionally will never appear again. His life should be taken as an example to everyone.As in the film, John's mother says "Nothing will Die", Joseph Merrick will live on in the hearts and souls of everyone who has witnessed the story of his life.My love goes to Joseph Merrick, where ever he may be.


                
I just watched this movie last night and i must say... it touched me in a way no other movie has... some of the scenes even brought me to tears, which has never happened to me before.... John Hurt and Anthony Hopkins are simple incredible, and this movie is just filled with unforgettable scenes....
but like some people have mentioned here before, it is an incredibly hard movie to watch, especially after you realize what a sweet, kind, smart and innocent man John Merrick was, it is often painful to watch the way he's treated by some people, and like Hopkins says after he sees him for the first time "I pray to god that he's an idiot", sadly, he is everything but that...10/10, no question


                
David Lynch is a remarkable director and The Elephant Man is a remarkable film. Inspired by a true story in the streets of London during the Victorian Age, the film is based entirely around the life of John Merrick (John Hurt), an individual dubbed by his `owner' Bytes (Freddie Jones) and others as 'The Elephant Man' because of his hideous deformities. With this film, Lynch grasps his audience and stretches them to a new parallel of an emotionally capturing film. And what makes this so daunting and so intriguing is the fact that 'The Elephant Man' is a true story, no part of it is fictional. Anthony Hopkins plays Dr. Frederick Treves, the man who somewhat saves John from those who persecute him for being a freak, being a `monster.' A story of human triumph could never be so remarkable as that of The Elephant Man. Lynch takes The Elephant Man to a new level of technical aspiration with a dark, dank setting shot completely in black and white. This film is amazing and would undoubtedly be just okay any other way. The black and white adds to the story in a way that touches the audience much deeper and much more personal. Not to mention stunning performances and dialogue by all cast, `David Lynch's portrait of John 'The Elephant Man' Merrick stands as one of the best biographies on film.' Literary critic Leslie Fiedler maintains that freaks stir `both supernatural terror and natural sympathies' because they `challenge conventional boundaries between male and female, sexed and sexless, animal and human, large and small, self and other.' In this very interesting and moving film, we are challenged to clarify our values in regard to `very special people.' However, in one powerful scene of tension and curiosity, John Merrick screams out, `I am not an animal! I am a human being! I.am.a man!' This particular sequence, I believe, is incredible and it ties in with the whole focus of the film itself, human dignity and emotion. David Lynch is known for some pretty twisted films, and yet, The Elephant Man is not that twisted at all. Even though his audience views John Merrick as not the average person because of his medical condition, the story is cherished because of how it is put onto the big screen. Compared to his other films such as Blue Velvet and Eraserhead, The Elephant Man is more surreal in terms of what Lynch was going for. Lynch does a magnificent job in portraying his version of The Elephant Man, and many people along with critics alike agree. I can easily rate The Elephant Man with four stars because David Lynch deserves no less. The Elephant Man is a classic, a striking and devastating film depicting the account of John Merrick's search for a dignified and normal life. I would definitely recommend this film to those in search of a wonderful story about one man's conquest to a regular life. Dr. Treves' account with John not only presents him with respect and normalcy, but also takes him as far as an uplifting scene where upon John states `my life is full because I know I am loved.' With such an inspirational and true story, David Lynch puts on a film that should be loved by many, if not all.


                
this is a brilliantly done film.  it is quite raw and blunt about its subject matter, however, so it should not be viewed for "entertainment" purposes, thought he story is inherently intriguing.  we must just sit and watch in curiousity and amazement, but in concurrence with extreme sorrow, as we are shown the brutality that john merrick must face as his reality.  a smile from another human being, or even a pleasant greeting (which is something that we all take for granted), is treated by this man as the highest form of complimentary behavior possible.one of the best films that i have ever seen.  it wouldnt be called a top 25 of all-time film by the public (though i may place it there), however, based solely on the fact that it, as i mentioned earlier, is lacking in terms of typical "entertainment" value.  even though you will certainly be immersed the entire way through. ah, who knows! im not expressing myself very well. make it a priority to see this film. enjoyabsolutely amazing and memorable - 10/10


                
Hi all,I saw this movie for the 1st time on 5th December 1999. I was about to go to sleep as it was about 00-40 in the morning and I flicked over to the movie and even though I was falling asleep as I flicked over to it, within  five minutes I was wide awake and totally captivated.Everyone knows the tale of John Merrick, it is so sad and painful to watch and see a man with above average intelligence trapped by his physical deformity and to be physically and mentally abused and tortured for a few meagre pence.I thought Sir John Gieulgud(?) and Sir Anthony Hopkins were both excellent in their respective roles. John Hurt did Merrick proud.I had a bit more than water in my eye on 4 occasions during this movie and not ashamed to admit it either. This is the 1st movie to make me cry.
On the Kleenex scale - Titanic is 1 and this is 10!A movie not to be missed but be prepared to be disgusted and upset by the story told.ThePM


                
I'm not writing any more plaudits for this movie, for most everything has been said about it before. Even a quarter century later, I weep everytime I watch Mr. Hurt and Mr. Hopkins in their roles. The great humanity of David Lynch and the producers has left us with an equally frightening and endearing vision of Mr. Merick.Sadly, there will always be elephant men, as long as ignorance and the impulse for destruction rule men and their domain.


                
This film is one of the greatest of all time. Hurt and Hopkins are excellent and the great Wendy Hillier and John Geilgud put in superb turns. The script is at once energetic,emotional and perfectly paced. Lynch's direction is also awesome. why did this film not win best picture? it is a trillion times better than ordinary people. Well done to Mel Brooks for producing such a beautiful film and having faith in the then relatively unheard of David Lynch. To me this is a crowning point in the careers of of Brooks,Lynch,Hurt, Hopkins,Hillier,Geilgud,Bancroft. A pure unadulterated masterpiece Brilliant


                
I see lots of films, and have a "Top Ten" list that only the most incredible of movies can enter.  However, upon seeing Elephant Man for the first time, it immediately broke onto that list which is dominated by Sci-Fi "guy" movies.The reason is that this movie is so heartbreaking, so sad, and yet so full of hope, there is little you can do to hold back your emotions while watching it.  I recommend watching it alone, for two reasons: 1) it is very painful and sad to watch and 2) the value is lost if you are trying "not to cry" or have something else on your mind (like talking to your friend).The performances are very well done, by Hurt, Hopkins, and everyone else in the cast.  The only gripe I have isn't really a gripe - the film isn't 100% true.  But it will make you forget all your problems for a while. Witnessing the life of "John Mellick" makes your own life seem like paradise.Even after repeated viewings this movie loses NONE of it's impact. Paramount, please release it on DVD!


                
It is truly baffling to me that there are people who have seen this film  who still think that David Lynch is a cold and cruel film-maker. David Lynch is ,in fact, a man of extraordinary gentleness and sensitivity, who cares deeply about the sort of people whom mainstream society stigmatizes as 'freaks'.Please, watch this film--watch it carefully-- and you will see that Lynch's deepest concern is with how a over-industrialized, rigid, and profoundly hypocritical society crushes its outsiders. It may sound odd, but I really believe that the non-Christian Lynch has, in the person of John Merrick portrayed one of the most profoundly moving "Christ figures' in all of film.  Let me also note how well Lynch( In only his second effort at directing!) handled such legends as Hiller, Gielgud and Hopkins.


                
very disturbing. Anthony Hopkins, as Dr. Treaves, trying to help a disfigured patient in the Victorian Era. The really sad part is that this was based on a true story.John Hurt is very effective, and the cinematography seems even more graphic in black and white. Sadly the carnival and freak-show atmosphere was prevalent in those days for entertainment. Today we have reality TV.Anyone who has traveled and visited the "surgical theaters" of Victorian England will be interested in this story. The Anthony Hopkins character has redeeming values, and the story is a case everyone should be made aware of.The atmosphere is foreboding and scary. Man's inhumanity to man. 10/10.


                
THE ELEPHANT MAN (1980) **** John Hurt, Anthony Hopkins, Anne Bancroft, Wendy Hiller, Freddie Jones, John Gielgud.  David Lynch's masterpiece of the human spirit about the true-life account of John Merrick, a hideously deformed man in England's Victorian Age, who was taken in by a physician after a hellish stint in a freak show.  Hurt rises to the occasion and delivers a heart wrenching Oscar nominated performance emoting under tons of make-up to full effect.  Equally good is Hopkins in low-key form as the humanitarian doctor.  Beautiful black and white photography resonates the production; nominated for 8 Academy Awards including Lynch and Best Picture. Best scenes: Hurt's recital of the 23rd Psalm and his immortal line: "I am not an animal, I am a human being!"  Incredibly powerful ending perfectly accentuated by the classical "Adagio For Strings".  Dare not to be moved. One of the best.  <U+0096> Trivia note, look for little person Kenny Baker during the carnival sequences; he's the guy inside R2-D2 in `Star Wars' and the head bandit in `Time Bandits'.


                
There is no feeling, no virtue, no human baseness "The Elephant Man" doesn't scrutinize: hypocrisy, cruelty, mercy, sadism, love...). David Lynch reached the status of genius with his second movie, he created an instant classic for the history of cinema, a masterpiece. He probed his huge talent beyond the oniric or surrealistic fits of "Eraserhead" (and of most of his filmography). He probed he's capable of doing anything he wanted to with a camera on his hands. For those who think Lynch is just a pretentious guy which only films nonsenses, please take a look at this movie.As for John Hurt, he didn't need to become the elephant man to demonstrate he's one of the best actors of his generation; nevertheless, he accepted the challenge... and he won. He made an outrageous display of physical and mental effort, and of body talk. I can't imagine how hard it was for him to carry that disguise all along the whole filming. Please let's take our hats off to Mr. John Hurt.The Elephant Man, just an essential film.*My rate: 10/10


                
There's always the inclination to say, "My God, how could anyone go wrong with a cast like that?" but of course the list of such disasters is long. This is one of those (few) movies about which, in my opinion, there's just nothing bad to say. The story is true, and John Hurt's incredible make-up corresponds very well to photographs of the real-life "elephant man." Hurt's interplay with Anthony Hopkins carries the film along on the evolution of their relationship from detached scientific fascination to enduring friendship. Ann Bancroft's performance is as masterful as one would hope and expect. The interviews included on the DVD were worth watching too, and will add to appreciation of the next viewing.


                
Never could one hope to find a film as ugly and beautiful as David Lynch's film biography of John Merrick (The Elephant Man).  Merrick's story is perhaps one of the most heartbreaking and appalling cases of human injustice to those different, with a strong message, which still holds importance to this day.  In the hands of a lesser talented director this film may have been just another pointless Hollywood story, but in the hands of Lynch the film becomes a haunting, beautiful, but at the same time, highly disturbing work of art.  Always surrealistic in its storytelling approach, the film sets up Merrick's complicated birth with an abstract dream/flash back sequence, dimly lit and photographed in gloriously grainy black and white the audience can't help but be immediately drawn in to the story.The film then jumps forwards, and introduces us to the character of Fredrick Treves (Hopkins) at a London carnival, where Merrick is being shown as part of the sideshow.  Treves is unable to see Merrick due to the police, who close the show before he gets there, but hungry for a glimpse he arranges to for a private showing with Merrick's owner Bytes.  Lynch is reluctant to show us Merrick in full daylight for the first quarter of the film, which in my opinion was a clever move, because it allows we the audience to share Treve's intrigue as to weather or not the tag Elephant Man is suited, or whether we are being duped into seeing something not too much out of the ordinary.  It is only later that, after we see Merrick, we realise that he is truly deformed beyond human recognition.The next part of the film is where the real argument of The Elephant Man rests, the age-old argument of beauty only being skin deep and how those who have beauty on the outside often have none on the inside.  As Merrick goes to show the staff of the hospital of which he's taken residency that he is an articulate, erudite human being, he is slowly integrated into polite society, not from respect though, the crowds are only gathering because viewing Merrick has become something of a status symbol, and this is where Treve's must decide whether or not he has forced John to exchange one freak-show for another.  For me The Elephant Man is one of the most staggering and moving films of recent cinema, the herald of a maverick talent in the then young David Lynch, and brimming with evocative production design, beautiful photography and a wealth of fine performances from Hopkins, Anne Bancroft, John Gielgud and Michael Elphick, not to mention Hurt's remarkable performance hidden under layers of prosthetic make-up.  It is true what others have said, that The Elephant Man is a very bleak, very downbeat film, a film not afraid to hold a mirror to society's injustices, but the ending is uplifting in a different way than most conventional happy endings.  In the respect that John has just has the happiest day of his life, and no day will ever be that good, so the perfect way to end that perfect day, is to sleep like he has always wanted to, even if it will result in his own death.  With the final line (used as my summary), we are told that nothing dies, that the spirit will always live on.  What a touching sentiment to the endurance of the human spirit.  A masterpiece 10/10


                
Anthony Hopkins is so associated with Hannibal Lecter, that we almost forget that he did star in movies before that. "The Elephant Man", for example. It's sort of hard to determine whether the main character is disfigured John Merrick (John Hurt) or Dr. Frederick Treves (Hopkins). Either way, it's the movie's plot that's important. The plot of course shows how Merrick has been treated as a monster all his life and Treves tries to cure him. As for the possibility that the movie may have revered its subject too much...well, would you feel comfortable mocking him? A particularly interesting combo is the people behind the movie: director David Lynch and executive producer Mel Brooks (Brooks' wife Anne Bancroft appears as an actress). The former is synonymous with deliberately weird cinema, while the latter is synonymous with silliness. Both men show a different side here. All in all, this is definitely a movie that everyone should see.


                
With a crowd bearing down on him, the tortured cry of The Elephant Man (John Hurt) rings out: "I am not an elephant! I am not an animal! I am a human being!"Set in Victorian England, it looks into the Freak Show trade that was popular then, through one particular gentleman, grossly and uniquely deformed, by the name of John Merrick (The Elephant Man), and is based on the memoirs of the doctor played by Anthony Hopkins, Dr Frederick Treves. It shows the humanity of poor Mr Merrick and condemns the society that exploited him for its own monetary gain and sick pleasure.The story itself is a difficult one, and i'm surprised that any producer, even someone as offbeat as Mel Brooks, would have agreed to pour money into this idea. It has none of the classic elements of the commercial formula for making a movie that will make money: it has no love story, it has no sex, and, without spoiling too much, it is quite a tragic, unhappy story.The pervasive tragedy of the story is that John Merrick is an intelligent man, trapped inside this hideously misshapen body. Hanging over the head of the story is also the fact that nothing can be done for Mr Merrick. And the metaphor running throughout is that Merrick is no elephant man at all, he's just as human as the rest of us, but this exhibitionist, heartless society whipped him and made him dance around for them like an elephant in a circus tent."Luck, my friend," A circus dwarf says to the elephant man at one point in the story, "and who needs it but we."It is a story of immense sensitivity and humanity, and one the likes of which you won't see anywhere else. Its definitely not for the weak-hearted or depressed. Its often devastatingly difficult to watch (mainly in one or two scenes), most of this story is wildly compelling and human drama due to the immense talents of Lynch and Hopkins in particular. There are certainly moments of reprieve - all is not black.Its certainly a beautiful movie - every frame is perfection. Gorgeous black and white cinematography give this subject the class it deserves. A wonderful score by John Morris helps give it a haunting beauty. It is directed with superb classical storytelling, illustrated by Lynchian brushstrokes: expressionistic dream sequences and trademark Lynchian soundtrack. David Lynch should be very proud of this early effort. It is a marvellous film. The sensitivity of the construction, and its classic perfection, are the work of a master.But it is hard to say what this movie would be without Anthony Hopkins. It is a topic that easily could have fallen into the trap of the society it depicts, of exploiting freaks for the petty thrill of exhibitionism. But whatever credit for this that does not go to Lynch, must go to Hopkins. His sincere delivery, in one of the most genuine performances i've ever seen, are a major factor in our believing this story really happened (which it did), and taking it seriously (which we do).5 stars.


                
If you check out the Wikipedia entry on this film, you will find out that there are some stunning historical accuracies in 'The Elephant Man'. For one, his real first name is Joseph, not John. Secondly, Merrick went to Dr. Treves on his own accord. Thirdly, the character of Bytes is completely fictional and mostly based on a similar character from 'Oliver Twist'.Despite all this, this film is a wonderful work of all the contributors of cinematic arts. As art, it is beautiful and it stands on its own as a cultural force to be reckoned with. I really wish it would have won at the Oscars instead of 'Raging Bull'. John Hurt was a much better actor than De Niro, IMHO.
THE ELEPHANT MAN is a powerful and moving story with incredible performances by John Hurt and Anthony Hopkins. Based on a true story, the movie is about John Merrick, a horrifically deformed man who Anthony Hopkins' character (Frederick Treeves) finds as a sideshow freak in a carnival. Initially, he only displays him in a similar manner to his colleagues (he's a doctor), but after finding out that the man is intelligent he begins to care for him. The movie isn't quite easy to sit through, as you see the mental and physical abuse that John is put through. But for all the moments like that, there are many more touching moments that will put a smile on your face and/or a tear in your eye. I'll be honest, I cried on more than one occasion, and this has to be one of the most emotionally powerful movies I've ever seen. Family-friendly, has a great message and highly recommended for anyone.


                
I debate on whether or not this is my favorite film quite often. Right now it resides at the second spot on my Top 150 list. http://www.imdb.com/list/ls056382763/ In my opinion this is David Lynch's greatest work. I get called a Lynch fanboy quite often because of my fascination for almost all of his short films, television shows, feature films and even his music. But goddamn this man is a genius. A script and a story just waiting to be made into a Disney movie but put in the form of a dark twisted movie that still shows such happiness. Great acting from Anthony Hopkins, which is as to be expected but the performance from John Hurt, an actor who's filmography before 1979 is somewhat lackluster, is outstanding. He becomes John Merrick physically and emotionally and his performance is better than any I have ever viewed in a film. I don't know how to put in words the beauty of this movie, if you haven't seen it, GO NOW!!!


                
I have been a movie geek since childhood and though a lot of movies touched my heart,never did I feel to cry during the movie but it all changed after I watched this.I saw Elephant Man after I became a huge fan of David Lynch after 'Eraser head' and 'Mulholland drive'.I always had the creepy Lynch in my mind who could scare/thrill but Elephant man was a different case.It is Drama made with so much originality and force that it can melt a stone.It is based on true story of John Merrick which I have read and many people know but Lynch gave it a touch of artist.To shoot it in black and white,multiple edited shots and the camera angles are all perfectly implied.Lynch creates an atmosphere at the start by showing the hatred of people and suspense is created when in the early movie,there is no detailed shot of Merrick.As we start to feel his misery,we are made accustomed to his looks,now that's story telling.It would also be wrong to appreciate movie of such magnitude without a pat at the back of the cast.It was John Hurt's movie all in all and he won BAFTA for this.The dialog delivery,the expressions in that heavily made up face,and the wheezes of bronchitis all were so original that you reach 1880's,the time of Merrick.When he says, "I am not an animal, I am a human being, I am a man", not many can resist emotions.Anthony Hopkins is so natural but he always is,John Gielgud is also worth applause.Background music score is mild and just blends so well.There was something in the movie which couldn't stop the tears flowing but there is also a message, as Merrick says, "People often fear the things they don't understand".I recommend everyone not to just see this movie,but to own it to acknowledge the dark truth that our eyes judge people even before the heart or brain starts to feel them...


                
"The Elephant Man" is overwhelming. Never before, not ever, have I been so emotionally moved by a figment of cinema, or piece of music, or any other work of man. To admit that is hard for me, but to neglect doing so would be to rob this film of what it is due. This is the most arousing cinematic accomplishment, perhaps, in the history of motion pictures.This is also the true story of a man, a freak, who was absolutely vulgar and disgusting to the eyes. Maybe he was the ugliest man in history, and was certainly treated as if that were true. He was unceasingly beaten, caged, mocked, and exploited. Women screamed at the sight of him and men were repulsed. However, despite living like an animal, despite being treated as one for most of his life, John Merrick possessed an unwavering kindness and civility that made his condition utterly heart-breaking.Anthony Hopkins and John Hurt are two of the finest modern actors. To watch them both at their best in "The Elephant Man" was the only way to do this film justice. Dr. Treves (Hopkins) was the character through which we felt our own moral questions arise. Did we look on John Merrick (Hurt) with a purpose of compassion, or was it to satiate some inherent desire to point and stare? Certainly at the outset I was merely curious to gawk at Merrick, and at first, looking upon him made me curl my nose at the sight. But as the story progressed I began to see his inner beauty. And it moved me almost inexplicably.There are many instances of cruelty towards Merrick throughout the film, but this is not what defines it. Despite all of the ugliness in "The Elephant Man" it is a thing of absolute beauty. There is a simple sweeping elegance, displayed in wondrous black and white, that unwraps itself in moments of terror, sadness, and joy. And when Merrick, even after an eternity of horror and injustice waged upon him, shows that his heart is bigger than all of it, it will set yours to flight.I see God in this picture, and I cannot comprehend any grander praise to give.


                
I just have to say this is the first time I have seen this Movie and I Loved it, Very Moving and warm. The Cast was brilliant as was the story it was quite a tear jerker to say the least. John Merrick was an amazing man and many could learn from watching this just how some things we take for granted. This is a 10/10 for me. I avoided watching this movie for years as I knew it would be sad, yet happy in many ways. I do not regret it at all but I don't know if I could view it on a regular basis as its so difficult to watch, overall It has to be one of the best movies I have seen and would recommend it to anyone out there. It is a movie you will never forget,every performance was amazing.


                
****Warning, Spoilers******The Elephant Man is one of my all time favourite films - a true story of human dignity and friendship, set against a background of the bigotry, brutality and hypocrisy of Victorian society. This is the only film which has ever made me cry - I defy anyone to watch the scene where John Merrick recites the 23rd Psalm and not shed a tear.David Lynch shot the film in black and white, which gives the whole thing a very gothic, nightmarish feel. It's not going too far to say there's a palpable sense of evil in some of the scenes. Set against this is a truly wonderful cast (including a very young Dexter Fletcher and R2-D2's Kenny Baker!). John Gielgud and Anne Bancroft are as good as you would expect them to be, but the film undoubtedly turns on absolutely magnificent performances from Anthony Hopkins as Dr. Frederick Treves and John Hurt (unrecognisable in his Elephant Man make up) as John Merrick.Both actors give performances that will leave you never doubting the inherent decency and goodness of the human spirit ever again. John Hurt plays a man who has every reason to hate the world he was born into, but instead displays amazing reserves of dignity, courage and kindness. Anthony Hopkin's Frerderik Treves gives hope to us all as his relationship with Merrick changes from one of pity and medical analysis to a genuine friendship. The dilemma at the centre of Hopkin's character serves to highlight the hypocrisy of the society he lives in - he may have rescued John Merrik from being a circus freak, but has that only succeeded in turning him into another exhibit, albeit one to be viewed by Treves' medical colleagues and upper class voyeurs?I cannot praise this film enough - as Barber's Adagio for Strings plays at the end you will never have felt so moved or uplifted. Do yourself a favour and see it at once.Rating - 10/10
This was a truly great and touching movie.  It's hard to give a review because it really has to be seen to be believed.  Hopkins and Hurt are terrific.  This has to be one of the best by David Lynch and that's saying a lot considering the obsessed Lynch fan I am.  One of my friends have begged me to see it at a party but he and I were outvoted by Shining fans.  Anyway this movie will make you cry.  John Merrick may look like a monster but he is a caring, kind, intelligent, respectful, and above all great man.  It's the people that discriminate against him, ridicule him, and use him that are the monsters.  Several scenes in the movie can be rather disturbing (one is hard not to turn away from) but that's what makes this movie so powerful.  I don't see how anyone can put down this film and say it is not great.  Even if you hate David Lynch's other movies you'll probably still like this one. If it didn't win any of the eight academy awards it was nominated for it would have been an injustice.  You have to see it to believe it.  10/10


                
