I truly enjoyed this film. I've always been told that I'm fairly mature for my age - I'm not even old enough to drive yet & I'm already learning & respecting morals. In this case, 'Don't judge a book by its cover'.Some parts made me very angry - when Merrick was mistreated & exploited like an animal that he certainly wasn't. He didn't deserve the treatment that people like Bytes & the person working at the hospital gave him.I forgot that I was watching a movie for a while & became incredibly angered far more times than once.I loved the movie a lot, but it made me incredibly inraged that people that treated John like that can actually exist.


                
Nobody but Lynch could have directed this movie and made it the masterpiece that it is. Where other people would have gone for fake sentimentality and/or gruesome imagery; Lynch just presents the story how it is. The film is never gratuitous, and that is much to it's credit. It is, however, utterly repulsive. The black and white cinematography enforces this. There is nothing pleasant about The Elephant Man; it is as ugly as it's title character, and that is the way that this story needs to be. On the surface, it is ugly and repulsive; but just like it's title character; the movie has a hidden depth that is ultimately touching and heartbreaking. The movie sets itself up for this early on; the scene in which the Elephant Man is introduced is most of the most gut wrenching ever committed to film. As the doctor (Anthony Hopkins) sees the freak rise up and realises the extent of his deformity...a tear slowly form and rolls down his cheek. From this, you can see the pity that he feels for this man who has drawn the lot of a lowly circus freak; just from that one shot of a tear, David Lynch shows us the sorrow and the pity, and that's all he needs. Where some directors would have piled the sentimentality on, David Lynch is economic; that's all it needs, so that's all it gets. And that is the mark of a great director. Something that David Lynch most certainly is.The film is also ironic. Aside from it's visuals that link to the title character, it also observes how society is not unlike a circus. The good doctor has taken the Elephant Man away from the glares and the scowls of the circus audience, the exploitation that he's had to face, and put him a kinder and more loving environment; only now the scowls and stares come not from the circus audience, but from society's upper crust, who want to exploit the Elephant Man themselves for their own selfish reasons - to impress their friends. The Elephant Man is not merely a horror story of the life of a very unfortunate man; it's a story of love, a story of acceptance. Despite being taken from one circus to another, the Elephant Man is happier and more fulfilled than he ever was; he doesn't care about the looks and the exploitation, he merely wants to be loved. By 'normal' people, this is taken for granted; but The Elephant Man shows us that love and acceptance isn't something that can be taken for granted. As one doctor notes in the film, "we can't imagine the life he's had". We can't.David Lynch also succeeds in making voyeurs out of his audience. Just like the various audiences in the film; we too want to see the Elephant Man, and yet are utterly repulsed and disgusted by him. With this, David Lynch makes a mockery out of today's society, without ever making a mockery out of the character upon which this film is based. The Elephant Man himself is a perfectly balanced example of how pathos can be achieved. Not only is this man seen as a monster, but his character is pathetic also. With The Elephant Man, Lynch is saying to the world that it is society that is the monster, not the freaks that live within it.To put it simply: David Lynch has taken a story that could have easily been told simply and expanded it to take in themes that are outside of the central premise. This small story of one unfortunate man has been moulded into a striking comment on society. And all in all; it's a masterpiece.


                
"Elephant Man" is the 6th movie from David Lynch and probably is most "baroque" work. Staged in Victorian England, directed in 1980 and shot in black and white. Elephant Man might very well be one of the most powerful movies in history so far... The film is based on the true story of John Merick, the Elephant Man. David Lynch adapted this story following a very basic/simple narrative construction, emerging the audience in part of the life of John Merick from the time when he gets noticed in a freak show by a British surgeon to the time...(well you'll find out by yourself). The interpretation of both Anthony Hopkins as the British surgeon, Dr. Frederick Treves and John Hurt as the Elephant Man, John Merick is "mistakeless". The ton is right from beginning to end. Not one dialog is overplayed or downplayed. Overall the actors deliver an amazing performance. Anne Bancroft (Mrs. Kendal) is acting so true, John Gielgud (Carr Gomm) is the archetype of the humanist gentleman and Freddie Jones (Bytes) is impersonating this pathetic drunk vile character to perfection. The picture itself is flawless and very well balanced: few close up, few traveling. Every camera technique serves only one purpose: telling the story. The black and white picture is the perfect fit and reinforces the 'baroque' like atmosphere as well as helps the audience focus on the feelings demonstrated by all actors. Feelings are really what make this 'quest for humanity' an exceptional cinematic experience. It is an 'initiatic journey'. We start with a descent in Horror, dehumanization and monstrosity; we climb back to decency and tolerance to eventually arrive at the door of 'humanism'. We need to remember that how we act is who we are. If we act like animals we are animals and if we act like human beings we in fact become human beings. In other words we are not human by essence but we become human through our actions. In this regards John Merick appears to be the human one among us...Once again and after 'Eraserhead' (1977), David Lynch is demonstrating his skills in terms of 'mise-en-scene'. He is comfortable handling weirdness and monstrosity and he does so with maestro, triggering our deepest fear, our darkest side and eventually the more human part of our body: our heart<U+0085>


                
A man who has a terrible defect on his face from birth, John Merrick lives in bad conditions and far from people. A well-known surgeon who is Frederick Treves discovers him and wants to take him under his protection. Just for protection, because there is no possibility to cure and improve shape of his face.Lynch teaches the subject that people could be mentally ill in comparison with people who are really have an excuse or defective. The behaviours which people show to "The Elephant Man" is proof of this reality.Hopkins' appearance does remember Edward Norton. As if Norton acted in that role. Hopkins' role in this film touched my feelings and I prevented to cry with great difficulty.As an interesting point, I watched a Lynch film with contentment.Finally, the final scene in the theatre is wonderful. The announcement that the famous actress Mrs. Kendal made to Merrick who show her, is a good final for this film.
A very unusual David Lynch movie, this tells the story of the life of a disfigured Victorian man and the doctor who tried to help him. Few American directors have really had a feel for Britain, let alone continental Europe, (Landis (An American Werewolf in London) and Losey (The Go-Between) are exceptions that come to mind) but Lynch's portrait of Victorian society is both powerful and poignant. Similar in concept to Bogdanovich's Mask, the film is profoundly different in execution. Lynch elicits outstanding performances from all the cast and succeeds in producing a deeply humane piece of cinema.


                
Although this movie was made in 1980, the color and atmosphere seemed to be way before the 80s. At that time, some argued about the preservation of the color film, so there came up with a few black and white films such as The Elephant Man. Fortunately, the black and white film fitted the story very well since it was based on a true case in the early 20s, thus the way it showed was just like the director wanted to present.This is not a horror film, yet it is filled with scary moments which are those when people showed their evil spirits over the innocent elephant man. Curiosity is one thing, but to tease someone despite their dignity and misery is not what a human being should do. However, things like these happened all the time in real life, and sadly there is nothing we can do about it. Thus, to maintain our merciful and compassionate heart is so important that we might accidentally become the accomplices once we are not careful enough.John Hurt and Antony Hopkins are the best parts in the movie, the way they acted made it so convincingly that they built firm friendship after knowing each other and learned from each other indeed. Due to my personal preference, I have to say Antony Hopkins is like the most elegant actor besides Daniel Day-Lewis in the generation. On the opposite, I don't like the way other characters performed, because dramatic acting is just not fit in the movie. Last but not least, best scene was the escape from his owner in circus, helped by other deformities made the most ironic impact in humanity.One thing I learned from the movie is that there are all kinds of people in the world, and you can't decide what others should do, the best way is just to keep in faith and try hard to be a better man.
by far "the elephant man" is most dark and painful movie for me, and the second goes for "requiem for a dream". but this movie is different, the black and white style and screenplay really drive the viewers fall into complete darkness and sickness.john hurt performance was splendid. he successfully possessing the viewers to guide them into his desperation. this movie have a strong potential to becoming one from a few darkness classical movies ever made. David lynch's black and white use really effective for this film. he also really doing a good job to made dark and painful scenes. the art- direction and costume design were great, the elephant man make- up nearly real at all, believable.this movie had a strong inspiration aspect inside it. it make the viewers to see the world differently, there are lucky and unlucky being. we need to treat them like we should be, and if we're not, try to position yourself into them. thats what this movie tells about. dark and painful movie, my recommendation is not to watch it while you're in bad mod or need for entertain. but when you're ready to experience a deep darkness, you will feel its torment.


                
I agree that the film is remarkable, involving and emotional, but it is part fiction. If you study all the material you will observe that about 30% of the film is exaggerated to make better drama. It is wrong to say that it is the "true" story of the elephant man.Early biographies of Merrick inaccurately give his first name as "John"; an error repeated in many later versions, including the 1980 film The Elephant Man.Born in Leicester to mother Mary Jane Merrick, he had a younger brother and sister. He began showing signs of deformity at age two (or, according to [1], at age five). His mother died when he was 11. According to family accounts, she too was "crippled". He then was forced to live with his father, Joseph Rockley Merrick, and stepmother. She did not want him and gave Joseph's father an ultimatum, "Joseph, or me."Joseph was forced to earn a living by selling shoe polish on the street, where he would be harassed constantly by local children. For the better part of his life he was unemployable, so as a last resort he took a job as a sideshow attraction. He was treated decently, and made a small amount of money. When sideshows were outlawed in the United Kingdom in 1886 he travelled to Belgium to find work and was mistreated and abandoned by a showman.After making his way back to London, Merrick was befriended by Dr. Frederick Treves, who discovered Merrick at the train station suffering from a severe bronchial infection. Treves was a physician at London Hospital, and Joseph was given a permanent home there. He was something of a celebrity in High Victorian society, eventually becoming a favourite of Queen Victoria. Although numerous people, including a few women came to visit him, he never received the thing he sought most: love. Treves later commented that Joseph always wanted, even after living at the hospital, to go to a hospital for the blind - so that he could find a woman there who would not be frightened of his appearance. He found some solace in writing, composing both prose and poetry in his later years. He was cared for at the hospital until his death on 11 April 1890 from suffocation while sleeping, which was apparently accidental. Merrick was unable to sleep horizontally due to the weight of his head, but may have intentionally tried to do so in this instance in an attempt to imitate normal behaviour.His life story became the basis of a 1979 Tony Award-winning play, and in the following year an Academy Award-nominated film, which were unrelated but both called The Elephant Man.In 1971 Ashley Montagu suggested that Merrick suffered from neurofibromatosis type I, a genetic disorder also known as von Recklinghausen's disease, and this disease is still connected with Merrick in the mind of the public. However, in 1979, Michael Cohen first identified a condition which came to be named Proteus syndrome by Rudolf Wiedemann in 1983. In 1986 it was argued that Proteus syndrome was the condition from which Merrick actually suffered. Unlike neurofibromatosis, Proteus syndrome (named for the shape-shifting god Proteus) affects tissue other than nerves, and is a sporadic rather than familially transmitted disorder. In July 2003, Dr. Charis Eng announced that as a result of DNA tests on samples of Merrick's hair and bone, she had determined that Merrick certainly suffered Proteus syndrome, and may have had neurofibromatosis type I as well. His PTEN gene (often mutated in the Proteus syndrome) appears to have been healthy (i.e., not mutated). As it stands, many people still refer to his condition as elephantiasis (sometimes misspoken as "elephantitis.")Merrick's preserved skeleton is on permanent display at the Royal London Hospital. Singer Michael Jackson reportedly attempted to purchase the remains in 1986, but his offer of $1,000,000 US was rebuffed, and he has since denied that this ever took place.


                
The shadowy black and white photography communicates all the horror of John Merrick's condition and the darkness of an era where people were incapable to see inner humanity behind a hideous deformity (and it conveniently made the make-up more realistic). John Morris' score, haunting and playful, echoes the seemingly reason-to-be of John Merrick in life: suffering and entertaining. John Hurt powerfully communicates the vibrating despair of a trapped soul and if it wasn't for Robert De Niro in "Raging Bull", he probably would have deserved the Oscar. And Anthony Hopkins is good as the well meaning, but not without flaws, doctor Treves. There is also something effective in the way Merrick's scariness is asserted, David Lynch waits until almost twenty minutes to reveal his face: we see a woman crying in the Carnival, Treves with that deadpan expression and tears coming through his eyes, the iconic mask exuding mysterious breath noises, the shadowy silhouette while he's exhibited to the Medical assembly, and the whole mystery surrounding his look pinnacles with the genuine horrified reaction of Nora, the nurse, a shrill scream, Merrick's first effect on people. At the end, he escapes from his evil master Bytes (Freddie Jones) and is chased in the train station to end up cornered in the toilets, then he finally screams: "I'm not an animal! I'm a human being! I'm a man!" At that point, his character's arc is closed; he went from a horrifying freak to a man who is capable to protest, to proclaim his legitimate right for respect and dignity. This is the true courage of John Merrick, this climactic moment when he confronts, alone, a crowd of so-called civilized people.The entrance of "The Elephant Man" is a masterpiece of build-up; the climactic cry is his triumph. Yet the evolution between the two moments isn't as fluid as it should be. He goes from a patient who can barely speak to one who recites the Bible quite fluently. Naturally, it would have been infuriating if the doctors never noticed his intelligence, but the moment when Carr-Gomm (John Gielgud) is disappointed by Merrick's aptitudes is immediately followed by the pivotal recitation. It's like Lynch was in an urge to show Merrick's progress. I personally wouldn't have minded if the film was half-an-hour longer for a more realistic evolution. The psalm recitation is rewarded by an immersion in society, during which Merricks prove to be an extremely lovable character, eager to please and impress. There is a childish pride in the way he exhibits the picture of his mother and Hurt is so compelling that you can even feel in his voice, the guilt of not matching his mother's looks. At that part, you can tell that Merrick is still imprisoned in his own perceptions and can't help but see himself as a freak on a reverse way since the irony of his intelligence is that it makes his condition even more intriguing. As Treves said: "Pray to God he is an idiot" But the film unsubtly divides people into two categories: those who see the monster and those who see the angel. Regarding the villains, Lynch had the bad taste to trade realism for a sort of Dickens-like atmosphere, which didn't fit Merrick's existential dilemma. I didn't like the party scene because it was cruel but because it was over the top, with the whole kissing, dancing, and alcohol soaking. Now, wasn't the most disturbing part when the guard showed the mirror to Merrick? Hurt's scream was devastating, but it was covered by the noisy ambiance so we didn't have time to grab the true horror of the situation. That moment alone was enough to make the scene painful to watch, Merrick seeing his own face. And it would have made the "I'm a man!" more significant because he would know he didn't look like a man. But he also spoiled the straight-forward realism of the story with exaggeratedly good characters, like Mrs Kendal (Anne Bancroft) who reads "Romeo and Juliet" with Merrick and kisses him. Why the rush? Think about it, would she have done that to a 'normal' person? If it was a compassionate kiss, then it's still pity, if it was not, it would have looked more genuine and maybe more sincere if it happened later. If Bancroft was supposed to play a character that would spontaneously kiss a man like Merrick, then she deserved more scenes. It seems like Lynch didn't trust our patience. In a nutshell, it's "Merrick, the Elephant Man" before, "Merrick, the Man" after, and in-between, he swings back and forth from excessively good or excessively bad people. Maybe it's to highlight Merrick's tragic condition, to be always seen as a monster, no matter what reactions he inspires, there is always pity. Maybe that's the conflict that tortures Treves when he wonders to which extent he's different from Bytes. By the way, I'm not implying that every supporting character was one-dimensional, Wendy Hiller was terrific as Mrs Mothershead and the funny way she hit the guard on the head. And I thought the standing ovation in the theater damaged the powerful effect of the "I'm a man!" The same defensive (but courageous) mindset should have made him say something like "I want to enjoy the show, what have I ever done to deserve your applause, please stop it." After all, no one deserves praise for suffering, or should be considered as a hero because of a handicap. Just give him a break, and this applies to Lynch himself, who thought he could get all mystic about Merrick, with the first vision of a woman trampled (or raped) by an elephant or the ending with all the stars and symbolism. He was so restrained in the directing that the whole surrealistic undertones were totally unnecessary.
Director David Lynch presents the criticly acclaimed story of a severely deformed man, John Merrick(John Hurt)AKA 'The Elephant Man'. A caring and sympathetic doctor/surgeon(Anthony Hopkins)takes Merrick from the degrading life of freak shows and integrates him into British high society. Merrick, through his trust and perseverance, is given the chance to spend the last years of his life with dignity and respect.This is a very moving project that turns rough and ugly into something engaging and triumphant. Lynch proves to be a dynamic director. Hurt turns in a masterful performance.
Also in the cast are: Anne Bancroft, John Gielgud, Helen Ryan and Freddie Jones. This is an under appreciated classic. If you have already watched it; tell a friend and watch it again.


                
This is a dark movie, showing a brutal time and a horribly deformed man who went through life abused and gawked at, until for a brief few moments, he wasn't. It's really good though.


                
Even before I realized that David Lynch directed this film and was specifically in charge of its sound design, I immediately recognized his trademark background effects, which reminded me of the constant drone of old industrial machinery, from "Eraserhead", which he had directed three years earlier. Although my unfavorable review of the earlier film has received a mostly "useless" response from IMDb readers, I am not here to win any popularity contests, and that review stands exactly as is. To this day, thanks to "Eraserhead", a film I admittedly couldn't understand or appreciate, I can't look at a roasted chicken in a supermarket without wanting to throw up. Perhaps this was Mr. Lynch's deliberate intention. At any rate, what a difference three years makes as my reaction to this film was totally the opposite. That producer Mel Brooks had the vision to select Lynch as the director here was a stroke of genius. Brooks could see what I could not. That explains his success and my sitting here at a keyboard as a washed-up old geezer passing judgment on the actual, creative achievements of others. Although the subject matter and atmosphere of this film is as bleak as that of "Eraserhead", the visual depiction of Victorian England and the impact of the industrial revolution on the nation as a backdrop was fascinating, as was the unique and compelling story. While the true story of the real Joseph Merrick was fictionalized for the film, I had no problem viewing it as a work of fiction that was based on factual circumstances. It wasn't the first, won't be the last, and no one pretended otherwise.At one point, Dr. Treves (Anthony Hopkins), Merrick's physician, asks his wife, "Am I good man or a bad man?" This is one of the key questions of the film. Once he "discovered" Merrick and began medically treating him, was Treves more interested in the well-being of his extraordinary patient or in his own professional or social standing. If his priority was on himself, how were his motivations different from those of evil Bytes, Merrick's original captor, even if Treves did treat Merrick far more kindly and introduced him to British royalty and high society along the way? While Treves found comfortable shelter for his patient at the hospital, what good was that accommodation when he could not guarantee Merrick's safety from the torment of the night watchman and eventually of the very real threat by Bytes himself. It was almost as if Treves set Merrick up for disaster by failing to protect him from the terrible sequence of events that followed Merrick's admission to the hospital. In answer to Treves' question, I would say that the jury is still out, Doc. I'm just not sure about you or your motivations, dude.The cast was high caliber, but I felt that Hopkins and Bancroft, one of the most talented and versatile actresses of her time, were wasted in their muted roles, preventing them from demonstrating their true potential. John Gielgud and Wendy Hiller, two very experienced veterans, were excellent. Although the Oscars don't sway me one way or another, I will have to view "Raging Bull" again to understand how John Hurt lost out to DeNiro in the category of Best Actor. My memory is shot.This is a film that very effectively illustrates just how cruel humans can be to each other and how even the best intentions can result in disastrous consequences. While humans did not create John Merrick's horrible condition and while some acts of kindness at least partially compensated for overwhelming meanness and selfishness, he deserved much more compassion from us. Now let us go outside and practice in real life what we have learned today. Be kind.


                
The Elephant Man is one of the movies WHAT shows the human being is capable, film tells the story of Joseph Merrick, who had Proteus Syndrome that actually existed, the makeup is great, I am very well done makeup on John Hurt, the cast is John Hurt this great Anthony Hopkins, this excellent, Anne Bancroft, John Gielgud, Wendy Hiller, Freddie Jones, etc., the direction is one of the best film directors David Lynch (Eraserhead, Blue Velvet, Mulholland Dr), and he drives very well this film, one of his best work, he is a director who usually do complicated film to understand, and bizarre as Eraserhead, this film is perhaps the most normal of the director, the picture is great, the pace is moderate, even though only 2 hours of film, it is slow sometimes, but I found these two hours of good size, the Elephant Man is one of the best decade of the film 80, with a great cast and a very sad story, the film has a very good end. Note 8.7


                
Those who are already familiar with the real life case of Joseph (John) Merrick, AKA The Elephant Man would know that his is a very sad story. But in the right hands, such a complicated and sombre tale would make a very powerful motion picture. Thankfully, David Lynch's "The Elephant Man" is exactly that.This is one of the best films I've ever seen in years, without a doubt. As a simple Biopic, it lends itself well thanks to the historical accuracy which accompanies it. There's nothing worse than watching a film that's supposedly based on true account only for it to be over- flowing with inaccuracies that don't do the story justice. And while some fictitious changes were made to the story for dramatic effect, they are few and far between. The Elephant Man as a whole is very true to the real accounts in which it is based on.Victorian England was such an interesting time period. Some historians tend to glamorize it as a period of progress, which it certainly was. But this film looks at it through the eyes of someone who is incredibly unfortunate. And as a result, the scenery is gritty, dirty and full of mechanical set pieces. There isn't much humanity to be found here. It was a stroke of genius to shoot the film in stark, black and white. It gives off the sensation of looking at the film through old snapshots and photographs, as though we are looking directly into the past. Perhaps the most striking thing about the film is it's ability to throw a spotlight humanity's worst and most intolerant behaviours. One might even feel shame to know that John Merrick was treated so poorly by fellow members of the human race. But it is important that we acknowledge his suffering so we can remember that it is the content of someone's heart, not the features of their face, which we must judge someone by. This brings me to my next point. The cast of this film is superb. Anthony Hopkins shows his range as an actor who in this case, has not been cast in the role of someone sinister. His portrayal of Dr. Treves is admirable and saintly. Taking the role of the audience and responding to Merrick in a way I believe most of us would: with unconditional kindness and respect. His character is a statement which brings out the best and most noble of mankind. John Hurt completely disappears into the make up and character of The Elephant Man, giving what I believe is the best performance of his career. It must have been challenging to emote underneath such heavy prosthetics, and yet he manages to make us sympathize and support Merrick at every rise and fall of his character arc. Having been snubbed for the Oscar of Best Actor is an unforgivable sin of the Academy.This is an incredibly moving picture. I was hard pressed to hold back tears during it's final act. When seeing the story unfold through the lens of a camera, we feel more intimately close to the story and to the man himself. And if the memoirs of the real Dr. Treves are to be believed, after such a trying journey to be accepted as he is, Merrick's soulful line to him towards the end of the film is a relief to hear:"My life is full because I am loved."
This has to be the only totally straight movie that David Lynch ever put his fingers on. And at that, it's not entirely straight, but it seldom edges into Lynch's private vision, or through the looking glass, or down the rabbit hole, or into The Garden of Earthly Delights or the ghoul-haunted woodland of Weir, or wherever it is that his other films, beginning with "Eraserhead", have voyaged into.I should note that all of David Lynch's movies are eerie and ominous, but that the atmosphere isn't created by directorial fireworks. The techniques are classical -- no instant cutting, no slow motion, no ghoulish colors, no funny camera work, although the lens may occasionally plumb the auditory canal of a severed ear. Instead, what makes his work exception is his control of the images and sound. The art direction, set decoration, the architecture and textures, and the sound are as filled with impact as the story itself. It's a sentimental and ultimately tragic story naturally. John Merrick, the elephant man of the title, was a rude lump of foul deformity, a simulacrum of a human being. What else could they do, turn it into a comedy? A werewolf movie? John Hurt is Merrick, kept in thrall by Bytes (Freddie Jones) who exhibits him to the public in a freak show in Victorian London. Merrick is rescued by Dr. Frederick Treves (Anthony Hopkins) who sneaks him into a hospital run by Carr Gomm (John Gielgud) where he is tended by nurses who are frightened of him. All the nurses except their chief, Mothershead. Mothershead is enacted by a starchy Wendy Hiller.Here's how a director with a case of arrested aesthetic development and a craving for commercial success would have first revealed the hideous half-human that was John Merrick. Generic suspense music, please. A frightened nurse open Merrick's door, she drops the plates and shrieks while the camera zooms into her terrified face. Then -- a cut, and the camera whips up to Merrick's deformed face, accompanied by a loud, dissonant sting on the sound track -- WHAMMMMM! Not here though.Gradually the staff come to realize that despite his disfigurement, Merrick is really a sweet and gentle soul, forgiving and grateful for the smallest of kindnesses. Warmth replaces fear. And when Treves takes Merrick home to meet his wife (Hannah Gordon), this caprice of nature begins to sob quietly, saying, "I've never been treated so well by a lovely woman." Imagine how much worse it could have been. Instead of being barely able to hiss his lines -- instead of producing mediocre sketches -- instead of merely building a model cathedral out of match sticks -- the script could have turned him into a genius! How inspiring? Elephant Man rescued from freak show writes a smash hit Broadway play? Paints the Mona Lisa of 1890? Mentally extends pi to 23 digits in ten seconds? Invents Leggos? No. The only thing Merrick has going for him is his utter joy at being treated humanely. Thank God he's just a nice guy, not a saint.The rest of the principles are frankly splendid. Models of acting, really, with not a sour note being struck. Especially interesting is Hannah Gordon's portrayal of Treve's wife. She's not a dazzling beauty but has one of the most expressive faces on screen. She tells us everything we need to know by just lifting an eyebrow. (What Freddy Jones could have learned from her!) Hannah Gordon doesn't have that much screen time here but catch her, if you can, in "Miss Morrison's Ghosts," in which she plays opposite Wendy Hiller, to see a true professional at her best.The director, David Lynch, keeps his act together in this relatively straightforward story but it wouldn't have been made quite this oddly by anyone else. I mean, the film opens with a scene of Merrick's mother being run down and trampled by a herd of screaming, stampeding elephants. What the hell does that have to do with the movie? It's never mentioned in the script. It's certainly not Merrick's fantasy. And there's no reason to believe that his mother really WAS frightened by elephants.Although Lynch doesn't use many tricky codes in the movie, he rarely passes up a chance to show us the grimy perineum of Victorian London -- the basement fires being stoked, the black smoke billowing from the chimney, the intricate reticula of a lace curtain stirring in the open window, the slick wet bricks of an industrializing city gone berserk, the iron webbing across Victoria Station's glass roof. Texture piled on texture, and all of it somehow ominous. He does for man's indifferent artifacts what Peter Weir and Nicholas Roeg did for Australia's natural features. He's invested them with dread.It occurred to me while watching this that Alfred Hitchcock's "Rear Window" is usually described as drawing the audience into Jimmy Stewart's voyeurism and thus making us as guilty as he is, of snooping into others' lives. What does "The Elephant Man" do to ITS audience then? Turn us into gawkers at a carnival freak show? I wonder how many of us went to see this movie when it was released, not so much to watch an enjoyable and well-done film, but to see what all the fuss was about? Lynch takes it easy on the audience in that regard. Merrick is horrifyingly deformed but there are no cheap shocks. Lynch gives us his appearance little by little until, by the time we see him in his awesome ugliness, we've gotten to know him a bit and to empathize with him. And why shouldn't we admire and respect him? We may look better than Merrick, but he'd be hard for any of us to beat in a contest of soul against soul.
Joseph Merrick, commonly referred to the media (this film included) as John Merrick, was a highly sympathized and intelligent man of the 19th century. He was notorious for the extreme disfiguration of his body. It was almost sickening to look at his bulbous head, arms where one was large and the other slender, and the horrible bumps down his back, as well as many other deformations in his skin. Yet, underneath, he was actually one of the most respectable and wise gentlemen of his age. David Finch's "The Elephant Man" is a somewhat fictionalized film that overemphasizes the suffering that Merrick went through during his career as a sideshow attraction, but still maintains the point that you should not judge a book by its cover, or in this case, judge a person by his appearance.John Hurt was perfectly cast as Joseph Merrick. It's hard to see any real expressions in his face, because enormous quantities of makeup was put upon him every day of shooting. And it was true in real life that Merrick could barely even talk, or make facial expressions. All of the acting comes from John Hurt's voice. But he does it magnificently to make the film version of Merrick a lovable character. Anthony Hopkins was appropriately cast as the quiet, intelligent, and respectable doctor Sir Frederick Treves, who found Merrick and offered his services. There were a few other characters who were made to be antagonists for the film and did not, as far as history can tell, existed or at least, interacted with Joseph Merrick. But they were necessary additions to keep the story rolling.The film is entirely shot black-and-white, despite being shot at the dawn of the 1980s, but it almost seems appropriate. I myself cannot put my finger on why it works out so well. Maybe to make it all seem ancient? To make it look like all the black-and-white photographs of Merrick, who died long before color film ever came out? Maybe it was just a creative idea by the director or cinematographer. Whatever the case, it makes the film seem even more flawless and dramatic. The opening sequence did not make a whole lot of sense to me at first and I still don't quite grasp what Finch was trying to show, but once it get pasts that, then the whole film is understandable and magnificent. The final sequence of the film is one of the most dramatic one-character scenes in any movie I've ever seen.It is a shame that Joseph Merrick had to die so young, but maybe then again, it was his own choice to die at his age. Whatever the case, David Finch's "The Elephant Man" is a truly remarkable achievement and although not entirely accurate, is a film that shows us to respect a person based on their moral values, not on how they appear. Because even a person who was, no offense meant, as physically hideous as Joseph Merrick, they could be, as he was, a person of sensitivity and intelligence.


                
This is straightforward Lynch a la The Straight Story (1999), but with a keener, more epic and visceral directing. This was setup to be classic material from the start. The retelling of this popular, grotesque and intriguing tale, the deliberate use of Black & White, the extensive makeup, the complexity required on the actors. Well, Lynch didn't flinch.The people that got involved in the project were extremely talented: from the arts department to Freddie Francis chosen to do the B&W cinematography to fine British actors Anthony Hopkins and John Hurt (from "I, Claudius" fame). Lynch exploited this for all its worth and provided a beautifully made film with visual aesthetics, captivating lead performances and a story that seems to tell itself in a seductive, self-revealing way.Slightly uneven at times, the meticulousness of the picture always refocuses the attention to the story, the man, the monster: The Elephant Man.


                
I had never seen "The Elephant Man" and considering it was made 27 years ago, it was almost as if I were watching an old black and white movie.Despite excellent performances all around, I felt there were several moments when the camera moved in a bit too quickly on certain shots, making us keenly aware this was a movie. Also, the dialog written for John Merrick (the Elephant Man) seems designed to make everyone burst into tears. It did move me, indeed, but it just seemed perhaps a little too planned.Because this film was made in 1980, the make-up, as brilliant as it was, seems like make-up. Poor John Hurt was forced to walk around with this huge bubble head which makes him look distinctly like The Alien's spawn. If the lighting hit it a certain way, it had a sort of almost Halloween-mask feeling about it, sort of plastic and fake. I hate to say that, because obviously the make-up artist did a superb job, and they based the shape on the bone structure of the poor individual who suffered these ghastly diseases.Anthony Hopkins, as always, is brilliant. He really can do no wrong. John Hurt, I thought, was superb. He should have won an Oscar for having to live inside that head, plus walk as if his spine was deformed. He must have been in agony for the entire film.David Lynch was unquestionably the best choice for this film and I think he's utterly brilliant. But I did think some of the lighting was a bit too bright in some scenes; I felt the sick and tragic mad crowd party crashing scene went on a hair too long and the music seemed just a tad too calculated, and the ending, when we are suddenly thrust into the starry galaxy was so reminiscent of "The Twilight Zone" that that is exactly what I blurted out to my friend as we watched it.And yet... the story pulls you in and keeps you with it, and you cannot help but feel absolute pity for this poor soul, and when he says, "I'm not an animal! I'm a human being!" -- you cannot help thinking, "What is wrong with the human race that they are so quick to condemn and destroy all that is not like them?" The Elephant Man was, at that time, what they used to call a "freak." It is absolutely monstrous and horrid to think or to even imagine that these poor people were thrust into circus shows and treated like slave animals.This film forces you to reconsider your own boundaries. As I looked at John Merrick, this poor creature who had the misfortune to suffer such disfigurement, I decided I would love him, and learn to love anybody like that, because no one in this world deserves to be without love.I'm glad I saw it and I hope I can keep these feeling in mind the next time I feel sorry for myself and/or the next time I criticize someone for looking something other than what I think is "right."
How do we accept people for who they are and overlook appearances. These usually get in the way of how we judge other human beings. In the case of John Merrick, the visual reality was, to be honest, hard to overlook. A severely-disfigured face and body resulted in sneers, taunts and cruelty from "normal" people. It speaks volumes for director David Lynch that he took on the task of making this film, which he handles with great sensitivity.John Merrick was a man of keen intelligence and sensitivity, as Dr. Treves (played by Anthony Hopkins) was to learn. Anthony Hopkins is excellent in the character of Treves, the polar opposite of Hannibal Lecter. Treves initially dismisses him as an idiot but soon finds out that nothing could be further from the truth. Merrick shows his intelligence when he spontaneously recites the 23rd psalm. If this is true to life, it is incredible that Merrick, portrayed by John Hurt, did not carry a burden of bitterness and sadness. He was forced to go out into the public with a hood covering his head, which had grown to grotesque proportions over his short lifetime. It speaks volumes for the men and women who took him in, gave him shelter and tried to restore dignity to his battered psyche. Beneath the exterior was an extraordinary man, who drew strength from the memory of his mother. This inspirational figure from his past allowed him to survive the cruelties he had to endure, including a stint in a carnival sideshow where he was exhibited to paying customers. The staff of the London hospital where Dr. Treves practiced thought highly of John Merrick and they did everything they could to protect him. The characters from the hospital include Wendy Hiller and John Gielgud, stalwarts of the British stage. There is an interesting cameo by Princess Alex, the Princess of Wales, who intervenes on behalf of Queen Victoria to keep Merrick at the hospital. The princess is played by Helen Ryan in a role she has played in other British dramas. The most heart-warming of all is the role of Mrs. Kendall, played by Anne Bancroft (late wife of producer Mel Brooks), who becomes Merrick's patron and most ardent admirer. Her introduction to John Merrick is a moment of total graciousness towards John Merrick, which we feel that he so deserves. There isn't a hint of the awkwardness from Mrs. Kendal that others display.The harsh industrial background of Victorian London and the plight of the working class who exploit John Merrick are realistically woven into the movie. Interestingly, it is the other sideshow "freaks" who understand his plight and come to his rescue at a very moving point in the movie. Social realism, for which British cinema and literature are well known, is a hallmark of this movie. But there is also a counterbalancing of hope and kindness that gives this movie its real strength.


                
Can't believe I waited 26 years to watch this, and realize how director Lynch's career took off at such a peak. What a mesmerizingly beautiful and hard-to-fathom tragic account of deformed man John Merrick's fate in 1800s London. It wrenches out as much emotional sadness as a viewer can bear, but is very simple (sometimes too simple) in its storytelling structure. Its surreal dream elements are a good, welcome break in that matter. John Hurt gives an immortal portrait, and the images burn in effective, almost pencil-sketchy black & white. The similarities to Fellini's "La Strada" just adds to its likability. Man, that scene when John Merrick comes back to the London train station and is chased by a mob... as classic, haunting and heartbreaking as it gets!! 8 out of 10 from Ozjeppe.


                
The Elephant Man is a classic film. Its great acting stands out extremely, David Lynch's direction is a marvel, too bad he didn't create more fascinating pieces. John Hurt's wonderful performance in the title role is indescribable. Anthony Hopkins' classy acting fits perfectly with the character, along with talents of Anne Bancroft, John Gielgud, Wendy Hiller and Hannah Gordon.I was touched by the film because of its storyline of drama, brilliant script, acting and music. The sorrowful and suffering life of John Merrick and the grand end of his life brings out the sadness in us all. At the end of the film, the music, Barber's 'Adagio for Strings', is a masterpiece, it fitted perfectly into the upsetting grand finale. I mostly enjoy 'true' films, when the plot actually happened. Overall, I suggest the film to be one of the best in movie history. It brought out the best in John Hurt, and the joy within us. With its outstanding cast, subtle and touching script, The Elephant Man proves to be David Lynch's finest.


                
The Elephant Man is a brilliant work of art,done by a brilliant director. This time David Lynch takes a different turn in his movies,displaying the true life and sorrow of Jhon Merrick. This is considered to be Lynch's most normal film,but yet it is still kind of weird1 Although I think BLUE VELVET is David Lynch's biggest achievement,elephant man is definitly second.


                
THE ELEPHANT MAN is based on a true story about a young man with a deformity. It is directed by David Lynch and is a much different kind of film than he has typically made. The acting and directing here are great.The story unfolds in a perfect way and is always interesting and intriguing. It is a story of compassion, and one of humanity and tolerance that deserves to be told and to be seen. Recommend.


                
David Lynch and Mel Brooks sound like a cinematic partnership that teeters on the edge between the surrealism of a Lynch film and a gag from a Brooks film. Nevertheless, these two would work together in 1980 on Lynch's second feature, The Elephant Man. Simultaneously, yet separately, both Brooks and Lynch had interest in seeing The Elephant Man, a script written by Eric Bergren and Christopher De Vore based on the novel by Sir Frederick Treves. Treves book highlights the heartbreaking existence of John Merrick, whose severe disfigurement relegated him to a near imprisonment as a circus freak show exhibit. After making a film as polarizing as Eraserhead, Lynch wasn't exactly having to sift through many offers for work. Thanks to Stuart Cornfeld, a film producer who enjoyed Eraserhead, he picked a project that he thought Lynch might be interested in. After Lynch confirmed interest, Cornfeld, who was also an associate of Mel Brooks, took the idea to him thinking it would be a good venture for his newly founded Brooksfilm production company. Needing to be sold on the relatively unknown David Lynch, Brooks was advised to watch his debut feature, Eraserhead. Perhaps surprisingly, Mel Brooks took enough from his screening of Eraserhead to hire Lynch on the spot and put his full confidence in him to direct The Elephant Man. The chance Brooks took with David Lynch was monumental and put Lynch on the map. The Elephant Man was a huge success, nominated for eight Academy Awards, paving the way for Lynch to be able to continue his career in filmmaking. The partnership with Mel Brooks also allowed Lynch access to such a phenomenal cast including John Hurt, Anthony Hopkins, John Gielgud, and Anne Bancroft, Lynch had come a long way from selling newspapers to pay his cast. Despite many Hollywood producers being ill-prepared to properly respond to a film like Eraserhead, the artistic integrity was not lost on all, and the opportunity for David Lynch to flourish had just begun.One of the many positive qualities of David Lynch as a filmmaker is his ability to humanize even the oddest of his protagonists, thereby fostering an emotional connection between the audience and the characters in his film. Even the more minor characters in each of his films are given a human touch by David Lynch. Whether it's a distraught movie director who's casting decisions are being forced upon him, or a lounge singer embroiled in a kidnapping plot, each inhabitant in David Lynch's world is compassionately treated and given such human qualities, it is difficult to not become invested in the worlds he creates. Even in characters with such sparse dialogue as that of his feature film, their emotional essence is beautifully captured by Lynch. The audience is taken through a 14-minute trip before a word of dialogue is heard in Eraserhead, and after that, it's sparse until about the 30-minute mark. We are shown two socially inept individuals that seem to have little contact with the outside world. Despite their handicaps, however, Lynch shines a light on the aspects that make them similar to ourselves. We root for Henry and Mary, or at least want to see their suffering end, and that is credited to Lynch's ability to emotionally commit us to his characters. Lynch's gift of making such introspective cinema that allows the viewer to see at least aspects of themselves, in seemingly unrelatable characters, is invaluable. In The Elephant Man, Lynch's human touch was needed in multitudes to polish the animal-like John Merrick, who was routinely disregarded by those around him.I often think of The Elephant Man as Lynch's most human film. Perhaps that distinction should be shared with The Straight Story, the other linear oddity of David Lynch's oeuvre. Maybe it had to do with the plot-driven "normal" timeline following of these two films that kept Lynch from going too far out into the weeds. Whether it was due to the structure or perhaps the source material, Lynch didn't seem to hide the fact that he was putting a passionate, deeply moving bend to the story of John Merrick. In the first meaningful experience the audience shares with Merrick, played expertly by John Hurt, we see him isolated and alone, kept from having any interaction with people, only to be gawked at as the imprisoned sideshow oddity. Merrick is treated as property, solely because he looks different. He is completely commodified for someone else's gain because it has been decided for him that he couldn't possibly have anything meaningful to contribute to society. By expressly showing us the disregard of Merrick, Lynch sets the tone for Merrick's retribution that is to come. By the time Anthony Hopkins' Frederick Treves happens upon John Merrick, Merrick has been conditioned not to trust anyone, as every person in his life has abandoned him, beaten him, or gawked at him. Treves, however, is committed to helping Merrick, so committed that he brings him into his family's home to the shock of his wife. Treves creates the most comfortable environment he can for Merrick at his new residence in the Royal London Hospital. Lynch utilizes several long takes, focusing on Treves' face, to show the audience the depth of his humanity, and his desire for Merrick to be treated as a person rather than some sort of freak. This focus on Treves humanizes him, making his character another humanly in-touch addition to the compassionate world Lynch creates. There are a number of key scenes throughout the film where Merrick is seen constructing a model of the cathedral that he can see the top of through his window. As more people that come into contact with him ask about his model, Lynch creates a beautiful moment wherein he highlights the importance of each person's individual perspective. Merrick can only see a portion of the cathedral, just like those who interacted with him could only see a part of John Merrick. No one would have expected that Merrick had the soul of a poet or a depth of feeling that he shared for those important to his life. Each person only saw Merrick's disfigurement and assumed from his appearance that he could not possibly possess a great capacity for thought. Of course, this was wrong, but Lynch exposes the reality that no one knows all parts of anyone else. Just as the window blocked the view of the lower half of the cathedral, there is in each of us aspects of our being that are unable to be seen by others. Creating an opportunity for self-reflection, Lynch again successfully adds a richly human element to his film. In many ways, I was reminded of the ways people would interact with Dougie in Twin Peaks: The Return. Like Dougie, John Merrick was shown heart and affection by those close to him while being blown off or gawked at by strangers. This similarity goes to show that, despite there being 40 years difference between the two works in Lynch's filmography, he has maintained a commitment to highlighting and respecting the emotional elements of humanity.I have encountered many people who look down on The Elephant Man as "lesser Lynch", due to its coherent storyline and structure. It's not that these people don't care for the film, they just don't see as much of David Lynch's influence as in his other films. I've always been puzzled by this claim, as I see plenty of Lynch's touches throughout the film. The film is full of extreme close-ups of eyes, just like we see in Blue Velvet and Mulholland Drive. The opening of The Elephant Man is incredibly similar to that of Eraserhead, both in sound design and sequences of overlaid images. The camera lingers, often longer than the audience thinks it should, which is something Lynch has done in just about everything he's done. What stands out the most as uniquely Lynch, however, is the nightmarish sequences of Merrick's abuse. Lynch is a master of the nightmare, creating terrifying, unnerving sequences that stand from all of cinema. Lynch also cultivates an environment of isolation, of characters that are always, even if slightly, trepidatious of the world around them. Like only he can do, Lynch creates a world that is ugly on the outside, but beautiful within, echoing the mindset David Lynch seems to apply to all of his films, that "people are frightened by what they don't understand."


                
David Lynch has something of a reputation amongst what might be defined as Postmodern cinema. His films haven't always met my desires or expectations; not always have i been able to interpret correctly this or that hint in his films or to find out the meaning of one of his indisputable works of art.Yet, that's not an obstacle for my to be able to admit that he is as talented as any director out there. Stating the contrary would be both short-sighting and an unjustified attack on his talent. Besides, even if I don't share the same values his promotes with his cinema, I'll always admire someone who has enough grit to stick to his guns when needed, someone who upholds a certain view of what cinema should be like. The Elephant man is good prove of that and like with the best John Ford's films leaves you with sniff of good cinema. One can only kneel down and pray to God so it would never go ways, so it would stay with you, by your sided, through thick and thin, through your darkest hours.That's precisely the theme of the Elephant Man, as the protagonist, an Englishman who goes by the name of John Merrick is the embodiment of sorrow and despair. Born with deformities all over his body, his left arm is useless, his face looks torn as if it was run over by a steamroller.John Hurt is magnificent portraying this half man, half elephant. it bestows upon the character such solemnity and dignity that it's difficult to get your eyes off him. I couldn't image another actor doing a job as equal as good. There is a showdown as for performances between John Hurt and Anthony Hopkins. The latter's character is a doctor that one day comes across the circus the Elephant man is travelling with. Out of interest and I'd like to think love decides to buy him off the manager. He took it to the hospital he works at and, at first, the sees in him everybody else sees: a monster. As times goes by, though, the monster's humanity and tenderness seep into the world and manifest themselves to everybody with the will to see. It's then when the doctor starts to see "through him".Just as the glimmering smile of a baby can shake off the lingering sadness that surround one's heart after a break up, you'll turn this movie into a memory, a moment of clarity an love to come back to when the monster we all carry insides us wants to take over.


                
