It is a France 2 documentary and as such very french biased.Many french sensitive issues (Vichy.. only the top a disgrace, or whole french populations under Vichy a disgrace ?! ), liberation of France by active troops in terms of men, material..how much (or rather how little) was french, etc. are left under the carpet.All the world-war issues are looked upon with french interest/viewpoint..if there isn't one, then there is no attention to it or only as a 5 second footnote (Fights in Norway? Holland ? Belgium ? Convoy war at Atlantic ? Balkan fights Tito resistance, Soviet fights in Balkan countries ? MarketGarden ? Japan's fights and occupation in china,New Guinea,etc).However french issues which are marginal to the outside world are given broad attention (french ministers crisis 1940, negotiations Roosevelt with Gaulle en Vichy favoured representative in 1943, Bir Hakeim stand, LeClerc background (ahem Zjoekov's background ? Monty's Background? Alexander's background?), Indochine taken over by Japan, French resistance actions (no resistance elsewhere?), De Gaulle's return in France and focus on his political problems).Like before-mentioned text: Many films have been aired before..only a few are rare (from French sources). All are coloured in, which gives it a special touch-but not all are coloured in thoroughly (only face one colour, one colour for uniform, one colour for bushes, one colour for ground).It's nice to see, and it keeps you captivated...but it is not THE best documentary, and certainly not "neutral"(unbiased).


                
I take exception to the statements that this is the greatest WW2 documentary ever made. It's a fairly standard history from a French viewpoint, with the additional gimmick of being colorized. Yes, colorized, not "restored," as the original was never in color in the first place. Some of the footage is new, but most has appeared in previous documentaries.Black & white footage is not easily colorized, and can often appear fake, even surrealistic. So, while it sometimes works, making certain scenes more vivid and realistic, it often works counter to its purpose.Much of the new footage has not appeared previously for a reason: it is extremely disturbing. Dead and decaying bodies abound. This is a war documentary and so is perfectly appropriate, but I would not allow small children to watch.The commentary avoids controversy by being rather simplistic. WW2 Buffs will learn nothing new. I was impressed however, by the statement in one of the episodes, that the French communists didn't begin resisting the German occupation until after the invasion of the Soviet Union, a full year after the fall of France. This statement of course is absolutely true, but it couldn't have made the French leftists very happy.In all, I would recommend this to WW2 and modern history buffs, only for the new footage, and to see what can and can't be done with colorization. However, for general viewers looking for a solid introduction to the war, I would recommend "World at War." For those sad souls who cannot watch b&w footage, there are series for the US, Great Britain, Japan and the Anzacs, all showing original, not colorized, color footage.


                
Six 45-minute episodes does no justice to what was truly the most devastating Apocalypse in human history. But yes this is pretty good given the very limiting length constraint.I am writing this review however, mostly so I can rant about the disproportionate amount of time devoted (in this already extremely short documentary) to what the French did. France is often caricatured as having, in WW2, done little more than surrender immediately, ship out Jews while waiting to be liberated, and be forever angry at their liberators (especially for speaking English while in France). This caricature is however probably closer to the truth than what this documentary suggests. Example: one bit talked at length about the mythical French Resistance, then went on to show 3-second clips of resistance movements around the continent, e.g. in Yugoslavia, Norway, etc. This was quite risible, given that the Yugoslav Resistance successfully liberated Yugoslavia by themselves, while Albert Speer replied "What French Resistance?" when asked about it.Example: The French Resistance and De Gaulle are depicted as having liberated Paris, but really they were (for lack of a common English expression) ribbon-cutters claiming the credit for work done by their true liberators---the English-speakers. An astonishing fact cited by Andrew Roberts in The Storm of War is this: A greater number of Frenchmen bore arms for the Axis than for the Allies. A French schoolchild who watches this documentary will however get the wrong impression that France was nearly equal to Britain or even the US/USSR in the struggle against the Nazis.


                
This documentary series' strong point is the use of only WWII footage, often colorized. A lot of it is rarely seen in other documentaries, some of it none at all. So it's very interesting in that perspective.However, it's a French documentary and it's very French-centric and usually very biased. On several occasions I've caught it omitting important information/context or bringing up wrong information. For a documentary claiming to cover the whole of WW2 (which it does claim to do so), it's not a very good effort. It will mention several side-topics that are important for France (e.g. the politics of France before the war), but doesn't bother with important parts of WW2 that France had nothing to do with, e.g. the war in the Balkans.Most egregious is that it tries very heavily to paint the Soviets as bad or worse than the Nazis. It tries to paint Britain as the major obstacle to Germany and their main opponent. Just to be clear, ideally it shouldn't be biased at all for either side. It should be presenting history and commentary on the footage. Instead it sometimes uses footage to present a version of history that is favorable to the makers.Still, in the parts that concern Western Europe, it does a very good job on educating its viewers on important details that are not known by many. It gives a very good perspective of the civilian population. The footage taking a primary role, instead of a tool to transition between interview scenes (this documentary doesn't have any such scenes) keeps things interesting.I'd recommend watching it, but bearing in mind that it only does the rudimentary minimum for anything else aside from French and British affairs. As far as the Eastern Front goes and the War in the Pacific, you can find many better documentaries.


                
This is a six-part French documentary series on the Second World War. It's most notable for being in colour with some exceptions with the Holocaust footage. The colorization looks good and not too gaudy. Most of the war footage is familiar. There are some lesser seen civilian stuff especially early in the war. This is reminiscent of the old style documentaries that populate the TV leftover time slots way back when. The fact that it gets a new life in a nice concise package is commendable. I saw the version with narration by Jonathan Booth. He's not famous and has the echoing tones of the older documentaries which is comforting. Having a familiar voice like Martin Sheen could be jarring. This is an old fashion doc series.


                
