This is definitely the best ANIMATED show on television. I have been a Simpsons fan for a long time, and over the years it has been going downhill, but recently its been really funny! I think that this is best for people who LOVE SEEING GREAT COMEDY AT WORK! Matt Groening is one of the funniest TV people ever (though I should be fair, a lot of the Simpsons is the writers, if not most of it). For those who don't know, it's about a dysfunctional family living in a town called Springfield (the state is unknown!!!!). There's Homer, the dimwitted father working at the Nuclear Powerplant. Then there's Marge, the housewife who is the classic mom. There's Bart, the spiky haired hell-raiser who has a knack for getting in trouble. There's Lisa, the intellectual middle child who plays the Saxaphone and is the smartest one in the family. Then finally there's Maggie, the baby that only talks in sucks on her pacifier. All in all, each episode includes their many misadventures including a meteor hitting the earth, and Homer causing Y2K. Bottom line, totally funny!
I rate this show 10/10 based of the first 9 seasons. It was witty, it had so much heart, it was hilarious and the stories were good enough that even if you have seen an episode 10 times and know every joke, you can still enjoy it just because of the plot. The characters were great, the show had such a great balance between humor and emotion. Now, if I were to include anything past those season, specially the current ones, I'd probably give the show a 6, if you think about it, the golden era is only one quarter of the show now, meaning that 75% of the show goes from enjoyable or watchable to terribly boring and underwhelming. I wish this show had followed on Jerry Seinfeld's footsteps who knew when to end his show and went out on a high note. Both shows started in the same year and I have always felt they had a similar evolution through the years until Seinfeld ended. Then The Simpsons came out with their 10th season and although enjoyable the decline in quality was noticeable.I just wish there was a way to separate the eras of the show and rate them accordingly.


                
This show may have gone downhill significantly over the years, but we have to remember how amazing it once was! After being introduced in animated shorts on "The Tracey Ullman Show" in 1987, the Simpson family started out in their own show late in 1989, with a Chrismas special. The first season continued in 1990, and during the show's early days, it was controversial. At that point in time, it seems that society wasn't used to cartoon shows not being 100% kid-friendly. However, "The Simpsons" also turned out to be one groundbreaking series of the decade, and the controversy eventually died down (less kid-friendly cartoon shows have come since)!The Simpsons are a dysfunctional American family who live in the city of Springfield. The parents are Homer (an overweight, lazy, aggressive simpleton who works at the local nuclear power plant) and Marge (usually a stay-at-home mother who tries her best to keep the rest of the family in line). The kids are Bart (a ten-year-old boy who very often gets in trouble, and doesn't usually do so well at school), Lisa (a very intelligent, gifted eight-year-old girl who plays the saxophone and usually does very well at school, but often has trouble with her social life), and Maggie (the youngest in the family, only a baby). The family owns two pets, a dog named Santa's Little Helper and a cat named Snowball. Various kinds of trouble for this family often arise, including Marge and Homer having trouble with their relationship, Bart or Lisa experiencing a problem at school, and so many other things! Wherever the Simpsons go, trouble seems to await!The show has many excellent supporting characters, probably more than most shows do! They include Krusty the Clown (a wacky clown whose #1 fan is probably Bart), Mr. Burns (Homer's evil 104-year-old boss at the power plant), Waylon Smithers (Burns' assistant), the Flanders' (the Christian fundamentalist family who live next door to the Simpsons), Seymour Skinner (the principal of Springfield Elementary who is middle-aged and still lives with his mother), Agnes Skinner (Seymour's bossy mother), Apu Nahasapeemapetilon (a man from India who runs the local Kwik-E-Mart), Edna Krabappel (Bart's teacher, who often gives him trouble), Abraham J. "Grampa" Simpson (Homer's silly father, who lives at a retirement home and has a lot of history), Patty and Selma Bouvier (Marge's nasty, chain-smoking sisters, who hate Homer), Moe Szyslak (a local bartender who is easily fooled by Bart's crank calls), Barney Gumble (Homer's alcoholic friend who is usually only seen at Moe's), Lenny and Carl (two more of Homer's friends, who drink at Moe's with him and work at the power plant), Milhouse Van Houten (Bart's nerdy friend)...the list goes on! Aside from all the funny characters, "The Simpsons" has several other notable features, including lots of brilliant humour, excellent writing, social commentary, a lot of voice talent (most of the cast members provide the voices of several characters), impressive animation (even if the main characters are simply drawn), etc.! The Halloween episodes are a highlight as well, each featuring three short stories, which are generally less realistic than the plots for most regular episodes. There's really not much (if anything) to be said about the long-running, groundbreaking series that hasn't already been said many times, so I'm basically just repeating things that others have mentioned!It has now been nearly eighteen years since "The Simpsons" started out in full episodes, and it currently holds the record for the longest-running cartoon show! Unfortunately, but unsurprisingly, it hasn't been the same in recent years, gradually declining in quality. Personally, I can't stand watching new episodes. I certainly don't think they're horrendous, but they seem very stale, and certainly can't compare to the classics, making me feel as if I've lost something in my life. I know I'm certainly not the only fan who avoids new episodes, many others believe that it should have come to an end long ago. However, it's best not to dwell on the negative. What "The Simpsons" was in its heyday is not something to be forgotten, and clearly, television in the 1990s wouldn't have been the same without it!


                
With all my collection of video tapes and d.v.d.s I seem to find myself digging through my Simpsons box, when I need something to watch. It would be hard to pick a favorite episode, because of so many. It would be even harder to pick a least favorite because there is very few that could be less appealing. But boring is one thing that the Simpsons could never be considered. The writers have changed ideas, episode structure, and kept the Simpsons on a continuous exciting adventure. Anytime of the day or no matter what seems to be the mood , the Simpsons is always satisfying to to view even over and over and hours on end.


                
The Simpson's is with out a doubt the greatest comedy to come out of America, it has covered everything, from everyday life, endless special guests. to parody's of famous movies. but now 16 years on and many laughs later the Simpson's has become a house hold name. But now i think the creators are running out of ideas, the jokes from the new episodes are going from classic to desperate and kind of dumb i think they should get the movie over with and then finally close the book of the greatest piece of animated comedy.Over all the best ever. but unfortunately all great things must come to an end and i think the time is near.


                
I really love The Simpsons, the 90's episodes are the best. I really liked it going up to season 13 but it started going downhill. But it really started going downhill after its 20th anniversary. The early episodes are excellent. There's no doubt about it. Some of the best episodes include Lisa's First Word, A Streetcar Named Marge, Hurricane Neddy, Homer's Odyssey and of course the episodes with Sideshow Bob in them. They had lots of laughs, were very entertaining and if you had a bad day, they would lighten you up.After the tenth season, the quality started to decline. Although an episode originally aired in 2001, New Kids on the Blecch, I really enjoyed. Other episodes in seasons 11-13 I liked as well. But episodes in seasons 14-19 weren't as great. After its 20th anniversary, the series declined immensely. They had guest stars like Justin Bieber and Lady Gaga. Why!? The episodes from seasons 20 on aren't funny at all. The animation improved, that's the only thing good about it. I think it's time to wrap up the series altogether. It should have stopped after its 13th or 14th season.I don't like the newer episodes at all, but I love the 90's episodes and the episodes in the very early 2000's. I love The Simpsons truly so I'm going to give it a 10/10.
What can I say about the Simpsons? Initially, let's start with the positives. Has there ever quite been a show like the Simpsons? I think not! Matt Groening and James L. Brooks have truly created something of great comical and philosophical magnitude. From seasons 1-13 (that's right, up to season 13!), comedy appropriate to the society was cleverly exploited, causing the Simpsons to become a global phenomenon for obvious reasons. Flaws in society were excavated; puns were dished out with a clean edge and, most profoundly, this was a cartoon that both enticed adults and children alike (paving the way for successful cartoons such as Family Guy and South Park; although neither would reach the success of The Simpsons). Now the negatives. From seasons 14-19, Simpsons episodes were mediocre, shamelessly brandishing celebrities left, right and centre and dishing out jokes that seemed force and less natural. The series still did have the spark that peaked interest and tickled the funny bone but, other than that, it was rather a disappointment. This, however, was nothing compared to the decline in quality from seasons 20-26! Story lines seemed to consist of depression in the Simpson household and offered little to no comedic value. In addition, celebrities not only made cameo appearances, but dominated episodes in which the plot was clearly strained and offered nothing (especially the disgusting 'Lisa goes Gaga' which seems to combine all of my points beautifully). The writers have quite literally lost the plot and the show really should be cancelled! It is hard to tell whether the show has become a sentimental attachment to Mr Groening or whether FOX are just too worried about losing money at the cancelling of this show. Whatever the reason, FOX or Matt Groening need to end this show so it can leave the spotlight retaining dignity and fond memories; otherwise, we may look back at the early episodes as a distant memory! I rate The Simpsons as a 10 simply because of its earlier brilliance and my loyalty: a testament to its early episodes!


                
The simpsons were the best for the first 12 seasons but a decline each season from 4 to 12. By season 13 to today are terrible. The plots do not make sense and there are some differences with the simpsons. Homer is stupid but he was hilarious. Now he is a dimwit that is just plain stupid. Marge is more boring each season, Bart is an Alcohoic how funny. Lisa is so annoying about being so smart. Maggie is still the same from the start. I really think this show will not last long due to the boring episodes they had and the low ratings they have. For some reason the intro are more interesting than the whole episode I just don't get why they are doing that. The simpsons is having the same fate as spongebob with some great seasons at first but turn to trash. First 12 13/10 13 to recent 3/10The only hope for the simpsons to be great again is that the simpsons family guy special is good and the rest of season 26 to more than just par.


                
This show is the show of my childhood, this will go down as the best TV series ever made!


                
I have to start off by saying that seasons 1-9 of the Simpsons were absolutely fantastic, easily some of the best television i have ever seen. the writing was sharp and witty, the characters unpredictable and to some degree you could relate to them. I don't think anyone can deny that the Simpsons is probably the most famous TV show ever. even people who don't watch the show have heard about it or can name a few of the characters whether it be Homer, Bart or Marge, THAT IS HOW POWERFUL THIS SHOW HAS BECOME. After all the success of the TV show it was inevitable that eventually a movie would be made, but to talk about the movie would be starting a completely different review all together, so i won't get into that.Now you might have wondering why i have got "Awkward feelings" as my summary, well thats exactly what i get when i watch the more recent episodes. i feel awkward and pretty upset to be honest, at just how bad the newer episodes are. they are over the top, pointless and predictable. in the first 9 seasons each episode had a subtle moral whether it be about stealing , drugs or other things, but when watching the latest ones i just get the feeling they make them just for the money factor, without actually giving a Sh*t about how they are ruining the memories most hardcore fans have of when the show was the best thing on television. It has gone on far too long , and i know i am in the majority when i say that this show is slowly starting to leave a bad taste in mouths of the fans. They should just end the show now whilst its still "decent" , in the 400+ episodes that exist, you would think they have told all the stories they wanted about the family, but no they keep coming up with stupid stories that make no sense, which we have already seen similar ones to in the older episodes.As much as i cannot stand the last 5 or six seasons , ill still have to give this show 10/10 , because of the first 9 or so seasons, That is how highly i think of them.By Scott Dewhurst


                
Rated TV-PG for Violence and Language.The Simpsons is the longest running animated TV show of all time.It started in 1989 and is still making new episodes.Matt Groening is a genius for coming up with so many ideas and also making Futurama at the same time.People are complaining that the new episodes suck.Maybe some aren't as good as the older episodes but I think most of the new episodes are very good.There are many pop culture references in the show.Family Guy was influenced by the Simpsons.Its a very funny TV show and I always watch re-runs when they play on TV.The show is about a dumb father named Homer Simpson and his family and all the funny misadventures they get into each episode.There are plenty of great characters in this show from the religious Ned Flanders to the angry bartender Moe.The Simpsons is my third favorite TV show and Its just great.Runtime:30min 10/10


                
Its really hilarious.... you will find gr8 sense of humor. master piece. I have been watching same episodes again and again, but believe me its more fun then previous. All characters are really best fit for their roll. i like the new ideas in the title play. all time favorite. amazing. keep up the good work.good luck...!! out of this world. thanks a lot to Dan Castellaneta Julie Kavner Nancy Cartwright Yeardley Smith Hank Azaria Harry Shearer Marcia Wallace Phil Hartman Tress MacNeille Pamela Hayden Maggie Roswell Russi Taylor Doris Grau Karl Wiedergott Marcia Mitzman Gaven. its been more then 17 years now. but its really great.


                
It is no longer possible for me to imagine a world without The Simpsons in it. I was ten years old when I saw my first episode (I was living in Germany by the time, so it was dubbed) but I was hooked on the show ever since. It started to grow on me, and I haven't missed an episode in ten years. Every day I tune in and even manage to stand the lousy commercials in between, only because I know that there's a good time coming. Sure, there are a few lesser episodes, especially in the last two series, but that only encourages me to watch the old ones over and over again. I'll probably never stop watching !


                
The Simpsons is the greatest show ever to grace the screen! You have Homer always making funny comments and stupid remarks which never get old. While Bart, Lisa, Marge, and Maggie are always doing hilarious things. Then there is still the rest of Springfield such as Barney, Skinner, Ralph and such. This is the greatest show and I hope they never end it.


                
This is the best show. I love the Simpsons I've almost watched every episode! I have a Simpsons guide book of every episode from seasons 1 to 8. My favorite one is Bart. I can't Believe they've gone 12 seasons (12 years) and I heard there's going to be be a 13th season!


                
Now this is the first review I have done that I have not put a rating down for but that is because I have different opinions on all the seasons.Season 1: I watched this and I did not think it would be very good seeings as a lot of shows like this have failed sometime along the way and then I saw it, It was by no means great but it was a humorous way to escape life for half an hour. This is what become the best show in the world so I rate it 73%Season 2: This was pretty funny and was on the verge of hilarious but it still was not the ensured hilarity of later seasons but it kept me watching and waiting for more. I rate this season 77%.Season's 3-5: This was up in the top shows of the 20th century now, it was getting better and better as episodes got funnier and clevier, still I did not think it would get any better then this even though it was probably in the top 10 shows ever by now. I rate these 3 seasons together as 85%.Season's 6-9: This is where it became the best show in the world and I am not exaggerating it took over as the smartest funniest show I have ever seen, it also got a way bigger audience by then and there was merchandise galore going around by then, I rate these season's 97%.Season 10: For the first half of the season this was the same classic Simpsons that we all knew and loved from seasons 6-9 as it was again to use the phrase it was clever and funny but in the second half we saw something different, we saw different types of Simpson's like spin off's more spoofs and more humour based around the stupidness of Springfieldians but this was not necessarily a bad thing as it led to brilliant episodes of Homer doing what he does best Bart being more of a vigilant and Lisa being a nerd but still after this we never got the old Simpsons back even though newer seasons are not bad either. I rate the first half of this season 89% and the second half 82%.Season 11: In this season we saw interesting plots which were probably more funny then clever but still was extremely witty for a show that had lasted so long, and with such episode like "Brothers Little Helper" and "behind the laughter" the show was kept alive by Matt Groening's genius. I rate this season 79%.Season's 12-13: These seasons had OK plots and extremely funny jokes, the show as still quite humorous and I was still watching it weekly and was quite mad if I missed an episode. I at this point thought the Simpson's was still the best show. I rate this seasons 79%. Kinda like Season 10 really.Season 14: Well by now the Simpson's were in that stage of all the episodes were of the characters being changed temporarily to fill in time. But still the show was good enough for me to continue watching it with joy and the show still had a while left before it died to me. That is why I rate this season 79%.Season 15-17: This seasons to me were pretty good and great episodes made up for some that were not as good (not saying any are awful)this seasons kept the show with a burning light to me and still I wanted to watch more and more of this great show. I rate these season's 82%.Season 18: I did not like this season very much and it was only good for a few laughs every few episodes. I will rate it 71% because I feel generous.Season 19: Best since Season 9, absolutely hilarious. I think all haters of what the show has become should watch Season 19 as it is very very clever. I rate this season 91%.Overall: 81.36%From a Simpson's fan.


                
The Simpsons is an animated American sitcom created by Matt Groening for the Fox Broadcasting Company. It is a satirical parody of the "Middle American" lifestyle epitomised by its title family, which consists of Homer, Marge, Bart, Lisa, and Maggie. The show is set in the fictional town of Springfield, and lampoons many aspects of the human condition, as well as American culture, society as a whole, and television itself.The family was conceived by Groening shortly before a pitch for a series of animated shorts with the producer James L. Brooks. Groening sketched an outline version of a dysfunctional family, and named the characters after members of his own family, substituting Bart for his own name. The shorts became a part of The Tracey Ullman Show on April 19, 1987. After a three-season run, the sketch was developed into a half-hour prime time show.The Simpsons was an early hit for Fox, and won several major awards. Time magazine's December 31, 1999 issue named it the 20th century's best television series, and on January 14, 2000 it was awarded a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. The Simpsons is currently the longest-running American sitcom, and the longest-running American animated program. Homer's annoyed grunt "D'oh!" has been adopted into the English lexicon, while The Simpsons has been cited as an influence on many adult-oriented animated sitcoms.


                
The Simpsons is truly a one of a kind show. On one hand, it can be educational. I don't think one episode of the Simpsons goes by where there isn't a reference to someone or something that kids would definitely not know. There, they learn something if they catch it. On the other hand, you have your comedy. Of course, the comedy and the Simpsons comedy is favored among more. Why is the comedy material funny? Randomness. The Simpsons is very random and that's what sets it apart drastically from the others such as Futurama and King of the Hill. However, this is taking the easy way out, as randomness has to do about things that don't a have to do with anything. In my opinion, it's cheating. I can't wait till the movie comes out


                
"The Simpsons" is a great show, but not just for comedy, I mean, sure, it's funny, but also because it is so good over all. I love this show. I always have and I always will. It is very funny. The jokes in this show will remain in my memory forever. I don't see how a person could hate this show. Hey, for all the people out there that hate this show, I have one question. Why has it been on TV for 18 seasons? Try and answer that. "The Simpsons" is the longest running actual TV show of all time. I love this show. This is a great show. It is easily the best TV show of all time and it might even be the greatest show of all time. I think that it is second funniest next to "Family Guy". "The Simpsons" is a great show that has lasted longer than any other TV show and I hope it will last a lot longer. I love this show. I can't wait for "The Simpson's Movie"! I love this show. 10/10.


                
This is the greatest production of all time, I really adore that episodes showing the simple and so strange life of contemporary persons...You can find everything from your own life in them, that probably why that show is so loved, so interesting.I am really glad that the most famous animation family in the world is already in Bulgaria.I had seen few episodes on a German television, but now, when I can see them in Bulgarian, I feel the sympathy of the heroes in a stronger way, and that's important:).Now I want to make a collection of "things" that are "connected" with that family... I highly recommend that movie!:)


                
I've been watching The Simpsons probably since it first started here in Finland. It was in the beginning of the 90s. Of course back then I didn't understand anything about it, but it was nice to watch moving pictures even though I couldn't read or understand English at the time. But about 10 years later I started following The Simpsons very intensively. And now few years after that I can say The Simpsons is one the greatest TV shows ever. There won't ever be something like The Simpsons.The Simpsons is almost only American comedy show that I watch. I just don't like the American humor, it really isn't funny. It's pretty much just idiotic-not-funny-boring-stupid... Well you got the idea. And what about the American pre-laughing system? Hah! Is there anything that underestimates the viewer so much? Probably not.But The Simpsons is different: it's satiric, witty, funny, satiric, witty, funny, satiric, witty and funny. And funny. And it's not pre-laughed! And there's absolutely not a single bit of that usual stupid American humor. ...And those are the things that makes The Simpsons perfect (TV) comedy. The Simpsons and of course South Park are probably the only American comedy series that are actually funny (and satiric). You guys really should make more TV series like The Simpsons and South Park.In Homer we trust.


                
It is IMPOSSIBLE to not know about The Simpsons. Love them or hate them, it is also impossible to deny the cultural impact this show has had. This is the greatest TV show ever made for so many reasons:1. It's the longest running sitcom (show?) ever made. 2. They never get old. 3. Millions-yes millions- around the world love them, and it's not hard to see why. 4. You can be 60 and love this show. 5. Did I mention it never gets old? 6. The greatest characters in TV history. 7. Make fun of people that deserve it. Hell, even if they don't.And there are a lot more reasons. It doesn't matter if you're 5,10,15,20,80 years old. This show will make you laugh- at least smile- for an entire episode. While I'll admit the recent seasons have gone downhill, they still make me laugh. But another TV show will NEVER be this popular again.


                
Who don't know who are Simpsons? the Simpsons are one of most influential TV shows ever made and the longest broadcasting animation on TV. Nowadays they have 17. series and over 370 episodes..that is two times more than Flinstones (the 2nd longest cartoon show) Simpsons have started as a part of Tracy Ullman Show.after that creator of Simpsons, Matt Groening, has got his own time and he made first twenty minutes long Simpsons.through years character of Simpson figure have changed, but the typical sense of humor has never changed..Homer is choleric with chimpanzee IQ, Marge always push around, Bart makes always mischief, Lisa is very intelligent a this is problem for she and Maggie has never said a word..And all this and many more makes the Simpsons a legend..What is more there is something that Simpsons overstep others cartoons..Simpsons are the only show (not only cartoon but all) that is broadcast in prime time over 15 YEARS!!
OK so many say that this show is slowing loosing it's luster. I beg to differ slightly. Family Guy seems to be the "in thing" right now and though I love that show as well, The Simpsons is still the hierarchy or animated television. This show can be enjoyed by all races, religions, and ethnicities alike. It's not as racy as the aforementioned competition but still just as (if not more) funny. Things do tend to wear over time and people's likes/dislikes tend to change. I've enjoyed every episode from the first one up until the current ones. The competition does touch topics that, if this show would touch, it would be kind of tasteless. I'll be a fan up until the last and final episode. Nothing has really changed except for people's opinions. Along with Seinfeld, Martin, and Married With Children, The Simpsons is and always will be a most noteworthy sitcom in t.v. history. That is All!!!


                
hands down the best show on televison. at times over the many seasons it has aired,  they may have faltered here and there, but overall, the show is consistently funny, wacky, irreverent and original. matt groening is a genius! not only did we get the simpsons from him, we also got futurama, yet another wacky, wonderful show.


                
