The Simpsons was a wonderful show. In its heyday in the 90s, it was probably the best show on TV. To call it a defining show of the 90s is an understatement. The Simpsons is probably one of the most obvious examples of 90s pop culture. The show has the distinction of being the one with the most guest appearances. Indeed, it is difficult to imagine TV without The Simpsons. However, the show has been dead for the last ten years. It started to decline, appropriately enough, at the end of the 90s. Here are the reasons for its decline.1) It tried to be like South Park and Family Guy. The Simpsons was a novelty for many years. It was a prime time cartoon. However, in 1997 South Park premiered. This was a cartoon that used violence and profanity for shock value. In 1999, Family Guy premiered and was also much racier. In 1999, The Simpsons began experimenting with this on their shows. This was never a staple of them before.2) The character of Maude Flanders was killed. She was a major character that was killed off about 1999 or 2000. Having her die completely changed the tone of the show and especially the Flanders family, who are major characters.3) Plots became wacky. The original charm of the show was the fact that it was somewhat realistic. The show soon started having ridiculous plots like Homer and Ned marrying floozies in Las Vegas.4) Phil Hartman died. The loss of Phil Hartman was devastating to the show. His characters provided much depth into the show and interesting plots.The Simpsons was a great show and it is sad to see it go downhill so much.


                
This show was amazing! Use to be so good, funny and witty and had some of the best characters. I don't know how,maybe it was because the movie came out but It went way down hill. I always hope the new episodes will be funny but they're just getting pathetic. I gave up hope on any new episodes being good, they're probably going to end it soon which would be a good thing. I don't know who writes for this show now, but whoever does they're terrible. For soo long this show was a ten, even more than that! And now it has gone form a ten to a three. Oh well..If you want to watch something funny, I say watch South Park, still funny and haven't gone downhill (Yet).


                
Since the talented voice cast has remained the same low these many years, I put all the blame on this squarely with the Fox network who refused to let this show go out gracefully when Groening siphoned off his role to work on his dream project, the now far superior 'Futurama'. In Fox's race to claim this endurance record they have turned a once edgy and visionary show into an institution with an assembly line production and revolving door of writers to match any of the other lame shows on TV. Behind the scenes, maybe the condescending we-can-do-no-wrong attitude of Maxton-Graham has dealt the show its biggest death blow, while producer Mike Scully sat back and ineptly let Maxton-Graham run it into the ground. In the end, the biggest blame may actually land with the "die-hard fans" that embolden the show by letting it get away with this junk. Yes, "The Simpsons" was ground-breaking and every adult animation in the future owns it a bit of gratitude, but blind loyalty to a show only for how it performed in the past isn't healthy. Since it has hit long-running status the critical bandwagon jumping has begun and "Simpsons" is more popular than ever amongst critics that want to be on the inside of history. We've now reached a point where the bad episodes and bad entire seasons outweigh the good and that, I'm afraid, is going to be the sad legacy of "Simpsons" . A train-wreck of crass, childish humor, grainy animation, oddly misplaced satire and forced parodies of only the most obvious pop culture targets. 10 years ago I didn't know what I would do without "The Simpsons" but now, particularly with the emergence of satisfying new adult animated shows ('Futurama', 'Family Guy' and 'South Park'), living without it might be pretty good.


                
The old episodes were so good but in season 12 it began to get worse.


                
The Simpsons used to be such a great show, easily the best on TV. It's humour and satire were brilliant and it was very well written.It seems that almost every kid nowadays will quote "The Simpsons" to each other, even I still quote it to my friends at University.But, like a lot of great series, it started to become sour. The series started to go downhill around season 10 and hasn't stopped since. I first noticed how bad Simpsons had become with episodes like the one where they go to Spring Break, and the Halloween episode where Homer gets cloned. To get an idea of how bad it's become, in the most recent season there can be maybe one laugh for every 3 or 4 episodes. In fact, there are more laughs and clever moments in a single episode from either series 5,6 or 7, then there are in an entire season from 14 onwards.Arguably some of the earlier episodes weren't that funny either, but they're missing the point. Those episodes were mostly satirical, plus there's the hit-and-miss quality. It's like comparing Dr. Strangelove to any of the Scary Movie's. Dr. Strangelove is a brilliant satire, and when it tries to be funny it mostly succeeds. Scary Movie, however, piles on the dumb jokes hoping that for every 20 jokes that aren't funny, there is 1 that is.In summary, watch if until season 10 or 11, after that don't even bother.


                
When I saw the Simpsons show I was really into it and entertained and I thought the show was hilarious. I enjoyed and loved some of the jokes they had, but as the show progressed it got offensive by it started bashing God and Jesus and I am a man of faith. I couldn't watch the show anymore because of the things the show said. After I still gave it a chance and stayed open minded and tried not to judge it, but the things the movie said made me uncomfortable. So I am writing this review to say that I would've enjoyed it, if only the bashing of not only my families beliefs, but also, other people's beliefs in a higher power wasn't thrown as jokes like that. It's fine to have your own opinions, but don't bash people's beliefs. That's messed up. All in all, I would never watch the show or movie again.
