The Simpsons, a town that was created from the humorous mind of Matt Groening in 1989, has now become a cult classic after an amazing 17 seasons, and it continues in fact they are making a film of the Simpson's due out in 2007. the Simpson's have been through a lot in their town, 17 tree houses of horror, the highest grossing episode ever, (bart gets an f) and 360 other mishaps which always seem to include famous voices, I don't care Futurama is nowhere near as good as this gem of a creation more laughs more characters and generally an all round good egg that is why I have decided to give this series a good solid 10 out of 10 because even after 378 episodes i find myself watching every last one over and over and over no matter how many times i see them
The Simpsons, which first broadcast as a half-an-hour TV show over twenty years ago, was at first a TV show everyone loved (though i can't say that with true honesty since I wasn't born then, but I have seen the older episodes and they're amazing, and my mum and dad loved it back then). Almost all of the jokes were 100% original and it was the funniest show on air (according to my dad). But the newer ones... are just painful to watch. Groening is rapidly running out of ideas, and now it's showing.I have the seasons 1-13 at home, and have watched seasons 20+ on the TV. I love every single episode from seasons 1-11, but when I first watched the twelfth on DVD, I was thoroughly disappointed. I only enjoyed a few of them. In hope, I bought season 13 on DVD, but that proved to be worse. I haven't bought one since. I didn't want to pay for something that isn't worth watching. I watched an episode on Sky, which I believed was season 23. I didn't even crack a smile. This is why the series - originally awesome - gets only a slightly respectable 8, rather than the 10+ the original episodes deserveI don't know when & how the series will end, but I hope it happens soon before even the long-time/die-hard fans start to realise the series is going no-where


                
It's good! Don't get me wrong I like it! It's just been going on for YEARS. They need to reboot it or something. It's just not good anymore. Matt Groening can just start a new show. It's just not as fun anymore! I wish they would start a new show. 28 seasons is enough! It stopped getting funny at about season 20ish.


                
The Simpsons is probably the smartest show in television. That is if you've only seen the first half seasons of the show. The new seasons are terrible. They stopped being smart and in order to compete with shows that are more aggressive (like South Park) or random (like every show on adult swim) they've destroyed it.When I was a kid the Simpsons payed homage to some of the most brilliant movies, books, music. I learned about Stanley Kubrik, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, The Beatles, etc. Nowadays they pay homage to Transformers and Lindsay Lohan. I think this is a small example that shows what has happened to them. I hope these people at fox stop producing it. Because the Simpsons were impeccable. But if they continue the legacy will vanish.Like everything great on the planet it is important to know when to call it quits. Simpsons I think your time has come (it came like ten years, ago but who's counting)


                
To me, it's hard to picture life without The Simpsons. All the sub-personalities that compose my dark side get permission to live and breathe when I watch that show. Everything that can possibly go wrong does, and it makes me so happy that it's happening to them instead of me. Of course, it's a bit disconcerting that Homer rarely even notices that things are constantly going wrong, but then, that frees him from taking responsibility. Oddly enough, he ends up taking responsibility by accident, which makes my inner Hallmark self happy. Marge is even more oblivious than Homer except when the day really needs to be saved, then suddenly she becomes supermom. Bart is busy trying not to be like Homer, which makes him twice as dangerous. Lisa is a perfect person, which makes it perfectly obvious how insane everyone else is. And Maggie is just an innocent baby... or IS she? I find most of the older episodes better than the newer ones, but it's still the Mad Magazine of the new millennium.


                
I honestly wish this show could go on funny.  The writing is sharp, the humor is always dead on, and it still is my favorite show after all these years.  Realistically, i know the show will have to end sometime.  May it live on in syndication and those overpriced dvd boxed sets!


                
Really funny, this show is awesome. Like the time Lisa tries to teach Maggie the word "dodecahedron". That was funny. I didn't even know that word until 6th grade! And the Richard Nixon episodes, those were really funny. "Yes, I would also like to express, my, fondness for that particular beer." It's funny for all ages. Okay, maybe not kids. They don't get all the parodies. But even my grandmother loves it! And she doesn't like anything. It has all types of humor. I like the dry humor the best, like when Lisa says, "As intelligence goes up, happiness goes down. See, I made a graph. I make a lot of graphs." Lisa is a stereotypical smart girl, and that's what makes her funny.
The series has fallen well short of 10 over the latest modern series. The universality of the great original comedy is gone


                
Finally... worked through all 28 seasons of "The Simpsons" (618 episodes and 1 movie to date). A rocky road, with the first ten seasons being the best "classic" or Golden years period. Then it went downhill with many unfunny, clichéd or just plain boring seasons for a few years. Hasn't really picked up again as well as it could, but did improve eventually. I think "South Park" has done better at keeping up with social events and remaining consistent.


                
Like clockwork for three decades, another year means another season of the record-breaking, long-running sitcom, but this season is definitely showing some cracks in the show's armor. The writing isn't as strong as it used to be, not even at the show's creative peak in the 1990s but even with the later seasons that followed, and what's left here is a bit on the underwhelming side. There are a number of tone-deaf episodes that callously dismiss legitimate social conversations from a hostile perspective, such as in "No Good Read Goes Unpunished," which handles the shifting public perception of Apu's Hindu character with all the finesse and precision of a chainsaw handled by a drunken toddler. Any season of "The Simpsons" is worth watching thanks the show's well-established and maintained universe, but there are few standout episodes to be found here.


                
As I've mentioned before, the latter day input from "The Simpsons" is definitely a take-it-or-leave-it proposition. Some returning fans are happy to indulge, while others wish the show had ended during its classic run. However, no matter where you stand on the subject, Season 26 of "The Simpsons" is no better or worse than the more recent ones. There are some episodes that recall the show's golden age, like "Simpsorama" and "Bart's New Friend," while others like "Clown in the Dumps" and "The Musk That Fell to Earth" (featuring a stiff, lifeless voice performance by Elon Musk, whose involvement comes across as both desperate and out of place on the part of the show-runners) instead land with a thud and a shrug. The show will always have its supporters and detractors, but it's still a remarkably strong, if occasionally sputtering, satire of modern American life.


                
Right on schedule, just as expected as the tide or the sunrise, comes another season of Fox's immortal juggernaut. At this point it's nearly impossible to contribute to an ongoing dialogue of the show, as most pop culture fans have solid opinions about "The Simpsons," both past and present. For longtime, loyal fans like myself, this season is solid and dependable, if however unremarkable within the show's overall arc. There are some great episodes included here, like "Barthood," "Teenage Mutant Milk-Caused Hurdles" and "The Girl Code," however it's hard to digest the first episode of the season, "Every Man's Dream." After a promotional campaign that teased that Homer and Marge would divorce in the season, fans were instead treated to a one-off, "it was all a dream" episode that felt tone deaf, at best. The rest of the season is solid and worth a shot, though.


                
It's almost sacrilegious to say this, but I'd be willing to put this season up against this classic, immortal show's best seasons. Perhaps it's a reflection of the dip in quality that's inevitably accompanied such a long-running show, but this season felt like a return to classic Simpsons, with the characterizations fully realized but still somehow finding new nuances, as well as interesting plotlines to keep the family busy. I think "The Simpsons" is the best television show ever made, and this is the first season in a few years that I genuinely loved. I highly recommend this, even for fans who may have moved on some time ago.


                
This television cartoon is one of my favorite animated sitcoms along with other TV cartoons such as Family Guy, South Park, American Dad and King Of The Hill. I for one really like this show, along with Family Guy in which I have already mentioned. There seems to be both funny moments as well as serious moments, even though about 75% of the show is comedy, and it's also realistic (more so than Family Guy), although sometimes it gets a little too surreal when something implausible happens, but the surreal moments usually have an explanation as well as being hallucinations or dreams (the only truly surreal episodes are the Halloween specials, alias Treehouse Of Horror). As much as I like the TV show for its stupidity (which is essential in comedy, in a good way of course), one of the things that bothers me about the show, or shall I say the whole franchise, is that there seems to be a significant, although certainly not universal, perception that it's a "family" show, and that is not true at all, and also there are people who think that TV shows like Family Guy and South Park are more mature than it. Bull-crap! In any case, The Simpsons is no less mature than Family Guy nor South Park. In fact, the primary creator Matt Groening originally never intended The Simpsons to be for "family viewing". Though surely there were kids who watched it with their parents in, let's say 1990, but it wasn't meant for that audience. The Simpsons was originally a group of 1 1/2 minute shorts on The Tracey Ullman Show and it was almost like South Park for its crude artwork. Then finally, The Simpsons became its very own sitcom since 1989. The series was the South Park and Family Guy of its time, also predating the shows on the late-night Cartoon Network line-up Adult Swim. Personally, I wish The Simpsons were on Adult Swim. But anyways, I also want to say that I regret watching this show as a child (I was 12 at the time), but in retrospect it was the wrong age for me to watch the show or associate with the entire franchise. I even encouraged a 3- year-old to watch the show, how stupid I was back then! Besides, if it really were "family- friendly" or as I prefer the term "kid or child-friendly", it needs to have no bad language, bloody violence, sex, nudity, tobacco, alcohol, controversial topics and very crude humor. I for one personally think that The Simpsons, and also Family Guy, should not be viewed by anyone under 13 or 14 year old, but to be "legal" I would say not for viewers under 17. I Love The Simpsons.


                
Its Entertainment! Entertainment!! & Entertainment!!! its hilarious, comedy, funny, & my all time favorite T.V show .. The series is a satirical depiction of a middle class American lifestyle epitomized by the Simpson family, which consists of Homer, Marge, Bart, Lisa, and Maggie. The show is set in the fictional town of Springfield and parodies American culture, society, television, and many aspects of the human condition.Modern Simpsons episodes are often both overstuffed and under-imagined, resulting in two indifferent, inadequately realized stories. Even though the show has dropped in creativity and in the joke department, it's still worthy of an 8.
The Simpsons was once a brilliant animated comedy about a dysfunctional family living in a dysfunctional town. In fact it could one of the best television shows of all time.However the Simpsons has been going down hill for quite a while now. I'm not sure when, but a while ago it started using the same story lines and becoming unfunny. Even if a storyline is original, it's pretty boring. Most of the new episodes are very boring. There is a cause. It has gone on too long. Now at season 24 and episode 528, it's safe to say they've ran out of ideas.My advice to Matt Groening is stop at 25. Make a real effort to make an epic series finale and let that be that. Maybe make another movie. The first movie was pretty good compared to the modern episodes. Matt, stop Simpsons and focus on Futurama. It hasn't been running long and still has great potential.


                
I was born in the early nineties and this show was on then and its still on to this day. I remember being a little kid watching it with my mom and I loved it. It was so funny and original totally explains why it has lasted over twenty long years! The voice actors do a great job and the writers are so talented. They make hilarious episodes with jokes and satire. I personally think the earlier episodes of the show were funnier such as seasons 3-12 but they are still funny to this day. 22 years and 500 episodes later and I am still watching this show.This show follows a dysfunctional family of 5, Homer,Marge,Bart,Lisa and maggie. They get into crazy shinnanigans every week and its hilarious every time.I have watched this show for my whole life and I will continue to watch it for as long as its on. Maybe it will never end and I will sit down with my kids and watch it just as I did with my parents. The simpsons is a part of my childhood a part of my memory thank you simpson family for being a part of my life.


                
This show is funny. Homer always being thick-headed, well he has a crayon in is brain. Homer always gets waisted at Moe's tavern. Well speaking of Moe, Bart always gives him prank phone calls. I like Bart and Lisa because they're so oppisite from each other. Bart: Always getting in to trouble, always getting bad grades, and the class clown. Lisa: A well behaved person, Gets good grades, and the teacher's pet. Any way the Simpsons family may be the Wackiest you have ever seen. If you like A family with Homer (thick-headed, drinker, pig, and gambler), Marge (tall blue-headed, mother, always mad, and has Magie stick to her like glue), Bart (Class clown, trouble maker, and a Krusty clown fanatic), Lisa (smart, un-popular, sax playing, and teacher's pet), and Magie (binkie sucking, and shoots Mr. Burns) I'll just tell you that, that family is the wackiest family you would ever know. Just comes to tell you that no family can't get any wackier than the Simpsons.


                
I kind of grew up with The Simpsons series, being THE series at that time. I hardly missed any series, I guess I've seen more than 150 and many of them twice or more. However i stopped watching the Simpsons at some point. At the point i noticed it became unoriginal and annoying, but more about that later in this review.What made The Simpsons so great, were its original and funny jokes, the interesting stories, the really great characters and all those allusions and mocks. And they always gave the viewer the feeling that this, although only being an animation, was somehow a bit real, authentic and comprehensible. Also the Tree House of Horror Trilogies made it even more interesting, making fun of popular horror films and at the same time staying true to the Simpsons universe. It was the perfect transformation of Simpsons characters into characters of Horror movies. I would give the first ~100-150 series 11/10 points for their funny original and sometimes touching stories which also had a lot of great social critique in them.However the later Simpsons series, especially the latest ones, show a great lack of its former originality (which is of course understandable after so much series) as well as bad and recurring jokes and what I would call "a rape of characters". The characters became dumb and somehow they became less distinct from each other, compared to how they were at the start. There are also less references and mocks of real persons and stuff. And overall they made the series a bit crazy and flipped out probably in order to try overcome the lack of new ideas. And additionally there is one thing many may not even have noticed, but I did and since i have noticed it i've not been able to watch those newer series: If you listen closely, you will notice a distinct sound of cricket chirping in the background in any outdoor scenes. It freaks me out because it's totally annoying due to the exact repetition of it and its absolute uselessness.All these things (that annoying sound only being a small part) forced me not to watch the series anymore. I think it's just a waste of time anymore and while I would give the first series a rating of 11/10, I would give the latest ones only 5/10.


                
Everyone I talk to says The Simpsons aren't as good as they use to be. That could be true. But I think that it really depends on your sense of humor and your age. The Simpsons have become a show to appeal to the younger audience. While there are some people who have been watching since the Tracy Ullman days, the majority of their current audience is different from like 10 years ago or so. The current fans are probably kids between the ages of 10-18 years old, the adults that watch it now are probably between 19-28, or the people who used to watch them on the Tracy Ullman show. How much longer the show runs who knows?? They are signed for a few more years on Fox and don't be surprised if their contract gets extended along with Family Guy and American Dad. I am pretty much done. I just am looking forward to season 21 now.


                
I can remember watching The Simpsons for as long as I've watched television. When I first started watching it I was young, I enjoyed it because Homer it was funny when Homer got hit by something and doubly funny when Bart said "Eat my shorts" Eventually, I grew out of the slapstick funny(It's still good but I can appreciate more) to realize that The Simpsons is an amazing satire. Commenting on anything and everything going on in our society. It's cutting edge and never afraid to tackle a subject.For the past few years, however, I just haven't enjoyed it. It's been on for nearly 20 years, I think it's course may have run. Everyone seems to just be tired. I know Matt Groenig was doing amazing things with Futurama.I do like what the cast is doing. Hank Azaeria is always great, Harry Shearer does amazing things on the website mydamnchannel. Hopefully the Simpsons can have one last amazing season and go out strong.


                
... there was a great show, created by a talented man called Matt Groening. The show became on of the biggest shows in the world, popular with old and young. But Matt Groening became corrupt by success, forcing his show to live a half-life and not die a natural, peaceful death.As you can tell, I have similar thoughts about The Simpsons, like most fans of my generation, growing up with the show in its peak in the 90s. The show was successful because it was very funny, combining cleaver humour from culture to politics, parody and satire, small site gags to good slapstick (nothing like Homer hurting himself).The premise of The Simpsons, is simple, it follows one family from a small American city (Springfield), as they struggle through life. All the main members have excellent episodes that allows them to shine. As the show grew with success more characters were created and they too got episodes, from Krusty the Crown, Ralph Wiggun, Sideshow Bob, Mr. Burns, Smithers, etc... The show also looked at themes from the media, childhood issues, health, American society, and so fore. Everyone has favourite characters in the show, my are Homer, Bart, Lisa, Maggie, Mr. Burns and Sideshow Bob.When the Simpsons was at it best it was one of my favourite shows and I watched it constantly. I still do watch, having a number of series on DVD, and watch the random selection on television. But by 1997/1998, the quality of the Simpsons started to decline, with the episode 'The Principal and the Pauper' being the Jumping of the Shark moment, and the ninth series being the last good series. There are good episodes after that series, but their come fewer and far between. There are good jokes, like how Homer would enter and leave the world in 'Half-Decent Proposal', but again become fewer.So why did the Simpsons decline? There are a number of reasons. Most of the good writers like David X. Cohen left the show or like John Swartzwelder who take a less active role. The writers are no where near their quality. The writers turn away from character driven episodes to more wacky adventure based ones which ruined the show, or the writers simply ran out of ideas, and did episodes based on famous stories like Hamlet, Lewis and Carl, Henry VIII, etc... Halloween episodes also had little to do with Halloween, being based on action films like Mr. and Mrs. Smith and Transformers rather then horror like The Shinning and the Twilight Zone. The Simpsons became more focused on the stars their could get to be guest voices for the show, instead of who would be good for the cast. Finally, they is the American system of programme making, which is if a show is popular keep running it until the rating go down. Compare to the British style which is let the show run for a few series, like Fawalty Towers and Blackadder and let it end when it good.When the Simpsons was at it best, i.e. the 90s period, it was one of the best shows ever made, and easily a 10/10. But slowly the show became weaker, but because I am a fair person I give a 8/10 because of the happy memories it gives me.


                
I am mainly reviewing this up to the 7th year(and I own the sets up to and including that one). I will admit that the very first of this wasn't all great... drawings were crude, it was "messy", and it leaned towards the sappy/hokey on occasion... but it did have moments. And right after, from the beginning of the second season, this was an amazing show. The animation got to be rather good just about immediately. The writing more often than not packed with social commentary, sometimes silly, though with little to no exceptions, funny. This is consistently well-done, almost entirely invariably. The references(to everything in and outside of showbiz, within the last several decades) are typically well-done, and this was self-aware and sophisticated. The characters are relate-able, flawed and credible. The comedy usually steered clear of toilet humor and material tends to go for the smart, satirical gag. The show maintained a high level until the eighth or so, when it started to go downhill. Since then it merely seems to grow worse with each successive effort. The jokes(which really aren't worth much to begin with, even the few of them that aren't solely based on public humiliation, other disgusting stuff and/or physical pain/abuse) have multiple punchlines, go against the canon for no good reason, and they practically spell out how sucky this has gotten. The DVDs hold special features such as animatics, alternate language reels, deleted scenes, a commentary track for every individual collection of 22 minutes of fun(with relevant people who worked on them, and, if not always, actors), and crew people either sharing inside information or introducing the extras/episodes, and they tend to be worth your time. I realize that my criticism of the recently aired of this might lead some to avoid this altogether, so I suggest anyone considering it to not do so(and heck, if you do like even the new, have at it), or you would give up many hours of hilarious, finger-on-the-pulse cleverness. And that would be downright nutty. I heartily recommend this to anyone who enjoys laughing and has enough of a base of knowledge of pop culture and American society from the 80's through the 90's. 8/10


                
Now don't hate me but I think it's time to put this show to rest. For a cartoon sitcom it was funny and innovative in its first few years but now after seventeen years it has jumped the shark several times.The same toilet humor,gross out jokes,alien invasions ,bart doing fart jokes etc etc etc have become irritatingly repetitive and painfully unfunny.We also have a feature film of the show coming out next year.In my opinion after watching the trailer you'd be better off saving your money for a night out at the club drinking.Like most cheaply made cartoon movies it's nothing more than one long television episode,the animation is the same cheap stuff,they don't even bother to improve it for the big screen.Look at the big screen versions of Rugrats,Doug,Power Puff Girls and the Wild Thornberrys etc and you'll see what I mean, the only difference between the TV show and the movie is the size of the screen its shown on. Oh and by the way - the Cartoon Network is pumping out some of the worst animation I've ever seen. Dexters Lab,Power Puff Girls,Cow and Chicken,Johnny Bravo,Ed,Edd and Eddy - With all the money they have and they come up with this crap, a two year old could draw better and probably come up with more entertaining ideas.Nuff said -the simpsons should be canceled after this season.


                
This series has been a big part of my life since my father showed me this for the first time, way back. I remembering sharing many great memories while watching this show. And i still own every season of this series on DVD just because it's a fun collection to have and i sometimes still play an episode.The first thing i think about with this series is the way it has been going strongly for around 30 years, 30 Years!?!That's a long time for one show to be running and still keeping the quality this show is having. The way that most of the episodes still keep a decent sense of humour and the way everybody has fallen in love with these characters for the last 30 years.


                
