'People forget the unpleasant things.  They only remember what they want to remember.'In Rashomon the editing tells ½ of the story.  It may feel experimental or unconventional, but Kurosawa perfects the concept second by second, directing and editing.  This film didn't need a big budget to come perfectly to the point.  It's a simple tale, but not a superficial tale.  Different points of view and selective memories ('It's true! I saw it!') don't only make the woods unsafe, but are one of the most universal topics of humanity. 'We humans are weak creatures. That's why we lie, even to ourselves' says it all actually: it's about what people want to hear and when they start being interested at all, apart from wishful thinking.  Selfish excuses vs trust in other people.Rashomon gets masterful when in one instant there is literally a different point of view: the camera takes another position to shoot the same sequence, thereby forcing the audience to reconsider what they just saw.  That is the sort of storytelling that the supposed masters of cinema in our time yet have to equal, or try to copy when they fail.  Admitted 'Memento' (2000, Nolan) is a truly great one.  Still not THAT universal.  'Pulp Fiction' (1994) didn't come close,  'La Commare Secca' (1962) also didn't.  'Ghost dog: the way of the samurai' (1999) touched another border of the concept, or does it?The use of (non-original) music in my opinion reveals a certain interest for western influence, not only in Rashomon, but also in Kurosawa's forthcoming films, and is probably why his films were so influential on western filmmakers too.The cinematography is dynamic and changes scene by scene to emphasize exactly what is going on.  The shadows of leaves and branches, captured by cinematographer Kazuo Miyagawa, make you really feel 'in the woods', while the actors (Toshirô Mifune, Takashi Shimura) convince the remaining part of the audience (which adds up to 100% breathless viewers).  It may be after days that you first realize you saw an important film.  After weeks you realize that you must see it again to comprehend (despite it's only 85 min), and ironically that is just one of the crucial points that Kurosawa made. 10/10


                
"Rashomon" was Akira Kurosawa's first national hit (becoming, at the time, the highest-grossing foreign film in America) and even gained an Oscar for Best Foreign Film, but almost sixty years later it still hasn't lost any of its impact. It is widely revered as one of the most influential films of all-time, but unlike some other movies, it is not a film that feels dated. The revolutionary methods of Kurosawa are still effective and on-par with the cinema of today -- this isn't a movie where you say, "Yeah, fifty years ago it might have been different, but now it's done in all the movies." Kurosawa's techniques are still superior to most of his imitators. Look at the 2003 John McTiernan film, "Basic," which copies a good portion of "Rashomon's" concept. Which is the better film? It's not a hard choice.The film begins under a structure which reads "Rashomon" on its exterior, in a small Japanese village. It's raining outside and a woodcutter (Takashi Shumura) and a priest (Minoru Chiaki) inadvertently find themselves in the company of a wandering commoner (Kichijiro Ueda), and as he asks them what is the matter they both begin to relay the most horrific story they claim to know -- of a brutal murder a few days prior.Kurosawa then switches to flashback and we see three different versions of the exact same event -- the slaying of an innocent man (the murderer played by Kurosawa film regular Toshirô Mifune) in the woods outside the village. Was it because of lust? Betrayal? Envy? Or insanity? We hear from the murderer, the wife of the victim, and a woman channeling the spirit of the dead man."Rashomon" is brilliant. Some people have complained that the ending is a cop-out and sentimental hogwash, but I think Kurosawa was fond of sentimentality to a point (he uses a good deal of it in "Ikiru") but the difference between what he does with sentimentality as opposed to many filmmakers of today is that he uses to to ENRICH the story, not provide an easy solution to all the problems.Is there resolution in the finale of "Rashomon"? To a degree. But, like "Ikiru," it also leaves an open answer to its audience -- this film questions us, and our humanity, and it says something about the human condition and our weaknesses as a species. Yet it also proposes that along with the evil is an inherent good, and in my opinion the message of "Rashomon" is just as important and effective as its film-making techniques and acting.


                
Akira Kurosawa was one of those directors, the first from the Eastern hemisphere, to develop the form and structure of cinema in ways it hadn't been. The story he used for Rashomon is now, like Seven Samurai, Hidden Fortress, and Yojimbo, a near archetype that at this point in the history of film has become formula and common knowledge for writers and directors. In that sense, Rashomon is as important and entertaining as a film as Citizen Kane, Battleship Potemkin, Rear Window, or Open City. Tee basic premise- Four different people give four different accounts on the rape and murder of a couple in the woods. A key ingredient to the success of Rashomon, is that the recollections given to the courts by the woman, the bandit, the as well as the four in discussion, is that their emotions reveal their humanity, even if their details reveal nothing, or everything. It's difficult to say whether character goes over story here, or if they have equal importance to understand Kurosawa's psychology with these people. The opening shot of the house is a perfect representation of the mature of the picture, something that has fallen apart over time due to disasters that go beyond control of individuals. The man who heard the testimonies of the trial says "I don't understand". This has been a discussed line, since essentially he's saying the point right up front. All the information won't ease his puzzlement. The three who discuss the details of the crimes and confessions are crucial- they speak for us, what our opinions might be, and we listen to each version of the story, the characters, the fears, the pride, the shame, and the search for judgment and/or truth in the situation.Along with being director and co-adapter, Kurosawa's mastery is revealed heavily in his use of editing- there are short, fleeting moments that hint, or rather pronounce, emotions and thoughts. For instance, when we first see Tajomaru, the bandit, played by action-legend Toshiro Mifune, he is looking up at the sky, bound in straps to keep him from moving, and for a second, or less than a second, there's a shot of what he sees in the sky, then back to his face which reveals an expression that borders on skeptical, and a bit crazed, or more. Mifune's part is of a barbarian, but all the more believable as a human barbarian since he acts as such with animal desires- he sees the woman in the woods, and knows he wants her, and while he reflects that he didn't have to have killed the man, he did as a last resort as a man with an urge. This is intensified by a sadistic flee with his actions. What's intriguing about that first description/recollection of the battle between him and the other man, is that it seems like it could be the truth, and to one viewer it could, and to another it seems like it could all be apart of his hyperactive and trapped imagination. And in the attack of the bandit on the woman, at first to him, it's like a game, then in later descriptions, he feels a little more un-easy, then later, it's of neither pleasure or discomfort, it just is. This kind of technique later happens with the woman who was victim (who has conviction, though is herself an archetype of Lifetime women), the presence who saw it "all", and with the man who in the beginning didn't understand. In each telling the expressions, the cut-aways, the lighting and movement by Kazuo Miyagawa, it's equally startling, exhilarating. That the film gives off such a hypnotic aura isn't surprising, or perhaps it is for those in the grips of the emotion of it all- the dead man's story is like the hook ripping into a twelve foot bass. The final accouter of the tale proves the most accurate to the common observer, yet Kurosawa knows that's not the point- if he made it as such to be bold AND had a definite concrete point, the ending would be as poignant when revealed is the truth, or what one could believe as the closest thing to it is. We know why that last person didn't want to get involved with the courts with what he knows: his story is no more a revelation, of any comfort or consolation to the listeners, than the others. I highly recommend this to anyone, and to those who have distaste to foreign films should view it once anyway- it's certainly not a long movie, and it won't loose its grip on anyone willing to give itself to the tale(s). For me, it's another to add to my top 50 of all time.


                
As oppose to its commonplace plot, Rashomon as a concept is extraordinarily idiosyncratic and perhaps it is this striking attribute that makes it an undisputed masterpiece, howsoever improbable. It vividly limns the artistry of contrivance innate in the human psyche owing to the importunate desire of humans to placate their insatiable egos. This manipulation of facts has no limits and entirely depends upon the skill of imaginative improvisation of the individual along with his level of comfort at skullduggery. The ability to misinterpret comes naturally to the humans as a desperate ploy to counter the adversities of life and that's what makes it indispensable. As a direct consequence of contrivance, the concept of truth no longer remains universal but becomes rather subjective and a matter of individualistic perception. Rashomon pioneered Kurosawa's dream tryst with perpetual brilliance and undoubtedly played a pivotal part in making his name a mark of excellence in the world of cinema. Rashomon is a well knitted tale about a supercilious samurai, his whimsical wife and a boorish bandit. The bandit inveigles the samurai into imprisonment and has his way with samurai's wife. The dead body of the samurai is later discovered under mysterious circumstances by a woodcutter. The bandit is captured and arraigned along with the deranged widow of the samurai. Their narrated versions seem such contrasting that a psychic is called upon to conjure up the dead samurai's spirit to record his testimony in order to corroborate the facts that seemed excessively manipulated. The samurai's version yet again differs considerably from the testimonies of the other two. Each version though different seemed to satiate the respective ego of the testifier. The woodcutter, who didn't want to get involved personally, later confesses to a priest to have actually witnessed the incident and comes up with a version of his own which falsifies the other three. The movie is ingenious as its actual motive has nothing to do with the revelation of truth as verity is merely a matter of lame perception, but rather is to highlight the discrepancies among the different versions as a medium to depict the irrational complexities associated with the human psyche. The concept of Rashomon though well ahead of its time, sowed the seeds for creative innovation in the world of cinema and has served as the undisputed benchmark of innovative excellence for well over five decades. A quintessential Kurosawa classic, strongly recommended to the masses for its sheer brilliance and enigmatic charm. 10/10


                
These are the opening words of Rashômon, and in a way that's also a summary of the entire film. It is the story of four testimonies of the same event that couldn't differ more. It is told by a priest and a woodcutter to a commoner, as they seek shelter from the rain under the Rashomon gate. The priest and the woodcutter were witnesses in a trial, and what they heard there made them puzzled, and after they told everything, the viewer is just as puzzled as these two. What happened? Takehiro, a samurai has been murdered and Masako, his wife has been raped, the suspect is Tajômaru. And indeed, in court he confesses to have raped the woman and to have killed the samurai in duel. Masako however tells quite a different story: After Tajômaru took advantage of her, he left and despair and pity made her kill her husband, but to commit suicide, just as she originally planned, she's to weak. Then the murdered samurai speaks, through the voice of a medium. In his story, he committed suicide because of disgust at his wife, who asked Tajomaru to kill him in order to accompany the robber. At the end, we hear even another story from the woodcutter, who was, as he reveals, an eyewitnesses. In his version, Tajômaru killed the samurai in a duel (or rather: in a brawl) that was demanded by his wife. Now what did really happen? Why did at least three of these four people lie? The reason cannot be (as the commoner says at one point) that everyone told what was useful for him, since, except for the woodcutter, everyone told a story in which he was the killer. So do they all think their story is true? Do they all feel guilty for a reason or another? These questions will cause endless discussions once you watch this film. And the end, Kurosawa raises another question: If man keeps lying (to others as well as to himself), does that mean he is evil? This question is underlined by the crying baby the three men find in the Rashômon gate. Kurosawa's answer to this question is clearly a no: the woodcutter takes the baby to raise him and the priest realizes that he is a good man, even although he's a lier and a thief. But if Kurosawa had only raised these questions, Rashômon wouldn't have become such a classic as it is considered today. He is telling his story with breathtaking images, as when he's holding his camera directly into the sun, when he uses the wood, light and shadow to create a dense atmosphere, or when he shows the trial scenes, where he makes the witnesses talk to the viewers to make them feel like the judges. The fight scenes are all terrifically shot, and the scene before Masako kills Takehiro can move you to tears. Rashômon also has some good acting, especially the breathtaking Toshirô Mifune in one of film history's most unforgettable performances as the wild robber Tajômaru, always jumping around and seemingly untamable and unafraid. All this makes Rashômon a mind-boggling experience, that had me talk all night through with friends of mine, and still stirs me whenever i watch it.
Spoilers herein.Superficially about truth, this is more fundamentally about the nature of nested and floating narrative. Kurosawa is one of three men who invented film, and this is his most influential one. Much is made of the construction of the story, which you can read elsewhere. I'd like to focus here on what I think is the rarest of Kurosawa'a abilities: the way he changes the eye of the camera -- and the composition of the world it creates for us -- for each of the narratives.Some are impressionistic; some flat and full of contrast; some deep. Some are composed around people, some around the environment with people in it, some around fleeting motion. Sometimes the words are the organizing principle, sometimes images.I know other directors who can do this once within a film: to twist the consciousness of the viewing eye to match the perspective of the narration, even some capable of a dual view within and without. But I know of no one else capable of doing so multiply within the same film and with such obvious link to the story.The DVD is astonishingly clear. It has an introduction by Altman which says nothing interesting; but watch his hands. The DVD has a commentary which is horrid -- just the sort of talky vapidity about apparent insight the film criticizes!
Firstly, you need to appreciate the fact that everyone in Rashômon lied. This includes the Buddhist priest because he mentioned that everyone is good in nature. Even though he is aware of stories of rape and murder, he chooses to live in self-denial; to have faith in the goodness of humanity. Therefore, if you are still debating on who is absolutely right or wrong, then you are probably missing Kurosawa's intention. We need to analyze who is more wrong than the rest. Similarly, philosophy students will go off-topic if they choose to debate on whether Euthyphro was absolutely right or wrong to prosecute his father for accidentally murdering a murderer.The deceased samurai claims that someone removed the dagger from his chest and the woodcutter admits to the theft in the ending. So, let us start from here. Two claims from two accounts support that the murder weapon was a dagger. This eliminates the possibility that the murder weapon was a sword. Therefore, the bandit lied about killing the samurai with a sword. It is plausible that his ego as a famous bandit made him conjure this lie. In fact, it is possible that he ran off like a typical bandit after the rape without engaging a meaningless fight with the angry samurai.Did the deceased samurai lie? Yes. Remember what I said earlier, everyone lied in this film. The discussion should be centered on who lied the most. It is plausible that he did not commit suicide even though the murder weapon has been verified to be a dagger in the above paragraph. It is possible that the deceased samurai lied about his suicide to protect any remaining samurai dignity because the bandit raped his wife. So who killed him then? It is possible that his wife actually tripped and killed him accidentally with the dagger. To reveal the truth that he was killed in a freak accident is probably one of the last things in a respectable samurai's mind.Finally, the woodcutter, probably the biggest liar of all the characters' lies combined. He lied from the beginning, filed a false police report, made false statements in front of the judge, stole the valuable dagger and angrily accused the deceased samurai of lying about the murder weapon, which was later exposed by the commoner. He even reprimanded the commoner for stealing the clothes from an abandoned baby, which shows how hypocritical he is. All these accumulated lies make his claim of having a family of six children extremely unreliable. In the ending, the woodcutter was wearing a mild smile while walking towards the camera with the baby in his arms. The unusual eerie music played in the ending was also very suggestive. In my opinion, he is probably going to sell the baby to the black market for more money, considering the fact that he stole the murder weapon out of greed.Rashômon's ending was left open-ended by Kurosawa and I urge the audience not to watch on a superficial level. The ending is not as simple as it seems. This is Kurosawa we are talking about, not any random 'grade C' director. It is definitely not a hundred percent happy conclusion. Another open-ended film directed by Kurosawa is 'Rhapsody in August' (1991), which I studied for my film module.Mao points: 10/10
Rashomon is one of those movies that at first seems to have a lot of peculiarities, but upon further viewing makes more and more sense. It doesn't need multiple viewings in order to be appreciated, though... it's impact is pretty immediate. It's just that some of the things that seem more odd about it are much more lasting than one would think.The story is about four people who are involved in a rape, a murder, and a theft in the woods, and how each tells the story of the events with a different stress in order to make themselves look better. What is clear is this: a woman was taken in front of her husband by a bandit. The husband was killed. His sword was taken by the bandit and the woman's dagger somehow disappeared. With those elements, a cynical outside observer hears the stories of each character and eventually comes to the conclusion he has from the beginning: that people are selfish and self-interested, and that good no longer exists in the world.The woman's, bandit's, and witness's stories are more easily accepted, but what do we do with the presence of the dead husband's ghost and his story, especially when the priest points out that "dead men don't lie"? Akira Kurosawa often puts metaphysical beings into the story with the same matter-of-fact quality as he does any other character, and to a cynical observer's eye, this could be considered a distraction. However, just the ghost helps illustrate just how far Japanese society has degraded away from classic values. Just as the listener of the tales tears apart Rashomon temple as the movie progresses for the selfish need of firewood, the ghost no longer is held to the same amount of abstractly definite authority. The presence of the priest and his clenched grip around his faith in humanity helps create a dialog about how removed people have become from abstract concepts of good and evil. The ghost, the priest, and the temple are all a very important part of the story, the same way the outsider's anecdote, "They say the demon who resided here fled rather than be met with the evil of human beings" has dire importance to the interplay of relationships in this film.Kurosawa's skill is not just in dialog and relationships, his visual acuity helps accentuate these themes as well. When the story begins, the woods is magical, even colorful (despite the black and white photography). It is a woods of fairy tale, with magical breezes and quiet streams. As the movie progresses, the woods lose more and more of their mystical quality and become dirty and dry. By the time the battle between the husband and the bandit is played out in its final representation, it is no longer a valiant battle of skill against two well-versed opponents, its a stressful, scary affair that has the two kicking up more dust than swinging their swords. The dust itself shows the degradation of the story away from the abstract qualities of truth and justice to a much more dirty, ugly reality as promoted by the outsider.I don't think Akira Kurosawa necessarily holds the theme of this movie as utter truth, especially considering the hopeful ending, but it does seem as if this movie came during a very cynical time during Kurosawa's life. Many discuss it as a post-war film, which isn't a bad guess. But even without it's affinity to the post-war world of Japan at the time, it somehow has a profound effect on viewers even today.--PolarisDiB
I saw Rashomon for the first time last Sunday, on Father's day; it was a good day to watch this film. The movie centers on the interpretation of a murder laced with a rape, so most of it is a dialog among three men: a woodcutter who is a witness to the crime, a monk, and a vagabond. The dialog occurs in the remains of a temple while a heavy rain falls outside. The theme of the dialog revolves around a samurai, his wife and a bandit. The bandit sees the samurai and his wife traveling through the forest, catches a glimpse of the woman's face when the breeze opens her veil, and discovers that an impetuous desire to have that woman has taken possession of his will. He catches up with the couple and through trickery ties the samurai to a tree. He then rapes the wife. So far the story is unique. The samurai dies. The woodcutter encounters his remains and reports the crime to the police. The bandit is captured and tells the jury a story of the crime. The wife tells a different story. A medium is brought up and through the medium the samurai tells a different story. And finally the woodcutter tells yet another story. There is some amazing dialog between the samurai and his wife about honor, love, and dignity. Betrayal surfaces when it is convenient to betray. While the woodcutter narrates the events to his friends, the vagabond lights a bonfire with pieces of wood he tears from the ruinous construction. The woodcutter is interrupted occasionally by his friends. The camera work in the temple is unremarkable, with plenty of close-ups of the aging and rough men. Same goes for the scenes at the courtroom. One strange point here is that we never see any magistrate. We learn about the questions because the witness repeats them. It is like the movie about the Prophet, where the camera never shows the Prophet himself. The forest scenes are much better. Since the crime is narrated four times, there is plenty of action in the forest as the samurai and the bandit fight each other. After the woodcutter finishes narrating the four different versions of the crime, including his, they hear a baby crying in a room of the temple. They find a little child wrapped in a kimono. The vagabond grabs the kimono. Despite the woodcutter's protest that the kimono had an amulet most likely left by the parents to protect the baby, the vagabond makes a bundle with the kimono and leaves the temple, as the rain ceases, disappearing down the same path where he first appeared. The monk cuddles the baby but the woodcutter asks to have the baby. The monk refuses, with indignation in his eyes. Then the woodcutter explains that he already has six children and that one more would not be much trouble. The monk hears him, and with a smile on his faces hands over the baby. The movie ends. Until then, there has not been a single instance of brotherhood in the entire movie. Until then the emotions have been on the sordid side of the human scenario: lust, envy, betrayal, deceit, murder, rape, fights, and lies. Some critics have commented that the ending is a license with sentimentality that Kurosawa allowed himself. To me, the ending is the movie. In the film, we are taken on a long trip throughout the wasteland of human feelings. Human greed and mistrust distort the truth and create confusion. From the affairs of adults emanates a toxic mist of confusion. People mistrust one another. Is there any hope? At the end, Kurosawa shows us the hope, the reason that makes one man trust another man: a future life. The human adventure is an adventure of hope. The same message is found in Sondheim and Lapine's musical Into the Woods. A marvelous musical mixing half a dozen fables that end up very happily like fables use to end. The difference is that at this stage the musical is only half way through. The other half reverses the fortunes of all players when the giant comes to town seeking revenge. Here once more all the nasty feelings seep out of the human soul. At the end, it is a little child who brings the survivors together. They decide to unite to care for the baby. So, on Father's day, with my daughter Laura I watched this great film.


                
In a heavy rainy day on the Eleventh Century, a priest, a woodcutter and a common person are protected together in the ruined temple of Rashomon. They are discussing a recent murder of a man and rape of his wife by the bandit Tajômaru (Toshirô Mifune, in a superb performance). Each one of them has a version for the crime, including the one from the spirit of the dead husband. In the end, an event with an abandoned child and the symbolic appearance of the sun shine return hope in human race for the priest. "Rashomon" is amazing, stunning, a masterpiece. The screenplay is fantastic and shows different perspectives for a same event. This was the theme of one of the classes I had of Methodology of Science many years ago (the same event, watched by different persons in different angles, presents different testimonies). Akira Kurowasa offered us a magnificent (as usual) direction of a movie performed by an outstanding cast and a having one of the most wonderful black & white photography I have ever seen. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "Rashomon"
This is the first Kurosawa film that really punctured the Amero-centric film bubble, that left Hollywood the near sole producer of films after their nearest competition, Germany, lost their best directors due to Anti-Semitic pogroms. Thankfully, there is no pandering to try and imitate such a film, there are no musical numbers, not much action of any kind, and characters that aren't the nicest of people.The story starts in the rain, as a group of people huddle around under an abandoned building to avoid it. From there, the common man is told by a woodcutter about a rape and murder in the woods, as well as a depressed monk who is losing his faith in the human species. From there, we are told multiple differing stories from multiple perspectives about what happened, and all of them vehemently contradict each-other. All of them cast a mystery that gives the viewer nothing to go on but their words.What makes it work is that all of the stories, though self-pitying, all feel like they could have happened. There is no favouritism between the three parties, and all are giving 100% believable performance when they retell their stories, including minor pieces of exposition which lend credence to their tales yet further.We are consistently cutting back to the commoner who's actually pretty funny and worldly, who offers a simple, unpretentious counter to the more philosophical world-view that Kurosawa is trying to explore. His crudeness is even somewhat likable. His attempts to try and rationalise the stories are magnificent in their roughness. There is further character development between the monk and woodcutter, both of whom have character arcs in their own right. Both stories, that of the 3 under the building, and the rape and murder, are excellent in their own right, but once combined, we can even then see parallels between them, and that shifts the film into masterpiece territory, without being a completely inaccessible puddle of pretentious cinema. This is a film a 12 year old who likes Transformers can watch as well as some 50 year old Swedish artisan.One really gets a sense of the desperation eating at men's souls, including in all the murder scenes, and the sniping between the nihilist commoner and the (clinging) spiritual monk. There is a sense of underlying nastiness at the heart of everyone, but likewise a sense of potential redemption, though it most certainly doesn't completely conquer all that is wrong. Rashomon leaves us with an honest portrayal of the human species that doesn't leave us completely hopeless, nor wilfully ignorant.It leaves us with hope, and hope can only exist in fear.


                
A host of reviewers seem to think this movie is questioning the nature of truth or of reality. Perhaps the late director Robert Altman said it best in his introduction to the Criterion Collection DVD: "....the proper conclusion (is) that all of it's true, and none of it's true." According to this school of thought, Kurosawa's film speaks powerfully to the postmodern consciousness--in effect telling us that there is no such thing as objective truth or objective reality.Nonsense. Many of these reviewers wonder at the inclusion of an "epilogue" in the movie--the bit with the baby at the very end--saying that it is unnecessary, but doesn't necessarily detract from the movie. It is no wonder: if the movie is trying to tell us that absolute truth does not exist or that reality is completely subjective, there is no need for this "epilogue." If that is what the movie is about, there is, in fact, very little need for anything but the stories of the participants/eyewitnesses. But the movie cannot be telling us that objective truth does not exist or that the nature of reality is insuperably perspectival, for underlying the competing truth claims and the varying perspectives on reality are hard, undeniable facts: a man is dead, and his wife has been had by another man, and each of three people testified in court that he or she murdered the dead man. These are presented as facts that are undeniably true.The movie is ultimately about mankind: we are evil, so corrupted by our own selfishness that we can't tell the truth to or about ourselves. This was an important consideration for the humanist Kurosawa, for as his priest says, "If people cannot trust each other, this world might as well be hell"--in other words, why go on living if humanity is so incorrigible? The priest's problem is intended to be our own as we watch this movie: Throughout the movie, it is the priest's faith in mankind, his belief that life is worth living, that is tried--you never see him wondering if anything can be said to be "true" or ultimately "real." He, like us, believes at first that the woodcutter may be a "good man," or at least trustworthy, but the man is human, and is shown to be an unreliable storyteller.Funnily enough, it is the same woodcutter who, in this particular story, is supposed to give us a reason to continue living. We know that man is incorrigible, that he can't do anything but be deceitful (at least to some degree), even about himself. Can there thus be any reason to think that this world is any better than a hell? Yes, says Kurosawa. The hope for man is in the kind of compassionate action displayed by the woodcutter in adopting the abandoned baby. As long as man can show compassion to his fellows, man can consider living to be a worthwhile endeavor.
From this movie came the idea that no one can objectively tell a story. Everyone has an agenda.  Toshiro Mifune gives a great performance.  From his introduction watching the people pass by, he told so much just from his expression, to his final appearance in the "real" story, he showed a range that very few actors are capable of.  This movie regularly makes the top ten movies of all time lists and deservingly so.


                
Akira Kurosawa's classic Rashomon is one of the most amazing movies I have ever seen. It is often cited as the reason that the Academy Awards started a foreign film category. Incidentally, it did win an Honorary Award from the Academy for Best Foreign Film. More than a film, Rashomon is more of a meditation on this dishonest nature of man. As we listen to four different testimonies of the same heinous crime, we see that people will lie to save themselves, no matter what the circumstances. The film begins with a priest and a wood cutter speaking within a temple during a terrible rain. Their conversation is a mystery until another man arrives, and begins to ask questions about their subject matter. It is revealed that the men have just returned from court, where they gave their testimonies in a trial against a vicious bandit known as Tajomaru (Toshiro Mifune in all of his manic, savage mastery). The bandit tells his side of the story. The woman that he most-likely raped follows with her version of the truth. Then, the story takes an odd twist toward the macabre as a medium is called in to channel the spirit of the woman's murdered husband, who provides an all-together different story. Needless to say, the case is hopeless. The priest and wood cutter find themselves drowning in their own self-pity because of the horrendous state of the world. The priest lamenting that he has lost his faith in man. The other man at the temple laughs it all off, having seen too much tragedy in his lifetime to weep over the injustice which has just taken place. The film does end on a relatively upbeat tone, however. The wood cutter is given a chance to take control of life, a reminder that his life is his own, and that his decisions are still his own, even in the face of the insurmountable odds against anyone struggling to survive in his troubled times. To me, the three men at the temple are the forces of good, evil, and humanity, which is trapped in the middle. The priest is a holy man seeking virtue in a time when virtue was essentially a sign of weakness. The man who approached the wood cutter and the priest embodies the corrupted soul of man, embittered by the harsh cruelties of reality. The wood cutter, neither virtuous nor evil, is confused, and has resigned to be neutral, no matter how much it may hurt him. However, out of the midst of all of this chaos, rain, murder, rape, and perjury, hope is found, and I believe that the wood cutter takes his first step toward realizing his dream by attempting to become that which he prays for - a man of decency.This film is extraordinarily powerful. The contrast of the endless downpour at the temple and the beautiful, sun-soaked forest is magnificent, as is the cinematography on the whole. The writing and directing is wonderful, and the performances of the actors and actresses, while arguably over-the-top (note that this was the acting style being used at the time), are more powerful than anything else. Toshiro Mifune's performance was particularly striking as the remorseless bandit. Emotionally poignant performances from Machiko Kyo, Masayuki Mori, and Takashi Shimura, among others create a stirring ensemble which Kurosawa masterfully uses to weave this ancient tale (the film was based on a story called "In the Grove") into a cinematic masterpiece that brought him international recognition.I would recommend this film to anyone due to the fact that I believe it to be a work of infinite cinematic value and of great philosophical significance. This is an absolute must-see!
From this material most filmmakers might have made a murder mystery or a courtroom drama, which is what it can fundamentally be considered to be. But Akira Kurosawa, rather, directed this universal tale made all the way across the world, set a thousand years ago, made 60 years ago, which has actually given root to philosophical movements and fields, transfiguring the account of a foul rape and murder into a contemplation on certainty and human nature. The film is about the real animal showing through the most coercive social doctrines.Beginning with a very powerful opening master shot of the Rashomon gate, two mingling time filaments construct the contemplation: Under the Rashomon gate, time lingers ponderously, breathless, exhausted, gathering dust. In the forest time is imbued with heat and disquiet, with life and respect in peril of being erased. As is widely known about the film, the stories of the rape and murder are jointly conflicting. The plot unfolds in flashback as the bandit Toshiro Mifune, the murdered samurai Masayuki Mori, his wife Machiko Kyo, and the nameless woodcutter Takashi Shimura recount the events of the inscrutable afternoon. But it is also a flashback within a flashback. Kurosawa first transgresses across the lapse between these two strands with a glaring two minutes of unadorned cinema which aggregates both: the woodcutter's walk into the forest, a succession of shots of constant sundry motion while the story bides its time in remission. So this scene, like those at the Rashomon gate, is chronological inertia, although its vibrancy and dormant violence, generated by its motion's rise and fall in pulse, introduces us to matters in the wood clearing. For the woodcutter's advance into the marrow of the forest, with its essentially anesthetic drift of movement per sudden cuts and camera maneuver, becomes our advance into the marrow of the film. When he stops, we are there and the forest has emerged as the focal mise en scene of the drama. However the camera proceeds to move very sparingly.The three men in the rain at the gate, comprised of Shimura's woodcutter, a traveling priest claims that he saw the samurai and the woman the same day the murder happened, and an earthy commoner, are like a Greek chorus remarking upon the turmoil in that open space. Their annotations, which throughout the film are chiefly of doubt and amazement, as the three parties in the crime each tell an extensively differing story of the death. Surprisingly, each maintains responsibility for the killing. Each telling retains the teller's honorable sense of self. Then the woodcutter gives a fourth take.Disposed to all this, some viewers consider Rashomon to be a conundrum for unriddling, upholding that there must be one correct account of the killing which we can unravel if we interpret the niceties discerningly enough. For others, Rashomon is the prototypical cinematic delineation of the philosophy that conceptions of truth and moral values are not absolute but relative, that truth is impenetrable. Indeed, we're given clues to believe each of the characters' versions of the story. There is no truth, just biased conception of events. Human beings don't tend to be capable of being candid with themselves regarding themselves. The average human cannot talk about him or herself without ornament to protect their ego. This script depicts such people, the temperament who cannot persevere without distortion to make them feel they're better people than they actually are to any objective opinion of their own. How many hypocrites do you really know? You already know you're one yourself. So am I. As animals, we're impetuous. We all have different externalizations of such behavior. What we must do to realize our significance is gain control over this characteristic.Fumio Hayasaka's slow, skin-and-bone score for Rashomon is infectious even as it's ever so subtle. This theme music is used as an exposition, associated with the presence of particular characters, and distinguishes between the inflection of tone from scene to scene. And each scene is in a class of its own. The swordfight in the bandit's recollection and the later version of the same swordfight are simply antithetical creatures. Mifune's version is a telling of rage, empowerment and humiliating the other guy. Swords clash, there are occasionally bare- knuckled struggles to reclaim a weapon, and Mifune laughing like a maniac. Later, we see even still not truly a swordfight but a fight that begins with swords in the hands of their frightened owners, who may for all we know have never before found themselves in such a fight, which devolves into a tightly aggressive mortal scuffle. Both are two of my favorite swordfights on film, no special effects are even needed! As for the scene where the husband's spectre tells the story, what other way in 11th century Japan would a court have believed they could gather all possible testimony when every survivor's account is drastically different?Kurosawa had to extemporize with sparse assets to bring it to the screen, but if anything, clenching the money clip perhaps resulted in a better film. Minimalism is indispensable to a story that depends on fine points and particulars, and the deficiency of excesses defines the discretion Kurosawa used and the rigor with which he had to work. In one sequence, there is a series of single close-ups of the bandit, then the wife, and then the husband, which then repeats to emphasize the triangular relationship. Kurosawa also peculiarly uses sunlight to actually symbolize evil and sin.Beside his remarkable instinct for what audiences wanted, there is a continuous trial-and-error strand throughout Kurosawa's work. The sense of freedom this film brought to young filmmakers was less a reaction to a mysterious thematic motif than to Kurosawa's scorn of the entrenched protocol of narrative cinema. He disregards the 180-degree rule, in so doing inverting relationships that have any extension in space, connects long shots and close-ups and shots of contradictory movements.


                
Examining Rashômon is a lengthy process, mainly due to the substantial amount of material on offer and the thought-provoking questions which should be probed subsequent to viewing. Not only does the film ask some of life's most profound questions, but it also begins to confront various evocative ideas. Essentially, Akira Kurosawa's unmatched classic is about gaining an understanding; the film's first conversation introduces characters who "don't understand" and are looking for answers, this is opening the primary theme.Personally, Rashômon has forever been favourite of Kurosawa's directional works. It also happens to be the film which introduced me to the work of an auteur; a man whose vision echoes that of a revolutionary cinematic historian. From the likes of Shichinin no samurai, to Ran, Kurosawa is *the* director of Japanese cinema. During his lifetime he managed to confirm himself as one of the world's leading film-makers. He was director who created cinema which was impossible to match, and his influence still resounds within even the most mainstream works of today. For example, the non-linear narrative structure of Rashômon has been respectfully woven in numerous films since. Rashômon was the work which propelled the career of Kurosawa; even though it was not widely regarded in its own country at the time, it was hailed by the critics of the Western world.Rashômon is the compressed tale of an innocent woman's rape and her husband's murder, performed by a ruthless bandit (acted out by Kurosawa's long-time working partner Toshirô Mifune). Even though the bandit is caught and consequently put on trial, the seemingly simple crime soon becomes questionably more complicated as it is recounted from four individually detached "eye-witness" perspectives. Posing many philosophical questions for the viewer, the picture asks which story is the one to believe (if any), through -what was at the time and still remains- a highly stylised storytelling technique. Establishing a verdict on the heinous crime centred upon in Rashômon is as much an ordeal as the crime itself because it proves to be an incident which provokes moral questioning and fierce debate.The film-making techniques used in Rashomon gave birth to a distinct style that Kurosawa was prepared to develop further in his later works, which can be seen in films such as Yojimbo and Shichinin no samurai. Level-headed pragmatism plagued Kurosawa's features throughout his earlier years; this was something that came as an advantage for his films, being that the characters (even the villains) portrayed in his films were genuine people you could feel compassion and remorse for. Also, Kurosawa began to define genres throughout the 1950s and 1960s, while also bringing to light some now-popular (often overused) methods of camera movement, e.g. dutch angles, revolving shots and amplified close-ups.For those who question the film's offbeat narrative structure, they should ask themselves whether or not the cut-throat editing is there as a means of symbolising the colliding viewpoints. I consider this to be a daring means of combining humanitarian lies and honesty, and also a means of creating a disorientating, volatile impression. With Rashômon, Kurosawa's admiration for silent cinema came into evident practice; this can be seen through the minimalist set-pieces, which are a contrast to the complex storytelling procedure that his work embodies. The ambiguity of Rashômon is detailed through subtly metaphorical cinematography and lighting techniques. I have always seen the setting of the woods as a display of the work's central atmosphere (intrigue) and the shadows periodically depicting a loss of empathy and symbolising the isolated danger of the surroundings.The majority of films fail to emphasise with the viewer, this can blamed on the morals being "mixed" and ultimately enabling the viewer to become unsure of a film's statement. However, with Rashômon the morals are clear and refined, without being preachy or simplistic. Summing up the greed, confusion, deprivation and indulgence of the world is a tricky business, but somehow Kurosawa has the ability to perform such a task with exceeding talent. Rashômon warrants a right to be hailed as a definitive classic. Unlike its story, I doubt that viewers of Rashômon hold clashing opinions, being that it is far too flawless to be argued over.


                
Greatness comes through the narrative by adding great perspective. Proved by KurosawaTill date, I resisted to touch Kurosawa for I though, I was meek to comprehend his greatness and perhaps even understand it. After watching Rashomon, I must say I am in a complex of a certain dilemma acquired by watching this film. A simple tale can be made complex by adding different versions of narratives to the same story, they are contradictory and inconclusive, yet they add the dimension of thought provoking and making the viewer think actually what could have happened in the story. Perhaps, nothing of what was said and may be all too, but the most important thing it ignites a debate within a mind. Thus, there lies the success of the film and hence it derives all the attention of the viewer. This, is how a film becomes great.Even so many years later, if this film has the charm to attract and enthrall audiences. I attribute that mostly to the narration by Kurosawa above everything else. Yes, the cinematography is brilliant, the editing is precise and makes the film breezy. The production values are good considering this is made in 1950's Japan. But above all, the treatment and the screenplay take the film to greater heights.It's the story of a woman cheating her husband and making love with another man who is a bandit. But the husband, the woman, the bandit present three versions of the story and that makes it complex. Even the witnesses give different versions of happenings and it gets intriguing further.The nature acts as a metaphor, the overcast skies, the rains and the sunshine at the end add another aspect to the narrative, which I got to know by the end. Thankfully, I observed it to grasp it.I will further examine, observe and seek learnings from Akira Kurosawa's films. For this film, a 5/5. It's a masterpiece from one of the finest directors ever.


                
The Stepping stone to Filmmaking:Rashomon - Throughout this story, the same event is told as a lie by 3 people. Everyone is twisting a version what they saw and experienced into a lie, that doesn't bury them in their own conscience.If you MASTER this movie, you can make the same movie in 4 different ways.
It is amazing this movie came from JAPAN, and not the US.


                
Not every movie leaves such an impression that a whole psychological phenomenon gets named after it. Even though it didn't had a big budget like other well known Kurosawa epics it is an incredible and impressive cinematic feat. Juggling with multiple versions of the same story in a way not seen before or after it, investing the viewer in the story and making amateur sleuths out of them. Incredible script and story aside, the movie is beautifully shot, directed and edited, making it a hallmark of not just Asian but cinema in general.


                
We really know well who Akira Kurosawa is, the one who has the most inspiration and influence of films industrial from all kinds of directors who make him as a role model. As this is my second movie from his works, "Rashomon" received a critical response by many people because the story was so different from other films and stories. Since receiving many awards including Oscar nominations in the Best Art Direction by Takashi Matsuyama and H. Motsumoto in 1953, "Rashomon" became one of the movies which raised the name of the director himself, even more, became one that destroyed the film industry himself, and introduced a term called a Rashomon effect. Directors such as Ingmar Bergman (Wild Strawberries), Alfred Hitchcock (Vertigo), Federico Fellini (8 1/2), "Back to the Future" series, even Christopher Nolan with his "Memento" and "The Usual Suspects" took an inspiration from this film. For movie-lovers, especially cult-classics, "Rashomon" became one of the influents with a new innovation at the time.The plot is so simple: "a heinous crime and its aftermath are recalled from differing points of view." There is nothing special and it's normal for films today. For example, what if "Rashomon" just appeared for now? Is it considered one of the most influential films like what we consider now? Nowadays, it's ridiculous to watch this film far from a few years long. Akira Kurosawa himself isn't considered as an artist in his own country because his films mostly deviate from Japanese culture itself while his name is always worshiped by the film industry and Hollywood. Through this film, Akira Kurosawa became the winner of the Golden Lion at the Venice Film Festival in 1951.It was based on two stories by Ryûnosuke Akutagawa, "Rashomon" and "In a Grove," Kurosawa didn't take much in the form of material and frames. He takes every of the perspective itself which later you will be faced with a philosophical question and answer who is righteous and who is a liar. From here, you are the "police" where the audience is the perspective and the actor is directly facing the audience's on-screen. This is a life and death and is guilty or not of the bandit who has killed the husband of the wife he raped. The first opening scene we got is the shot of Kyoto's Rashomon Gate with rainy weather, as always as Kurosawa always shows the weather as its symbolism, seems like a priest and woodcutter sits with such a confusing feeling. Then came the commoner who was also so curious about what they had witnessed and why they were confused. Now, these characters don't know each other, while waiting for the rain, they retell the stories from various views, such as Tajômaru as the bandit, Takehiro as the samurai, and Masako as his wife. The views included in these characters vary from their own version and from this, we participate as well as guessing and concluding the answers from themselves. But, that's not what you want to expect."Rashomon" gives a very important flashback. It's not about the scene just showing up but you've to be able to see the various clues themselves even in small details. It's up to you to say what and you also don't wanna believe it directly how their minds are going. We got the bandit but who wants to trust a bandit? However, he is also not necessarily wrong. We got the woman, but is there a guarantee that we can trust her? Using a subjective feeling to fool someone's mindset? We got the samurai but who wants to trust a dead man being in a medium? These characters seem to be trying to convince us and witnesses in this movie by defending and coupling themselves with logic as if we were restrained by our fear, condolences, and egoistic to really defend ourselves but in fact, they all betrayed themselves.Tajômaru was more about telling his own story with a feeling of pride in doing it, honored for his what he just did, dealing with a one on one between samurai. Masako tells her own story using shame and tears as her pain been littered with a criminal and her own self with a cold gaze while Takehiro is more telling his own story with a feeling of humiliation, lose to a bandit and further discredit the bandit himself. Finally, we got the woodcutter as the most biased eyewitness and most afraid of the truth which is real but he is the same as the three characters who use the gap. In the end, this is not who is the right or the wrong one, but who can you believe if there is nothing else to trust?The way of Akira Kurosawa takes every of the shot as well as when I first watched "Seven Samurai" where he used the weather and fixed cameras more often become his own trademark. The rain at the beginning of the scene really tells us a sense of confusion in so deeply felt by the two characters which seem confusing and has been amazed by such a full-of-twist story. In the end, the movie ends with a redemption and humanity appear on the woodcutter's character along with the rain that gradually stops and the sun appears as if it's a symbol that there is still a kindness that arises in humans. It's a philosophy about what the true means of a human being is. The rest of the backgrounds used in this film are just three: the Rashomon gate, the scene when the perpetrators and victims retell their stories, and the forest. Various kinds of memorable scenes in this film are like the choreography from one on one between Tajômaru and Takehiro, a medium segment, and various kinds of out of character from the actors and actresses.Toshirô Mifune is Akira Kurosawa's favorite actor. When his character as one of the most memorable yet respected characters in "Seven Samurai," we got Toshirô Mifune as a bandit who felt scared, tried to convince us, and the police. There is the small scene when he ran down a hill in the forest without any fear prevented him. He ran as if no one could block him the same as in "Seven Samurai" which you can look closely and a close-up from his expression there is no fear of it. Fumio Hayasaka's score is great and the comical one, makes each scene compelling in a few moments and sometimes, some little segment of being a silence is really needed for certain scenes. The actors and actresses also performed perfectly especially Machiko Kyô and Masayuki Mori along with Toshirô Mifune because those who dominated the most in this movie. They did various changes of characters from various points of view where in the end, they were the major focus."Rashomon" seems like a courtroom drama movie but it's not about finding the truth. You're stuck on a Kurosawa's philosophy about human beings, who can be trusted and if there is nothing to be trusted, is this world a hell? It's a movie that puts a lot of influences, for now, a story which feels new and original at the time and becomes a new innovation. With truly beautiful and brilliantly shot visuals, the greatest acting performance, the visual, and the score, "Rashomon" deserves to be called as an art along with the best film ever. In fact, it's difficult to parallel with the today films where creative seems to be gone. "Rashomon" is a film yet more than a film.


                
Rashomon was probably the first genuine masterpiece that the master Akira Kurosawa made in his career. I had watched it for the first time about 4 or 5 years ago. My eyes weren't as polished and my mind wasn't as perceptive back then as it is now from a cinematic standpoint. So when I watched it back then, I remember being impressed by the whole concept of the same incident being narrated by people in completely different manners in an attempt to manipulate others. But I had certainly not grasped everything else that enriches this absolutely masterful piece of work. Now on my second viewing, I noticed the multiple layers, the themes, and the meaning behind the film.The film as I have mentioned before deals with different versions of the same incident. The film starts out with a woodcutter and a priest sitting beneath the Rashomon city gate to stay away from the heavy rainfall. Suddenly a stranger comes along and becomes suspicious of these two quiet men. Then the woodcutter and the priest decide to tell him what has made them so very depressed and the film's main plot proceeds. The main story is about a murder that takes place. The persons involved in the murder come back to get interrogated about it. Each of them narrate the incident differently. Interestingly we never see the interrogator and hence it seems as if the characters are answering questions and narrating the incident directly to the viewer. This was a thematic break of the 4th wall. Each version paints a good and desired impression of the narrator in the viewer's mind, but a neutral account of the incident might make the viewer question the morality of every character involved. One of the main aspects of this film that is so impressive is the cinematography. The camera effortlessly follows the characters while they walk through the forest in the most serene way possible. Kurosawa succeeds in conveying so much with the most subtle things. The shadow of the leaves fluttering gently on the face of Mifune, the sun desperately trying to make its way through the bushy trees, but failing to do so signifying the truth not being allowed to come to the forefront by the characters, the half damaged city gate, the relentless rain signifying the relentless nature of disasters and calamities,etc.The film is much more endearing and important from a broader perspective. One has to consider the fact that Rashomon got released in 1950, so just a few years after the devastating World War II. After the disastrous consequences of that war, Japan and the Japanese society was going through an indefinite spell of misery and hopelessness. This film deals with that hopelessness in the most humanist manner possible. Rashomon really is about existentialism beneath the seemingly simple outer surface. The film deals with the question-whether we should lose all hope and faith in humanity or not after considering and even witnessing all the heinous crimes and immoral deeds that human beings are capable of. The priest and the woodcutter seriously consider losing faith in the human soul after listening to the incident of the murder and everything that followed with the interrogations. But even in the midst of this hopelessness, Kurosawa manages to end the film in the most heart-wrenching and optimistic manner to give hope and a reason to start believing again to not only the Japanese people, but also to the viewers from the rest of the world. Rashomon is just an essential, transcendental film in the history of cinema that needs to be watched by everyone who is interested in film as an art form.


                
This is somewhat of a spoiler for another film right off the bat, but Rashomon is more effective in letting the viewer discern what is true and what is not than The Usual Suspects. It frightens the priest as it should frighten us what we discern about the nature of man.The beginning focuses on a priest and a woodcutter in shock after having heard three separate versions of the same event in a trial of sorts. The priest is a little repetitive about how much of a tragedy these stories are, but it is still a powerful dialogue with a close- up on the priest.The story varies from person to person, but what is in all four of the versions presented (the woodcutter tells what he saw towards the conclusion of the film) is the rape of the wife of a samurai by a bandit, and the murder of the samurai. Things get more tense and dramatic as we switch from story to story, each containing a different version of how the samurai died and a different motive each time. We are constantly asking whether one or more of the witnesses lied to protect the others, or if they are justifying their actions - either way, we get a depressing view of human nature; all three are portrayed as terrible people within the film.What is fairly necessary so that the film is not too pessimistic is the conclusion with the woodcutter making a decision to take care of an abandoned baby which restores the priest's faith in humanity. Like Birdman, I would have liked if this film ended just a few minutes earlier, but it is still powerful at the close of the film.
While not my favourite Akira Kurasawa(for not only Japan's greatest director, but one of the finest directors there was) film, like Seven Samurai closely followed by Ran, Rashomon is still a fantastic film. No Kurasawa film is the same without great scenery and cinematography, and Rashomon is no disappointment in that regard. The camera is always moving but never feels like too much due to how subtly composed they (and the editing) are, and the scenery especially the beautifully lit jungle is just as striking, not as epic as Seven Samurai but still making its mark. The music, though I may prefer Ran's score when it comes to scores for Kurasawa's films, is always fitting with the mood and atmosphere of the film, and with its exploration of the relativity of truth the four accounts of the woodland encounter between a bandit and a wealthy couple is written in a compelling and completely credible manner. Kurasawa's direction as ever is superb, as are the performances of Machiko Kyo and Toshiru Mifune. Overall, a truly remarkable film. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
Earlier this evening, I had the great pleasure to watch Akira Kurosawa's masterpiece "Rashomon." A disturbing film examining the nature of truth and the human ego, "Rashomon" arrives at a conclusion that there still are good people out there, even if deception and lies are about to become the norm. (To this end, "Rashomon" might just be the most realistic character study ever made.) Based on the short stories "In a Grove" and "Rashomon" by Ryunosuke Akutagawa, Kurosawa's picture is set in the aftermath of a heinous and brutal crime: a samurai has been murdered, and his wife raped. Three people, including the alleged murderer and the dead samurai (through a medium), give varying, conflicting accounts of the crime, thus leaving it up to us, the viewers, to decipher these characters and their motives for deceiving. I am currently majoring in criminal justice in college and if I were to ever become a professor, I would certainly make "Rashomon" required viewing, and Akutagawa's book a required text. Never has conflict been so daringly portrayed on film, especially when viewed as the aftermath of a violent crime. Even after listening to the testimonies, you sort of become disillusioned that you're unsure of what really happened, and maybe that's Kurosawa and Akutagawa's point. What is certain, what is the truth, is that "Rashomon" is a classic of cinema, made by one of the greats to ever pick up a camera and shoot into a grove.10/10


                
This film is the glorious work of a genius. A blend of unique, exciting and sophisticated storytelling, and visual mastery. Rashomon is essentially a crime mystery set in Japan. The crime is recalled very differently from different people's perspectives, so the audience is never entirely sure what the truth actually is. You build up an idea of the characters, but since they're presented differently each time, you can never have a set idea of who they truly are. The way the plot structured is very stimulating. Often plots that work this way come together at the end like a jigsaw puzzle, but not so with Rashomon. You're left with four very different jigsaw puzzles and no real answers. Visually it's truly excellent. The men recounting the story in a temple in the pouring rain is a glorious visual. I found the whole world that has been created very convincing and completely absorbing. Kurosawa builds tension through knowing exactly when to cut and when to linger, and the music creeps right under your skin. My only minor criticism of the film would be that, by choosing not to show the court, Tajomaru talks in a strange expositional way where he'll repeat the unheard question before giving his answer. This just wasn't my favorite thing as it was a stylistic choice that brought me out of the film if only for a moment. Other than that this film is pretty much perfectly balanced with truly stunning performances. The acting is so visceral, and it has to be to capture the many nuances of these characters. Mifune as Tajomaru is particularly absorbing with his constant animalistic stance and his frequent itching. It's hard to take your eyes off him.I thought this film perfectly captured much of the human essence. Of how people think of themselves, and how they think about others. It will keep you mesmerised throughout and thinking long after it has finished. Masterful storytelling from one of the masters of cinema.


                
