I just watched this film for a film history class, and I have a somewhat ambivalent reaction to it. I recognize the qualities that make it great, in terms of the theme (i.e.--a visual examination of the subjectivity of knowledge), but their are aspects of the cinematography that are very off-putting for a 21st century American audience. Most notable are the exceptionally long takes focused on an actor's face while he/she emotes for the camera. After the first few seconds of this type of shot, no new intelligence is communicated by continuing to view the actor's face. I did like the realism of the fight scenes, which struck me as much more in line with reality than the highly choreographed demonstrations of virtuoso sword-play that many more modern action films offer. Overall, I give the film a 3, based on the fact that it's just not all that accessible to most modern viewers, due to differences in culture and aesthetic values between 1950 Japan and 2004 America. Since the purpose of any text is to reach out in a meaningful way to its audience, that inaccessibility constitutes a fatal flaw in the film. In other words, it's dated, badly.


                
Akira Kurosawa (aka: "AK", the "lesser Kurosawa", etc.) has one of those overblown reputations that earns praise from everyone who can't think for themselves. If the word "overrated" was assigned a picture reference in a dictionary, a portrait of "AK" would probably be the best choice. If the word "lemming" was assigned a synonym in a thesaurus, the term "AK follower" would fit the bill nicely. It's no understatement to say that the sheer level of brainless veneration that's repeatedly thrown at this guy hasn't been seen since the advent of organized religion – especially when one considers the fact that most of his movies suck, yet are somehow able to earn IMDb average ratings over 8.0. These people need to stop beating around the bush and simply construct cathedrals in his honor for daily worship.Well, I knew this day would come. I'm running out of Japanese movies to watch on Netflix, so I have decided to watch more Akira Kurosawa films - despite the fact that much of what I have already seen has been torture to sit through. However, I do typically enjoy films more after a second viewing, so I decided to give "Rashomon" a second chance. Ironically, I'm going to end up downgrading my original rating from a 4/10 to a 3/10. All it did was remind me of why I don't like this director. I truly dread this little project I've started on.Kurosawa directs yet another dud that tells multiple perspectives of a murder. As is the case with many of this director's films, the acting is wretched. Toshiro Mifune (a good actor) gives what is likely the worst performance of his career as he cackles and stumbles around like Jar Jar Binks. Meanwhile, Takashi Shimura (a terrible actor) basically just stares off into space with those bug eyes of his, mugging for the camera with that smug frown that Kurosawa loves so much (go watch "Ikiru" if you want 2+ hours of Shimura's sad puppy dog glances). As if that weren't bad enough, the lead actress contributes some horribly acted moments during the second half. But the acting isn't the only problem here. The scoring is non-stop and way off base. The mystery simply isn't that interesting or well-written. Some scenes drag on for far too long despite the film being only 88 minutes long. The sword duels are annoying to watch, with characters acting like looney tunes or incompetent doofuses (e.g., stumbling around, dropping swords, missing easy opportunities to kill, acting like children, etc.). Yep, poorly directed crap like this is what I expect from good ole A.K.


                
This is a film which featured four different accounts of a rape and murder, seeing it from different. That's an interesting premise, and was copied, by the way, very well in an American television show a few years ago called "Boomtown."Unfortunately, "Boomtown" did a better job of it than director Akira Kurosawa. However, since Kurosawa is one of those "untouchables," meaning the critics always rave about anything the guy does (a la Bergman, Hitchcock, etc.) this movie gets great reviews.This is very slow moving, way too repetitive and extremely boring, even with the short playing time. The only redeemable quality is the cinematography. It's just laughable to read people calling this unbelievably-overrated snorefest "a masterpiece." What a stupid cliché!


                
