Maybe 60 long years back this film was a masterpiece. But I watched it in 2017, I frankly did not find anything extraordinary. Even for the styles of 1950s, this film does not seemed as a movie of great content to me.The main reason the movie was mediocre is the story. The story was about mystery but they hyped it as it was a great mystery which baffled the characters of the film. But actually the mystery was stale and unappealing. In every version of the story the final outcome stays the same and there was not much variation between stories.In my opinion it was an average film, does not deserve this high ratings. If you did not watched it yet then do not feel obligated to watch it.


                
This is another one of those films that has had wide spread rave reviews about it. It is another classic in most 'all time films to see' lists and is directed by a man who is compared to Alfred Hitchcock. This is seen through the eyes of general movie buffs and some movie critics that I have researched. Through my eyes however it is another film that is no better than some of the films that we slate being made today. I just don't understand how some films keep their classic status when they are very basic and simple with no real excitement to them.We start here with a Woodcutter and Priest seeking dry shelter in an abandoned building known as Rashomon. They are joined by a Drifter who joins in on their conversation regarding the Woodcutter finding a dead body a few days prior. He tells the Drifter however that none of it makes any sense. We then flashback to the Woodcutter listening in on the stories of the three people involved in the murder. The bandit, the woman he raped and her husband he killed, told through the voice of a medium. Each gives their version of events to the listening jury and although each story translates that the bandit had sex with the woman and then taunted her husband they all end with themselves admitting that they killed the him, including himself suggesting he committed suicide. Nothing adds up until the Woodcutter fills us in on what he actually saw and not what he told us at the beginning.The story is full of hidden messages with most of them relaying to how people are perceived through the eyes of another. People see themselves as something extraordinary but others may see them as weak and feeble, this is in the case of the bandit. It is about perception. This shines well in the film with the acting spot on. Each acting differently depending on whose story they are acting in. It really helps to interact with the story.Lies are also a large theme of the film with the Woodcutter at the beginning stating that people are being deceitful and that this is what he doesn't understand but it turns out that in fact he could be the one being deceitful all along.There is a lot in this movie that has and will go on to influence others. Off the top of my head, Courage Under Fire is one as is Vantage Point but to watch them and then watch this you will think that those films were better that's why although this film isn't bad I don't understand how it is rated as a classic.Some of the camera work is bad with it sometimes struggling to keep up with the action. The fight scenes are poorly choreographed, if at all, and at times are laughable, playing on much longer than what they are needed and they also use poor swipe transitions to move from scene to scene. I know this film was made in a day when all this may have been up to date but it isn't know so why is it still raved so highly about. The story is intriguing but all intrigue slips away when no resolution is formed, I just finished watching it thinking what was the point. Some films work in that sense but when one repeats itself for ninety minutes and then doesn't tell you anything different to what you already knew at the beginning I'm afraid to say some will leave feeling frustrated and disappointed. I'm not completely against this film. Compared to some all time classics this is a better story but I just wonder that if this film was re-made today with better cameras, acting, locations and editing would it still get the same response and knowing some of the critics of today then no it wouldn't it would be slated for all the reasons this should have been but wasn't. Maybe it's something I am not seeing but Rashomon certainly doesn't deserve to be in the 'best films of all time' list.


                
You know - When it comes to the likes of 1950's Japanese cinema - I, for one, would much sooner watch a hilariously clumsy "Godzilla" picture rather than endure this absurd, dry-as-dust "Art House" nonsense, any day.And, speaking about the phrase "Art House" - That, to me, is just a hoity-toity term that excuses all sorts of annoying inadequacies in a picture which would otherwise not be tolerated (in a non-"Art House" production).This irksome term also suggests to me that if one dislikes a film that fits into this snobbishly elitist category that that automatically reduces them to being nothing but an unsophisticated heathen. It's true.Anyway - With Rashomon now being nearly 70 years old - I really did try to cut it some slack. But - Let me tell ya - Had this film been an American production - You can bet that it wouldn't be receiving all of the praise and reverence that it has garnered for itself over these many, long years. Nope. You can bet your bottom yen on that.


                
Cant beleive this movie is in the top 250 and not titanic, boring as hell


                
