It's hard to tell just how striking "Rashômon" might have seemed to those who watched it in 1950, rather than seeing it after so many subsequent movies and other works have made use of its techniques and ideas. But it's clear that it is a technical and creative success. The story itself is not particularly satisfying, which was most likely by design, and the movie is carried by its structure and by the concept of the markedly different perspectives on the same series of events. The cast also deserve their share of credit for how well it works, and the photography is excellent, as it is in almost all of Kurosawa's films.Kurosawa's expertise makes the interwoven sequences of past and present - essentially telling two different stories - not only work flawlessly, but fit together thematically. It's even more commendable when compared to some of the subsequent films that have tried to use similar ideas, only to come off as pretentious rather than creative or innovative. Kurosawa was also working with much less in terms of possible precedents.In one sense, the choice of specific story material could seem a little odd.The downbeat, rather sordid scenario makes the movie somewhat less enjoyable than several of Kurosawa's other pictures (which is, admittedly, a pretty high standard), and as a result "Rashômon" is more a film to respect and admire than one to enjoy and take pleasure from. Still, it does have significantly more substance to it than do most of the more recent pictures that have been deliberately downbeat or negative in their portrayals of humanity. Such stories are more trendy at present, and they often receive undue praise simply for so being.At the same time, the lack of sympathetic characters and the paucity of hopeful developments bring out all the more its success in developing its ideas about narrative and about reality, ideas that are more fundamental and, in their way, perhaps at least as important as any specific story or events.


                
In 12th century Japan, a heinous crime and its aftermath are recalled from differing points of view . As a samurai and his wife are attacked by the notorious bandit Tajomaru, and the samurai ends up dead . An episode , rape and killing in a forest grove is reported by four witnesses : a priest , a woodcutter , a commoner , a famous bandit named Tajômaru , even the dead man, speaking through a medium was lying , each from their own point of sight , but the testimonies of the three direct participants were mutually contradictory and claiming responsibility for the death . Every time the story is retold , each person has a different opinion . This is a magnificent picture by Akira Kurosawa starred by his ordinary actor Toshiro Mifune , being his international breakthrough one . Rashomon , the picture blends drama , suspense , emotion and results to be pretty entertaining as well as thought provoking . The movie is a reflection of life, and life does not always have clear meanings . Its striking visual effects and evocative atmosphere made Kurosawa a name outside Japan . The flick is tense and mysterious from the beginning till ending and is neither boring , nor dull but enjoyable . This movie is known for its use of symbolic weather , throughout most of it, there's heavy rain, which fades away by the optimistic ending, when the weather becomes sunny . The screenplay of the film has a twisted plot and the final gets an extraordinary surprise . This picture had great impact and influence on American cinema , in fact it was remade as ¨Outrage¨ (1964) by Martin Ritt with Paul Newman , Claire Bloom and ¨Basic¨ by John MacTiernan with John Travolta and Samuel L Jackson . Evocative cinematography plenty of lights and shadows by Miyagawa . A very early use of the "hand held" camera technique , following characters closely through the Woods . This film is often given credit for the first time a camera was pointed directly at the sun , even during high noon the parts of the forest that the crew needed to shoot in were still too dark. Rather than use a regular foil reflector, which did not bounce enough light, Akira Kurosawa and cinematographer Kazuo Miyagawa opted to use a full-length mirror "borrowed" from Daiei's costume department. The motion picture was compellingly directed by Akira Kurosawa with both philosophical and psychological overtones . After working in a wide range of genres, Kurosawa made this Rashomon , often credited as the reason the Academy created the "Best Foreign Film" category. When the film was released internationally to rave reviews, many speculated that Akira Kurosawa was influenced by Citizen Kane (1941) in the element of flashbacks that ultimately provide conflicting accounts of events. However, Kurosawa didn't even see Orson Welles's film until several years after . It won the top prize at the Venice Film Festival, and first revealed the richness of Japanese cinema to the West. The next few years saw the low-key , touching Living (1952) , the epic The seven samurais (1954), the barbaric , fascinating Shakespeare adaptation Throne of blood (1957) , a Macbeth's version , and a fun pair of samurai movies Yojimbo (1961) and Sanjuro (1962) , these are fiercely-charging , uncompromising pictures . Yet , there was a quieter side to Kurosawa's nature , expressed most succinctly on Living , The Lower Depths and especially the medical drama Red Beard . After a lean period in the late 1960s and early 1970s, though, Kurosawa attempted suicide . He survived, and made a small, personal, low-budget picture with Dodes'ka-den (1970), a larger-scale Russian co-production Dersu Uzala (1975) an epic tale of adventure in turn-of-the-century Siberia and , with the help of admirers Francis Ford Coppola and George Lucas, the samurai tale Kagemusha (1980), which Kurosawa described as a dry run for Ran (1985), an epic adaptation of Shakespeare's "King Lear" . He continued to work into his eighties with the more personal Akira Kurosawa's Dreams (1990), and Madadayo (1993) . Kurosawa's films have always been more popular in the West than in his native Japan, where reviewers have viewed his adaptations of Western genres and authors with suspicion , but he's revered by American and European film-makers, one of his least well-known films but most agreeable pictures is The Bad Sleep Well , a transposition of an Ed McBain detective novel , being remade many his pictures such as The seven samurais (1954), as The magnificent seven (1960),The Hidden Fortress (1958), as Star Wars (1977)as Yojimbo (1961) as For a fistful of dollars by Sergio Leone (1964), in fact Kurosawa's style was the biggest single influence on the Spaghetti Western sub-genre ; as his Samurai 'Western's were copied not only in America but also in Italy .


                
Let me start by saying that this movie is quite good. You will not have squandered the hour and a half it takes to watch it. However, a few things bothered me: 1. Perhaps a quibble, but I *hated* the music. The endless loop of what sounded like variations on Bolero for the first half of the movie -- augh! In general, I found it very choreographed; at times, it was more like watching a ballet. It was very overwrought and distracting.2. The acting. Horribly overdone on the part of Toshiro Mifune; at times he seemed to have taken classes at the Daffy Duck School of Acting. He was not the only one overacting, either, just the most prominent.3. The ending. We get through this very subtle and ambiguous movie, where, even at the end, we have no clue which of the four versions (or which mix of the four versions!) of the story actually happened, and Kurosawa absolutely clubs us silly with the theme of redemption. I wanted the movie to end when the woodcutter said, "On days like this, we have cause to be suspicious" (or something similar). I don't know what possessed Kurosawa to bugger the ending like he did, but, in my version, it'd be about two minutes shorter.That said, there's a lot to like about the movie. I love how Kurosawa leads you into a false smugness at the end when it's revealed that the woodcutter stole the dagger. "Ah hah!" I thought; "Clearly, the dead samurai was telling the truth!" I was impressed with my sleuthing, my quick recall of the medium relating that he felt someone removing the dagger. Then it occurred to me that, in every story, the dagger was left behind. Probably my favorite part was when I had to go back and watch the end of all of the stories to ensure that the dagger was still there, either in the samurai or in the ground.Good movie, but in desperate need of a dose of subtlety.
I always divide "classic movies" in two groups. There's the TRUE classic movie, one that tells a timeless story executed flawlessly; and then we have the so-called film academy classic, usually a movie that is a landmark in cinema history for introducing a fresh technique to the filmmaker's tool set. The really old films from this second group always receive overly generous grades on IMDb because they are too obscure to be watched by anybody but film students, whose opinion is clouded by their focus on history and technique.Case in point - "Rashomon". Even though the underlying idea is indeed timeless, this Kurosawa classic is clearly in the second group. It's over-the-top acting, rudimentary dialogue, static scenery, sexist characters and tedious pacing make it feel VERY dated. However - the execution of the story is as genius as it is original, and I would recommend this movie to anybody who is interested in screen writing techniques.Compare this to "Casablanca", for example - a classic made around the same time. "Casablanca" is perfectly suited for modern viewers. "Rashomon" is not.


                
Kurosawa's Rashomon was the precursor to many popular films. The idea of telling a story from several different viewpoints is both interesting and genius, especially considering that this film was released in the 1950s. Kurosawa's pacing may leave many of today's viewers "bored", but as far as I am concerned, cutting from one camera to another each second of a film (like an MTV video) is not boring. I hope to see more of Kurosawa's films, especially if they are as well written, and directed as this one. I will keep this revue short, since I now need to run to the video store to rent "Seven Samurai", and "Ran".


                
Doesn't mean to hate the movie (7 stars out of 10). But, there is literally no point I could adore here.STORY-LINE
This movie could bring an English term "Rashomon Effect" means how inspiring the story which was introduced by. Nothing I am gonna add for this part.CINEMATOGRAPHY
This movie entirely was recorded only in three stages (real woods, court, and Rashomon gate). So that Kurosawa's techniques were introduced abundantly through this movie to enrich the ambient. Such as direct shoot towards the sun, reflecting sun by mirror to the actors, tinted rain, and simplicity. Personally speaking, I think those shoots cause it to look like a theater drama than a movie.ACTORS
The actors acted too over. Awkward moment sometimes happen. Missing interpretation of face expressions also sometimes happen.All in all, with all due respect especially to the production process, I could not give so much recommendation for this movie. Some awards might be acknowledging it, but that's not what I think this movie deserved.


                
There's not all that much to 'Rashomon (1950)', with the different characters' points of views only offering slightly different takes on a relatively similar series of events, but at the very least it provides a unique way of telling an entertaining tale, one that's expertly shot with a fluidity seldom seen in cinema from the period. It's also filled with fantastic performances throughout. While the premise seems as though it aims to explore the free-flowing nature of 'truth' and how nothing is absolute, instead it looks at the lies we tell in order to project a better version of ourselves and also offers a rather ham-fisted examination of the deceitful nature of human-kind. It's ultimately a hopeful film, though, with the downpour of rain coming to a close with one final act of kindness. It's really its unique take on camera-work and story structure that cements it as a piece of cinematic history. 7/10


                
Based on a short story by Ryunosuke Akutagawa, Rashomon is one of Akira Kurosawa's biggest films and the breakthrough film that brought him and Japanese cinema in general to Western audiences. A tale about a murder and the various lies we tell each other to make sense of our existence.The film is about a murder trial. A nefarious bandit, Tajômaru (Toshirô Mifune), is accused of murdering a travelling samurai in front of his wife. We hear four different versions of the events that took place. One from each of the three and one from a bystander. Each tale differs from one another and in the end it's left for the viewer to decide who to believe.Rashomon is a clever tale and full of depths, but it also shows that Kurosawa was still travelling towards his prime. The acting is a bit overplayed in certain scenes. Mifune especially overacts constantly, which in some ways fits the character, but is still a bit jarring. The score is also surprisingly distracting. That being said, the camera-work is beautiful, the storytelling works very well and even the framing story about people hiding from the rain and talking about the trial is not as bad as it could be.And it's simply a fascinating story on thematic level. It's made clear very early that all the witnesses lie to make themselves look better. They all try to shift the blame, to make their own accord seem dignified or born out of necessity. Even the final story by the bystander has undercurrents that make it seem not as objective as it should. So who to believe?In the end the film provides no answers. Rather it asks us to wonder how common this sort of behaviour is in everyday life. Do we shape our subjective realities by telling stories? And if we do so, do we also allow the stories of others to have an affect on what we believe to be true, to be reality?It's up to you to decide. But first you have to ask the question in the first place.


                
There can be no doubt about the technical skill of legendary director Kurosawa. The structural creativity of the writing is also impressive.The eleventh film directed by Kurosawa (excepting co-directed "Uma" and "Asu o tsukuru hitobito"), Rashômon (1950) is by many critics considered Kurosawa's first masterpiece. While I can see why the theme and structure of the narrative was groundbreaking when the film premiered, I'm sorry to say that, after my first viewing, I was not really caught by the story or the way it was told. What I really appreciate, however, is the great camera-work, the beautiful black-and-white photography (by Kazuo Miyagawa) and the iconic music (composed by Fumio Hayasaka).


                
There is a major issue that not enough critics of modern day are addressing. The major issue has actually plagued this critic for quite some time, and now the straw that broke the camel's back pretty much lies in this movie. Why on earth can classic movies get away with bad acting? Why is it that if the movie is old, and in black-and-white, it is forgiven and receives the green card whenever lines are delivered badly or the acting does not become believable in the least bit. An excellent story has been ruined and tainted by bad acting yet again, and it's time that more critics become harsher to these old flicks rather than uphold them to the highest degree. Who cares if they are groundbreaking? Groundbreaking does not mean incredible. The very first first-person shooter video game is a slow-placed repetitive little game called Faceball 2000. It is the first of its kind, but that does not make it great.Rashomon is a superbly told story, yet acting hampers the experience. Does it matter? It should, excellent films, films that receive perfect scores are those that excel in all levels, not just a few. Movies like Shawshank Redemption, Empire Strikes Back, Raiders of the Lost Ark, and Forrest Gump did not just succeed in storytelling: they had a great blend of acting, cinematography, editing, music, sound, and pacing. Rashomon does not deserve its status as one of the best films ever simply because it did not deliver in all aspects of film-making. It's time that we begin to criticize instead of just quietly accept all shortcomings of older films like Casablanca, Wizard of Oz (e.s.p.e.c.i.a.l.l.y), and this unique flick.In Rashomon, we follow three people that are caught in a downpour, two of them reliving the events of a trail in disbelief. Then the events of the trial and the events leading up to the trial are being told in different perspectives, each of them with their own truths, but also their own faults. It is up to the viewer, who unexpectedly plays the role as the judge, to fit the pieces together and craft the true story as to what really happened. The narrative in this movie is very jumbled and out of order; the first of its kind in any film-making. This would influence tons of later classic movies and television shows like Pulp Fiction, Annie Hall, The Usual Suspects, The Simpsons, Lost, and Memento. The script is excellent and well ahead of its time with highly-structured pacing, timing, and dialogue (even if some might be lost in translation). Written and directed by the famed Akira Kurosawa, this movie is the defining example of how Kurosawa's experimental work influenced the way we see movies for decades to come.The camera-work isn't consistent or repetitive, which keeps the movie at the edge of your seat. Whether its long shots of characters realizing a harsh truth, or swooping shots of scenery, the cinematography is also ahead of its league. Kurosawa keeps the pacing quick, and also is very detailed in his shots, which enhances the experience. He truly was one of the better directors in the first half of the 20th century. Unlike the predictable works of modern times, you couldn't really figure out just what happened on that fateful day until the very end, when all was revealed in front of your eyes. The clues were there, but it requires multiple viewings to piece them all to a coherent tale.However the movie hits the deep end with the acting, which for some reason critics find forgivable. How come movies of today can't get away with bad acting and badly delivered dialogue, but older movies like this can? Kurosawa may be a good director, and it's obvious he has a knack for details, but he should not have saved some of the footage of the actors. The worst ones include Machiko Kyô who plays the wife, and Toshirô Mifune who played the thief accused of murder. They both made the drama laughable, which is a shame considering the emotional intensity of the story. For whatever reason, they really screwed up in certain points. This cannot just go away softly, there is good acting in older films, but not all of it is good. It is not fair to the actors and actresses of today to receive such heat when films like this don't. That's the main and pretty much only gripe of this film, but it's a major one. Everything else, from the cinematography to the writing to even the musical score, was superb.Bottom Line: The movie touched on a theme about hypocrites (just slightly), and it's time that critics like Ebert, the entire ensemble of Entertainment Weekly and New York Times, and especially the American Film Institute should look into that a bit more. They are all hypocrites. This movie has an excellent story, and does indeed break some new ground in terms of making movies, but does it deserve a nomination into the top films of all-time because of it? No, not at all. The acting should have been much better, and Kurosawa should have whether a) hired other people or b) forced them to perform better. Strip away the bad acting, and we have ourselves easily one of the best movies of the 1900s. Sadly this isn't the case, and the movie overall loses points because of it. Nonetheless, everyone, whether aspiring filmmakers or someone who wants a good story should see this, because a beautifully woven story full of lessons and themes about humanity can be discovered here.


                
The most plot driven Kurosawa film I have yet to see, great performances and cinematography, and the best actual sword fighting I have yet to see in any of his films, but the ending was a bit of a let down I didn't quite fulfill the really ominous tension that was built up at the beginning of the film and all throughout. I suppose the split narratives were then a really amazing innovation, but they are now somewhat commonplace, and today they sort of dragged a bit, after the first one which was the most exciting. The thematic ideas of the film were brilliant, as is the film itself, it's just dated now. Still a worthy view for anyone interested in film history in general(there's a unfortunate tendency in the states to treat "foreign films" as a genre, separate from American films or "movies"), Kurosawa, or in sociology and psychology, where I've heard this film referenced more than once.


                
I only managed to find a VHS copy from the local public library that was of very poor sound quality and had to view it on an old VCR with a small Television set. But the poor sound on the Television was helped a great deal as the rain was puring outside which was perfect for the opening scenes, that almost gave me a surround system. I will probably add it to my Kurosawa collection on DVD when I can get ahold of a copy.I have not seen much of Kurosawas early work and found this classic to be interesting, beautiful with a universal story and in all the different stories the actors performances and Kurosawas settings are at times the work of a masterpiece and the music n the movie is great. My limited knowledge of kabuki theater might make my grade a little lower than the movie deserves. Perhaps by viewing this movie more times I will rate this movie higher.I can recommend this movie for those out there who are interested in the works one of the greatest directors of are times. It is a good introduction to his work.


                
Rashomon is the story of a heinous crime told through the views of different characters that were involved with it.A few years ago a buddy of mine told me about a movie that I had to see. This movie that he was talking about was Seven Samurai. I usually took his word in such situations but when he gave me the DVD and I saw that it was an old black & white Japanese movie I never made an effort to watch it. After watching Rashomon, by Akira Kurosawa <U+0096> same director as Seven Samurai, I must say that I'm intrigued to see his other work now.Not only is his directing and scenery like what we are use to seeing in movies today, he is the pioneer of this. His camera angles and lighting are amazing. I like the way that he shows the sun through the trees as the woodcutter is walking through the woods and also as the camera follows the bandit and Samurai. Also, I must say that I am a fan of the way he incorporated the rain as a mood throughout the movie.Another quality thing about this movie was the characters. I would say really good job on the actors' parts, although the bandit's laughing annoyed me. I really like the way the Samurai's story was told through a medium. The scene was dark and scary; an element I didn't know could be used so well in older movies such as this one.Overall, I would definitely recommend this movie. Although, just as all movies, its not one that everyone will like. I would say fans of film, movie buffs, and fans of Japanese work would love this. Hats off to Kurosawa, I pay close attention to the way that films are directed and edited because it is one of my favorite elements of a movie, and he did a fantastic job. The actors also deserve credit for this film also, because they did a wonderful job making these characters believable and interesting. I definitely plan on checking out other work by Kurosawa after seeing this movie.


                
The samurai film Rashomon is directed by Akira Kurosawa and stars Toshirô Mifune, Machiko Kyô, and Masayuki Mori. The setting takes place in what seems to be the late 1800s, but I can't say for sure and in Japan.The film starts off with men taking shelter from the rain and start talking about a strange murder that took place. There were three people involved in the murder a husband and wife, and a bandit known as Tajomaru. The husband is murdered by Tajomaru, that is not what is so strange about the murder, what is strange is at the trial all of the people's stories differ. The testimonies of the bandit Tajomaru, the wife, and even the dead husband through a medium are heard and all of them are quite different. The men taking shelter try to sort out what is the truth and truly find out about what happened during the murder.The direction of this film was absolutely stunning and proves why Akira Kurosawa is a legendary director. There were plenty of beautiful shots of the landscape, and also the rain at the shelter where the three men were staying. The way he chose to film the trial was also magnificent especially when the dead husband was talking through the medium. The close ups on Toshiro Mifune were as well stunning and overall just a brilliantly directed film.The acting in this film was not so great, a bit over the top in my opinion. There was much cackling and overly strong showings of emotion. The only acting in here that could be considered somewhat good would be Toshiro Mifune's as Tajomaru. He was over the top, but his character was as well. He does not act as well as he does in later films such as Seven Samurai or Yojimbo but still does a fine job. The men in the shelter acted well also, but the acting needed for their roles was not very demanding.Overall this was a solid 7/10, it was slow at points but had a strong finish. This is not Kurosawa's greatest film but it is definitely worth seeing. I would definitely recommend this to fans of Akira Kurosawa, the samurai genre, and the mystery genre.


                
This is a pretty simple-looking film that disguises an Old Testament story about the challenge of a man's faith. I the story of Job, Job is a reverent man who loves God and family. He is known for his wisdom and wealth. One day, Lucifer wagers Job's soul that he can make Job curse God. God takes the bet.Pestilence and disaster reign in Job's life. All the while, he holds his faith close as others prompt him to curse God by saying "God hates you. He is playing with your soul because he is a whimsical God. Curse him." Though he questions the reasons for what befalls him, his faith never wavers. God wins the wager.In Rashoman, there is a converse story. A priest's faith is in question, not of God, but of the true nature of humankind. He hears of a hideous crime and the controversial accounts of what happened. Other people, witnesses to the crime, come forth and give contradicting testimony. These people are like Job's neighbors, all revealing their philosophical "conviction" by confessing to a crime. Each story accuses a different culprit, and each suspect is motivated and justified by extreme self centeredness. At the end, no one knows who is telling the truth. But the man who offers to adopt the orphan restores the priest's faith in humanity. Each of these people, like Job's neighbors, challenge the reverent man's faith by revealing a different aspect of man's (lack of) character.Every account revolves around the woman's relationship to the men in the movie. In some way, each man wants to possess her and justify his existence in so doing. And let's face it; in 1954 post war Japoan, a conservative state by our standards then and now, you wouldn't likely see a woman laughing at a man and insulting him openly like the wife in this movie. In that context, you can conclude this is socially a consciousness-raising film for that time and place.As Kurosawa goes, this is an early, foundational work that appears to establish him as one with broad knowledge about western culture and literature, astute cinematography, and a talent for taking the traditions of theatre and film as a cornerstone for expanding his work instead of resorting to cheap and hollow impressionism.I give this a 7.
And now we have Rashomon (1950, ***1/2), widely considered one of the finest films ever made. In a nutshell, a terrible crime is committed and various people tell their wildly differing tales of the transpired events.A man dodges torrential rains to shelter under a town's gate. Two other men, one older and the other a priest, are already there. The older one keeps muttering that he "can't understand it." What can't he understand, asks the new guy. And so the older man, a woodcutter, tells his tale. He'd been out in the woods a few days prior and came across a lady's hat, a samurai's cap, pieces of cut rope<U+0085>and a dead man. The woodcutter explains to his companions that he ran to find the police. The scene shifts to a minimalist outdoor courtroom, where the woodcutter testifies. The next witness is led by a rope by a man who claims to have caught him – the prisoner is a bandit, played by the legendary Toshiro Mifune. His captor says he came upon the bandit after the latter had apparently been thrown from his horse and was slaking his thirst at a lake. After the captor tells his tale, the impulsive bandit ridicules him and gives his version, which begins with his spotting a young lady riding a horse in the forest, being led by her husband, a samurai.The bandit says that he wanted the young lady for himself, so he lured the samurai away from her and then attacked him, tying him up with rope. Then he abducted the lady and had his way with her, with the husband still tied up. The end result is that the samurai is killed.The lady follows with her story, and then we get a third version from the deceased samurai, through a medium. Each of the speakers blames someone else for the murder, and other details in their stories don't match, either.Okay, so there's plenty more that I'm intentionally leaving out so I don't spoil this 60-year-old movie for you all. Suffice to say we have multiple stories that contradict each other, a plot hook that's shown up in countless movies since then – like Reservoir Dogs, for that matter.Rashomon is a stirring visual masterpiece, brilliantly directed and photographed. It's definitely a classic. But there is a plot point I have an issue with. We hear these stories, and it's obvious that only one can be the truth – they contradict each other, but they do so consistently. That is, the same detail will differ from story to story. Then, near the end, we hear an additional story that negates all of the others wholesale, thus making it seem as if those earlier tales were simply filler.


                
"Rashômon" is a mystery movie in which we watch three people talking about an incident and they say three different stories of what happened. We have a priest, a woodcutter and another man who are taking refuge from a rainstorm in the shell of a former gatehouse which is called Rashômon. The incident that happened had as a result the death of one person and the difference between these three stories are the motivations and the actual killing.I liked this movie because of the plot and the whole storyline of it which combined mystery with crime and of course drama. The direction of this movie which made of the master Akira Kurosawa was simply outstanding. Also the interpretation of Toshirô Mifune who played as Tajômaru was for one more time really good, and equally good was the interpretation of Masayuki Mori who played as Takehiro Kanazawa. In this I want to say that I did not like the interpretation of Machiko Kyô who played as Masako Kanazawa because I believe that she overreacted in some moments something that I found a bit disturbing.Finally I have to say that "Rashômon" is one of the best movies made by Akira Kurosawa and it can be compared only with "Shichinin no samurai" which is a brilliant movie as well.


                
"Rashomon" (1950), is extremely effective in its minimalist qualities and stunning cinematography (American Director. Robert Altman extremely admired this picture, his opinion is worth looking into). Whereas I enjoyed this movie overall, unfortunately I couldn't say I adored it as much as I have Kurosawa's later work (Or even earlier works I've yet to see them).In a day of particular heavy rain, a commoner takes shelter beneath a city gate with two other individuals. These two men are definitely fazed by a disturbing story that took place, where the woodcutter (The wonderful Takashi Shimura) tells that he found the body of a Samurai in the forest and went to alert the authorities. So begins a trial as we hear multiple interpretations from each individuals, the woodcutter, the deceased Samurai (Through a medium), the Samurai's wife and ultimately that of the bandit (The iconic Toshiro Mifune)."Rashomon", outside its narrative has many appeals. It was the first Japanese film to make it big on the International circuit and coined the real life term "The Rashomon Effect", where multiple individuals deliver conflicting information. The pacing throughout it's running length is stunning, and the way they used mirrors to reflect natural light really gives the picture untold depths of beauty. I think the acting on all fronts is pretty decent, but some of Machiko Kyo's performance as the Samurai's wife took me out of the seriousness of the situation.Final Verdict: It's over 60 years old and even though I don't highly regard it as much as his other work, Akira Kurosawa's "Rashomon" still remains proudly influential. It's been analysed to death and some of those theories are downright absurd, but as our story suggests the true nature of actual events is lost among interpretation. 7/10.
Released back in 1950, 'Rashomon' is considered one of Akira Kurowasa's best films and is regarded one of the best foreign movies by the greatest foreign director of all time.My first experience with Akira Kurasawa was with 'Yojimbo' which I found plain awesome and amazing! I was very excited to see this movie and so, going into it wasn't sure whether I'd like a Japanese mystery movie.'Rashomon' has a very basic premise to it with a story regarding a woman and his husband's murder being recounted by various people. Despite such basic premise, the movie is simply far more than just that and is such a mindbending yet such a challenging movie to watch. It is a strange movie and the eeriness is masterfully portrayed by the opening scene. This scene set me up for what I believed to be a truly amazing mystery movie.There were many things I loved about this film. The characters were definitely great, the story was interesting, the direction was great and the dialogue was well written, considering having to read subtitles for 90 minutes.I did like certain viewpoints and recounts by different people but just after the one hour mark, I was beginning to get a little wreckless as I felt the movie just shifted and a bit of the greatness dropped. I was beginning to lose my interest and some of the scenes did feel weird but there was so much good things towards the very end that dragged me back into the film. One was the duel between the Samurai and the bandit. The woodchopper's story was great as was the bandit's story but boy, I felt the woman's story to get a little dull and just awkward.Some things that happened in the film such as the girl screaming in a horror like creepy way did creep me out. The eerie tone was certainly there, the movie is mostly intense and interesting and for most of its 90 minute length, I was drawn into the movie.Ten slow minutes of the film doesn't make it a horrible film or a mediocre movie as this is paid off by generally amazing story, great acting, some great characters and a well directed Akira Kurawasa film. Definitely a movie that all movie fans should give a go.


                
Akiro Kurosawa's most famous film, Rashomon, tells the story of a murder from four different perspectives. The first is a bandit who claims he fooled a samurai to follow him on a trail to see some valuable swords there. He tied the guy to a tree and brings a woman to the area and seduces her. She is filled with shame asks the bandit to free her husband for a duel. He unties him and they battle to the death.The samurai's wife says that she was raped by the bandit and she begged her husband to forgive her, but he refused and she untied him, fainted and woke up with the knife in her hand and her spouse dead on the ground.The samurai's tale is told through a medium. He says that after his wife was raped, she was asked to travel with the bandit and she agreed and asked her attacker to kill her husband as she did not want to be with two men. The samurai killed himself and a passerby removed the knife.The final version is told by a woodcutter who says that he witnessed the assault. The bandit asked the woman to marry him. The woman asks them to fight for her, and at first they are reluctant. After constant ridicule, they have a duel which results in the death of the samurai. The wife takes off.At a temple, a priest, the woodcutter, and another man hear a baby crying. The child has been abandoned and left in a basket. It concludes with a discussion about the nature of man.Much like Citizen Kane, Rashomon is considered a classic of cinema. I found it interesting, but somewhat cold. I'll watch it again, and maybe it will have a greater impact next time.


                
I suspect Kurosawa's masterwork is tough sledding for native Japanese speakers so Americans working off sub-titles probably are advised to have a discussion group available post screening. "Rash<U+032D>omon" uses the conflicting unreliable narrator technique from Faulkner's "The Sound and the Fury" (a title borrowed from Shakespeare's "Macbeth") in presenting the same story of a murder in 12th century Japan told from multiple perspectives. Like real life these presenters, one of whom is dead and working through a potentially unreliable medium, twist and bend the tale in order to avoid prison and/or dishonor or just for their own self-aggrandizement. Who killed the husband? How much of a willing party was the wife in her deflowering by the bandit? What motives drive the parties involved including our 3 narrators the woodcutter, priest and commoner? When Kurosawa lingers on the sword is that a clue? If you liked (and you should have) "The Usual Suspects" and are up for a serious cinematic test see Rashomon and try to unravel it for yourself.


                
Having first seen this film 60 years ago in a 16mm print, I had the opportunity to see a restored 35mm print. The significance of this event is that I have mentioned more than once in reviews the influence of Rashomon's narrative technique, most recently in 'Avatar'. This new print shows the detailed close-ups, but it shows also the lighting flaws. Hanging reflectors in the trees to reflect sun into the shadows might have saved a few yen, but the movement of the light spots was sometimes disturbing. Artificial, to say the least. The sound in this well-equipped cinema emphasised just how unbalanced it was, both thematically and acoustically. Nevertheless, Rashomon has earned its place in the pantheon of iconic motion pictures. The complexity of the story remains a model for film-makers. Perhaps the acting is wooden; we expect more than lengthy shots of blank expressions. Only Eisenstein seems to have mastered that trick. The rain was well done, in contrast to,say, 'Singin' in the Rain'. The Japanese used dark colouring in the "rainwater"; Hollywood used milk!


                
1st watched 11/21/2009 - 7 out of 10 (Dir-Akira Kurasawa): Well done mystery morality tale by acclaimed Japanese director Akira Kurosawa. The story is told in flashbacks and is about an encounter between a bandit, a samurai and his wife in the woods. The samurai is found dead but how did he die and who killed him? The story is told initially by the man who found the body supposedly during a rainy day where there is not much else to do. The story ends up being told from many other perspectives and each telling is different. There is an evil aspect in every telling which causes one of the listeners to lose total confidence in man and his negative possibilities. This is a very deep and emotional film that mostly involves male characters, which is very unique in films of any kind. The lone female character is deceptive, evil and not to believed. Of all the stores told, we really don't know what truths are within each of them -- only that a man is dead. This is the beauty of this film made by Kurasawa as he plays with our thoughts to the very end. When it's over we're still thinking and this, in my opinion, is the mark of a good film. We really go away not caring who did it, but we learn a lot about human nature and it's inadequacies and what really matters most to us. This is a classic movie by this brilliant Japanese icon of film.


                
The nature of truth and its' relativity are the subjects focused on in Akira Kurosawa's Rashomon. The story revolves around a man found murdered in the woods, the events leading up to it are told from multiple points of view with each of the people telling their version of the story with different reasons to lie, or perhaps even believe they are telling the truth.Much has been made of the narrative devices employed by Kurosawa. Rashomon is told mostly in flashbacks, with the same event being repeated over and over again as everybody has their say on what went down and it's not hard to see how it influenced future film makers such as Quentin Tarantino (Reservoir Dogs) and Stanley Kubrick (The Killing). It is easy to imagine how cutting edge this technique would have been in 1950 and I take nothing away from Kurosawa but let's not forget Orson Welles had done similar things with Citizen Kane nine years previously, though in that case it was used to show how people can have differing opinions of a man, instead of an event as in Rashomon.Kurosawa felt that since the invention of the 'talkies' in the 30's, cinema had somewhat lost it's visual storytelling capabilities and relied too much on dialogue. He strove to make Rashomon be an unconventional experience, with many scenes lasting minutes without conversation, merely letting the setting, music and tone carry the narrative. Sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't. As enthralled as I was throughout most of the film's second and third acts (the first is all talky set up and as a result rather dull) there were times when I found myself wishing that it would get a bloody move on.There are a couple of fight scenes in the film and I feel I must mention them due to how different they are from what we would normally see from films featuring Samuri. They are not so much fights as scraps, with characters rolling around on the floor, desperately grabbing for a sword just out of reach. Expertly choreographed and executed, they are wonderful to watch and genuinely entertaining.The performances are good across the board. There's a bit of overacting here and there but for the most part the cast carry themselves well. The standout, however, is Toshirô Mifune as the bandit accused of murder. He is a cackling maniac and wonderfully flicks between utter lunacy and childlike desperation.Although the main focus of most people, including Kurosawa himself, is on how Rashomon is about the nature of truth, I also feel the film puts a great weight on the nature of faith, specifically man's faith in himself and the rest of mankind. It is hard to talk about this without spoiling the film but please, watch it with this in mind and see what you think. I watched Rashomon within a couple of days of viewing Ran and these themes were certainly prevalent in that film also, though Rashomon ends with a slightly more positive outlook.Though not a perfect film, Rashomon is certainly a very worthwhile experience and a must for anybody interested in the development of storytelling techniques in cinema history.


                
Regarded as Kurosawa's masterpiece, this is a visually opulent film about a rape and a murder told from multiple viewpoints. While Kurosawa displays his cinematic genius with the camera, the acting is more suited to the theater, with exaggerated gestures and emotional displays. Mifune is a compelling presence, but he, like most of the cast, overacts wildly at times. The story is interesting but becomes too melodramatic and the plot element concerning the baby seems to be tacked on as an afterthought. The score seems to be based on Ravel's "Bolero." A very open-ended film, leaving much to interpretation, which is fine, but it could have benefited from some subtlety.


                
