To have a film that holds the coveted title of being the reason that the "Best Foreign Film" category was created for the Oscars is one thing, but to be able to back up that myth with a powerful film that speaks both about humanity and the strength of truth is a whole new angle. Often we witness powerful foreign films that slip through the lines of cinema, regarded by so many as valuable assets to the film community, but never see the gold of Oscar. In the same sense, sometimes the most popular of those foreign films eventually become Oscar contenders, not because they are worthy enough, but because studios had the funds to allow bigger distribution to audiences, thus allowing popularity to do the rest. Rashômon is one of those few films that succeed in giving us both a quality film and the accolades to represent it. Rashômon is a rare breed of film. The Japanese filmmaker Akira Kurosawa took many bold steps with this film (pointing his camera at the sun, filming deep within the jungle, and the mockery of truth), that it is unlikely that you could go to a modern day Hollywood film without seeing one of these techniques being "borrowed". His bold storytelling, creative camera work, and powerful characters give us a unique story that should be included in everyone's film library.While the characters were strong, the direction was flawless, and the story was compelling, there is a theme that needs to be discussed while talking about Rashômon. This is the story of murder, betrayal, and rape and in any typical "courthouse" film you would have some spineless witness finally break down and confess the truth. At the end of these films the truth is discovered, but not in Rashômon. Kurosawa gives us the "black sheep" of themes by never really giving us what we really wanted from the beginning of this story. As I began this film, I thought I was going to get a clear-cut story with honesty and troubled souls, but instead I was handed no prize at the end. What I sought after the most is not handed to me in a Happy Meal container at the end, but instead trapped still within the film. Kurosawa gives us the meaning behind the story, that there possibly is no way of knowing the true "truth". Four different souls, seeing the same event all culminating to four different results means that the "truth" may never be known. Kurosawa has taken the story and provided us with the main character being truth, and like Kaiser Soze, the greatest trick it ever pulled was convincing us that "it didn't exist". Deep within Rashômon the truth is hidden, and it may never emerge, but that is what Kurosawa intended. A viewer could walk away from this film, after several viewings, and discover different truths about the characters and story. This is a constantly evolving film that will continually get better with time.Outside of these beautiful themes, Rashômon is a flawless film. From the execution of the actors to the simplicity of the direction, there is plenty in this film to keep your mind busy and your jaw nearly dragging on the floor. To begin, the performance by Toshiro Mifune ranks among the best in film history. In each of the stories he is portrayed differently (even in his own) and with precise execution he delivers every time. He is insane, passionate, loyal, and villainous all at the same time. While some may see his acting as eccentric or over-the-top, I found each of his portrayals as accurate and astute. When Mifune is on the screen his presence commands your eyes and you cannot help but become involved. Second to his performance is that of the troubled wife. While her characters is the most confusing/suspicious of them all, Masayuki Mori keeps us intertwined with the story by controlling her character with the greatest of ease. When it is time for her to be unleashed, the true drama of the story is thrown in your face with brilliance and expertise.Overall, I thought that this was a near perfect film. Kurosawa is intense, original, and adeptly secure about his stories. I have seen the same passion in Ran, and it cannot be denied. My only concern with this film is that if you are going to watch this movie, make sure that you can devote your entire mind to it. I found myself watching it three times because I could not stay focused (outside factors) enough to see those darkly hidden themes. I especially enjoyed the unearthed darkness of humanity, which is hinted on at the end. The fact that after hearing these stories of murder and rape, it doesn't stop one from continuing along a similar path. It is a powerful tale that should be enjoyed by all! Grade: **** out of *****


                
"Rashomon", Akira Kurosawa's 1950 film about a horrible crime and the various versions of the "truth" that come to fruition during the investigation is absolutely amazing, pure and simple. The story is told four different times, each time from the point of view of one of the participants. The basic story of the crime is that a bandit (Mifune) comes across a husband and wife traveling through the forest. The bandit, Tajomaru, seduces/assaults the Masako (Kyo) after tying up her husband Takehiro (Mori), and soon after, Takehiro is dead. What happens between the times Tajomaru encounters the couple and the discovery of Takehiro's body is what is left to be discovered. Masako, Tajomaru and even Takehiro (with the assistance of a medium) each tell their account of the story, each taking blame for Takehiro's death. The fourth telling is from a passer-by, and the audience is left to decide which is the true account.I absolutely loved this film. I had heard that Yimou Zhang's "Hero" had, if not as an homage, employed the same technique of storytelling and perspective, but seeing this great film was a real treat. The story is original and rich, and Kurosawa always is able to pull great performances from his actors. I found "Rashomon" to be extremely compelling from start to finish, and even managed to be really creeped out at one point. (The psychic medium is pure, unadulterated nightmare fuel) From the very little that I know of Japanese cinema of the 1950's & 1960's, I realize that Kurosawa was not the only director, but he certainly was the trailblazer and set the bar for the genre for decades to come. His peers were putting out material, it was just fairly primitive. (It is easy to forget that not every country's film industry was as opulent as America's) To see this kind of film, a film that is actually incredibly simple, but so ingeniously conceived of and executed makes me remember why I have been and always will be both a student of and lover of film. 8/10 --Shelly
Rashomon runs only 88 minutes, which to me is fairly short for a feature-length movie, but it seems this could have been accomplished in about 45 minutes or an hour. Many of the scenes are too drawn out, simply taking too long to achieve what we already know is going to happen.You can notice this early as we spend minutes just watching the Woodcutter walk through the forest. There are interesting shots and directing techniques in this scene, but it goes on for too long.Also see the wife's extended bouts of crying, although her performance is great in the Woodcutter's version of the story, in the scene where her tirade on the male species motivates the two men to fight each other.But it further drags as the wife takes forever to kill the husband, then the husband takes forever to kill himself, the final sword fight that goes on longer than it needs to. The outcomes of these scenes are predictable. The predictability is not the problem. The problem is that these scenes linger on when we already know what the result will be. We know the final sword fight will end with the bandit killing the husband with his sword because the Woodcutter has already swore that the husband died by sword before we entered his version of the truth. If we did not know the result, this might be suspenseful, but since we already do, it just drags.The story itself I found to be very good, but the case here is that the screenplay has been cursed by having been directed by its own writer. So I have settled on rating it a 5. Luckily for Kurosawa, many of you don't feel the same way.Having said that, I have seen Seven Samurai before this, rated it an 8, and though it's damn long at nearly three-and-a-half hours, I did not feel it was as drawn out, though maybe it would be easier to swallow if it were two separate movies.
In 9th-century Japan, a couple of men are sheltering from the pouring rain in a ruined temple called Rashomon. A woodcutter tells the story of a samurai's dead body he found in the woods three days earlier. The murderer was evidently a notorious bandit (Toshiro Mifune) who is captured and brought to trial.Mifune admits to an unseen court that he tied up the samurai and then raped the guy's wife in front of him. The problem is that the wife responded enthusiastically. When Mifune tries to leave, she begs him to kill her husband and get rid of the witness to her dishonor. Mifune releases the samurai, there is a sword fight, the samurai is killed, and when Mifune looks around, the wife is gone.The wife's testimony contradicts Mifune's. After the rape, Mifune leaves and the wife weeps abundantly as she crawls to her husband and begs his forgiveness. His response is only a cold, silent stare, filled with loathing. She implore him to kill her, then, and scuttles towards him with her dagger in hand. Then she faints. When she wakes up, her husband is dead, with her dagger in his chest.The samurai husband testifies through a spooky medium that both stories are false. When he was finally free, both the bandit and his own wife had disappeared, and he killed himself with the dagger.The woodcutter who is recounting the testimony says all the stories are baloney because he, the woodcutter, was a silent witness. He didn't testify at the trial because he didn't want to get involved. HIS story sounds like the real one because, uninvolved as he was, he has nothing to gain from lying about the events.But, no. One of the other men brings up a discrepancy that casts doubt on the woodcutter's story too.We're not used to these kinds of stories. We don't know how to DO them the way Kurosawa did on a tiny budget. (It was remade with Paul Newman as "Outrage" and was a boring failure.) If it were made today, it would be filled with Uzis and exploding fireballs but in the original the only thing overdone is the acting, which is highly stylized.You can overanalyze a thing. In this case we can take a nose dive into phenomenology and all that, but what such an analysis would remind me of is the early 1960s, before intuition began to guide our experience of the world, when some people still sat around on the floor with candles in the chianti bottles and asked each other what Truth was.The fact is this movie can be boiled down to even simpler propositions. Here's one. "Everybody's memory is flawed." Here's another: "It's flawed in ways that exculpate us." I'm not arguing that Kurosawa didn't have more in mind that that, but just that the movie can be appreciated by people who didn't major in philosophy. We all have different views of reality. That's a relatively simple fact that everyone will agree on.And we don't have to look far for instances. "I did not have sexual relations with that woman." "We know how many there are and where they are." "I use a wide stance." Well, this may not be everybody's cup of green tea. The rape isn't very explicit. There is no nudity. Nobody's guts gush out of his abdomen. The ghost acts like a decerebrate feline preparation. Not a curse word in the dialog. It's in black and white. No elaborate sets. And it uses subtitles. (I can hear the cry now -- "Hey, this thing's in Chinese!") It may not stimulate anyone's gonads but it may tickle his higher reasoning centers.
Rashomon is a movie based off of the short stories "Rashomon" and "In a Grove." It is the story of a bandit who leads a couple into the woods, ties the man up, and rapes the woman. Somehow the man ends up dead, but there are differing theories as to how this happened. The movie takes place on a rainy day when two men are discussing how much this story confuses them. A third man shows up and asks what they are talking about. The story is told from the perspectives of the bandit, the wife, the husband, and a woodcutter who saw the whole thing. It is then up to the men to decide whether or not humanity is inherently evil, or if there is a glimmer of kindness in men.This movie is all about how humans lie, cheat, and steal to impress others or to make themselves feel better, and to gain an advantage over others. Since there are four differing accounts, at least three, and maybe all four, of the storytellers are lying. Each character gains something by lying. The bandit portrays himself as an honorable man who challenges the husband to a sword fight instead of killing him in a deceptive way. The wife says she does not remember murdering her husband, thus distancing herself from some of the blame, and then proceeds to say that she was so struck with guilt that she tried to commit suicide. The husband says that his wife only betrayed him because she was brainwashed by the bandit, and that he was so grief-stricken that he killed himself. And finally, the woodcutter lied to the police so he would not have to get involved, and lied to the two men to cover up the fact that he stole the woman's expensive dagger. All four of these characters are selfish; Tajomaru is a rapist, the woodcutter is a thief, and any of the four could be the killer, including the husband himself. The movie portrays humans as horrible, self-centered creatures, and the story even causes a priest to lose his faith in humanity for a while.However, the movie also shows hope for the plight of men. At the end of the movie, a baby is abandoned. It is left all alone on that rainy day, unable to take care of itself. But the woodcutter, who already has six children, agrees to take the baby home and raise it as his own. He has given this child a second chance at life, and has restored the priest's faith in the kindness of humanity.The movie was black and white, somewhat repetitive, and slow-moving. I do not recommend it to anyone who has a problem with those things. Because of the rape, it is a mature film and not for children. It is also pretty depressing and up until the very end, shows only the negative aspects of people. But overall, I thought it was a pretty good movie about human nature, and I would recommend it to anyone interested in the darker side of people.
This is my first time I watch a Japanese movie and i am very surprised . from the beginning to the end , the acting was so professional the actors did a great job , the beautiful music , the wonderful story everything thing was perfect . btw , this the first time I agree with IMDB rating !! this movie deserve to be in top IMDB rating ,really worth my time. 8/10


                
My Rating : 8/10A simple story with meaning well-told by the master himself.Rashômon is an absolute gem in Akira Kurosawa's filmography. No lavish set pieces, just a very simple concept of how we lie to ourselves and others to believe our own version of the truth over the actual version of truth.A great watch amidst a plethora of hollow, meaningless dramas we have these days. Rashômon's simplicity is profound and thought-provoking. Highly recommended.


                
Notable for bringing the Japanese film industry on the global stage, Rashômon is a well- conceptualized & beautifully realized study of human nature that explores our perception of reality with its unconventional narrative structure and is also responsible for introducing numerous storytelling techniques that have inspired & influenced countless films over the years.Rashômon begins with two men seeking refuge from rain in a former gatehouse and still trying to make sense of the event they witnessed earlier that day. When another guy arrives, they recount the whole story to him, following which the incident concerning a heinous crime is revisited many times and is told from the perspective of all the eye-witnesses, each contradicting the other.Co-written & directed by Akira Kurosawa, Rashômon is crafted with a clever eye and is masterly layered to keep the viewers invested. However, it's not about who is telling the truth & who isn't because the incident is merely a plot device that's meant to reflect a faith-shattering side of the human condition, and reveals how we are capable of molding any particular event to fit our own self-serving interests.There are also a number of symbolic & allegorical imagery applied throughout the film, which adds further depth & meaning to the whole premise. Set pieces are kept to a minimum. Cinematography adds a new chapter to the filmmaking manual with its inventive use of lighting, close-ups, camera angles & hand-held photography. Editing allows the plot to unfurl at its own pace but it could've still applied a few trims here n there.Coming to the performances, the cast consists of Takashi Shimura, Toshikô Mifune, Machiko Kyõ & Masayuki Mori and all play their part responsibly. Shimura contributes with a very subdued input as the guy recounting the whole story to another person while harboring a secret of his own. Mifune plays a bandit with kinetic flair while Mori & Kyo are in as the samurai & wife respectively and both do a brilliant job in their given roles, especially the latter.On an overall scale, Rashômon is a fascinating examination of human nature, the subjective nature of truth, and the shift in reality when any particular event is approached from a different paradigm. A work of innovative filmmaking that's given an ageless appeal by its universal themes, Rashômon only reveals more on subsequent viewings and what is says about the human character is just as relevant today as it was back then. Its slow pace is bothersome at times but the more you allow it to simmer in your head, the more you will understand & appreciate its enduring legacy. Definitely recommended.


                
This is the original Crouching Tiger, really opening up the minds of Western audiences to the delights of oriental movies, and it's still a bit of an eye-opener. The slightly surreal visuals, lots of symbolic-looking shots of masks lying cracked on the ground, sparsely shot courtroom scenes and that awesome rainfall around the storytellers, set you up for a mad story set in some woods on the road to Yamashina, where a group of mentalists have gone a bit mental and one of them ended up dead. The style of the storytelling, with all the flashbacks and restructured scenes, is really an essential part of the tale itself (based on a story by Akutagawa Ryunosuke, taken from his Rashomon collection) but Kurosawa can be credited with bringing a good few new ideas and crazy tricks to the cinema with this monster hit classic. The tiny cast all act out of their skins, especially the bandit Toyomaru, laughing like a crazed hyena all the way through, the ideas and sentiments expressed are fascinating and ultimately beautiful, and all it all it pretty much deserves its status as top classic Japanese thing. Great.


                
The classic multi-angle narration, the compact editing, the magnificent drum beat and the final ending without the truth are all very good. But at the end of the film, the discussion on human nature is too straightforward


                
When you begin watching Rashomon you do not really know what to think. It is an interesting film that comes off as a murder mystery. But as time continues we see that it really is a look into the human condition. During the movie, we hear several different accounts of a murder. By the end of the movie when you find out which account is the truth you are left wondering and debating what caused the others to lie? Does no one have any honor now? I was left feeling like my favorite TV doctor Gregory House. I felt a lack of faith in humanity and thinking "everyone lies." But despite the cold hard look at humanities dark side, a path is preserved and shown that there can be good in the world, even if sometimes we cannot explain the bad. As far as I know there is no English Dub for this movie. But if you are willing to read the subtitles for this 88-minute movie, I would highly recommend it.


                
The truth is only a matter of point of view, and its potrayed in very unique and clever with master class directed by Akira Kurosawa. All actors played their part very convincingly. Superb!


                
Rashômon tells a simple yet complex story. In simple words, it is a tale about a husband and wife who come across a bandit in the woods. The bandit tricks them into buying swords he has stashed in a wooded area, he ties up the samurai and makes his wife yield to him. Then the samurai ends up dead somehow. Now the story must unfold through the evidence of each character to find out who is truly guilty of the crime. It is a film way ahead of it's time and reminds us how the human body works, whether it'd be through sight or hearing, the conclusive answer was always subjective. You could never tell who was telling the truth because all the testimonies contradicted each other. Through the use of masterful camerawork, and a small set of cast members with amazing performances, Kurosawa delivers to us a unique story about one's perspective and deception.


                
The main reason Rashomon is such a classic is due to it ( much like Citizen Kane ) being one of the first movies to use a non linear way of storytelling, using flashbacks in order to tell a story from different subjective perspectives. Which results in a fascinating storytelling experience.It is also an effective tale about the human nature to lie, and about the human nature of selfishness, as all of the stories in the movie differ in a way that favors the one telling it. No character is truly likeable, but that's the way Kurosawa wanted it to be. They do not have to be likeable as long as they are well developed, and that it is. The characters are telling the story to an unseen Judge behind the camera, basically telling it to the audience themselves. There are no definite answers, as it all comes down to the human nature to lie. There is minimal dialogue as Kurosawa understood the beautiful cinematography and the faces could speak for themselves. It is both an effective visual and psychological experience.One of the couple of gripes, however, is a couple of overacting sequences, ridiculous hysterical yelling that seemingly comes out of nowhere ( Especially by everyone's favorite Toshiro Mifune, who in all other ways, was brilliant ), and the relatively short running time.However, all in all it makes Rashomon an effective and revolutionary movie due to its non linear concept, and is definitely up there as another one of Kurosawa's masterpieces in his extraordinary career.


                
While Rashômon is a flawless film technically, and I'm certain that it was innovative and refreshing when it first came out, there have been so many imitations and rehashes of the concept that, seeing Rashômon 54 years after it was first released, the film seems to lack the initial punch which it probably had.While I certainly recognize that this film is a masterpiece simply because it was the first to use the concept of a same story told from different points of view, the story itself failed to really touch me. The moral of the story is excellent, but the plot doesn't seem to take you any deeper than that. I "got it" after watching it the first time, and see little reason to go back and see it again. Technically, the film is outstanding. The shots in the forest are beautifully filmed, and the shots looking directly into the sunlight are certainly very interesting. Furthermore, Kurosawa's use of black ink to help contrast the rain with the sky gives beautiful results.Overall, while the film was certainly way ahead of its time, I don't believe that time has actually made this classic any better. The countless imitators have only made this film seem less original that it probably was on release, and while I recognize it was the first, the story doesn't seem to pack as much punch as it should.8/10 (if only for the technical achievements and the inspiration it served as for future filmmakers)


                
Seen today, sixty years after it was made, RASHOMON is still one of Akira Kurosawa's most accessible works to western viewers. Instead of a sprawling, multi-faceted historical epic, this uniquely original and inspiring film is a different beast entirely; a cinematic experiment if you will, or an exploration of the human psyche. It covers a seemingly straightforward event from different perspectives, throwing into question the nature of truth, while also exploring themes of the unreliable narrator and perception. It's also a highly entertaining film at that.The small cast work wonderfully with the given material, particularly Toshiro Mifune, who's handed the scene-stealing role of the bandit who starts off the story. However, Machiko Kyo gets the meatiest role as the put-upon wife, and she's required to do the brunt of the emoting. Kudos also to Masayuki Mori, excelling as the typical stony-faced samurai character, and Kurosawa regular Takashi Shimura who's present in the framing sequences which help to set up the film's atmosphere.Kurosawa's camera-work is first rate and he brings his forest backdrop to life, utilising all manner of shots to tell his story. He was famously the first director ever to shoot into the sun, but I particularly liked the stand-off in the second version of the tale between the three characters, which utilises point-of-view shots that Sergio Leone later used most famously for the duel in THE GOOD, THE BAD AND THE UGLY. In the end, though, it's the originality of the film – and the clever exploration of a topic that in itself is quite difficult to use in the medium – that makes RASHOMON a classic and well worth anybody's time.
This film has a lot in common with movies that turn out to be a dream in which the main character wakes up to realize that what just happened never occurred. I find those kinds of pictures less than satisfying because they seem to cop out of a final resolution to the story. "Rashomon" takes a somewhat similar approach, but instead of setting up a dream narrative, Kurosawa has his characters relate the circumstances of a murder from the perspective of four different observers. I can't say that that isn't a valid approach, but the problem I have is that the characters relating their stories don't seem to have credibility on their side. If I had to make a personal judgment, I'd say the woodcutter's appraisal of events seemed most valid because he didn't have a personal stake in the outcome of a murder investigation.Looking individually at each of the players - the bandit Tajomaru (Toshiro Mifune) relates a tale that builds up his own self esteem - he valiantly fights the husband (Masayuki Mori), crossing swords with him twenty three times. The wife (Machiko Kyo) relating her version of events seems to be seeking atonement for her shame in being victimized by Tajomaru. The husband, telling his story through a medium after his death, seems willing to spare his wife the agony of betrayal and for suffering the shame of her rape. Finally, the woodcutter, who has nothing to gain by telling what he saw, except for the possible humiliation for not intervening because he was cowardly, was probably the closest to the truth about what happened. But we'll never know because the truth, which lies in the eye of the beholder, can potentially shift and change with each viewing of the film.It will probably take some more viewings of the movie for me to gain a greater appreciation of it. As with "Seven Samurai", I find Kurosawa's pacing to be drawn out more than necessary; note the long time it took for the woodcutter to make his way to the scene of the crime in his version of the story. I'm also put off by the histrionics of a character like Tojomaru, who's over the top and manic delivery make him seem out of control. Granted, these are matters of preference with me, so I look at them somewhat like the players in the film who have their own biases in telling their story.
There's a scientific study called "Rashomon Effect". You could say this film is that good, plus given the circumstances of the making in 1950s. Alas the film work alone deserves the spotlight.We all can think of our own "Rashomon" experiences from our lives. People can be believing in a same event in different ways. They would tell similar yet different stories.This might sound a cliché, but sometimes there can be no absolute truth of one thing. Things could happen to have its different perspectives subjectively. So it leads to a problem that if we can blame someone that he/she lied because another person is telling differently. They all might be genuinely thinking to themselves that they're telling the truth.Aside the well known quotes of this film, I also liked the quote: " ... I even heard that the demon living here in Rashomon fled in fear of the ferocity of man."By the way, Homer Simpson says he liked Rashomon. Although he remembers it differently.


                
Rashômon is one of legendary director Akira Kurosawa's (Seven Samurai, Yojimbo) great works of art. It is a dark and cynical outlook on mankind and it's morality and integrity. It is the story of the murder of a man and the rape of his wife, told from four different perspectives. Each perspective contradicts the others and it is left to the audience's interpretation as to who told the truth. Rashômon was the first film to utilize the telling of the same story from different perspectives and that technique has now become a staple in creative filmmaking. It is used in many different films such as Vantage Point (2008), The Usual Suspects (1995), and even the animated film Hoodwinked! (2005). It is for this reason that you absolutely cannot say that Rashômon is not an influential film.Akira Kurosawa is highly acclaimed to be one of the greatest directors who ever lived, and his skills in cinematography and art direction never fail to amaze. Rashômon is no exception. It is beautifully shot in its three settings the entire movie takes place in. It is this intelligent and immaculate direction which captivates and awes you, as you try and decipher the mystery taking place. The story is not complex on the surface but it is the intriguing themes and motifs that Kurosawa explores that make Rashômon an experience that makes you think. Nothing in the film is set straight and it is all up to viewer interpretation.Rashômon is an excelling work of art, yet a few things must be taken into account to truly understand where the film comes from. It was made in 1950's Japan, a very different time with a very different culture. The filming and acting techniques are noticeably different than modern filmmaking is used to. At times the acting seems very overdone and melodramatic, but you have to take into account the time period. Also the portrayal of women in this film could be looked upon sorely, but this is likely a cultural thing which can't be understood without the proper research. These "issues" are hardly minor gripes and can't really be considered legitimate thing to complain about.Rashômon is influential filmmaking at it's best. What Kurosawa explores in this film are things that will stand the test of time and make Rashômon a classic film by a legendary director.


                
Akira Kurosawa is unquestionably the most recognised film-making talent ever to emerge from Japan, his string of reputed masterpieces including 'The Seven Samurai (1954),' 'Yojimbo (1961)' and 'Ran (1985),' each of which I have yet to enjoy, my experience with Asian cinema worryingly limited. After recently enjoying my first Kurosawa picture, the powerful but slightly-overlong 'Nora inu / Stray Dog (1949),' I was keen to watch another, though I couldn't yet find the time to commit myself to one of the director's three-hour-long epics. 'Rashômon (1950)' proved the perfect alternative. Kurosawa's film, the first to bring him into the international limelight, uses a simple story <U+0096> of a husband's death in the woods <U+0096> to reveal a simple but worryingly-accurate truth of human existence: that the truth itself is unknowable. The unique narrative structure of the film, of replaying the same event four times from differing perspectives, had the potential to become nothing more than a curious gimmick, yet Kurosawa makes it all work wonderfully, aided by the exquisite cinematography of Kazuo Miyagawa and electric performances from all involved, most particularly Kurosawa-regular Toshirô Mifune.The film opens in a bleak, bitter rainstorm <U+0096> one of those mighty skyward torrents that makes us drought-stricken Australians green with envy <U+0096> where three men are sheltering in the ruins of a gatehouse. Three days previously, the oldest of the three, Woodcutter (Takashi Shimura), discovered the body of a man in the woods, and has recently returned from a police inquiry. The coarse, unkempt Commoner (Kichijiro Ueda) demands to hear the remainder of the Woodcutter's story, and so he recounts three "versions" of the shocking rape/murder, told from the perspective of the Bandit (Toshirô Mifune), the husband (Masayuki Mori) and the wife (Machiko Kyô), each story differing substantially from the other two. The existence of subjectivity, it seems, has permanently obscured any chances of ever knowing the absolute "truth" of the incident, with each perspective <U+0096> perhaps deliberately, perhaps subconsciously <U+0096> distorting the truth to conform to their own interests. It is revealed that even the seemingly-passive observer, Woodcutter, has his own reasons for adjusting the facts, this final revelation almost permanently denting the honest Priest's (Minoru Chiaki) belief in the goodness of Mankind.After portraying a modest, tentative rookie detective in Kurosawa's 'Stray Dog,' Toshirô Mifune is an absolute revelation as the notorious Tajômaru. Regardless of the specific version of events, Mifune unequivocally dominates the screen, his maniacal energy and frenzied cackle certain to imprint on your mind. The basis for the film was derived from two stories by Ryunosuke Akutagawa, with "Rashomon" providing the setting, and "In a Grove" supplying the characters and plot. The flashback components of the story unfold under the dappled light of the trees, and, on several occasion,s Miyagawa films the Sun directly through the leaves of the forest canopy, perhaps representative of the "light of truth" that is being obscured by the inherent dishonesty in Man {personified in the selfish Commoner}. Of course, Kurosawa couldn't bring himself to end the film in such a pessimistic fashion, and the Woodcutter redeems his previous deception by offering to care for an abandoned newborn baby discovered in the gatehouse. As the rainstorm ceases, and the glorious sunlight once again begins to beam down upon the lands, the Priest finally regains his faith in the goodness to be found in a man's heart.
Although there are many ways to define the non-linear narrative, I would like to argue that Rashomon is not a non-linear piece in the traditional sense, but rather contains only elements of non-linearity than as a whole. It includes, for the most part, digetic non-conventional elements in a linear type structure (one that is fluid in terms of its story) as opposed to the traditional non-conventional structure containing mostly non-digetic material. That is to say, when the characters and viewer do not have a frame of reference as to where they really are, (i.e. location, dialogue, and story) but are rather given vague suggestions, the traditional non-linear structure is more present than not. However, Rashomon does not leave the viewer confused or without a frame of reference. This is clearly illustrated around the stories main theme: In a world of deceit, can anyone be trusted? From the beginning, the viewer holds expectations that the film is going to reveal a story within a story within a story<U+0097>all told from four different perspectives. As it turns out, this structure remains consistent throughout the piece. Already then, this film does not follow the true non-linear format. Following the true format would create more chaos and less order. This aspect of the film's orderliness brings up its digetic qualities. Not only do the characters in the story know that they are telling stories within stories, but the viewer also understands this aspect. Thus, time and space are not irrationally violated. It's true that the film contains non-linear elements that are demonstrated through its use of flashbacks, but the flashbacks themselves are set in a linear structure. The viewer always has a frame of reference as to where they are. The director presents this idea in the following way: Dissolves are used each time a character begins telling their story/flashback, thus allowing the viewer to enter that world without confusion. Knowing this sets up the viewer to contemplate the stories theme.The four different perspectives that are shared regarding what happened between the woman, her husband and the bandit, leave the viewer, as well as the characters in the story, unable to distinguish the truth from the lies. In one story, the woman indulges the bandit and asks him to kill her husband so she can marry him; in another, the woman is appalled by the bandit's actions and rushes to the aid of her husband but is rejected. When the priest tells his side of the story, he tells it through the perspective of the dead husband, who in turn lives vicariously through a witch doctor of some sort. This particular story stood out above the rest as the best example of non-linearity. When the witch doctor tells the police that the husband was stabbed to death, she herself acts out the stabbing sensation to heighten the effect of the actual death. This element added a type of metaphorical abstraction to the film more so than a realistic quality. Still, the viewer cannot objectively come to a solid conclusion on whose story is true and whose is false.However, the viewer is given strong incentive to assume that the man who carries the baby away at the end was the truth-teller. Why? Because the other two men have created suspicion in the viewer to think otherwise (i.e. the first man stealing the arm bracelet from the baby, the second man lying about the dagger in the story so he could sell it for money). Both implicit ideas strongly reveal the film's theme in terms of the corrupt nature of men and their tendencies to lie to gain the upper hand.
A must see movie for film technique."Rashomon" is a movie that encompasses both, "In a Grove" and "Rashomon," two stories written in pre-war Japan, into one cohesive, post-war film. In the movie, a samurai is found dead in a forest. The movie is the accumulation of accounts from different people, each telling their story of what happened. Conflict ensues when the accounts, while similar, have vastly different conclusions.From a technical standpoint "Rashomon" is a movie that is a pioneer it its time. The use of nature, sky, and weather are truly one of a kind. For example, when people are shown as small creatures inside of a huge forest that envelops them, the insignificance of one man over all of nature shines through.While on the topic of shinning, deliberate shots of a sun-filled sky are scattered throughout the film. These spots of intense sun splashing through the tree tops is always paired with a time in the story the when viewer beings to think they are listening to an untrue portrayal of events.Knowing that in film, sunshine is typically used to show truth and purity, this indicates that while there is bad in all humans (as seen through the incessant lying) there is at least a little bit of good that lives with the bad (as is seen through the sun.) Keeping this same theme in mind, the sun points to the individual accounts as not being a total fabrication, indicating that there is a little bit of truth in all of the accounts. However, the film indicates that while there is perhaps some good in people, the bad side is what will always prevail, it is the easiest to satiate.A step further.The words of the characters tend to indicate that they are all false and all bad (this is a post-war perspective.) The environment, tells a different story, allowing for the possibility of some good (this is a pre-war perspective.) With these ideas in mind, it is fair to say that the language of the film is modern, while the ambiance sends a traditional outlook.These subtleties make the film. By bring many opposites and situations into the same screen, Akira Kurosawa (director), is allowing the viewer to draw many of their own conclusions. Each person can take a different message from the film. In fact, it would be fair to say that within each person a different meaning may come to pass with each successive viewing.Check it out.
For the first five or ten minutes I was about to shut down that movie . As I felt like I was watching Arabic movie of the same music , the same scenes of the woods and trees. But , when They started to tell their stories . I decided to complete . 4 different stories from 4 different persons The bandit Tajumaru, the wife , the dead husband and the wood cutter . And the last one telling two different stories !! I liked so much the end of the movie . Leaving us don't know who was punished for that murder Keep believing in the human kind ... The time of the movie is just one hour and 26 minutes . I liked the heavy rains . The most attractive characters in the movie was the wife and the bandit . Totally it's great movie learning us how to see different aspects that all seems true .


                
I have heard of the movie Rashomon for many years, but only now got around to seeing it. I expected some Samurai war movie, so I had previously avoided it. It might be described as a fairy tale. It is told in a slow paced, repetitive way.If found myself wanting the long shots to end, not because they were boring, but because they built to uncomfortable intensity.I was was not prepared for the Toshira Mifune character. I had seen him previously, but only much older. He was indescribably sexy, with an athletic lithe body, and sculpted face, and oddly innocent. An astrologer would peg him as an archetypical Aries. Yet at the same time he was repulsive, completely selfish, a rapist, with a hideous laugh, and a habit of jumping at people, like he were trying to get some mice in a tank to flinch. He really plays with you -- push pull.The scene that stabbed me most was when the wife told her husband she had never loved him, that she had just pretended to, and she had hoped for someone like the bandit to rescue her whom she planned to run off with. She would not mind at all if the bandit killed her husband. This echoed a melodramatic scene from my own life that knocked me for a loop for decades, so it really punched.You hear the story via the bandit, the wife, the husband's ghost and the woodcutter. Just what happened becomes quite a blur. I knew certain elements of the story couldn't be true, but I could not piece together a definitive version. It is also quite hard to figure out the motive for the various lies. This movie will keep people puzzling for decades to come.


                
Rashomon leads me to think that all 4 were liars and none was the real truth. "It is in mans best interest to manipulate the truth". From what I can speculate... It questions the Bandit's masculinity, Wife's femininity, Husband's honour, Everyones weaknesses and lastly... can anyone be trusted?So... you could say self-esteem is the partly the cause.Rashomon is a masterpiece of a jigsaw puzzle of the 1950s and has a tremendous influence to have been remembered to this day.After watching Seven Samurai's... I attempted Rashomon out of curiosity and was an awesome expirence. 8/10
