A renegade Marshall takes the law into his own hands and starts to settle personal disputes in Shitwater, Kentucky, Wild Bill Hickok style.The series is one gigantic anachronism as far as judicial protocol is concerned, but that shouldn't get in the way of some really good Eastwood style 60's retro entertainment. Which is why it's such a shame that the characters and script redefine the meaning of banal, tedious and dragging. Olyphant basically plays the same clueless and angry stereotype he did in Deadwood, minus the mustache and vastly superior screenplay. And has himself surrounded by the most uninteresting characters since the invention of the soap opera.Predictable to the extreme, Justified does sport some nice visuals and camera-work, but doesn't come close to anything resembling intelligent or original writing.4/10


                
This show is an insult to the people of my state. I am from the same area that this show is "based". It only furthers the stereotypes that we face from the rest of the country. Also, none of this show has even been shot within the state and the scenery doesn't even match, since after the pilot episode, they were all shot in California! I have been to California, and no part resembles my home in eastern Kentucky. A show finally comes out based on where I'm from, and it has absolutely no resemblance to the way we live, and isn't even based in the proper geographical region. Wag of the finger to the creators. I will no longer watch this channel.


                
Am I the only one who likes Boyd more than Raylan? For some reason, I don't really like the type of person Raylan is: smug, conceited, ok w/breaking the rules but hard on others who do the same, self-centered. Even his facial expressions & body stance irritate me. 
Now Boyd may be an outlaw but at least he admits who he is. The only error is when he decides to bring heroin to his hometown. That seems out of character. Other than that, it is an interesting show & I WILL watch it til the end. But I wonder how Kentuckians feel about this portrayal of pretty much all of them as inbred, low IQ, dirty, boozing, cheating, beating, nincompoops living in broken down trailers with cars & dogs lying around.
Failed actors in a really lame plot cap this awful, made-for-TV mess. Does this really sell? I'd seriously hope not. That would really end it for me.Nick Searcy and Billy Zane were always b-lister, straight-to-DVD actors, so when you combine the two you're talking straight, hardcore b-listers, straight-to-cable-channel losers. Talented but under-recognized? Nope. It's really awful, and it's not just the writing. The acting is really, really bad. Specifically, Nick Searcy is an absolute bore, and Billy Zane is a wimp. Funny that FX would bring the two together. Two negatives don't always make a positive.


                
Started to watch season one and it's really boring, I really didn't like this TV show because it's not written well, the season one first episode is the most boring episode ever. I really doubt how this TV series got good ratings. This is the far most boring TV series I have ever watched in my life.


                
Unfortunately the spouse likes this show.
And despite the TV being in another room I can still hear it.
Nothing but violence on top of violence.
The few episodes I tried to watch have me nightmares.


                
