I only watched 3 or 4 episodes then gave up with it. First of all I didn't get why a deputy US marshal was getting involved in cases that would normally be dealt with by the local police or FBI. Then there was the constant reference to the opening scene of him drawing his weapon before the guy and that every criminal seems to be aware of this, then question whether it was true and then insist on founding out, even though this event may have barely made front page news in the state it happened in. I could just see this been the same baseline in every episode and him saying it was 'Justified'. The lead actor Timothy Olyphant plays the role of Raylan Givens very well and was likable, usually a key thing for me as to whether I warm to a series or not, but regardless of liking the lead actor, the whole basis of the story was just a bit flat and lacking. May be due to it being set in one location is it's downfall as I was expecting a bit more with him chasing the bad guys across America with some fast paced action along the way. Although the main character was likable, the baggage of his ex was another aspect that was going to become a bore for the show.


                
The show largely compromises of over-used clichés after clichés of crime-drama-comedy. You've your very average, pun-tossing bad-ass cop who makes a point of only drawing his gun to kill - an idea which in most sane places would have you stripped from your rank. You've your awkward shooting scenes where, apparently, assault weapon rounds are blocked by simple car doors. You've Nazi rednecks with the uniform, glistening white teeth of the top-paid TV actors portraying them.The dialogue on the show is terrible and reminds me of a style used in late 1800s and early 1900s literature, where a given person explains a piece of his life story in a 10 sentence monologue, after which there's a pause, and another character responds something largely irrelevant for another 10 sentences, after which there's a pause. Rinse and repeat.Overall, the show is a mess of poorly written dialogue, implausible characters and silly action scenes. I can only recommend it for people who feel confident about being able to take it all with a fair bit of humor. Unfortunately, the show seems to take itself a little too seriously to be considered satire as which most of it could better be understood.
I was looking for shows with a particular actress and started watching season 5. Unfortunately, I don't think these episodes were her best work.Near as I can tell, there is not one honest regular or semi-regular on this show. Kendall and Allison come close but both have their flaws.The lead marshal is out only for himself and has highly questionable methods. Even when he is doing something good, he has an angle.But most of the characters that get focused on are outright criminals. And killing is a regular event. The show goes from crime to crime, betrayal to betrayal, beating to beating, and murder to murder.Throw in some sex and almost naked or partially clad women in almost every episode.In season 5, you start to feel some sympathy for Ava who has already murdered one husband. She goes from one bad situation to another so she attracts some sympathy. In prison, she turns to some "Christians" who turn out to be drug runners. Oh but they don't use it themselves.To each his own. This is definitely not my cup of tea. I like to have shows where there are more people I can like than those that have no likable qualities.


                
Slow, acting could be better, not sure what the plot is supposed to be. Watched the first season, had to give it up.


                
