I came to this show via Rush Limbaugh. Through Amazon, I viewed Season One episodes until I could no longer stomach the stolen characters, stolen theme, and the increasingly immoral and unwatchable videos. At first, the writers were careful not to spill too much blood, even though the whole show is constructed around the ability of the main character to do just that. The language increasingly grew blasphemous and sex became one of the main features.After the first two episodes, I told a friend that I had fallen in love with the show and its star. After watching half a dozen more episodes, I am simply bored to death with the show and cannot even imagine watching the star again. He tries to be a combination of Clint Eastwood, Paul Newman, and Mark Harmon, none of which he will ever come close to replicating. It is interesting to hear some of the dialog referring to his cowboy ruggedness as imitating McCloud. McCloud had it all over Justified -- it was original, and had an actor who was not full of himself, who did not act mostly with his eyes, and who continued to be interesting over the seasons the show was broadcast.It is obvious from the success of Justified that today's audience has more tolerance for tripe than did audiences of the past. This indicates the state of education in schools today and the need to withdraw into any medium that will allow escape from the troubles in real life. Right now, I find real life to be infinitely preferable to the drab, violent, blasphemous show called "Justified."


                
In the first episode after the pilot, the perpetrators break into a house, looking for a large sum of money another has hidden there 15 years ago.Raylan meanwhile has left his bedroom to Ava and sits in the bathroom reading the newspaper, which states that a house got broken in and the floor boards ripped out. He then hurries to the scene. This is impossible, since it's the same night of the event! The journalist would have to be clairvoyant to already know this an print it. Quite apart from the fact that country newspapers often appear just once a week...I was surprised and appalled that no one in production noticed this severe mistake!


                
Crazy angry gun crazed Marshall who doles out justice in a way that puts a target on his back with criminals and places him at odds with his bosses in the Marshal service. That conflict results in a reassignment for Givens to the U.S. District covering the town where he grew up. He is an anachronism - a tough, soft spoken gentleman who finds his quarry fascinating, but never gives an inch. Dig under his placid skin and you'll find an angry man who grew up hard in rural Kentucky, with an outlaw father, who knows a lot more about who he doesn't want to be than who he really is.Considering the great reviews here on IMDb, I was looking forward to it. Seems like this show must attract the brain dead. In a real way, it reminds me of that other TV show, Las Vegas. In other words short on smarts long on over the top unbelievable entertainment.I find it despicable. All the Kentuckians are displayed as racist dumb inbred and unenlightened, fostering the media's bias and agenda. Are we too dumb to read between the lines?The female characters are boring beyond belief and clearly written as an after thought to slip in some hot mama. I watched three episodes and found the show rather boring.


                
Season 1 was actually quite good......believable...after a fashion and entertaining but from then on the show rapidly slides downward into a fantasy world. People go to jail for serious crimes but are miraculously released shortly after....others, about to be killed escape after the would-be killer makes a mistake a 10 year old would be unlikely to make. All in all, if you are one of the apparently LARGE group of people who STILL think it's reasonable that Road Runner can run off a cliff and turn around and get back on while Wiley falls to his non-death.....this show is aimed at you. It would be pointless to point out the MANY inconsistencies....even within the fantasy world of the show so if cowboy wannabee soap opera is your choice then have at it.
Right from the start of the show, I had a feeling I was going to dislike it and I was right. Perhaps it's the twang or the people I immediately want to go away who are in it, or maybe the plot-lines are just too ridiculous. I mean, nobody is that intuitive or smart. Can you say this series is biased loud enough? The acting left much to be desired, the conversations ran from bland to moronic and unrealistic. I didn't see any really believable character interactions. In fact, sometimes they seemed to be bored with each other. I thought it was funny how some woman committed a major crime but she was still walking around loose and frankly doing anything she wanted and I mean ANYTHING. I gave it four episodes worth to get better, but it dragged on and on. They never seemed to let up on how everybody else is stupid but the main character is so overblown smart, so overblown wonderful. If they had been smart, they'd have given him an actual personality, given him scars, which he seemed to lack, at least in the first four episodes. I can't believe there are so many stellar reviews of this bland show.


                
I read the reviews and started watching the pilot episode. The dialog, photography, acting, and everything had me thinking that this may be a series I could enjoy all the way through. Unfortunately at 10:10 into the pilot the new boss equates the Patriot Movement with White Supremacist and Neo Nazis. What a bunch of propaganda. On to something more realistic. The Character seemed promising and the cinematography was good. The characters had a lot of potential to be developed. Story line gave a lot of room to grow, however I did not understand why the Main character got in so much trouble for his actions in the opening seen.
