I just finished the whole series and I enjoyed every single one of the episodes from all seasons. This is an underrated series that deserves much more people to know about it. I'm normally not a big fan of Kentucky accent but in this show it's just great. The conversations between the actors are also excellent. I just love the way they talk in Justified. The actors are all top notch, can't really fail anybody on this show. Walton Goggins (as Boyd Crowder) and Timothy Olyphant (as Raylan Givens)are definitely the two actors that carry this series to a higher level. Their eternal battle against each other is a pleasure for the eye and ear. The story is well written, you never get bored for a second. I certainly will watch Justified again in the future.


                
When I wanted to watch this series I said to myself : well its going to be like a Deadwood in modern times,I wasn't wrong completely,but it is more fun,faster, and maybe even better,the story is good,its not a fantastic story anyway,but it is better than a dozen of serials I saw before.its about us marshals we saw them before in white collar,they were somehow bad guys in that series but this time,they are more like heroes.They handle problem and do their main duty(catching wanted people) very good.One problem,one marshal: Its not fair that we talk about this serial and don't say a word about Raylan givens,he is the main and the best character in the serial.its a simple thing: you either like this guy or hate him.if you like him,this serial can be a one of the best serials you have ever seen,but if you watched some episodes and find that you hate this guy,don't watch it anymore,because in that case this series can be a nightmare.why? Because raylan is the center of justified's world,everyone and everything else is just around him.He has a complicated character,he laugh and make fun sometimes,but he shows no fear when he faces criminals,he cant choose between his career and his ex-wife,he wants both but at the same time he knows that his family is in a great danger as long as he is a marshal.anyway,its a simple serial,everything is good in this series but nothing is very good,its about a man(raylan givens) Who lives in modern times but acts like a cowboy(a very gentle cowboy for sure).I liked raylan so I enjoyed watching this series,Watch this, it can be fun.if you watched and liked series like deadwood,white collar and Dexter,you will like this one too.


                
I wanted to give this a 7.5, but I'll round up to an 8 as I can't do fractions.So far I like the Timothy Olyphant character, Deputy Raylan Givens. The story lines are interesting, but not outstanding, but with any new series, you need to give it some time to get on its feet. On the other hand, it's treading in well worn theme and will have to work hard to show that it's different than all the other cop shows out there.I'm interested in seeing where the series goes over the next few months. With the characters and the locale, the show does have the potential to go somewhere.


                
I just recently re-watched all six seasons of Justified and so this is a retrospective review. I was a fan of the show when it was on for the first time and also remember feeling that it started to decline around season four and hating the last two seasons. In fact, I remember being really angry about the direction of season five and feeling that it betrayed everything I had loved about the show. Watching it now with a bit more objectivity, I found season four still really good in many respects, and even the last two seasons well-crafted. But my original assessment stands and here's why: In its heyday (seasons 1-3) what made Justified delightful was the southern gothic western/romantic fantasy that it presented. At its heart were the figures of Raylan (the gunslinger lawman) and Boyd (the outlaw), and their antagonistic bromance, as well as the respective love stories of Raylan and Winona, and Boyd and Ava. Of course both Raylan and Boyd are archetypes - fantasy figures of a totally unrealistic sort. So from the outset it was clear Justified was serving up an entertaining romantic western-fantasy story, though spiced up with black humor and set in a modern, edgy version of the south. The first three seasons ended with Boyd and Raylan being thrown into some set of circumstances where they had to fight their way out together, with Raylan always having to admit some grudging sense of obligation to Boyd. It was also kept very clear that the only real difference between the two was that Raylan had a badge. Both had gangster fathers, and Raylan was (arguably) more violent and angry than Boyd. In fact, Boyd, for all his own crimes, was always a more sympathetic character than Raylan. Boyd was the more honest of the two, and didn't lie to himself or others about the kind of person he was. Raylan, on the other hand, was devoid of self-awareness, or at least was in permanent, angry denial of his true nature. Where Boyd was honorable, Raylan was backstabbing, never hesitating to use deceit to get his way and always using "the law" as a pretext for acting out his grudges. But this was all okay, so long as the stories being told maintained that interesting tension between good and evil in both Raylan and Boyd, and never let either one get too much of the upper hand. And Raylan's less admirable qualities were balanced by his affection for Winona. At least until season four, when Winona abruptly leaves him for no apparent reason (if I recall correctly, the actress who played her suddenly left the show, which would explain her being written out in a way that didn't seem to jive with the direction they'd been developing up till then). This was the beginning of the end for Raylan as a sympathetic character, and it's a shame it happened, because following this, he becomes a philanderer, going through a string of Winona-lookalikes, a deadbeat dad, refusing to even to visit his baby daughter, and increasingly just an obnoxious, self-righteous dick: constantly harping on the evil deeds of the criminals he goes after without ever perceiving his own. The callous way he manipulates Ava in season 5 is particularly egregious. By the end of that season, Raylan has lost all his charm and you really just kind of hate him, which seems like a weird move on the part of the showrunners. But the real nail in the coffin was the treatment of Ava in season five, and in particular, the fact that they split Boyd and Ava apart. That's what actually made me angry at the time, as the love story of Boyd and Ava was hands down my favorite thing about the show. And it's not just that they broke them up, but that they did it in the ugliest, most cynical way possible. But this reflects a general tendency of the show, detectable already in season four: that it took a darker turn. There were still laughs and funny characters, but also more violence, and violence of an increasingly brutal sort - especially against women. Season five sees a lot of this, and it starts to leave a nasty taste in your mouth. There was violence in the first three seasons of course, but it was more of the classic western shoot-out sort. In season five you see attempted rape and men beating women black and blue. So the whole show took a rather cynical, ugly turn. And it's hard to comprehend why they'd do this, unless maybe the showrunners felt they needed to up the ante on the sex and violence to counter slipping ratings or something like that. But it changed the tone of the show, and not for the better. Justified wasn't fun anymore. And when they brutalized Ava in prison for a whole season, only have have her buy her freedom back by betraying the man she'd been about to marry - that was the nail in the coffin for me. It was like the showrunners decided to take a giant crap in their fans' cornflakes - determined to spoil everything for everyone. So by the end of the series, all that had been built up in the first three seasons was demolished: all your favorite characters were either dead, imprisoned, or miserable. All the love stories had fallen apart. It was like the writers were determined to show us that life is crap and all dreams must die in the end. Which might be fine, if the show had been billed from the start as dark, gritty realism. But it started out as a fun, clever but goofy neo-western lark about a handsome marshall who gets to go around shooting whoever he likes and a clever, beguiling hillbilly outlaw who builds a criminal empire. So what the heck? Justified was great for a while, and always really in good in some ways. But it's a shame it ended on such a downer.
/refers to all seasons and episodes/ There are not too many series that are captivating from the very beginning, that are both realistic (well, enhanced artistry is natural) and with distinct characters performed by character actors forming an ensemble, without the main character sticking out too much. Justified is definitely among them, where Timothy Olyphant as Deputy U.S. Marshal Raylan Givens is really strong and versatile (and not a real "goodie"), but as there are so many interesting portrayals, beginning with Walton Goggins as Boyd Crowder and ending with Sam Elliott as Avery Markham, there is hardly any scene where you feel the starring performance completely overshadowing others (as e.g. in the British version of Wallander).The characters are skilfully well-weighed, and although some of their motives and deeds are questionable, with some tend to die too soon and the others not at all, their development and alternation is still catchy to follow. True, through lots of violence, misery and crime, but felonies remain felonies, there is no glorification of them, and preparing or accomplishing crimes do not include "witty" lines... Moreover, the viewers obtain an overview of past and present in the relatively small State of Kentucky (most crime dramas deal with metropolitan issues), as actions and consequences derive directly from its economic prosperity and decline.Recommended to all those fond of series with both versatile deeds and characters. For the sake of full comprehension, you are advised to watch all series in sequence.


                
Set in Eastern Kentucky, in the backwoods communities where families and clans have their own rules for proper behavior and such petty crimes as growing pot and making moonshine can be overlooked to get towards the more serious issues.Timothy Olyphant, who also is a producer of the show, stars as Deputy U.S. Marshal Raylan Givens. In the very first episode of the very first season we see an encounter in Miami, where he ends up out- drawing and shooting a known mobster at a table outdoors. He gets the reputation as a "shooter" and gets re-assigned to his home area in Kentucky.My wife and I have been watching seasons 1 and 2 on DVD from her sister. Every episode is interesting and entertaining. Even though killing is often involved it is always the bad guys, and the dialog is sprinkled with so much humor and reality that it remains relatively light entertainment.The other thing that makes it good is a uniformly talented cast, creating very interesting characters. Olyphant is just ideal for his role, and Margo Martindale as "Mags" in season 2 is simply superb.I could go on but there is no need. Just a really fine TV series.2014 FEB: We have been watching season 3 on DVD from our public library. It is still entertaining, but both my wife and I remarked how easily and how often the bad guys just walk up and shoot and kill people. Seemingly much more than they did in the first 2 seasons.
I love this show. The first season caught me off guard and was easily my favorite show on TV. Rayland Givens was one of the best characters in TV of all time, the villains were great, the show matched grimness and comedy with panache and was amazing throughout. Then Season 2 came along and took the show to a whole new level of quality. It was perfect in every sense: tense, unpredictable and riveting plotting, excellent acting, great new characters and developed greatly. So when the third season was announced I was pouncing, eagerly anticipating it. The season premiere was great and so were the 2nd and third episode. But from then on it went downhill and it didn't stop, even the last episode was pretty disappointing. I could't understand how such a great show could have taken such an awful turn. It was still watchable,mind you, but if compared to the first two seasons, it failed miserably short. I hope they bring something worthy f the great quality that made me an avid fan of the show in the first place. I would give the show a solid nine out of ten, but because of season 3 i can only really give it a shaky 8


                
A well written story about a hero and villain you would think but after a few seasons you will notice that everything is grey and black !
The performance of Timothy is matched or even surpassed by Walton whos dialogue could be from an Shakespeare play loved his sharp tong and whit
Would even love it more with some gore and a wounded Raylan.
Was missing some hardcore scenes
the serie got my full recommendation!!!


                
The first few years were great but like most shows, they ran out of ideas after the 4th season.


                
Dabbled though the first half of season 1, can't help but admit I'm impressed. Furthermore, I'm shocked it was an FX thing. Credit where credit is due though.


                
I caught onto this show years after it was aired, but that didn't matter. When I find a show that captures my attention, I binge through it. 
I liked this very much. The middle seasons get muddled with content and too many characters, but ultimately, the messages stayed the same.
I would very much have preferred not to get to the last season and have to see Mary Steenburgen's carved face as a regular. She is one of my least favorite "actresses". Would have cast that role very differently.
Other than that, Timothy Olyphant is terrific and Waldon Goggins is mesmerizing.


                
Ironically the title needed some justification, but the lead character Raylan A.k.a Hit-man (the good one, not agent 47 or whatever) vindicates in the first few episodes that his shooting was justified, hence the name. Starting with the story line, it is a decent Cops vs Criminals show. Some seasons are very good and rest are goodish. Except for a few episodes of season 5 revolving around Women's Prison. Those episode were absolutely mind-blowing. After watching those episodes the "Orange is the new Black" director must have had an epiphany to call off his show. Cinematography is to be appreciated as violence has been depicted impressively.Then comes the leads, as most of the serials this one has good characters as well.Lead hero and Villain have brought gravitas in their performances. It has one of those villainous characters whom we love more than the hero. After watching Boyd, one can understand why Quentin Tarantino chose him for the movie,The Hateful Eight. But his acting is not the only thing that raised his to the pedestal, the dialogues that he enunciates such eloquently are imperative to make his part complete. So, Thanks to the writer for good work! Other characters are all in all supportive and do not jeopardize the show. I wish the music was supportive as well but it is the worn-out stuff. This serial is almost coherent with Banshee except for the nudity, of which Justified has none. I enjoyed most of the aspects of this show. I wouldn't watch it again but I won't complain for watching it once either. Watch it if you have free time like me. Good show!


                
FANTASTIC show generally. Fun to watch all around. Timothy Olyphant and Elmore Leonard made a great power combination. Also Winona is extremely hot.Raylan Givens is easily one of the coolest characters on TV right now. Example, he throws a bullet at a guy to warn him off and just says "next one's comin faster" That being said, the writers are getting lazy and ruining the show. Season 4 was a mish mash of random and less than authentic plot devices loosely linked by the "drew thompson" hunt. Most importantly, the show is in decline because it is focusing less and less on Marshal business and more on weird and quirky south western crime lords.Hope they put a bandaid on that booboo before season 5, though historically, Michael Rapaport has never been a positive edition to a show in decline (ie prison break), and may be better suited to network television comedies airing after 2:30 AM on week nights.
First, I want to say that I've watched every episode of "Justified." And, in general, I love the series. But as a life-long citizen of eastern Kentucky, there are some attributes of Olyphant's true personality (what I've seen and heard in interviews) that cause him to be unconvincing as a man born and raised in Appalachia. But Walt Goggins is a different story. He is very convincing of his character, Boyd.But most of all, I'm sincerely disappointed that the production company (and whomever may be responsible) chooses to never film this very successful series in the locale where the story actually happens. They choose to make most of us seem like ignorant, law-breaking dope heads, but will not even try to help our economy by making their series even more realistic in location. They don't have to stay here throughout the full filming season, but a few days each season wouldn't kill them either!Every state and city has its wealthy, middle-class, and poverty stricken areas. It would be very refreshing to see some middle-class, educated characters in "Justified." And the coal industry is portrayed as something of which to be ashamed, and to shun! When, in truth, coal has kept thousands of families going for generations. There are also good and bad aspects to every occupation.There is a YouTube video filmed by a local young man, a spoof of sorts, of how most people perceive those of us who live in eastern Kentucky. It was filmed in Pike County, the county where I was born, raised, and lived many years (I currently live in another county). I found it so amusing! You may also like this very short "documentary" on the Appalachian region of Kentucky: http://youtu.be/W7WbDDJgrHg


                
A show about a deputy U.S. Marshall Raylan Givens (Timothy Olyphant) going back to Kentucky where he had grown up around the feuding families including his own criminal father. I found Justified had some soul like other FX shows (The Shield and Sons of Anarchy). I was also pleasantly surprised to find Boyd Crowder being played by Walton Goggins (The Shield and also SOA). I found myself really liking the character of Boyd despite the fact he was cold-hearted killer. I appreciated how the show was able to make a follow his own rules "cowboy" of a U.S. Marshall without making him some type of Chuck Norris kicking everyone's butt insight. Sure, he could shoot down anyone and he feared no one, but he could get his butt kicked as well as anyone.I thoroughly enjoyed watching the six seasons of this show and I think Timothy and Walt did a great job portraying their characters who went head to head throughout the entire run.Enjoy.


                
The first four series are a great mixture of attributes from the old cowboy genre with some light humour provided by the antics of characters such as Dewey. Timothy Olyphant plays the slick and cool Raylan Givens character facing his nemesis of Boyd Crowder played by Walton Goggins. The stories follow both characters in their interplay on opposite sides of the law and occasional ventures close to the other's domain. The plots are generally well structured with plenty of twists and surprises to keep the viewer entertained. As with all fiction there is a suspension of disbelief that allows for some of the more comical plot developments. However, in series five this is stretched too far as most, if not all, characters seem to have had their IQ drop down to double figures and the plot lines seem to consist of almost constant double-crosses between characters or situations which are blatantly unreal due to such things as due-process or forensic evidence that would thwart such things happening in the real world. In episode 8 of season 5, seven heavily armed drug dealers headed by Boyd allow a small group of corrupt Mexican police officers to steal a truck load of drugs with just a little bit of whining about how unfair the world is... really... that's the best the script writers could come up with? They should be ashamed of themselves. The character's behaviour start to make them look more like caricatures and stereotypes that paint the people of Kentucky as morons and seemed to me to be quite insulting, if not slightly racist. At this point in series five this really started to irritate me and I stopped watching.
It's getting easier to find well written shows than it was a number of years ago. However, finding a show that keeps me coming back over and over again is a rare find. Justified does just that. I am a huge fan of the Western genre. While this is not a western, it contains the ingredients of a good western. Strong characters that stick to their convictions being one ingredient. This is a well written and conceived show. The end of each episode seems to contradict my intuition which I love. I am thinking the storyline is headed left and the episode ends with a right. I love that it never goes where I think it's going. It's not contrived and dumbed down. It's smart, humorous at times, and dramatic in a realistic and human way. I really enjoy all aspects of this show and I think you will too.


                
The violence is hard to take, but the interesting characters and pacing of this show keep me watching. Rather than going into the details of why I appreciate this series I will simply say that when I sit down to watch shows I have recorded all week I always choose 'Justified' to watch first. Well, okay, here are some reasons: it is well cast, things actually happen and it is chock-full of moral decisions and challenges. Timothy Olyphant (Raylan Givens) has certainly come a long way from 'Hitman.' Erica Tazel (Rachel Brooks) has a great and unexpected (given the genre) screen presence. I suppose it all works so well because it begins with a world created by Elmore Leonard. And, you can't beat that.


                
