This is the most refreshing show I have found in a long time. When so much on TV falls into one box or another, Justified makes its own way. This has one of the strongest casts on television. Many of the recurring actors were written for only a few episodes. Then, they created such dynamic characters, they have been brought back time and again. Walton Goggins and Tim Olyphant (as well as their supporting cast) are sincerely underrated as actors. They carry every scene they are in and when they are together, it is impossible to turn away.There is a wit and humor to this show. It keeps you on the edge of your seat with suspense and then will zing a one-liner at you. I've never laughed and cringed so much in my life.I am so glad this was renewed for a fourth season and it is the only show I care about watching.If you are going to check it out, make sure you watch whatever season you pick from the beginning. Season one had many stand alone episodes. However, season two and season three involved complex plots that slowly burned into sensational finales. If you try to jump into the middle you may not enjoy it because of the subtle complexities in the plots.Please check it out because it is one of the best dramas on television with a sensational cast.


                
I was a bit skeptical about this show based on a couple of the previews that I saw (I am so over the Matrix/300/Spartacus slow motion fight scenes), but I liked Tim Olyphant on season 2 of Damages so I thought I would give it a try. I really liked the first episode. Raylen Givins is a complete bad a**! It is well written and had several great lines that made me pause and rewind. The secondary characters were also interesting. I especially liked Raylen childhood friend turned Neo-Nazi, Boyd. I hope that each episode uncovers more about Raylen and what makes him tick. Give Justified a watch and you won't be disappointed.


                
Both my husband and I really enjoyed "Justified" we just happened on it by chance.The characters are really good and the underlying humour is fantastic. It reminds us of old Clint Eastwood cowboy movies Good man sorting out the baddies but not a saint. Loved the transporting of the prisoner in the 2nd episode! Not so keen on his hangdog relationship with ex wife but as that is only a tiny part so far can get over it. We like his colleagues the laid back way they go about their jobs, "do you want me to wing him or kill him?" This is how TV shows should be, entertaining, this one is marked on the Calendar so as not to miss it. I have not come across Timothy Olyphant before and if this is typical of his talent I will look out for him.


                
Justified is another fine entry into FX's stable of shows. As a fan of both crime fiction & serialized television, this has been on my radar for some time. First, the story is wonderfully structured & grounded in reality (It helps when you shoot on location & cast actors that actually feel like they belong there) The U.S. Marshalls & their multiple duties have always been a great source for story-telling, and this is no different. Second, the cast is perfect for this type of slow-burn law enforcement story. Timothy Olyphant once again nails the 'cowboy' role we've seen him in before(Deadwood, The Crazies). He runs the risk of being type-cast; but if he's always this good in these types of roles, who cares? The rest of the cast is rounded-out by some familiar & not-so-familiar faces, and the whole of them seem to bring their A-game to this project. The third reason this show is quality is the production value. Everything from the costumes(I love the cowboy hat) to the locations & the music have all been perfectly fitting with the story & the characters. This show also sneaks up on you a little bit, once you think Justified isn't 'edgy' enough for FX, something happens to change your mind. It's only similar to the other FX crime shows in that it centers around a really angry guy. I hope Justified & FX continue to pleasantly surprise me.


                
Cindy and I went to college at Eastern Kentucky University in Richmond, Ky. We had many acquaintances from Harlan County - where Justified takes place. The re-creation of how friendly and laid back people are in Eastern Ky was the first thing that attracted me to Justified.The lead character, Raylon Givins, played so smoothly by Timothy Olyphant, knows most of the people he is working with, and going after, as part of his job as a U.S. Marshall. Raylon is from Harlan and he prosecutes his job with vigor, barely keeping his toes on the right side of the law. Raylon knew; played ball with; and most importantly, dug coal with many of the bad guys he was later to apprehend - and in many cases kill.There is a lot of the typical Western in Justified, from Raylon's cowboy hat - his signature look - to the six-guns that many of the bad guys carry (in holsters naturally). Raylon carries a Glock - clearly the most reliable semiautomatic ever made. And naturally he is the quickest draw in the West ... er the East . . . of Kentucky that is.The other main characters (and there are so many) are terrific - especially Walter Goggons - who plays Boyd Crowder and Joelle Carter - who plays Boyd's sister-in-law and on and off lover, Ava Crowder. This show has won a number of Emmy's and other awards, but not nearly as many as it should have.Boyd Crowder is one of the most memorable bad guys since Ian McShane as Swearingen in Deadwood. But where Swearingen was pretty much totally evil (in a compassionate way), Boyd is always on top of things- even when he is shot and/or in prison. Boyd is the ultimate survivor and the smartest bad guy since Hannibal Lechter. You will find yourself rooting for Boyd throughout the series.Walter Goggins has been around since 1990 and has had many parts, but this is his signature role.Each of the seasons has a particular flow and storyline - all of them with very rich characters (some so low-life you cannot believe it.) Cindy and I have been dreading seeing the 78 episodes fly by. If you get into it, you will be hooked as we were.Unlike the 90+ episodes of Sons of Anarchy which eventually got a little stale (hung on too long), Justified stayed crisp, interesting and engrossing until the end. The last season is terrific, tying up a number of loose ends, but in a way which leaves things open for sequels - or maybe a movie. I'm hoping for a season 7 in a couple of years.Hope you check it out. There is huge competition for your viewing hours with so many great shows. I am glad Cindy and I have stuck with the heroes and miscreants of Easter Ky to the end.
I like cop shows, I like shows that are well acted and literate. This manages the interesting knack of being both (how many other shows mention Of Human Bondage and quote Saul Bellow).I confess that when Timothy Olyphant looks at the camera with those wonderful, melting eyes strange things seem to happen to my knees but the fact that he can act makes all the difference. I love that Raylan Givens doesn't shout and blast everything in sight. In one of my favourite episodes in Season 1 he diffuses a hostage situation with fried chicken and bourbon. He tries to keep his gun in its holster but if he pulls it, then you'll wish he hadn't.I love that with the less bad or more thinking criminals he will sit with them afterwards so that they aren't alone when they die. He has a passion for ice cream, justice and his ex-wife Winona. She loves him but finds living with the idea that he might not come home every night very difficult.Their relationship is intriguing. Ava's relationship with Boyd is also intriguing, especially if you saw the pilot and remember what she thought of him at the time.This is a very good, very special series and to anyone only starting in the middle of Season 3 I have some pieces of advice; obtain copies of Season 1 and 2 so you understand all the events of the past (Aunt Helen's murder is especially important), concentrate when you watch an episode (a tiny minute or two on screen in one episode can be the key to understanding the action three episodes later) and engage your brain (this is thinking people's television).
When I first started watching this series, it appeared as though it was slow but in reality a lot happens in each episode and the attention and focus of series is on dialog and character construction which is excellent. The dialog and script construction is the strength of the series and some of it is of incredible quality for a TV series of this kind.Whoever put the scripts together is not creating black and white characters even when they do very evil things and the life that created those characters is typically investigated.There is distinct image of southern atmosphere that is presented here that also makes the series unique.The acting is superb and I thinks that is because the dialog is superb and makes sense.I have thoroughly enjoyed watching this series. To those that are starting to watch it and find it slow, I suggest that they watch a few episodes to get acclimated with the atmosphere.


                
Absolutely amazing series... Timothy Olyphant is phenomenal - he needs more vehicles like this (and Deadwood)...


                
In the 1970s I grew up with McCloud, a US Marshal from Santa Fe, New Mexico (if I recall well). Tim Olyphant plays his role like McCloud did. I like the atmosphere of this TV series. It feels genuine. Without Amazon Prime Video I would never have seen it.


                
You'll get your tenth start back whenever you remake the last episode with Raylon's ORIGINAL hat and bullet hole in it. Heathens.
This is a review of the complete series, not an individual episode or season.From the opening episode, Justified had been asking the question: What justifies the actions I do? Since the pilot the episode, the series had been moving to one moment, and that was the end of the series. Yet, the main plot was not always the main focus of the seasons. The main story would take a backseat to the seasonal story arc, and slowly progress over the six seasons. The show has always been about Raylan, Boyd, and Ava. The three most prominent and loved characters of the show. Each of them are flawed. Boyd is a racist, neo-Nazi, criminal, Raylan is a cop that shoots first and thinks later, and Ava is a troubled woman who makes troubling decisions with men. In the end, it was able to justify each of these characters actions, and that to me is what makes a great TV show, something that can prove its main point. Justified is well acted, and produced. At times the seasonal arc's can drag but do eventually reach a conclusion. The final season wraps everything up perfectly, giving a great conclusion to old characters, and new. In the end, after spending six years watching the show, and countless hours with these characters, it makes you feel as though you had in fact, dug coal with Raylan and Boyd.


                
In respect to the main character of this brilliant show, I shall be brief...There are not many shows like Justified. I feel it is so close to reality, it gives me goosebumps. The atmosphere of the southern despair, the filth, the degeneration, the drugs, the criminals... It all seems to fit.Plus there is serious writing quality involved. This show has created so many interesting characters the past 6 years, the FX could live for next decade only from it's spin offs.Do not hesitate to watch it from A to Z. You won't be disappointed...


                
A show that exposes, explores, and entertains by exposing us to the dichotomy of the relationship between the US Marshals and the criminal element in the southeastern U.S. But then everyone else will give you varying outlines of the show's plots or premise, so I'm going to discuss the show's overall merit as art. Tell you WHY it's good - not merely that it is.... As a sufferer of chronic pain, I'm always asked to rate my pain when I visit the doctor; I never say "10". A rating of 10 leaves no room - it can always be worse I figure. Why is this relevant, you ask? Rating a show, any show - any movie a 10 would seem almost hasty, disingenuous. I'd never rate anything a 10 - it can always be better. But I tell ya folks, this is as close as it gets. Which brings us 'round to being a sufferer of chronic pain again.....I watch a LOT of television and movies, in varying genres. I took a class in high school once called "The Film" which I obviously took for the easy credit, but it's turned out to be the one class whose curriculum I utilize the most with the exception of the obvious staples. We learned how to study a production for more than just a story; we learned about foreshadowing and juxtaposition and character development, etc. Not to mention writing and even technical details like lighting, scene transition and even watching clocks on the walls to ensure its not showing 12 noon one second at 2:15 the next. So, I watch things differently than many, paying attention to all the above while absorbing plot at the same time. The good news: it brings a whole new level of enjoyment. The bad news: many a show's eventuality becomes obvious to me in the first 10 minutes (Cold Mountain, Mystic River and Gone Girl come to mind for example despite the former two being among of my favorite all time films along with Jeremiah Johnson and even mindless stuff like "Fletsch"). By any right - television or cinema, this is just a damn good show. It's well written, nearly impeccably acted (Olyphant, Goggins, Williamson and Martindale absolutely shine) and produced with top notch attention to detail - and I consider production everything from filming locations, set decoration, dialect accuracy to make up. I give the show a 9.5, but just as Orange is the new Black and 50 is the new 30, 9.5 is, for me at least, the new 10. And we haven't even talked about how the pilot was an Elmore Leonard (Jackie Brown, Rum Punch, 3:10 to Yuma among others in an astounding body of work) masterpiece, originally meant to be more or less a one off. However it's been so astoundingly well received that it was promptly retooled, and a main character who was meant for a pine box got a last minute figurative (and maybe literal within the confines of the show) shot of adrenaline because the audience more or less demanded that, if the show was picked up the chemistry of said character was so powerful it needed development. Retrospectively it's almost inconceivable that this character could NOT be in the full series but as I said, its baffling that this was almost a one-and-done. Apologies for the bloviation but I thought ANYONE can tell you the story - therefore I figured I'd tell you not WHAT you'd be watching, but rather WHY you should watch it. So start with "Fire in the Hole" a metaphor for a central theme of coal mining which stitches its way through the show's overall premise, and binge on it. Then ala "Sopranos" turn around and watch 'em all again. You'll thank me later. You're welcome in advance!


                
After watching the first two seasons, I can say that Justified is, in my opinion, one of the best TV series to come out of the US in a long time. The pacing, story lines and characters will be familiar in many ways to fans of the great westerns that portray the dark side of the frontier as well as the stereotypical man/horse/gun themes. Set in modern Kentucky, the plot and sub-plots are not reduced to black and white, but reveal the multitudes of grey shadings that exist in the real world. There is plenty of action for those that need it but also plenty of thoughtful, complex motivation to unravel.The characterisations by the entire cast are excellent, with Goggins' Boyd Crowder being the standout in my view. The locale is presented in a warts-and-all fashion that nevertheless engenders an almost-begrudging fondness in the viewer - it did in my case anyway - and the small details make the setting incredibly believable.Both dialogue and story can vary between explicitly brutal and tongue-in-cheek redneck humour from minute to minute but never in a way I found jarring. I highly recommend this series to any fans of crime shows or westerns in particular, but I'm sure that anyone who enjoys quality TV will be hooked after a few episodes.


                
I live in Europe and I've never been to Kentucky or even to the USA, but I absolutely love the setting of "Justified". The small town feeling, the Southern accent, the liquor they drink, the food they eat, the houses, bars and other buildings... It's just very refreshing to see a show that is not set in Miami, New York or some other worn out cliché location.Timothy Olyphant's character, Marshall Raylan Givens, restores the honor of law enforcement on television. He's well-mannered, humble, good-looking and dangerous, with an edge of cockiness to his whole attitude. He likes his job and does all in his power to do it well, however he is also a man and has his faults.The counterpart to Marshall Raylan is Boyd Crowder, who is the main villain of the show. Some may know him for his excellent performance in "The Shield" and his acting in "Justified" is just another reason not to miss this show.In general the writing is great and fresh, and although the episodes are relatively short (45 minutes or so) they aren't shallow, but they are densely packed with character interactions and story. The whole cast is excellent, so that you sometimes forget that you are just watching a fictional show.All in all Justified is an excellent show and I recommend everybody to have a look at it.


                
I say the best and I mean the best. The writers of this show certainly know how to create suspense. From the beginning to the end of every season, you NEVER know how things will turn out. That's what I love the most about this show.If you're put off by the whole hillbilly thing, consider this. I'm a Chinese guy who grew up in the city. This show isn't brought down by the red neck element but rather enhanced. Everything from the language and even to the life style are strangely interesting.If you've seen 'The Wire' then you know what I mean when each season is set up with one major crime syndicate which revolves around the daily lives of the characters. This style of show is great because things are really thought out and it presents itself as more of a mini-series every season.Set in rural(Harlan County)/urban(Mainly Lexington) Kentucky, this show revolves around the life of Deputy Marshall Raylan Givens. A cowboy hat wearing, fast drawing, gentleman with deep roots in Harlan County itself(this becomes particularly interesting in the second season). He's sent back to Harlan from Miami because of events that unfold in the first 5 minutes of the pilot. The fact that he grew up in Harlan County and how he knows most of the characters sometimes plays in his favour and sometimes not but regardless, it is ALWAYS entertaining to watch.The characters are some of the most interesting on t.v., Boyd Crowder being my favourite. Here's a character that's been brilliantly created and even more brilliantly portrayed by Walton Goggins. You'll love him when he's evil, you'll respect him deeply when he's just. The highly well spoken and intelligent super racist that you can't help but root for.Even some of the small reoccurring characters are more entertaining than a lot of leads on other shows. Duey Crow comes to mind first LOL. Here's a guy you'll look forward to seeing. His path crosses with many of the main characters on a regular basis.There aren't many shows of this caliber on T.V., let alone FX. If you're looking for a new show to watch, this is the one.


                
{I'm not sure if these are spoilers or not, but the consequences for NOT checking the box seemed pretty severe, so I checked the box} This show may be set in Kentucky, but it works quite well as a modern sequel to Deadwood. Raylan Givens could easily be the great-great grandson of Sheriff Seth Bullock. Raylan has a bit more humor than Seth; but Raylan has access to indoor plumbing and automatic weapons, so he's by and large a happier person. Raylan has been known to smile and even laugh out loud on occasion, and he seems to realize that the bad guys are sometimes just people who fail to think beyond tomorrow afternoon. One indication of the show's quality is the number of A-list character actors who seem to be falling over themselves to appear on the show: Nick Searcy, Stephen Root, M.C. Gainey, W. Earl Brown, Jere Burns; and of course, Walter Goggins. You may not know the names, but one look at the thumbnail pics in the cast list will have you saying: "Oh yeah-THAT guy". It's the same here as anywhere else-the writing is the key. The humor is so droll and dry that you can almost see Noel Coward slouching around the background in a trucker hat and sleeveless shirt. (Raylan's boss, on hearing that Raylan has shot two people in two weeks):" If you was in the first grade, and you bit somebody every week, they'd start thinking of you as a biter". (Boyd Crowder, Raylan's nemesis and one-time friend, upon being raided and cuffed by the US Marshals): "Well, Raylan, we seem to continue to find ourselves in an adversarial relationship". A few quibbles: I live in Lexington,Kentucky and work across the street from the Marshal's office. Harlan is 150 miles from Lexington, and the roads are NOT interstate, so the dashing back and forth between the towns is a tad unlikely. The only thing in this area as tall as the mountains in the background is the 5/3 Bank Building. That being said, the atmosphere is 100% genuine. In Lexington, you can discuss the merits of an Oscar Wilde play or get your hair rearranged by a pool cue, depending on which bar you happen to frequent. The characters are surprisingly authentic. The accents aren't a long slow drawl ("I'm from Gawga"), but more of a sharp nasal twang. Joelle Carter is perfectly cast as the hottest girl in a small Kentucky town.Most of all, the connection between Deadwood and Justified is that you soon begin to realize these are people who truly would just as soon kill you as look at you. It's a dangerous place for a man in Raylan's position, but Raylan has Timothy Olyphant (OL-uh-fint) on his side. If Clint Eastwood and Lee Marvin somehow had a child together, he'd be it. (and Mr Olyphant, if by some chance you read this, I hope you take it the way I meant it).
How could I have missed this show??? I have been watching many series to date. But this show has great camera work, a generous piece of old school Western action and Western details going on in the modern world. Great casting, especially with the single episode contributions. Good stories and a big sense of, I want to see the next episode. In my honest opinion it's a great and alternative refreshing take to all the cop series we have seen so far (Blue Bloods, King, Rookie Blue etc etc.)...and if you like a more down and dirty Quentin (with all do respect) version of a Cop series, then this is the one to watch!!!! Good thing is, it's continued for various seasons. It get's more developed, which I think is commendable for the writers of the series. If you even feel some connection to the series, you should stick around for the sequel seasons as it's getting even better...!


                
Old-school U.S. Marshal Raylan Givens (Timmy Olyphant- Damages) comes back to his childhood home in the poor, rural coal-mining towns in Eastern Kentucky. While battling out his past with Boyd Crowder (Walton Goggins - The Shield) and his other associates. At the beginning of the start of the show you catch Raylan in a situation where he has illegally shot a known suspect in Miami Beach, as the Marshal Service try to justify this incident,they end up reassigning him to Kentucky. As for the shows plot line, Its great with broad characters and many episodes to find out who they really are and what their capable of. Boyd and Rayland often get in fuss together as both try to conduct their business one of the law and the other of a criminal enterprise, which also makes the show interesting but often dull. But as you find out about both characters pasts together it becomes a lot more intriguing. Other criminals come into harlan county to start a stir (dixe mafia, etc) and follows specifically Raylan and Boyds interactions with the present situation. Most seasons start and end with a new character being killed off for whatever mess they got into but Boyd and Raylan still prevail. Bottom line I completely recommend this show, has fantastic writing and I absolutely love all of the characters. Episodes are sometimes dull but when the time comes when something major in the series surfaces it becomes really intense. Definitely on my top 10 favorites.


                
There are only so many ways to write a cop show, this one has found a unique twist. Based in the hallows of Kentucky and Texas this show leverages the quaint ways of the back woods and small towns. The ways of the south, food, drink, language are all worked in to the stories and characters in such a way that it pulls you in and makes you want to be part of the scenery. The villeins are nasty and the dialog is quick. Written, directed and staring Timothy Olyphant of Deadwood, I highly recommend checking this one out. I'll be taking a look at Deadwood it looks like it kicked off this show. (damned 10 line minimum).


                
To date, (3/19) there hasn't been a show this good. Phenomenal cast, fantastic story, etc. We'd love to see more,.....Or, better yet, a movie!!


                
Deputy U.S. Marshal Raylan Givens (Timothy Olyphant) is reassigned to his home town of Harlan County, eastern Kentucky and forced to confront his criminal father. Ava Crowder (Joelle Carter) killed her abusive husband. Boyd Crowder (Walton Goggins) is in the local criminal element. Raylan has a past with them all including coal mining with Boyd.This show is based on Elmore Leonard's story and developed by Graham Yost. The hallmark of this show is its great characters. Olyphant is good. Joelle Carter has both the femme fatale and the damsel in distress. She plays both extremely well. Walton Goggins is the show's guiding light. Other outstanding performances include Margo Martindale, Jeremy Davies and Damon Herriman. The dialog has a sharp fun style and the show never really has a letdown season over the years.


                
If you love great dialog, then you will cherish and fall in love with this show. There are so many layers to the dialog, it's as well written as it can get. Of course the performances help too. What some might not like that much, is the pacing. There are moments where not much is happening, but the show not only gets by that, it accelerates later on (you could call that reward for those who are sticking with it).Characters are rich too, and the relationships are deep (though The Wire is still standout in that category). Some things are happening, because the viewers took a liking to them or the writers fell in love with a certain character. But the rich novel the show is based on might have also something to do with that (haven't read it yet). Also it's nice to see a rich role for someone like Walton Goggins after a show like the Shield. There might be some hiccups along the way (especially considering character decisions), but it all works out in the end ... or does it?


                
In one side, this series revolve around the state of Kentucky and more specifically the Harlan County and portrayed a beautiful picture of the local criminal enterprises and a genuine survivalist society.On the other side, it revolve around the word "Justified". Us Deputy Marshal Raylan Givens with an old world attitude towards criminals returns to his home at Harlan and one by one clean up all the illegal elements. But, one person, Boyd Crowder, with his conniving nature always seems to slip out of the hand.The cold war between these two individual comprises the entire series with Raylan facing more ruthless foes in every season and deciding if the body count were justified or not. But, with an emotional and hopeful series finale it closes a great chapter in the story line and keeps us wondering what's next?
I have never been an Olyphant fan. Deadwood was good but it didn't survive long enough to hold you. In Justified he is incredible. The characters develop from episode 1 and never stop. Raylan is a real American. His quick wit and erratic behavior make every scene an adventure. "Next one's comin' faster." is one of the classic TV drama lines in history.If you watched "The Shield" (and if you didn't, you should have) you will recognize Walton Goggins as a tremendous character actor. He does not disappoint in Justified. As the main antagonist Boyd makes you laugh as much as he makes you sick.Just like The Shield, Justified grabs you from episode 1. I recommend you try it. But be prepared to want to watch just... one... more...


                
