François Truffaut's "The 400 Blows" is routinely listed as one of the greatest films in all of foreign cinema. At the time of its release it was hailed as an important film and subsequently proved to be immensely influential in the context of the French New Wave.The semi-autobiographical story concerns a Parisian adolescent (Jean-Pierre Léaud) who attempts to escape problems at home and at school by delving into a life of petty crime. Unfortunately, he never receives more than a temporary respite from his predicament and frequently ends up deeper in trouble. The script is fairly loose and strives for realism above all else.Enforcing Truffaut's aim of realism is the group of actors that he assembled. Léaud indisputably carries the film, at once delivering an authentic performance while also showing a maturity beyond his years. While not quite as impressive, the supporting cast is nevertheless uniformly solid, perhaps none moreso than Guy Decomble as Antoine's antagonist at school.Truffaut's direction is exceedingly well-handled, not to mention impressive for a debut feature. The film also sports attractive cinematography and a lively score by Jean Constantin.Indeed, the film can scarcely be faulted for any flaw in its construction or execution. Instead, my tempered enthusiasm is the result of feeling a certain amount of detachment from the main character. Naturally, this sort of objection is largely personal so your mileage may vary.


                
It's of course ridicules to call this movie a bad one but as far as so called new wave French movies go, this isn't the best example of it, in my opinion.Can't really see how people can call this one of the most powerful and emotional drama's ever made, unless you perhaps had a tough youth yourself and can identify yourself with its young main character. Perhaps it's also due to the fact that it is of course being placed in a totally different time period, at also a different country and culture but personally I couldn't really place myself in his shoes because throughout the movie he's doing some things that I can't see myself ever doing or saying to someone.But this is perhaps also one of the powers of the movie, at the same time. It's not showing things and people as just black and white, good or bad but it more shows that nobody is truly a good or a bad person. Sometimes it are certain circumstances that force us to do things in order to 'survive' in this world. Whether or not you like it, you sometimes have to do things you know you're later going to regret.In that regard this is a quite good random slice of life, or a coming of age movie. You could take the movie both these ways really, since it for a change is a movie that entirely focuses on its young main character and tells the entire story from his perspective. It's an original but also risky approach to the genre, that in this case did work out, also really thanks to Jean-Pierre Léaud, who plays the young boy.So it all in all really remains a well put together movie, by François Truffaut, that just didn't really ever got to me at a more emotional level. Extra praise should be send Truffaut's way though, since this movie actually was his first full length movie and he made at a quite a young age as well. Definitely not a bad first movie by him, though thankfully still he and his movies grew better over the years.7/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
"The Four Hundred Blows (Quatre cents coups, Les )"  ***.  (1959, French, R, 94 min Directed and co-written by François Truffaut with Jean-Pierre Léaud, Claire Maurier, Albert Rémy). `The Four Hundred Blows' is idiomatic French for raising hell.  Which I found to be a strange title after someone explained the meaning.  No one in this movie is really raising hell nor forcing hell on others.  Antoine Doinel (Léaud) is a 14 year-old Parisian boy and a superficial view of his life is not idyllic but hardly hellish. His mom (Maurier) isn't the most attentive person in the world.  She is busy with a lot of things besides being a mom.  She has a lover, a fact about his mom that isn't a point of pride with Antoine.  Antoine has a stepfather (Rémy).  Again, not the most attentive of parents.  Antoine isn't a good student.  All in all it's not the easiest of lives but nothing worth raising hell about.  And the hell he raises, isn't that big a deal.  He skips school.  He gets caught stealing a typewriter.  (Actually he gets caught returning the typewriter when he finds out he can't fence it.)  Antoine ends up in a reformatory and escapes, ending up on the shores of the North Sea. In what has become a relatively famous scene from French cinema, Antoine turns back from the sea and looks straight into the camera. 
What's intriguing and very good about `The Four Hundred Blows' is Truffaut's story telling techniques.  It is a very straightforward telling of a few events.  The camera often holds on a subject for a very long time.  In one scene, a police or school psychiatrist is questioning Antoine and the camera never moves from his face. Truffaut is very matter of fact about the events of Antoine life.  There are no really bad people in Antoine's life.  It doesn't seem overly traumatic that he skips school, sees his mother with her lover, or that his parents agree to send him to a reform school.  In the final scene on the shores of the North Sea, we see a confused and sad young kid.  Is he going to lead a life of raising hell, a life of stifling boredom, or will he accomplish greatness?  Truffaut doesn't tell us and it made me want to see the sequel.  Luckily Truffaut didn't stop with `The Four Hundred Blows.' `Love at Twenty', `Stolen Kisses', `Bed and Board' and `Love on the Run' continue this semi-autobiographical story of the young Parisian.`The Four Hundred Blows' is available on video.  I recommend you rent it.


                
Good movie, but hardly brilliant or a classic.A boy, Antoine Doinel, is often in trouble at school and doesn't get along with his parents, especially his mother. He briefly runs away from home but then returns (or is returned...). After a while he ups the ante and turns to petty crime...Interesting drama. It also has its lighter side. There are many moments of comedy - the scene with the gym teacher taking the class for a walk was priceless! However, hardly the classic this is made out to be. Directed by Francois Truffaut, this is regarded as being the vanguard of the French New Wave movement. But it really isn't THAT good. It is hardly profound - the plot is a few weeks/months in the life of a early/mid-teens boy. There is no big realisation at the end, or plot closure.Even as a character-based film it is not fantastic. Yes, you feel some empathy for and engagement towards the boy but he is more villain than hero. (The adults are hardly saints either, I might add).Worth watching though, as it is a reasonable story, and to see what all the fuss is about...


                
Francois Truffaut's first feature, and like many first features it's semi-autobiographical. Well, there's nothing wrong with that. As Joyce advised, "Wipe your glosses with what you know." There are only two cautions to be observed. One is that your first story, about yourself, doesn't turn you into a moral paragon. The second is that, having gotten that initial material out of your system, you have the industry and talent to go on to other things -- not necessarily less personal, but less heavily invested. Truffaut managed to rise well above his beginnings.Jean-Pierre Leaud is the boy of about twelve who lives in a shabby and cramped apartment in Paris with a mother who, though she sometimes tries her best to act otherwise, doesn't really want him and never has. Leaud's father doesn't mind the kid, but things are tough. Both parents work. The mother is being unfaithful and the father is distant.So Leaud begins to get into trouble at school. (And what a run-down, working-class school it is.) He writes graffiti, gets caught, gets punished, but seems to learn nothing from it, nor from forging a note excusing his absence by claiming that his mother has died. He winds up running away from home, stealing a typewriter, getting caught, and sent to an "observation camp" where he's subject to tough love and interviews by a social worker. He runs away from the camp too and the last scene is of Leaud chugging along a wide strand, splashing through the tiny waves of icy sea water.Truffaut doesn't give Leaud easy excuses. He's gone through tribulations, certainly, but so have many of the other kids in his class. And at least Leaud wasn't sexually abused as a child -- the kiss of death in movies these days. But his story isn't one of a born delinquent either. He takes no pleasure in destroying things or in hurting or disappointing others. He exploits nobody.And the parents themselves aren't evil or weak. Their foibles are recognizably human. His parents only rarely indulge him but they never beat him. The boy may live in a bare apartment with cracked walls and not enough furniture or heat, but so do his mother and father, so they're subject to the same physical stressors.In fact, there's nobody in the whole movie who is entirely evil or entirely good, despite the fact that the film is in black and white.There is a vein of comedy in it too. Their language teacher is trying to get them to pronounce English correctly. "Where is the girl?", he asks one student in clear and precise tones. "At the bitch," replies the student, and the teacher explodes in a volcano of insults in French -- and he stutters! Overall, what you're most likely to get out of this film is a sense of Truffaut's abiding pity for the human condition. Take the Punch and Judy show that we see a couple of dozen young kids watching. The camera pans slowly across their faces, and we see them laughing and yelling -- and we see their misshapen heads, their diminutive chins, their crossed eyes, and those ears that kids of that age tend to have, like African elephants sticking out from their skulls, all ready to flap with excitement. You have to love kids to love that kind of ugliness.The style is grainy and documentary with only occasional touches of art that are noticeable enough to call attention to themselves. Two kids sit on a bench in a wintry garden and talk about their hated parents while the camera deliberately lifts itself to a syrupy statue above them in which a loving mother is kissing a cherub.And that last shot -- a freeze frame of Leaud on the beach at the end of his tether, unable to go forward into the sea, unable to retreat to the camp he's just escaped from. The image is still and Leaud is captured staring into the camera lens, waiting, as it were, for the audience to judge him. We, the jury.Truffaut was one of the New Wave of French directors, most of them formerly critics for a French magazine. (They gave us the term "film noir.") Jean-Luc Goddard was another. But I think Truffaut leaves Goddard in the dust. Goddard is far more fashionable because of his on-screen pyrotechnics. He up-ended the grammar of film, as if to say, "Look at me, Ma!" What he did to editing alone was what Sinead O'Connor did to the Pope's photo. And he was political in the right way for the time. But he lacks Truffaut's essential humanity or, let's be honest, his humility. Maybe it's just me but compassion seems a more evolved emotion than aggression. I wonder if Truffaut ever read Rousseau.
I liked this movie but i thought Jules and Jim was better. This is the sixth Francois Truffaut film I've seen and i can't wait to see the rest of his films. I could just describe the plot here but if you don't already know about it, it would be better if you just watched it without knowing anything about it. This movie was dedicate to Andre Bazin, a film critic who died in 1959 and also helped Truffaut when he deserted the military. I would say this movie is better than Shoot the Piano player, Truffaut's follow up film to this one. I had read somewhere that this movie was autobiographical for the director. The main character in this movie was picked up in several sequels but i don't know how many.


                
What a dreadful disenchantment! What a shame of life! What a pity of parents! Sorry boy, it is not your entire fault: your school mates also want to run away from those 'chaotic' kind of teachers and miserable classroom. You are not the only one willing to do it, although your brightness looks like missing from your head-box and it is probably in your 'bollocks'. The educated ones once said: "the apple does not fall far from the tree", so Antoine darling, do not expect too much from this life, because it was your mother who drew your path since she gave you birth. What is more, did not you see her kissing that disgusting guy whilst crossing the pedestrian crossing? She does not give you money, she is not even interested in what you are studying at school... What kind of mother is that!? Yes, but do not forget to throw the garbage away...Ah, right, I understand. Only when you missed things up she comes to you and says "if you do this, I will give you that". Oh, come on! But even so, after all your 'minor effort' in Honoré de Balzac to get better marks, here comes the other nuts scatterbrained tutor and throws away all your effort. Even I would not make any effort to study in that case.However, remember that you have a treasure, which name is 'René'. Such a lovely friend, always helping and giving the most accurate advice. What a bad luck at the end, though, when he could not visit his friend Antoine, after a long journey with the bicycle. But, at any rate, Antoine is a good kid. When he has to take away the garbage he does it. When he has to study, he also does it. Even when his tutor tells him off and orders him to clean or do anything, he is listening! Let us not forget that after stealing the typewriter, it was him who decided to go back and leave it from where he took it, and it was not his Chicken-René-friend. I truly believe that François Truffaut wanted to show us the 'lack of child guidance' combined with the unhappy home life, Antoine's mistakes and his behavior towards the consequences. This movie reminded me of both Billy Elliot and Forrest Gump, given the fact that all characters are running towards desperate destinations, in a crucial time of their lives. I enjoyed the movie and the French expressions, but I disagree that this movie is better than Ben-Hur (1959) or Strangers on a Train (1951).


                
"The 400 Blows" is a drama movie in which we watch a young boy whose parents do not pay the appropriate attention to him and leave him many times alone. This has as a result for the young boy to go into some crime actions which will have a very important to him but also for his parents.I really liked this movie because it shows us how important is for young children to have close to them their parents and how this can influence not only the way they think and act but also the way the see things around them. I also liked this movie because of the nice written plot and of course the direction which has been made by François Truffaut. In this movie I believe the best interpretation was Jean-Pierre Léaud's who played as Antoine Doinel and he was simply outstanding. Another great interpretation made by Antoine Doinel who played as the teacher of French.Finally I have to say that "The 400 Blows" is a must see movie and it really worth the time that you are going to spend on it. That's because it shows us the importance of the parents for children but also the importance of the school and the teachers. It also shows us how teachers and general school can influence children to go on with their life and what impact it will have also in their lives.


                
Truffaut's debut feature, which presents an adolescent's despairing search of his place in the cruel world, is arguably his best work, as well as one of the best among all-time coming-of-age films.The film contains one of the best ending scenes in the cinema. Within reflective, meditative, and a little sentimental long takes, Jean-Pierre Leaud keeps running, running, running, he turns around on the beach, the motion stops precisely at a very vulnerable moment, and the picture zooms-in to Leaud's face.Made in the midst of the French New Wave, the film's cinematic technique is comparatively conservative. While location shooting vividly captures lively Paris, camera work and editing are quite orthodox.


                
A thought occurs to me as I read some of the other reviews for this film. Are some movies considered great because they made their mark during an earlier time when their form was considered new and daring? What if the same movie were made today? Would they receive the same recognition? Another reviewer states that Truffaut makes the mundane entirely absorbing. Watching this movie today I came away thinking that it was pretty much just mundane. I really didn't get much out of young Antoine Doinel's (Jean-Pierre Leaud) plight except that he was a directionless kid who was headed the wrong way in life with no one to apply the brakes. There wasn't a single role model he could look to in order to keep him on a straight path, making his descent into delinquency unavoidable.But did that really have to be? Another person in the same situation might have found a way to rise above those circumstances to be a stalwart student and a good citizen. It does happen all the time, maybe not the norm, but it does happen. It's my understanding that this was a somewhat autobiographical treatment by Truffaut, so if his young life was marred by similar circumstances, then one would congratulate him for rising above that situation. But taking us through this exercise with no conclusion seemed like a pointless one to me.
I waited long to see this film as it is considered the starting point of what is called nouvelle vague, so the day came and I prepared to see a great film. Almost 2 hours later I ended up having a lot of sympathy and empathy for the boy and really thought it was a great piece of cinema I just experienced. But deep in my understanding I realized that I expected a lot more from it, even when I believe the cinematography is great, the script is good, the direction immaculate and obviously Antoine Doinel interpretation astonishing. But for being the beginning film of such an essential cinematic movement I found it lack of emotion, distant to the character, and the story did not catch me as I would like it to. Anyway, It's highly recommended as a principal matter of study on how french cinema went from poetic realism into nouvelle vague, a different kind of approaching to human perception of reality.


                
Is "The 400 Blows" a movie of a young child's miss happens, or an acute critic against French education? The movie "The 400 Blows" by Francois Truffaut exposes the harsh situation that Antoine Doinel, a twelve-year-old boy, undergoes. It depicts the unique and inefficient ways of educating children in the 1960's. This movie connects with the viewer in a profound way. The story is told through the child's perspective, creating a sense of connection and compassion in the reader, for this young character. Jean-Pierre Leaud successfully portrayed Antoine Doinel's character. As a viewer, his act was very convincing; one could almost grasp that feeling of despondency and solitude that the child lived in. Not only could he act accordingly, but also one could sense that he understood Antoine to the fullest. One can see that the character's actions added with bad luck sinks him into a spiral downwards. One event leads to another, and ends up being sent to the juvenile reformatory. The modern viewers can argue that his actions of lying and stealing are justified by the lack of attention, support and love the child receives during his upbringing. One can say this because now the education institution and ways of educating have changed. Currently, schools enforce strictness and well behavior through alternate means. At the time of the film, physical aggression was key in order to educate a child. As tested, and as can be seen in the movie these types of attitudes just motivates the child to continue acting poorly. Now a day, we're convinced that if the child is properly cared for and listened to one can prevent them from having such despondent and unfortunate outlooks. One technical aspect that enforces the mood of each scene is the music. The melodies through the film act are coherent. Each different scenario has appropriate songs, which create a pleasant feeling in the viewer. These tunes accompany Antoine Doinel through all of his misfortunes and adventures, making a stronger connection between the audience and the boy. The director did a very convincing job not only by choosing each song, but also by showing the different scenes through distinct angles and perspectives. For example, one of the most playful and happy scenes in the movie was when the teacher takes the students for a jog. These slowly begin to depart, leaving the professor by himself running. This scene is shown through a giant's perspective; one can see the sequence as if one was standing in a building. Also it was escorted by cheerful and lighthearted music, which accompanies the scene perfectly. This scene portrays how the actions of the children are made out of immaturity and out of juvenile behavior, and not carried out with mean intentions.The setting of the film is also a technical aspect that gives life to the story. The tiny apartment adds to the theme of loneliness. In such small areas, three people may seem a multitude. In the movie, it looks crowded, but it enforces the idea of Antoine being so uncared for. Although he is in a tight room with his parents he feels distant, and forlorn. This idea of being accompanied but lonely nonetheless, builds his character, and impulses him to act as he does. The deepness of the themes portrayed in "The 400 Blows", were considered something never seen before, something that films had never depicted previously. After stealing the typewriter and after being sent to the juvenile reformatory, the viewers are left with the feeling that if the parents could have been more caring and understanding his future would have been different. He could have then matured, and acknowledged that his behavior wasn't appropriate. By doing so he would have learned without undergoing such harsh conditions.During the 1960's the film was considered extremely modern and fresh because of the particular format it has. At the time, an innovative movement was manifesting in Europe, better known as the French New Wave. This movement was composed of mainly French directors who strove to portray social and political issues in their films. This specific movie shows how uncaring parents raise children, and how this lack of sensitivity foments the increase of young criminals. One of the main reasons for which the film "The 400 Blows" was so successful, was that it encompassed some of the main characteristics of the French New Wave, such as this shift in plots, theme, and message. The director, Francois Truffaut was one of the main leaders of this movement, along with other major figures such as: Andre Bazin, Jean Luc Godard and Eric Rohmer. After the success of "400 Blows", there were sequels following the film. Of which included: "Antoine and Collette" and three others: "Stolen Kisses", "Bed and Board" and "Love on the Run". Nonetheless none of these films had so much of success as "The 400 Blows" did. The last shot, which is a zoom in of Antoine in the beach after he escaped, gives appropriate closure to the movie. His blank stare in the camera, consumes the story with an excellent dramatic touch. This last shot is well known as the image of the French New Wave. The character through the story talks about how he had never been to the sea, and that he wanted to see it fervently. This image shows how the child accomplished his dream of going to the sea, but still feeling abandoned and lonely.
In 1959 a pair French films were released that became the twin pillars of the New Wave (Nouvelle Vague), and were instantly hailed as classics. One, Jean-Luc Godard's Breathless (A Bout de Soufflé), was a bad film, and the other, François Truffaut's The 400 Blows (Les Quatre Cents Coups), was a good film. Neither, however, can really be called great cinema, despite their reputations. That said, Truffaut's film is far better than Godard's because it mostly avoids overt clichés, even as its screenplay- its weakest element, written by Truffaut and Marcel Moussey, often bogs down in anomy. Like Godard, Truffaut shot his film in black and white, and indulged the real world, as well as doing long takes, to try to feign naturalism, even though these were often outcomes of necessity not choice, borne out of lack of financing rather than artistic vision.While both films achieved a feel closer to cinema verité with these technical contrivances, neither could really be thought of as narratively innovative, for Breathless is a string of unsubverted clichés while The 400 Blows is a rather familiar tale of misspent youth. It is, in a sense, an updated and less colorful, if not watered down, Charles Dickens tale transplanted across the English Channel. Also, the film's hero- the lower class fourteen year old Antoine Doinel (Jean-Pierre Léaud), who sleeps in tattered pajamas- claimed to be Truffaut in this autobiographic film, is quite a bit less colorful than Dickens' young protagonist con men. Even though he is constantly in trouble, and called a thief, arsonist, liar, and plagiarist, these are clearly things almost all young boys do in their formative years, with few ever becoming major criminals. The 400 Blows is merely a good film with some great moments- like Antoine in the Gravitron or when his gym class starts thinning out as they jog with their teacher. Yet, its flaws highlight why most schools, movements, or -isms fail. They do so because they naturally must break free from the artificial constraints such ideas and ideals impose. Delimited art is generally bad art. And this film's formlessness, plus some corny moments as a single tear in Doinel's eye as he is taken away in a prison truck, doom the film from reaching a greatness it may have attained with a better screenplay and more experienced eye behind the camera and in the editing room. But, it is a worthwhile film, nonetheless, which held out the potential for later and greater works. That's more than many first films, New Wave or not, have ever done, and something Antoine Doinel may embody, if never achieve.
Story about a sweet gentle 15 year old French kid named Antoine (Jean-Pierre Leaud). His mother hates him, his father doesn't understand him and his teachers in school treat him like dirt. He slowly becomes a juvenile delinquent.That's about it for plot. It's not very shocking or surprising now but it must have hit hard in 1959. Even though I saw everything coming I kept watching. The black and white cinematography is stunning, Francois Truffaut direction assured and Leaud (who was actually only 15 at the time) gives a great performance. Despite the story the film never becomes maudlin, preachy or sad. It's made pretty clear that Antoine will survive despite the way the adults treat him. Also it perfectly captures the innocence of youth and the way they act. Supposedly this was the start of New Wave cinema. Well-done and worth catching. It DOES bog down a little during the last 30 minutes but everything before it is great. I give it a 7.
