THE FOUR HUNDRED BLOWS (François Truffaut - France 1959).Twelve-year-old Antoine Doinel (Jean-Pierre Léaud) has troubles at home and at school. Ignored and neglected by his parents, his relationship with his mother is further strained when he discovers that she has taken a secret lover. Added to this, his school teachers have written him off as a trouble maker and, with luck seemingly never on his side, it is Antoine who ends up getting the blame for bad behaviour. Finding refuge only in his love of cinema, Antoine soon finds it necessary to break free and discover what the world can offer outside the confines of everyday life. I have always struggled with the labeling of this film as one of the pivotal entrances in the "Nouvelle Vague". Since Jean-Luc Godard's "Au Bout de Soufflé", who uses a completely different approach to film-making, with his restless jump-cutting and endless references to pop culture, Truffaut presents his case clear cut, as realistic as possible. But this was something completely different from the way American films portrayed juvenile delinquency so far. No iconic trouble makers like James Dean or Marlon Brando, just a realistic portrait of a twelve-year old boy sliding into isolation. The very idea alone was something novel, seldom depicted in a way like this. Much of the praise must go to Jean-Pierre Léaud, who never even seems to be acting. His every movement, thought, expression come across as completely natural. Truly, one of the most remarkable performances of such a young actor I've ever seen. Watching this over 40 years after it was made, it all looks deceptively simple, with Truffaut's perfect integration of music and image, location shooting on the streets of Paris and the naturalistic performances. Truffaut used many innovations but they are not easily noticeable as in Godard's work. This was for instance the first French film to be shot in widescreen (aspect ratio 2.35:1), which required much planning on Truffaut's part, with some surprising results. In many scenes we don't see the other person Antoine is talking to, which gives the viewer the illusion as if Antoine is almost talking directly to the camera. Jean-Pierre Léaud would continue his role as Antoine in four more films by Truffaut, "Love at Twenty" (1962), "Stolen Kisses" (1968), "Bed and Board" (1970) and "Love on the Run" (1979).Camera Obscura --- 9/10


                
As the seminal work of the French New Wave, the 1959 directorial debut of 27-year old Francois Truffaut has such a vaunted reputation that the final film is bound to disappoint. However, the pristine print that comes with the new Criterion Collection DVD really makes me realize what a brave and emotionally resonant film he made ostensibly about his own troubled adolescence. It's worth seeing twice - once for the film itself and a second time to listen to the newly recorded commentary by Truffaut's childhood friend Robert Lachenay (the true-life inspiration for Rene in the film). Speaking in French but subtitled in English, he provides insights into the story and context of the film that no film scholar or even production associate could possibly provide. As a point of comparison, listen to the by-the-numbers commentary by film scholar Brian Stonehill (recorded back in 1992), which is thoughtful and well researched but devoid of the human factor.The film's title comes from a French colloquialism that translates into "raising hell", an appropriate reference since the story focuses on a thirteen-year old hellion named Antoine, living in a poor section of Paris and neglected by parents downright arrogant in their dysfunctional nature. Antoine consequently lives a street urchin's life as he lies to people in authority - his parents, his teachers, and the police - since he admits rather sadly that the truth doesn't make any difference. Truffaut tracks Antoine's life through a series of dispiriting episodes that ultimately lead him to be sent away to a reformatory after he gets caught returning a stolen typewriter and his mother and stepfather tire of their responsibility over him. To Truffaut's immense credit, the film feels stark and naturalistic without resorting to dramatic manipulation, and he finds the ideal Antoine in Jean-Pierre Leaud, who brings out the confusion, angst and wandering attention of his character in realistic terms. He is especially impressive in an apparently improvised scene where he is interviewed by the school authorities about why his life has come to this. It is heartbreaking to see how bleak his life becomes, yet Leaud imbues the incorrigible, often intolerable side of Antoine with fervor.There are several interesting extras included with the 2006 DVD package starting with two separate interviews with Truffaut, the first a year after the film's release discussing he film's impact and the second five years later when we see the filmmaker in a more reflective mood about his cinematic influences. Leaud is featured in 16mm screen test footage where his naturally ebullient personality emerges and then after the 1959 Cannes Film Festival where puberty has apparently kicked in and then in 1965 as a comparatively reserved twenty-year old. The screen test of Richard Kanayan (who has a minor role as a schoolmate) is amusing for his Satchmo-inspired rendition of "When the Saints Go Marching In" and his eerie resemblance to Fantasy Island's Tattoo, Herve Villechaize. Be forewarned that the film is relentlessly downbeat, but Truffaut's emotional investment and consummate abilities as a filmmaker, even at this stage of his career, make this essential viewing.


                
French moviemakers have always really great with children. From the 1930's (Poil de carotte) to the 1960's (Guerre des boutons) or more recently (Le Petit Prince a dit, 1992), childs in French movies seems always realists, themselves. They don't act like little adults or stupid human beings. Les 400 Coups is sure the best picture ever made with a child. It's also the first movie of master Truffaut and probably his best work, along with Jules et Jim.  But Truffaut will have a very bad idea after that: make other films with the same kid growing up, become an adult.  The problem is that Leaud will grown up to be a pretty bad actor.  He's great in this movie, probably because he never think, at that time, that he will become an actor.  I love everything in the movie, but I have a little preference for the scene where the little kids look at a puppet show. Their faces are amazing!


                
Upon first seeing the Francois Truffaut film 400 Blows, I was struck with the thought that this film was either designed to scar children away from a life of crime or just a social commentary on juvenile delinquency in Paris in the early fifties. This film is neither. Truffaut's main goal in making this film was to show the uncontrollable downward spiral of one boy. We are shown this through the boy "Antoine" eyes. Whether reflected in multiple mirrors at his mom's vanity or from the bottom of a spinning carnival ride, it is his view and perspective of the world that we see. The adult world is conspicuously absent except for the occasional villain or incompetent who happens to pass through Antoine's life. This film is shocking today, with our modern views on decency and political correctness. It was not designed to shock its audiences at the time. The idea of a child being disposable is a lost concept in today's world. The end of the film is especially important in the fact that Antoine, alone on the beach, could be interpreted as having reached his end. He has, throughout the film, sunk lower and lower no matter how hard he tried to better himself. By the end, we are led to believe he has reached his end, both figuratively and literally. My feeling is that instead of despair, he is faced with hope. The beach represents not an end but beginning, and one of limitless possibilities and a chance to begin again. This film is a timeless story of hope and the possibilities of redemption. Truffaut's style is modern and creative for its time. He stays away from stylized techniques that would have only dated this film. If this film was in color, I feel that an audience of today would have a hard time differentiating 400 Blows from a modern movie.


                
Antoine Doinel (Jean-Pierre Léaud) is a fourteen years old boy rejected by his mother and his stepfather, who gave him his name. This lack of affection in his home makes him a rebel, bad student, liar, reckless and stealing objects and money at home. This movie was the first one directed by François Truffault and is a landmark of the Nouvelle Vague, a French style of making films initiated by Truffault and Godard. This movement has produced low budget, but high quality movies, using a small crew, hand camera and free screenplay, with lots of creation and improvisation. The character Antoine is the alter-ego of Truffault. His crimes, watched in the Twentieth-First Century, are minors, but in 1959 were much serious. It is a very good movie, recommended for those who indeed loves cinema. My vote is nine.


                
An idiomatic translation of the French title of this movie, Les quatre cents coup, would be something like "Raising Hell," understood ironically. Twelve-year-old Antoine Doinel, played very winningly by Jean-Pierre Leaud, doesn't suffer "400 blows," although he does get mistreated quite a bit, and he doesn't mean to raise hell or to be a problem to his parents or society. He's just a boy being a boy. Unfortunately his mother (Claire Mauier), who is more like a wicked step-mother than the boy's biological mother (although she is that) would like to be rid of him so that she can spend more time pursuing her hobby, which is adultery. His cuckolded step-father (Albert Remy) is no help, although he seems to care more for the boy than his mother. And the institutions of society, as represented by his school, the Parisian police, and the social services people, seem intent on turning poor Antoine into a criminal. Truffaut ends the movie at a spot where it is still far from clear where Antoine is really headed, but we can guess that his spirit will be undaunted.Some have called this, Francois Truffaut's first feature, realism, but if it's realism, so is Charles Dickens. This is an extended slice of life, a coming-of-ager stopped before the boy does become of age, and in this sense original. Truffaut paints everybody but the boy and his best friend in such a negative hue that we cannot help but identify with Antoine. This is not realism, but it doesn't matter because this is a splendid film, perhaps not as great as some have claimed, but very much worth watching because of Leaud's fine performance and Truffaut's original and charming presentation of Paris in the 1950s. In one sense Truffaut makes the City of Light a child's playground, and in another, it is a repressive, indifferent monolith. Antoine's transgressions--ditching school, telling lies, stealing from his grandmother--are trivial. But Truffaut wants to make sure we don't misunderstand so he has the boy get into trouble for (1) having a magazine passed to him in class, (2) unconsciously memorizing Balzac (he is accused of plagiarism by his fascist teacher) (3) returning a typewriter, which admittedly he had lifted, and (4) lighting a candle in honor of Balzac (which starts a fire).My favorite scene is the one with the psychiatrist in which we hear her questions, but the camera stays on Antoine. His candid, eminently reasonable and entirely sane answers to her questions demonstrate that he is a completely normal, even admirable boy, and that it is society and its stupid adults that are off the mark.The faces of the children at the Punch and Judy show are wonderful and the sequence of Antoine running and running so gracefully and seemingly with little effort symbolizes the longing that all children have to be free.While I think this famous movie is perhaps a little over-rated, I can tell you that if you haven't seen it you are in danger of being labeled a cinematic illiterate.(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it at Amazon!)


                
In the 50's, François Truffaut worked as a critic with a rather defiant and resentful attitude toward traditional "popular" filmmaking. Yet even old-school directors like Cocteau or Clouzot said they never experienced such intensity on the big screen after they saw "The 400 Blows". Truffaut dared to challenge reciprocity and got unanimous praises from his peers and beyond, acknowledging the historical magnitude of the film, maybe the French "Citizen Kane".I guess there's just something about movies made by young directors; Truffaut was only one year older than Welles when he made his directorial debut, young enough to remember the most ungrateful part of boys' lives when they are old enough to take it seriously but too young to be taken seriously. Truffaut embraced the innate freedom of his age and never regarded childhood with nostalgic eyes, deeming it as a period of entrapment and submission to the rules of adults. Interestingly, Truffaut adopted the same rebellious approach to film-making, rejecting cinematic conventions of a plot, protagonists and villains for something that would tunnel the viewers into the truth of life rather than providing an escape from it.The French New Wave was a tsunami of creation that changed the face of cinema. Just like Jean-Luc Godard with "Breathless", a new generation of film-makers would explore cinema as a form of expression prone to improvisation, a freedom of tone, anything but codified tropes, it was Godard who said that the best way to criticize a film is to make one, that's to their credit. But unlike Godard, I doubt Truffaut made this film for the sake of challenging conventions or to make something "pivotal". And for one thing, I happen to share Jean-Pierre Melville's feeling that the New Wave had a huge influence on American Cinema, but the auteur thing was a bit overplayed in France, and the magic was lost in the 60's.So I'm not interested in 'auteur' Truffaut but 'rebel' Truffaut, his youth was exactly the same as his counterpart in the film Antoine Doinel: school troubles, delinquency, absent parents etc. Cinema wasn't just a vocation; it was a survival move, an escape from the path that was awaiting him, a rebellion within the rebellion. There's something in Doinel that reminded me of "Cool Hand Luke", a propensity for 'leaving', the classroom, the place, it's not just rebellion, but like the title suggests: "raising hell", which is the real meaning of "400 blows" but the word "blows" might render the idea that the kid is going to take many hits in his life, which is actually less misleading than the French title, sounding more like childish fun.And Antoine Doinel takes the hits and keeps moving forward, it's not "Rocky" though, Doinel has no specific goal, he lives from day to day, he doesn't think of the consequences, which is the essence of youth ennui. "The 400 Blows" happens to be an immersive character study in the life of a boy who's abandoned by his parents, his mother spending many extra-hours with her boss, and her father who's not the brutal type, has given him a name and a roof, but not what Antoine truly needed: a guidance, a meaning, anything. Antoine comes home eats, takes the trash down and goes to sleep. And the awful state of the house plays almost as an alibi for Doinel's mischievousness.But Truffaut's directing never needs to be intrusive to make us root for Antoine. We just see his background and get it. It is very fitting that, of all the "Simpsons" characters, it was Nelson Muntz who paid tribute to the movie as he was a character whose sordid background was unveiled in the later seasons and is perhaps the closest to Doinel. Doinel isn't even a bully though, and at the first scene, he's the unlucky kid who picks up the sexy calendar just when the teacher raises his eyes. The tragedy of Doinel is that before taking the path leading to delinquency and (who knows) crime, he's just a kid who doesn't care enough about his life to contemplate the idea of becoming a bad boy.The only escapism he finds is with his friend (Pierre Auffray), a fun moment at a zoetrope (a wink to "Strangers on a Train" and Truffaut's idol Hitchcock) and movie theaters, were Doinel drops the picture of Harriet Andersen from Bergman's "Monica", cinema was an escapism for Truffaut as well and the builder of his dreams. The film is a slow escalation to the point where the parents finally give up and put Doinel in a detention center less out of anger than disillusion, because he would escape anyway. Once again, Truffaut never shows the parents as the bad guys, even the kid doesn't blame them, yet we know he's hurt, deeply.Truffaut loved Doinel but was so worried he would grow up during the making, Leaud's answer was that both he and Truffaut had sickly souls, they would never grow up. Truffaut loved the answer and it sealed their collaboration, I wasn't a bit surprised that some scenes involving Leaud were improvised, this is not the improvisation for-the-sake-of-it like Godard would use to show off his revolutionary talent, it's improvisation to capture the truth of the moment, and this is perhaps the best compliment I can give the film, it is truthful, and that final shot is the perfect culmination of a story where you dare to dream of a happy ending but the word "Fin" seems like bars of a prison entrapping poor Antoine.The film is dedicated to Andre Bazin, a former critic, co-founder of Cahiers du Cinema who died in 1958. "The 400 Blows" is the pivotal encounter between a message, a feeling and a young talent, at the right time and the right place. To label it as New Wave starter is too reducing, especially since the film is deeper and more penetrative than Godard's "Breathless".
THE 400 BLOWS is a French drama about childhood and growing up under very difficult family and social circumstances. The main protagonist is a boy, who was faced with a lack of understanding by his own family and teachers at school. His French teacher is the embodiment of terror and incomprehension. His mother and stepfather, because of work and irregular life, do not have time for her only son. The boy began to run away from home and deal with petty crimes...The story is incredibly realistic, clear and honest. Deviation from the traditional narrative is more than obvious. Mr. Truffaut has introduced realistic social and family situations. These situations have offered insight into one emotional confusion and painful agony. It is difficult to describe with words. The boy leads an inner struggle, that moves him away from the school and parents. The story contains some of the director's autobiographical moments and intimate experiences from his youth. Because of that, an image of Paris and a musical score are quite sad. Certain critiques of education or perhaps social incompetence is the point of this movie. Jean-Pierre Léaud as Antoine Doinel is a realistic and simple character. The boy, who does not provoke sympathy. A vulnerability and naivety of his character are amazing. His honesty, while a psychiatrist attempts to fathom reasons for his discontent is almost heartbreaking. His support is Patrick Auffay (René Bigey) as his best friend and accomplice in the crime.Claire Maurier as Gilberte Doinel is quite superficial and deceptive character in the role of Antoine's mother. Albert Rémy as Julien Doinel is a confused and unfulfilled Antoine's stepfather. Guy Decomble as Sourpuss He is an indifferent and insensitive teacher.This is a small and very interesting masterpiece. Very important drop in the French New Wave.


                
Very impressive that a movie this creative could ever be made, but especially when it was. A troubled boy, in the sense of his surroundings, is forced on a path that leads him ultimately in a youth housing situation after his parents deem it impossible to help him. Amazing camera shot as well as acting by the young lead in this film we are introduced to what life would have really have been like for this young lad as he chooses to be homeless and is eventually arrested. The parallels to the school and jail as well as the boy's home and jail. This film does a brilliant job of always making the young lead stand out from the rest of the heard seemingly for no reason. This film is incredibly entertaining and apparently started a nice long career for the young boy lead named Jean-Pierre Leaud.


                
I first saw this on a double bill about 25 years ago with my sister who guided my early interest in film. We both though it was overrated. Despite our good intentions, I'd say we were both too immature to get it.12 year old Doinel is a pretty good kid by today's standards. He's at the stage in his development where his youthful desperation can devise quasi-criminal diversions quicker than his yet-to-develop conscience can reject them. He has no comprehension of repercussions or other people's emotional interest in his whereabouts. Doinel live via a series of lies and self-complicated situations, and the parents depicted have their own deceits; secret trysts, facts they'd rather not acknowledge, etc.. The message he has to parse is that his poor choices are unacceptable but his mothers are to be swept under the rug. Making this movie sweeter is the sheer mildness of the problems which lead to his parents disavowal. With his characteristic care-free, neutral viewpoint, he'll never be able to play ball with his mom & step-dad. The mother here is an essay in self-serving abuse, but it's parents that have the power in 1959 and so Doinel has to callously be sent away. Jean-Pierre Leaud is such a charming natural in front of the camera that I can never forget this performance. His audition tape suggests, as has been confirmed, that major portions of Antoine Doinel are Leaud's personal qualities shining through. Like a parent, you don't want him to grow up, because life has a way of stripping away the pure qualities of childhood. Adulthood might bring maturity but it can never equal the naturalism and comfort he feels.* His performance made me think of some greater goals in life than where you end up. I wish I was this comfortable as an adult. The calmness with which Truffaut lets a scene and a shot play out is refreshing.*And sure enough the featurette Antoine et Collette from Love at Twenty pursues Doinel onto shakier ground. It's a mixed blessing. Truffaut knows we don't want to let Doinel go, but watching him become gangly over-serious and awkward as he negotiates love poorly is painful. "Doinel loses his confidence" is not the place I wanted this character to go.


                
A simple, lucid story which, with a lightness so natural that it almost seems unintentional, gradually unravels into a full-blown masterpiece. Tragic as the story is, it still keeps this charming, luminous allure, like a breath of fresh air in the shape of a movie. Jean-Pierre Léaud's performance is nothing short of fantastic. Yet it's exactly on his casting for the part that I would like to comment. On the one hand, the choice is perfect - he IS Antoine Doinel, he lives and breathes this part as if it were his own life. On the other hand, the lead was obviously supposed to be a charismatic actor with a charming personality, able to make the audience feel for him. And that he does incredibly well.. but in fact, Antoine-Jean-Pierre is even TOO good. He is supposed to portray a troubled boy falling deeper and deeper down the social scale, and that in reality is a way darker, uglier sight than the one we see. Léaud conveys a strange sense of well-being and invincibility even in the hardest moments of Antoine's life, which renders the movie even more "watchable", but at the expense of psychological accuracy. I also find it hard to believe as a spectator that someone as heartrendingly adorable as this child could suffer such amounts of neglect and abuse from the grown-ups who surround him. The scenes with his family who couldn't care less about him come across as slightly unconvincing at moments. It's hard to imagine a mother so cold or a father so ruthless in the face of the exceptionally charming little human being that is Léaud-Doinel. Yet it's probably this uncanny supernaturally natural charisma that gives us a sense of hope at the end of the movie and a feeling that in spite of everything that has happened at the end of the day he'll do well.I gave it 9 out of 10, and am still in doubts, 'cos it could have been a perfect ten. Still, as great a movie as it is, I wouldn't recommend it to everybody. In a few words - pure cinema at its best.


                
As Fellini's "8 1/2" was a reflection of his own torment as a director, "The 400 Blows" was Francois Truffaut's exorcism of personal demons. Antoine Doinel is allegedly Truffaut's own projection of himself at an early age, and this movie was a very important project for the director as an adult.Jean-Pierre Léaud plays Antoine remarkably well, as a thoughtful but rebellious Parisian student who skips school and goes to the movies with his friends. His mother (Claire Maurier) shows no interest in the boy, nor does his father. He retreats home every day sullenly and sits on his bed, daydreaming.Beautifully filmed and still poignant after all these years, Truffaut's masterpiece is a moving and engaging study of youth that continues to retain its significance today. Definitely worth seeing, perhaps even worth buying if you're a film buff. The Criterion Collection DVD is excellent and provides a very insightful glimpse into both the movie and Truffaut.


                
It is a good movie but if you are not a movie nerd then there are no point of watching the movie but it still represents the whole ere of neorealism this movie is actually a film-study lets think like that most of the college books are more usable and knowledgeable than some other books that are more intersting but still college books help us to study other books well. this film is tell us how to watch a movie what does every scene mean and how it reflects their characters


                
Francois Truffaut's "The 400 Blows" was one of the films that set the French New Wave in motion, but whereas many of its peers stand out mostly for their experimentation, "The 400 Blows" offers deeper human truth in addition to innovative filmmaking technique.In a clearly a semi-autobiographical story, the film focuses on a young boy (Jean-Pierre Leaud) in his emerging teens who doesn't care much for school, isn't emotionally well cared for at home and endeavors to live "the wild life" (to use the more accurate translation of the film's title) with help from his friend Rene (Patrick Auffay). The film consists not of a narrative arc, but of a series of episodes lined up like dominoes, where the choices and consequence of one sequence have obvious implications on the next. Whether you were more the delinquent type in school or not, there's an innocence to Antoine Doinel that makes it difficult not to connect with his experience. Skipping school, running away from home, talking back to the teacher, lying to adults - none of these applied to my childhood, but I also didn't grow up with a cheating mother who found me annoying, a mostly spineless father and teachers more interested in discipline than trying to understand any misbehavior. Although Antoine's choices are ultimately his own, there are so many ways his childhood course could have been corrected, rather than the route his parents and teachers chose to correct it. His desire to avoid and run away represents a universal yearning to escape people and systems that fail us. By the end of the film, we recognize that his choice to act on that impulse shows bravery, not a rogue avoidance of a path to redemption.Truffaut does lots of interesting stuff with the camera in this film, but it's that purity of story that makes "The 400 Blows" a classic. He also has this cynical sense of humor that complements the more dramatic notes and harsher truths of the story. We sense Truffaut's own impishness in the way he depicts Antoine's day-to-day exploits and his attitude toward the adults in the film.The desire for freedom almost poetically fits with what Truffaut brings from a filmmaking perspective to his feature debut. From long tracking shots to the visually unforgettable spinning centrifuge carnival ride sequence, the film occasionally takes these moments of respite from the narrative to let us sit with a particular feeling or emotion. Often, there's a humor associated with these moments too. He even tries a few transitions and camera tricks that by today's standards feel dated or cliche, but the spirit remains.Nevertheless, style feels secondary to story in a way that it doesn't with the films released in close proximity to it including Resnais' "Hiroshima Mon Amour" and Godard's "Breathless." Those films touch upon some interesting themes and ideas, but "The 400 Blows" will connect with a wider audience and should resonate for many more decades into the future.~Steven CThanks for reading! Visit Movie Muse Reviews for more


                
This was my first film I've seen from François Truffaut and wow what a film to start off with. Often as adults we look at children and think about how easy they've got it and yearn to be children ourselves again. But Truffault shows us that it isn't as easy as we would like to believe. Throughout the film, Antoine is struggling to find his place in the world. His home life is dysfunctional, he's disenfranchised with his school life and his teachers don't care about him or his education. I have to say I relate to Antoine quite a bit in some respects which makes that small scene near the end of the film when Antoine is being driven away in the police car and he is staring out of the window with tears in his eyes it just felt like a dagger through the heart for me. This is a brilliant film and highly worth a watch if you haven't seen it already.
Whenever the phrase 'French New Wave' gets mentioned, among the few films that someone thinks of, one of them will always be 'The 400 Blows'. This film is the one that made the 'French New Wave' movement famous all around the world. This movement revolved around the internalisation of a confluence of influences and then the execution of something unique, real and personal with the help of those influences as well as new revolutionary ideas. While watching 'The 400 Blows' one can see the dedication to realism in terms of shooting on location which can be found in Italian neo-realism, one can find a fluidity in the camera movement that is reminiscent of Hitchcock and Max Ophüls, one can find the precise use of lighting to make the shadows prominent in certain scenes similar to film-noir or German expressionism, one can also find a bit of poetic realism reminiscent of Renoir and Satyajit Ray. But François Truffaut elevates the film from being a merely experimental piece of work paying homage to his influences to a greatly touching piece of work through the tender treatment of characters, intimate exploration of themes and expressive editing techniques which make his film as personal as can be.The film's opening credits are accompanied by a montage of tracking shots in the streets of Paris with the Eiffel Tower being a constant presence. Through this creative choice, Truffaut instantly establishes the setting of the film. This maybe a personal story about the troubles of a young boy, but it is also a film about the disintegration of the French urban family structure and the deterioration of parental attention and guidance. Antoine' parents, though not being complete monsters, seem not interested in their child's life. Antoine also gets constantly victimised at school due to the overt dictatorship of the teachers. A character at one point in the film remarks about the mysteries of what goes on in Antoine's head. The tragedy is that no one tries to understand his mindset. Antoine gets burdened with limitless housework and is deprived of the freedom that he constantly seeks during the film. Although this has a Dickensian quality to it, Truffaut never undermines the fact that Antoine truly does engage in questionable activities which gradually proceed to petty criminal acts. He merely tries to view everything from Antoine's perspective to understand the reasons and the scenarios that could've driven him to such actions.The pursuit of freedom is a very important theme in the film. There are a number techniques through which Truffaut underlines this. There are constant images of bars and fences superimposed over Antoine to express his thematic confinement. The interiors of Antoine's family's apartment are made to look particularly claustrophobic which makes the cinema verite scenes on location in the streets of Paris look very refreshing. Truffaut uses appropriate music very creatively at just the right times to underline emotions. The editing is creative and was revolutionary at the time. There are long takes, rapid dissolves and some frantic cuts(there is a remarkable cut from one panning shot to another) that accentuate Truffaut's inventive directorial ideas. There is one particular scene in the film, where Antoine walks down the stairs to dump the garbage which blew me away due to the subtle and intricate details that Truffaut inserts at every moment of the scene. From the sudden appearance and disappearance of the French National Anthem on the radio in an adjacent room to the flickering light when the garbage is being dumped, the whole scene is masterfully directed.Jean-Pierre Léaud is almost pitch perfect as the young Antoine. He has the most expressive eyes. There are moments where his voice modulation, his eye movements and general mannerisms are almost absurdly convincing for a first time child actor and of course Truffaut deserves credit for getting such a layered performance out of him.'The 400 Blows' is a film which richly deserves its accolades and acclaim. It is a deeply personal film that tries to understand the world from the perspective of a young boy who has been deemed a lost cause by his family and the society. The fact that this is a loosely auto-biographical piece of work, makes the film as a whole as well the last few moments of the film extremely poignant.


                
This is the fist chapter of the saga of Antoine Doinel, performed in a masterly manner during a long period of his life (twenty years) by the surprising Jean-Pierre Léaud, followed step by step by the pygmalion Truffaut during the whole course of his full physical maturity, beginning from the actor's early years.The present movie deals with the topic of unquiet and misunderstood adolescence, clearly inspired by Edmund' character, the young boy who lives in the destructed Germany doing all kinds of work in Rossellini's "Germania anno zero". Antoine and Edmund are two young human beings at the mercy of the waves, without any help or control, living on the fringe of society, unable to cope with the hypocrisy of grown-up people that guess they are no good for anything. But differently from Rossellini's character, Antoine is endowed with more resolution than him. Furthermore, the will to succeed will help him a great deal in his life, especially to come unsmirched from the manifold difficulties of existence, because he's a stubborn boy who prefers the real thing to the phony stuff and doesn't want to give grown-up people the satisfaction of knowing that their choices have worked on him.With the same incomparable style you expect by an author that has made him beloved by many cinephiles far and wide, Truffaut describes the portrait of a restless young man yearning for freedom, in open rebellion with his familiar environment and with the whole adult world. Scenes from an unhappy existence, outlined in the script with sometimes disenchanted frankness, clearly following the inspiration of autobiographically conceived ideas, while the repeated use of long focal length lens during movie shooting conveys an anonymous sense of uneasiness.The rebellious character Antoine Doinel, unamenable to discipline, is included in a metropolitan context described in a very impersonal way, plunged in melancholy and echoing a meaningless platitude, according to a disenchanting, strictly objective conception of the reality. Truffaut doesn't "ask" us to identify with his subject, no wonder his psychological motivations point out to us in a disturbing way the complete downfall of individual certainties as far as the difficult route to adulthood is concerned. The purpose of this generational conflict created by him is to prove that boys aren't guiltier than adults; both of them in his opinion are victims of a society whose uneasy feelings spread over their lives with undesired consequences.


                
This is an excellent movie in any which way you look at it. There is no "fat" on it, it is very tight in its narrative and it is also quite well composed. A poetic but also very sad tale of a young boy and his troubled life. It is a classic movie! However, I don't think it is Truffaut's best film as I am aware of many do believe. Truffaut (1932-1984) was perhaps THE director in the entire history of motion pictures that was able of, truly and profoundly, conveying love as an idea or an emotion on the silver screen. I know that he was not the only one who achieved making great love stories, but perhaps only he knew how to do it the best way. And that brings me to my reason for not regarding this as his best film: I think it lacks that kind of true emotion and sentiment that shines so bright in his later films. But hey: it's his first movie! You can't expect the innovation to explode right of the bat.


                
A "French New Wave" director Francois Truffaut's first feature film The 400 Blows (1959) is mainly based on the real story of Truffaut's childhood which establishes the new theories for the modern cinema. The 400 Blows against the classical Hollywood film clichés (in a good way), and it's episodic and somewhat documentary-like cinematic techniques help to create the authentic story of a 14-year-old boy. The protagonist Antoine Doinel (Jean-Pierre Leaud) is viewed as a trouble-making teenager among the adults. Actually, Antoine lives an unhappy life dealing with his verbally abusive mother who is having an affair with a man from work, and his kind and friendly yet not deeply attachable stepfather whom he initially considered as his biological father. His departed grandfather is the only inspiration in his life. His luck is not good. At his school, Antoine has to deal with an uninspired teacher who always doubt his talent and pictures him as nothing but as a "troublemaker". To make a matter worst, he skips school, and lies to his parents and teacher. Receiving unprofessional reputation from his school teacher, and all the negligence from his parents force him to get the statuses of a liar, a dropout, and a theft which eventually lead him to the juvenile detention home. Delinquency is the key theme in this film. Antoine believes in freedom, and he is constantly planning to escape from being locked up. Using real locations in Paris, and having unprofessional actors with some improvised dialogues define the cinematic reality in this film. It is realistic, yet it has a moving story in which Truffaut skillfully plays around with the camera to add colors to this black and white film; extremely long shots in Antoine's' running scenes, a high aerial shot of the boy jogging scene, and a series of close-ups and deep focus shots will draw the audiences in the middle of actions as well as into the main characters' mind.


                
In this movie Truffaut manages to describe a delinquent kid and his relationships with friends, parents and teachers through an amazing screenplay and great acting of the whole cast.The explanations of what, where and why in the boys life are so brilliantly incorporated in the storyline that you really get a sense of the times and the ways of life, but also the sense of dysfunctional families whenever or wherever. It is a classic exactly because of that great harmony of acting, screenplay, music and great insight on how families function or better yet, on how they don't function.


                
Greetings again from the darkness. Cited as one of the films that begot the French New Wave, this one cuts straight to the nerve if you were ever mis-understood or felt isolated as a kid (and who wasn't?). Knowing that it's a semi-autobiographical presentation from director Francois Truffaut makes it all the more poignant. Truffaut was a troubled youth and (like many of us) used his love of cinema as an escape, and to provide hope for his future. His mentor, the famous film theorist Andre Bazim, died just before this (Truffaut's first) film was released ... it bears a dedication to Bazim.Jean-Pierre Leaud plays 12 year old Antoine Doinel, a boy who just can't get a break at home or school. Labeled a troublemaker (the film title translates "to raise hell" or "to live a wild life") by a lazy, cruel teacher, and treated as a lost cause and unwanted burden by his tight-sweater-wearing mother (Claire Maurier, over 80 and still acting today) and stepfather (Albert Remy). Antoine's days are spent reading Balzac, watching movies, and dreaming of escape. A couple of unfortunate incidents spiral out of control and he ends up first in jail and then in an "observation center" for troubled kids.The beauty of the filmmaking is evident in most every shot ... and there are some amazing extended takes. The overhead scene of the PE teacher "losing" students as they jog through the city is humorous and insightful. The puppet scene in the park is an extraordinary long take of kids' innocent and mesmerized faces, and the extended shot of Antoine running through the countryside is a cinematic first. Above all of that is the famous ending shot - a zoom in to freeze frame of the young boy caught between land and sea (past and present).Truffaut and Leaud teamed up for four more projects featuring the same character, Antoine Doinel. In 1962's Antoine and Colette, he finds first love. 1968 brings Stolen Kisses and true love. 1970's Bed & Board has Antoine getting married, and finally 1979's Love on the Run brings divorce and life after a failed marriage. Other than the "7 Up" series, I can't recall a movie character being tracked in real time for two decades in multiple films.The French New Wave also included directors such as Jean-Luc Godard, Claude Chabrol, and Jacques Remy (who appears as a policemen in this movie). These filmmakers used realism to tell their stories at a time when Hollywood was using icons such as James Dean and Marlon Brando to express rebellious youth. This makes for an interesting comparison and fun analysis. Whatever your preference, Truffaut's first feature is clearly an exciting development for cinematic history.


                
The 400 Blows is not a coming-of-age movie, as some reviews suggest. The child protagonist is not necessarily moving toward a deeper understanding of life or preparing to become a fully-functional member of society. He is a largely static character to whom events happen, and the movie follows his attempts to navigate and perhaps exert a limited sort of control over his less-than-ideal circumstances. He lacks any particularly precocious qualities or quirks, so his behavior and manner of expression are not that of some child prodigy. He behaves for the most part as a normal child his age would in similarly-challenging situations, and that makes him more relatable than many adolescent figures in film. I'm not sure I've ever seen better acting from a 14 year old, and the DVD version contains an interesting interview with that actor recorded a year or so after the film wrapped.
A mistake, reflected onto years of petty crime, of absence of family love, and denial are all reflected in the movie 400 Blows. We viewed this movie as a closure for our film appreciation class this year in ninth grade. The purpose of watching this Francois Truffaut film was to get an inside view of the French New Wave, and how it differs from all of the Hollywood films of the time period. The plot is based on a young adolescent who is mistreated, has a lack of love and attention, and how he believes in the inside he was a "mistake". Antoine, the main character, reveals his life to the viewer, making one reflect the reasons behind why he behaves the way he does. The heart-breaking experience is one that the viewer can understand, and get to a point where one has empathy towards Antoine and accepts the story behind a troubled boy.The movie starts by showing an inner aspect of a never-ending cycle, which starts in the point where he faces a scarcity of caring from the family, specifically from the mother, which leads to his behavior problems. This misconduct will foment the mistreatment from the adults. It commences at the school, where Antoine is handed a picture of a lady and his professor punishes him by taking away his recess and demanding him to write that he will not write on the wall again 1000 times give rise to the fact that Antoine will miss school the next day. The fact that he doesn't attend school the morning after will lead to a discovery that will change the relationship between Antoine and his mother. His non-stopping escaping from his own reality will hand him things he never would have expected.The character Antoine Doinel is performed by Jean-Pierre Leaud, reflected by the story of Truffaut, which is later used in several other movies. In my personal opinion, I believe he Leaud engages perfectly with the character and story, making him a perfect choice. The fact that the French New Wave films were based on films closer to the reality of the place, helps Jean-Pierre Leaud fill identified, making it an easier character to perform. His silence throughout the movie makes the viewer focus one's attention in his actions and the reason behind all this quietness. The other actor I believe plays an excellent roll is Claire Maurier, as Gilberte Doinel; Antoine's mother. She is parts of the stereotype of the "sexy, unfaithful blonde", which leads to a couple of events in the film. This events are essential in demonstrating the causes of Antoine's behavior, and that's why it is so important for Maurier to act it out precisely.As to what I personally liked, there are several scenes and elements. I believe there are 3 indispensable details revealed in the film that divulge important parts of Antoine's life and reason of being the way he is. One of these scenes is when Antoine tells the psychologist that his grandmother told him that his mother wanted to abort him, and that it was thanks to her (his grandmother) that he (Antoine) was born. Just this fact creates a feeling in Antoine's mind that he is useless and unwanted. Gilberte also behaves toward him in a way that makes Antoine believe it even more, including the fact that she treats him more like a servant than a son. I also appreciated the fact that Truffaut enfasized certain parts of the story that were important for the viewer to see and understand. One example of this is almost at the end of the film where there is a long scene of him running away. This creates a feeling and and understanding of how long it was for him to obtain the liberty he wanted. A present moral in the film is that no one can judge a person without knowing him/her first, just as the quote states "don't judge a book by its cover." This is a misconception that has always been present in the human lives, when one judges another by his actions or appearance alone. The second part of the lesson is that we need to understand why something is the way it is, because everything has a reason behind it, and eventually try to accept it, or at least understand it. The fact that people, most of the time, judge a person's misbehavior without knowing the reasons behind it, reflect a lack of empathy in the world. Empathy is when one can "get in the shoes" of another person, and understand the situation they are in.I would recommend this movie to a group of people older than twelve years, or in a time that they will be able to understand all the inside detail behind the story, understand the metaphors and the meaning of every feature. To enjoy the movie today, one must be aware that the pace is very different from the Hollywood films of the 21st century. Not only is it necessary to be aware, but to appreciate this kinds of films, because the viewer not only learns about Antoine's story, but also how the people lived in those times. The film is currently unrated, but I believe an accurate rating would be PG-13. Some inappropriate language and behavior is shown, that's why the parental guidance would be necessary, as well the fact that one could need help to divulge the meaning of some scenes.Rating: 8.5/10Mariana is a ninth grade student in the film appreciation class, but is mainly interested in drawing/painting and music. She is dedicated towards what she loves.
"Les Quatre-Cent Coups" is arguably the French filmmaker Truffaut's most personal film, borrowing a great deal from own experiences and people around him or circumstances Truffaut could identify with. The English translation of the title unfortunately doesn't reflect the ambiguity which is prevalent in French, where the idiom "quatre cents coups (du diable)" refers to "impish pranks" or "pieces of mischief" and beatings at the same time. The emphasis does not lie on the latter in the original intention, thus setting the picture in a better context. Be it as it may: Being the first feature of Truffaut after having started out as a film critic, he knows exactly what he wants to do with the material, and it shows as he embraces realism in Paris of the 50s and 60s - real life, everyday people, situations as they happen, right until the minuscule details.What you get with "Les Quatre-Cent Coups" is not a big epic story, it's small things put together. It's a progression, a chain of consequences where cause is followed by effect, with pieces here and there adding to the downward spiral that draws Antoine Doinel more and more into it. He is a boy with hopes and dreams, trying to cope with his life the best as he can given the cards dealt to him on his spinning ride, reacting in a young adolescent's way to counter them, making mistakes, yet also attempting to correct them, nevertheless ending up running, running, running - where to? Truffault just poses the question in intense imagery, unusually long, slow and poetic scenes, with wide children's eyes starring back at the viewer, photographed in splendid black and white. An emotional journey not to be missed.


                
This wonderful film, the spear point of new wave cinema, has many delightful moments. In one of them, Antoine has seen his mother consorting with her boyfriend, a fellow worker. The mother attempts to "make nice" with the 13 year old so that he will not reveal her infidelity to her husband - affectionately tucking him into bed. However, the boy's expression makes it clear that he understands his mother's selfish motive perfectly and is not buying her act.What makes the story so compelling is that Antoine is an intelligent, sensitive and compassionate child. One wants to leap into the film, grab the unfeeling adults by their throats and throttle them to force them to pay attention to him and consider his needs. At the end we realize, as Antoine perhaps also has discovered, that we are all fundamentally alone in a world of self-absorbed people like the adults who so badly neglected and misunderstood this valuable young man.


                
