There's something unedifying about watching a series with good reviews, and quickly discovering not only does it have an agenda, but that this agenda is so clumsy it ruins the show.I'd never heard of writer Wainwright, and approached this with an open mind. But I soon noticed every male character was a degenerate, criminal or scumbag. Meanwhile every female character is a hero, respectable citizen, long suffering wife etc etc. Even the young male child is portrayed as acting like a little brat most of the time.So I looked into Sally Wainwright a little. And surprise surprise she's described as a "feminist writer". It's also no surprise this series was shown on the BBC, which is fast becoming a platform for every kind of anti-male opinion you can imagine.I'm guessing if you're a female, none of this will particularly bother you. And if you're male it might, or might not. Either way, I think it SHOULD bother you because this type of poisonous undercurrent has no place in mainstream entertainment. And personally it completely ruined the show for me. If Wainwright had made the effort to create a more balanced (and realistic!) palette of characters, the show could have been good. But in it's present form, it's a dated example of feminist thinking and not much else.Very disappointing.


                
The third episode of this drama showed an already established 'evil character' kill a substantial supporting character in a gratuitous way. I say substantial because Sarah Lancashire's character is further driven forward by the death of this colleague. Very simple: we know Lancashire is driven because her daughters suicide due to being raped by the man -who commits the murder in ep 3 as outlined above- is there, so why beat the audience emotionally by being gratuitous in episode three?. Just showing the girl get hit -once- then cutting to her laying dead would have been enough. But NO the programme makers showed the girl being driven over and over again. Bad very poor Shock Value programming. Great acting, but very poor direction and editing. Violence is more powerful when its Short Sharp and Quick, not protracted for no intelligent reason.
