I decided some time ago that I would try more new programmes, including those that do not necessarily have recognisable names in the cast, and this was one of those shows I spotted, and I'm really glad I did. Basically set in the valleys of West Yorkshire, Catherine Cawood (Coronation Street's Sarah Lancashire) is a strong-willed police sergeant, over time she has tried to come to terms with the suicide of her daughter, who left behind a nephew, who lives with her and her sister Clare Cartwright (Downton Abbey's Siobhan Finneran). Kevin Weatherill (Steve Pemberton) is accountant who asks for more money from his boss Nevison Gallagher (George Costigan) to help his daughters get into good schools, but when Nevison refuses Kevin decides to get Ashley Cowgill (Joe Armstrong) to orchestrate a kidnapping of Nevison's daughter Ann (Charlie Murphy). It is only at the last minute that Kevin finds out this kidnapping would not need to happen, with Nevison considering an increase in his money, but it is too late, Ashley and drug offender Tommy Lee Royce (James Norton) kidnap Ann and keep her locked and tied up, demanding £1,000,000 from Nevison ransom. Kevin and Nevison do not report the kidnapping to the police, and Kevin tells his wife Jenny (Julia Ford) of the situation, all they can think of doing is keeping the ransom money he receives, but slowly Catherine becomes involved with the crime as she becomes suspicious of Tommy, who she has seen around, and she knows his criminal record. Catherine blames Tommy for her daughter's suicide, after he raped her and made her pregnant, eventually the secret kidnapping is discovered by Catherine and the police, and the situation becomes increasingly dangerous when Tommy finds out he is the father to the Catherine's nephew and he gets closer to the child. Also starring Shane Zaza as Shafiq Shah, Adam Long as Lewis Whippey, Rhys Connah as Ryan Cawood, Jill Baker as Helen Gallagher, Derek Riddell as Richard Cawood, Ishia Bennison as Joyce, Hannah John-Kamen as Justine, Amer Nazir as Twiggy and Kelly Harrison as Ros Cawood. Lancashire gives a great performance as the determined police woman, usually in comedy Pemberton proves himself as a great serious actor, and the other members of the cast all play their parts well too. I have seen a few kidnap dramas before, but this one was written and performed so well that it flowed with realism, all six episodes were really gripping, and it was not afraid to be controversial with its shocking scenes, including swearing, rape and violence, I'm not surprised a second series is being considered, a brilliant crime drama. Very good!
I just watched 5 of the 6 episodes of this show back to back. Tomorrow I'll watch the final episode, I'm delaying it till then because I want to prolong the end of this fantastic series. I will miss it.I am pleased to see that there are more men who appreciate the many many sterling qualities of this series and haven't succumbed to some resentful peevish whining about how they portrayed all the men as horrible and all the women as lovely. (which is not at all true anyway). First of all, there is no historical tradition of portraying men as horrible set up by women just to annoy men. In fact, until very recently it was always WOMEN who were portrayed negatively. Now that women are slowly making more of an impact on the big & little screen - and are sharing the way THEY see the world (and men in particular) the blokes aren't looking as heroic & the women are looking a little more sympathetic. Inevitably some men are going to whine and moan about the male characters being violent, whiney, unfaithful, greedy etc but I hate to break it to you fellas ..... THIS IS ALL TRUE TO LIFE. I know it was nicer when you guys ruled the screen & could manipulate things to show the boys in their best light but those days are starting to fade into the distance along with short pants & analogue telephones. The female characters in this series are equally flawed but we get to see the positive as well as the negative and like the guys, they are all multi-dimensional and all too human.Don't let the negative reviews from the cry-baby blokes put you off. This is one hell of a good series.


                
The Brits have a way with crime dramas and it isn't just the gray overcast horizon. No, free of the Hollywood shine there's a palpable sense of struggling with the added weight of bad people intersecting, and changing, the lives of everyday folk. In a very personal struggle we find a survivor, a mother and a police woman, who rises to be more<U+0085>a real heroine.I was drawn to Happy Valley on a TV sight that said something like it was a "across the pond" slight relative of the American TV series Fargo. After completing it I have to say not so much. It isn't really too similar at all though I must say I thoroughly enjoyed Fargo as I did Happy Valley. Stripped of the cleverness of Hollywood it trades a gritty story you feel is just much more real. The series rides on the many times perfect performance of Sarah Lancashire as police detective Catherine Cawood. Cawood carries the load and is supported with a spot-on cast morphing her from a mother whose daughter committed suicide after giving birth to a illegitimate son (Catherine, his grandmother, is raising him) to become not only a survivor, but a real heroine in her seemingly unlikely role as a police officer. I don't want to give the story away except to say it is built, and evolves, powerfully. One must watch in sometimes graphic detail how criminals and innocent people, some who become criminals quite unexpectedly, intersect until our unlikely heroine saves the day and finally comes to real healing herself.Also of note is the performance of James Norton as criminal Tommy Lee Royce. The Brits do this kind of gritty crime drama brilliantly. A hearty recommendation here.
I really like this show,and will binge watch if all the episodes are up. I like the realism and the acting is outstanding. I just finished the whole season 2 and found it compelling, from the twists and turns of "Tom" the detective, to the weird love interest of Tommy Royce and the little woman who was obsessed with him. I did not see the end game coming at all with who the serial killer turned out to be. It was nice to see a few "Hogwart's" alumni in the mix as well. I only have one slight issue, and its just being picky. There is no way that a slight, even though completely mad cow, could have drugged and then dragged an unconscious man into a hotel room. The impossibility of that struck me right away, as she had a lot of difficultly getting him to the car when he was able to assist with walking. Also the "suicide" was a bit comical. That was a damn high tree branch... but of course it was obviously not a suicide. Clare's drunk rage was so authentic, everyone with an alcohol issue should watch that.
For some reason when I was watching this BBC series (now streaming on Netflix) I kept thinking Sgt Catherine Cawood as an older and cantankerous version of Adele. The physical resemblance is not only there for all to see, but even the "fug-care" personality fits. This is an Adele with no more hit songs in her and the world has forgotten who she was. This is an Adele who then goes on an everyday eating spree, angry with the world and then she becomes a detective in a small town in England. Yeah! I can totally see that!Catherine Cawood's best days seemed to be over. After the death of her daughter, her life spirals into a tailspin. She still finds herself functioning as an effective sergeant in a Yorkshire police station, but every other part of her life is non-existent and she becomes a shell shutting out everything and everyone around her. She has a sister who is a recovering heroin addict, a son whom she doesn't speak to, a grandson who hates her and an ex-hubby whom she continues to have car sex with. But as a police officer, she continues to be a full-blooded person.I like this 6-episode series a lot but I only started to love it from the heart-wrenching third episode onwards. The series doesn't depend on huge twists and turns to tell an ill-fated crime story. There is no gloss, everything is dreary and grimy. Violence of every type happens but they are not underscored by graphic visuals and heightened cues. Most of the time, violence happens off-screen and your mind will go on an adrenaline rush to fill in the blanks. It does it amazingly well because it makes you care about the characters first.Make no mistake, the reason the series worked is because of Sarah Lancashire. The entire crime drama rested on her frumpy shoulders and she carried it all the way to the finishing line. In the course, I celebrated in delight and sank into sad oblivion together with her. What a superbly drawn character! The story is not much of a big deal and you can certainly liken it to the crime gone awry storyline of Fargo, but the similarity ends there. One can liken the American series to a glossy twist-galore in the digital domain, but Happy Valley is all about the analogue and trust me, there is nothing happy about it.PS - You will need subtitles with this because the Yorkshire accent is very thick


                
I wrote my last review only on s1. 
S2 finished abruptly and with 15 mins left to go in the final episode I found myself checking to make sure I was actually on the last episode as I didn't see how the two main threads were going to be wrapped up.Keeping this spoiler-free, the major thread (i.e the murder) had an unrealistic and amateur ending. The minor thread (dad-son) was also pathetically ended and I felt particularly cheated. The minor thread was entirely a waste of time and they may as well not have even bothered to include that one to end it like they did. Deserved more episodes and a proper ending to both.


                
I enjoyed the show from the first moment where we see Catherine Cawood the lead police officer talking down a drugged up suicidal guy in a park. As with other gritty British dramas the character development is slow and real. You understand each character very well.I would say that I found the sheer evilness of one male character so brutal and violent. Then I've seen some other reviews here about a feminist agenda and I can see it through all the episodes. Every man is a bad person (with the exception of one who's just weak and vaccilous); every woman is a sweetheart hurt or abused by men in the past or present and trying to keep it all together. A bit more balance would have been nice.


                
The acting is phenomenal, I think I read somewhere that Sally Wainwright (the creator of the show) worked with Susan Lancashire on a past project and was quite taken with her, to the extent of creating Happy Valley as a project for Lancashire to star in. And blow you away, she does, as many other reviewers have already said it, Lancashire doesn't rely on big flashy displays. It's little details like the slightest upturn of her mouth and the way she stares, the tightly, controlled manner she speaks in, the weary tone of voice and the way she holds herself together so wounded up, to show you what she's feeling precisely in that moment. This is the first show I've had the pleasure of watching her in it and it'll certainly not be the last. James Norton who plays Tommy makes you want to toss him about and flay him alive but he plays his villainous role with a subtlety I didn't expect, giving us the many different facets of Tommy and an insight into the man he becomes.What I loved about the writing:-Catherine is a character so unabashedly frank with herself (and really, to us viewers as well) She doesn't have a saviour complex, she does things basically because she is there and she couldn't not have just left it as it was. Cawood doesn't do the self-loathing trope that many other protagonists have done as well, she definitely feels guilt, but she understands where it comes from and doesn't try to take on more blame than she knows she is responsible for. And I appreciate that very much, It becomes extremely annoying to me, for a character to self-guilt only for the rest of the people around them to constantly validate their feelings and emotions etc. I like just how matter of fact Cawood treats everything, it feels grounded and realistic, it feels exactly like what I would feel in such a situation. Many times, other protagonists, I find, overdo the intensity of their emotions, making it somewhat harder to associate with them. (But of course, this is just my opinion) And even though she's jaded and cynical, there isn't a lack of warmth coming from her, she's emotional, sometimes so far-flung and desperate, and at other times comforting and safe. (and Lancashire conveys this so utterly brilliantly.)-the fact that Catherine is meticulous to a fault. In S1 when Kevin visits the station to try to stop the kidnap but drives off in the end without doing so, Cawood, unlike most other officers in other police procedurals, actually takes down the car number and follows it up with a check on the driver. She even phones her ex-husband up to ask around about Kevin. And again, when Helen chickens out about reporting the kidnapping, Cawood immediately follows it up by asking her sister to phone her and takes it a step further by driving down to talk to her face to face. She follows most of her gut instincts (poking into the house that Tommy first held Ann in, and immediately asking Tommy's mum to open her cellar door holding the 'dog' etc) , making it doubly satisfying for viewers who're probably screaming obscenities at the screen, telling her to open this door or that. Cawood is astute, fastidious, tough as hell and just about everything that people have been braying for in our protagonists. She makes me want to proclaim that yes, yes! this, is what we've been asking for, for so long.-And of course, the brilliant storyline, paced well on a 6 episodic format. The start was a little slow, in order to give our protagonist enough background context, and from episode 2 onwards, it's a wild ride from start to finish. The characters are all well fleshed out, not cardboard cutout villains (I do wish Ashley could have been given a bit more of a character arc but perhaps it would have been a little squeezy within 6 episodes?.) I am so pleased that I decided to watch this on a whim, and in an industry where police procedurals have become rather stale and uninspired, Happy Valley is an eye-opener, it does not fall into stereotypical potholes, its writing is nuanced and complex in tackling human emotions, it is just a joy to watch it from start to end. (I look back on some of the other cop shows I've watched and they all seem to be left so far behind now that I've watched this)
I really am enjoying this series but the editor, director, whomever decided to make this choice to have a long high pitched note ring everytime the main actress is having a panic attack. Listen y'all she's a good enough actress to convey a panic attack without you playing this note that instantly gives me a headache. If it happens much more I'm dropping the series. It is that abnoxious and painful. If you're sensitive to that thing, stay clear of this show.


                
Not too impressed w/season 1, but much better in season 2.
In one respect it gets a bit tiresome to see the same plot structure repeated endlessly of odd or slightly dysfunctional cops w/issues solving the usual crimes. Often made worse w/poor research by writers on investigative forensics, etc. However, such genres can be rescued w/great acting; intelligent dialogue; intelligent & unexpected twists & non-formula, yet believable, outcomes, relations & interactions. Thus describes this Unhappy Valley. One of the few, and I've seen most, that I now look forward to another year


                
Loved the first series which i found using netflix , very excited for this one. However I felt the last series ended perfectly


                
Dark side of Barneby + A british Fargo, binged the first season in two nights.


                
I loved how this series combined edge of the seat drama with a bit of Yorkshire down to earth charm. Sarah Lancashire plays the lead brilliantly well. There are several linked subplots and I was quite sad to see it all end.A few reviews on here touch on how the male characters were all portrayed badly. Well I'm as anti-feminist as anyone but I genuinely didn't feel that. There are numerous flawed female characters as well as males, and I don't feel writers should ever feel obliged to gender balance the nastiness!


                
6/11/18. Little did I realize when I started this series that I would be a fan of the somewhat awkward in social skills, but super detective, Catherine Cawood. Despite her private life and family issues, she is a tough cop who gets the job done. The two seasons just flew by. I hope to see more Cawood. Kudos to Lanchashire and Finneran as the supportive but somewhat needy sister. One of the best British detective series around (along with Marcella and Luther).


                
Probably the most ironic title ever, considering how depressing this UK policer is. That said, it features one of the greatest lead characters and performance thereof. Sergeant Catherine Cawood is compelling, believable, heroic, competent, troubled, and utterly human as she goes about her duties in what appears to be a bucolic town that is plagued with all the evils we find in every metropolis today. Her courage, heart, and empathy is the theme of this violent drama, as in many great cop shows, she is the thin blue line against the evil that lurks in the hearts of men and women...


                
very well done dramatic series. Acting is really superb as is the cinematography. Main character actor, Sarah Lancashire, can express a huge amount of acting just with facial features. Truly admirable. It is, however, very violent, with beatings, knifings, rape. First season reminds me of Fargo(the movie) quite a bit, but lacks the humor that the Coens brought to that. So, all in all, very, very well done, but you do need either a quick hand on the fast forward or a strong stomach to take some of the scenes. A question arises about these police dramas....why can't there be more ones on political corruption and simple burglary rings and that? I think that this type of plot would have ample possibilities to develop interesting characters and dramatic scenes/dialog without some of the awfulness of what transpires in this series. Just sayin....


                
***Contains spoilers*** Happy valley is an English drama series, which centres on the life and work of Catherine Cawood, a police sergeant in a rural Yorkshire valley. Catherine is a real character with believable flaws and family which needs her, and she does everything for them. Well, the family that she has left. She lives with her sister Clare, a recovering alcoholic, and her grandson Ryan. Ryan's mother Rebecca, Catherine's daughter, had been raped and killed herself after giving birth to Ryan. Her death, and the reason for her suicide affect Catherine's life in a number of ways. She divorced her husband who was unable to face living with Ryan, but who she is still intimate with. In the first season of the show Catherine investigates the kidnapping of a young woman, a daughter of a local business man. The investigation opens her own wounds when the man who raped her daughter becomes suspect. This show has a lot going for it: complex characters, ever moving and interesting plot line, and also some great acting. It is intense, intelligent and well written. Season 2 didn't stay behind its predecessor. I think I've enjoyed it even more than the first one. Hopefully we can expect to see season 3 as it would be a shame for it to end with only 2 seasons.
Like Scandinavians, the will and power of the Brits to produce both interesting and seamless crime series have not faded away - Happy Valley is another fine example of it. And things are realistic, happening at present, in a small English county with its ups-and-downs, yet not making the place on the harshest crime spots of the world (as it sometimes seems when following Miss Marple's and Morse-Lewis' activities :) ).Catherine Cawood (splendidly performed by Sarah Lancashire) is a strong-willed sergeant in West Yorkshire whose personal issues have sometimes deepening, the other times weakening influences on her job and attitudes towards people close to her, providing the versatile "leitmotif" with intense and thrilling undertones. When a small whim develops into a severe crime, nothing is the same again, neither the people involved nor the circumstances, and the viewers have to follow all this attentively (preferably watching all episodes in succession). Perhaps the result/solution is not so witty as in some other Danish-Swedish or British series, but, however, its grade of realism is higher.So, the series is recommended to all those fond on intense crime dramas. I will definitely watch the Season 2 when ready## I did - good as well.


                
Happy Valley is better than the average cops and robbers fare that comes out of the UK. This show takes a more down to earth, subtle approach to police crime drama. The characterizations show real, flawed people, who don't always do the right thing and don't have all the answers. This applies to both the cops and, of course, the offenders they come into contact with. Mercifully there is not a lot of the usual preachy politically correct, nonsense on offer either. This show does not come across as entertainment, designed to reinforce the status quo. The story lines are mostly convincing, if occasionally, a little overstated or inexplicable. This series is gritty at times but not overtly violent, making for a refreshing change of pace. There's a good amount of simple humour on offer at times too, to lighten the series darker moments. All in all, Happy Valley is an above average UK series you will enjoy if you like down to earth, convincing, police drama's. Eight out of ten from me.


                
A "Fargo" "borrowing" of a female cop with all the clichés of family, romance issues on a heavily time prolonged (need to fill the hours for tele's sake) droning on detective series. Our lives must be boring to be filled with endless crime TV offerings. Anyway, the overused safe plot of a kidnapping for ransom with usual discord and disconnect between perpetrators and hostage's family. Outside of one or two camera angle enhanced fight scenes not much happens as far as violence. It is the UK so guns are a no-no (supports the argument for gun registration) thus knives are the weapon du-jour. Ends as you would expect after viewing the first hour.


                
