This drama series is indescribably good. What takes place in the first 10 min of episode 3 has left me, a very brave and unflinching movie/TV watcher, shocked to the core. I was so upset that I had to pause the show to regain my composure. Sarah Lancashire's portrayal of Catherine Cawood is leaving me in awe and I find myself counting the days to the next episode. It is impossible not to feel her passion for policing, her incredible pain at the lost of her daughter and the disappointment she has in her failed marriage and ex husband. The fury I feel towards Kevin Weatherill for his stupid and selfish act that culminates in the horror that is this show, is testament to Steve Pemberton's brilliant acting. If you do not watch this series you are seriously missing out on maybe the best ever detective show made in the UK.
I've only just realised what a great actress Sarah Lancashire is (I last saw her as a dizzy blonde in Coronation Street!). In the whole range of the Happy Valley character its the silences, those long lingering close-ups of her face as it conveys everything she doesn't have to say. One minute you feel sorry for the poor sod; next your laughing at the characters directness; next your almost in tears as she drives to hold herself together in the face of crippling memories. The story itself it terrific but sitting in the middle is Catherine Cawood, the dedicated, honest, seen-it-all-before, no-nonsense copper. The writer who opened the story with the confrontation with a smack-head allowed some cracking dialogue to kick the series off and show us the character we will grow to like and care for. The BAFTA's hers!


                
This was not a show that I expected to be blown away with, although I am a long term fan of Sarah Lancashire, and with Sally Wainwright involved I should have expected it to be good.This is beyond good, if you don't get hooked and wanting more after the first episode you probably should not be watching.There are so many good things to say about this show that I run out of words, but one word that sums up how I feel is gob-smacked.Having watched 4 out of the 6 episodes so far, I have to say that it has been quite a while since I wished that the days would speed by so I can get my mitts on the next episode.


                
My wife and I were surfing the net one lazy Sunday afternoon and I found Happy Valley on Netflix. BBC television frequently has shows we enjoy so we pulled it up and began watching the series. It's started off slow and it takes a bit to catch up with the language and how it flows but we're good at understanding the dialog. The longer we watched the more we became engrossed in the story line. I'm a retired cop after 30 years on the job and yes there were some minor flaws in basic cop stuff but I'm forgiving ....it's a show, not reality. The writing and acting were impeccable. The story flows and the many strands of the story began to come into one main story. We recommend you just sit and watch as it unfolds, you will enjoy the story. The individual actors had their characters spot on and really developed their individualism. Human behavior and rationalization of ones actions were mingled throughout the characters. Despicable, weak minded individuals, criminal types and then the sociopath one that really stands out from the minor league criminals...it's all in this show. Honestly, we watched the entire series ( 6 hours ) in one afternoon and evening. I've already checked and noted that the BBC has renewed the show for another season so we can see the Sergeant build her character even more, along with the supporting cast.


                
I expected something slow paced, in the vein of The Killing. Not at all, but it's absorbing and tense from the start, very mainstream-accessible, and always intriguing. The acting from all involved is pretty excellent, especially Sarah Lancashire. An amazing performance, one that I hope gets serious awards recognition next year. I ultimately liked this more than I expected to, it's easy to get caught up in its plot and I also think that it does a great job moving it along at a surprisingly fast pace while also having some fantastic character moments. At times it gets a bit too over-the-top in its melodrama, but it never actually fails to emotionally hit home. I'm super ecstatic that it's coming back for a second season.


                
I don't know where to start from but if you are looking for an intense well acted, well directed, unique and an intense plot-line this is for you. I loved the complexity of the main character and the actress totally nailed the role. A great thing about this series is how the characters felt very real and flawed just like people in real life. There is decent amount of violence. I hope more people get to see the series cause it has great potential. This series deserves as much recognition and praise as True Detective to be honest. I am sure if it were on HBO people would have been going crazy about it. Cinematography is great too.


                
Liked the first season, liked the second season. Felt they wrapped it up too quickly after having plenty of time, the ending kinda was sprung on you. Nevertheless enjoyable television. Would watch a third season


                
Excellent binge worthy material! One of the best written crime series out there. Realistic, suspenseful, characters that make you care and crimes that will make you question humanity. Definitely recommended.


                
I was tempted to give it a 10. It really is excellent. Superb acting, story, cinematography and editing. It is so much better than something like "True Detective" if I can compare the two. I am always incredibly impressed by the TV shows that come out of the BBC. They have impressed me by their intelligent comedy in "Last Tango in Halifax" and "Episodes". Now I'm blown away by the drama. I'm not sure if this is a good recommendation but, this show is so suspenseful and nerve wracking that I have been having nightmares! The complex interrelationships keeps me riveted. I've only watched the first three episodes of Season 1 but looking forward the the rest. One must watch the complete first episode before making a judgement. Once you finish this one, you will be hooked.


                
What starts out as a simple story in a sleepy little town quickly devolves into horror and violence, thanks to a disgruntled, middle-aged accountant who whines about his lot in life. Enter the jaded, divorced, tough-as-nails cop, Catherine, and her dysfunctional family, including her grandson, the product of her daughter's rape. In the first episode Catherine is kicked in the face by a drug addict, so that should give you a taste of the following episodes. Everything in this show is ugly and cynical, the sweet moments are few and far between; it's a policewoman's world filled with murder, drug addicts, and kidnappings, and it all shows in Sarah Lancashire's marvelous facial expressions. Sometimes we all feel as tired as she looks.The show is a bit formulaic, with echoes of Fargo (the TV show and the film), and some of the situations are a bit over-the-top, but the acting is top-notch, and I'm talking about every actor on the show, even the little kid. If you're not shocked by blood, drug abuse, violence, rape, a bullet-to-the-face, and constant swearing, you might enjoy this tight, well-told gem of a series.
Excelente. Sublime. Humana, calidamente humana. Una de mis ¿5? series favoritas. Imprescindible.
Maravillosa.


                
I completey LOVE this show, very worth watching! But I cannot get over:
Season 1: even though Ryans father is a psychopath and serial killer whose location is unknown, she lets him start biking home from school without a chaperone?!? Knowing Tommy Lee Royce had just found out that he had a son?!? She's smarter than that! Come on!
And Season 2:
Ryan gets a mysterious package for his birthday on the doorstep. For all they know its a bomb, it could be anything from anyone...but she just lets him rip it open and play with it and doesn't even rush to read the card or even consider the possibility it could be from his Dad? It's just silly...
Otherwise this show is super captivating with great actors and I hope there's more to come!
This is a very complex police show and I enjoy the characters and story lines, personal and business problems.


                
The only reason I'm not giving this 10 stars is because it is highly unlikely that crimes of this type take place in sleepy little towns such as theirs, but putting that aside, I am in love with this series.The acting is amazing, it flows so naturally, as if I'm watching a documentary at times, the characters are perfect. James Norton is great, but Sarah Lancashire amazes me with the ease she falls into character. I would place bets on the fact that she is a bit of a d*ck when she goes home, just because she's so perfect in this. I've never seen her before (I heard she was a soap star) and I feel honoured to see her in this.


                
Probably enough written about this series, well worth the high score it gets. I


                
I'm not much of a reviewer, if I like something I rate it high and leave it at that. I felt compelled to say a few words about Happy Valley though. Catherine is deep, rich, flawed, REAL character. So well done. There is a large amount of masterful character development, especially Catherine. As a mother, an ex-wife, a sister, grandmother and employee. There's just so few characters like this on TV or anywhere really. Drug culture was fairly prevalent but could have fleshed out more. There's much more to it than was portrayed but, that wasn't the point of the show and there actually was a bit more of a complex portrayal than it seems. The drug dealing isn't glorified, the business isn't portrayed with flash. I didn't find it off the mark, just, skimmed over.I enjoyed this series and can't wait for a second instalment. Highly recommend to those who like cop dramas with a twist.
Truly first class British drama. Similar to gritty Danish noir dramas like The Killing and The Bridge. The acting is absolutely first rate. It feels sometimes that it could almost be a documentary - so authentic and real. The story lines are very engaging and are centred around the main character and her family. I'm not a copper but given the obvious attention to detail and focus on realism I expect it's pretty true to procedure. There's certainly no glaringly obvious departures from reality like in so many other cop shows. The lead actress, Sarah Lancashire, puts in a stunning performance. Her character is very complex and SL's portrayal of such a variety of scenes and emotions is stunning. There's not a bad minute of acting by anyone in the show though. Even minor roles are performed so genuinely. I loved season 1 but season 2 was even better, perhaps because of the growing familiarity with the characters. Well worth a watch!


                
I live in Canada but am British originally so I take a keen interest in all shows from Britain. Unfortunately, we are getting fewer Brit shows on Canadian TV nowadays so I was forced to watch Happy Valley on my daughter's mini ipad from Netflix. But I have to say it was the most entertaining six hours and I was blown away at how brilliant it was from start to finish.I did not realize that the writer, Sally Wainwright, is also the force behind another of my favourite TV shows, Scott and Bailey, but she has got to be one of (if not the most) talented writers on British telly right now. Kudos to her for this fantastic programme AND major kudos to Sarah Lancashire. I swear I have seen much of her work and I have never disliked her in anything. She is a wonderful actress, one of the best in the world (imho). Can't believe she got her start on a soap (Corrie St) just like Suranne Jones, the lead on Scott and Bailey. Both those actresses are terrific and have come a long way! I would have given it a 10 but I had a few issues. Firstly, I don't recall police officers being allowed to go to situations by themselves, they are always supposed to be in duos. So the fact that the young police officer faced the driver of the white van by herself was dodgy, but especially Sgt Cawood going down into the suspect's mother's cellar was a huge NO! I literally screamed at the ipad telling her to call it in and wait for assistance, although' I realize this is probably done for the drama and suspense. Also, I can't imagine Ann, the kidnap victim (or any kidnap victim), being able to get both herself and the Sgt away from the perp. and house so quickly after being holed up and drugged for days on end. But I think my main problem was Clare and Catherine letting 8-yr-old Ryan go home by himself from school KNOWING full well his murdering dad was still on the loose and also KNOWING he wanted to have contact with his son.However, those issues aside here is what I admired: the acting was sublime - from all parties. I particularly loved how each character's perspective was explored and we saw all the grey areas; nothing is black and white. For example, Kevin vacillating from knowing what he's initiated is wrong to justifying the crime and blaming everyone else for the fallout. And not only him but his wife too, when she agrees to keep their share of the ransom money. Another example would be the rapist and murderer: Catherine's journalist ex-husband explains to her that Tommy probably isn't a true psychopath but someone who doesn't know better from having a crappy childhood which we, the audience, know from seeing his drugged-up mother in action. Then we learn much later that he and Catherine's dead daughter, Becky, were actually having a relationship of sorts. The plotting of the storyline; the timing and execution just top notch from beginning to end. At first you got the impression that Sgt Cawood was a super hero and perfect but by the end we realized she had many flaws, yet we still rooted for her. I also liked how this was not London-based. Along with shows like Vera and Gently other parts of the British isles are being featured and I love it! More of that please.Simply put, I was hooked from the very first minute to the last. Enthralling television and it makes anything I've watched on American TV pale in comparison. If they ever remake this in America you can bet that the actress who plays the lead will be beautiful and fully made up at all times. Yuck!
If Happy Valley, the BBC TV series, had a kind of American counterpart it could easily be Fargo. The drama plays off the strangeness how a person, a very mature solid upright person, can be suddenly thrust into quite a seriously dark place by a bit of chance and their own volition. It's an interesting premise even if not extremely original in and of itself. The BBC does dramas such as Happy Valley in a style that is more driven by plot than character. This isn't to say the actors/actresses don't have leeway with their roles, but the story is central. That said I like the way the Brit TV folks steer away from glamor in building a cast to tell a story. There's no "Hollywood" feel, rather gritty and real roles played by thespians not "stars". Happy Valley explores how easy is can be for a that dark-side a person has kept at bay so well can surface. It is sometimes involving an intersection of two sides of the law that, for the most part, exist separately. There is a lot of mental anguish and ample blow back that can go any number of ways. Plenty of twists and turns which are quite realistic. Don't be surprised if you find yourself quickly catching up on this relatively unknown on "this side of the pond" show.


                
Incredibly heartfelt. A true binge-worthy series. Each characters narrative is so multifaceted.. you hate the antagonist yet you feel for him.. you love the heroine yet she makes you truely angry. The creator of this series understands the human spirit in all its complexities and that good/evil can and never will exist in a vacuum.


                
Very rarely is a shows second season better than the first.


                
Raw edged, thrilling and engaging. Drenched in the local Yorkshire area, the characters seem to come all natural, ripped out of real life, full of human strengths and weaknesses. The story line has, for me, the right balance between rate of evolution and depth. This combination really has me engaged. Side note: season two has a couple of weak characters, rendering it lees interesting than season one.


                
