I love Orson Welles and Joseph Cotton, either together or singularly in movies. This one I saw for the first time a few years ago on TCM. They played it again this morning.If there was a way to play a movie on "Mute," and still get the gist of the acting, I would do it. What a horrific decision to make use of a Zither as the major music score. The repetitive pounding of the same score was maddening! In case you have any tympanic membrane left, be forewarned....A "Zither" is a musical instrument that sounds like a cross between a Mandolin and a Screeching Cat. The music goes loud, then low (during a funeral), fast then slow.... but rarely stops for more than 5 minutes at a time. It's the same tune too. Forget waterboarding: just play this music score to your enemy and they'll beg you to take their secret info.The movie is often shown in angles, as though they tilted the camera. Tall shadows of unknown persons in the city at night were supposed to add to the thriller aspect. Oh yeah, it seems that this city is always empty except for the movie crew and actors. Odd.I thought the movie was fine, but not worthy of most accolades. Just a modest post-war thriller of sorts. Orson Welles shows up in the last third of the movie. The thrill part comes mostly from his interaction with Joseph Cotton and others, and the plot point is finally revealed. Big Deal!! Geez....I don't think I've ever spent so much room of a review on the music alone. BUT It's the music that jangles every nerve in my body and ruins what otherwise would have been a good movie experience.
This movie is like a painting that someone declares a "masterpiece". Paintings that look like a 4 year old did it but people who really know paintings say it is a masterpiece, then you got some fool paying millions of dollars for something that looks like somebody drank a bunch of paint and barfed it onto a canvas. I know, I know, Im just not educated and cultured enough to understand you say. No, I like what I like and don't like what i don't like. Anyway, first off it was like the experience I had watching another "masterpiece" Citizen Kane. When it was over I was kind of angry, what a waste of time, I kept waiting for it to get "great" right up till it was over and it never did. How can people think this is so Great! It is not great! It is not even good. From now on anything with Orson Wells name on it I WONT WATCH!! His films were bombs at the box office for a reason, because there aren't enough real smart cultured people on earth to go watch it and make it profitable. Even if the movie had been great it is hard to watch because there is a "Zither" being played during most of the film. This is supposed to be the score. It is awful, it sounds totally ridiculous paired to what was going on in the movie. It is funny to read the 10 star reviews here who have been brainwashed about what constitutes great art. They actually rave about the score being one of the greatest all time. Give me a break! I guess if there had been a kazoo playing zip-i-Dee do-DA all through the movie it would have been ground breaking too. Come on people, think for yourselves. If you ask me instead of the title The Third Man, it should be titled The Turd Man for two reasons. One, they spend a lot of time running around in the sewers of Vienna, and two the movie stinks!


                
