I don't know why this movie always hooks me the way it does; it's obviously a masterpiece and a revered piece of British/American cinema - but that alone is not the reason (there are other such masterpieces which fail to have that effect on me). Maybe it's the setting: the beautiful city of Vienna right after World War II, the scars of the most devastating conflict in human history still visible at every corner. Or it's the contrast between the eerily happy music tune - which plays throughout the entire film - and the dark, tragic story of murder and betrayal which I find so strangely captivating. Whatever it is, I just love this movie.'The Third Man' now has more than 60 years on its back, but its age hardly shows. Despite the story's dark themes, the general mood of the narrative is rather light, sometimes darkly funny, and the slightly cynical tone and morally ambiguous characters give the movie a very modern feel. What also stands out and makes the film memorable - in addition to the fantastic soundtrack - is the outstanding, Accademy Award winning cinematography. Black and white has rarely looked better. The way DOP Robert Krasker plays with unusual angles and virtually "paints" this city of Vienna with light and shadow, he adds an almost expressionistic quality to the film. I always felt that the city plays an essential part in the story, - a key character if you will - with its damaged buildings reflecting the damaged human characters. The recent war is a looming presence throughout the film, and to me this is as much a story about the desensitizing effect of war on people as it is a murder mystery. And there is yet another quality to the film which needs to be mentioned: it's very entertaining. 'The Third Man' has fantastic pacing and there is simply not a dull moment in it. To sum up my overall impressions, this is one of those rare occasions where everything just falls right into place and helps create a unique film experience: Carol Reed's masterful direction and the wonderful performances by the fantastic actors (Joseph Cotten, Trevor Howard, Alida Valli and Orson Welles); the beautiful soundtrack by Anton Karas; the gorgeous cinematography by Robert Krasker, and, perhaps most importantly, the story and screenplay by Graham Greene with its unexpected twists and turns (although the unusual, iconic ending wasn't Greene's idea). A true work of art and highly enjoyable entertainment: 10 stars out of 10.Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-Known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-Movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/
The Third Man is a movie that looks and feels not like a movie of the 40s, but like a neo-noir of the late 60s/early 70s. This wonderful example of classic noir is one of the all time greatest films. It combines amazing visuals, sounds, dialogue, and acting to tell a thrilling story and comment about the atmosphere after WWII.Of all the movies durring the studio era (pre-1960ish), there are three movies with cinematography that always stick out in my mind: Gregg Toland's work in Citizen Kane, Russel Mety's work in Touch of Evil, and Robert Krasker's work in The Third Man (all starring Orson Welles funny enough). I just recently saw a restored 35mm version of The Third Man. The crisp black and white visuals of a bombed out Vienna are so breath-taking. Shadows are everywhere. The unique way Krasker tilts the camera in some shots adding to the disorientation of the plot. And who can forget the first close-up of Welles with the light from an apartment room above splashing onto his face; one of the great entrances in movie history (Lime gives his old friend a smile that only Welles could give).The cinematography is backed by strong performances by Welles, Cotten, and italian actress Vali. The writing of Greene is wonderful; you can see the plot twisting around Cotten tightly. But what makes The Third Man so great is its historical commentary (well not really historical since it was commenting on its own time, but to us it is historical). On one level The Third Man is a story of betrayal and corruption in a post-war, occupied Vienna. On the other hand, its giving the audience a glimpse of the mood of Europe after the great war. The uncertainty that the Cold War was bringing is evident through out the film; Cotten is constantly trying to figure out who to trust. Vienna is on the frontier of the new communist bloc (we even see the communists infiltrating Vienna trying to bring Vali back to her native Czechoslavakia). The zither music score combined with the stark images of bombed out Vienna are reminiscent of the frontier towns of American Westerns. So The Third Man is not only a wonderful film noir, but a unique look at the brief time between WWII and the height of the Cold War.


                
"The Third Man" is generally considered as the best British film ever (e.g. British Film Institute 1999 poll, Sight & Sound polls). It is a landmark in worldwide cinema notably for its unique mix of genres: historical, thriller, comedy, tragedy. And it is a brilliant reflection about ethics.The movie is not adapted from a pre-existing book: when Graham Greene was tasked to write the screenplay, he wrote a novel to have a fully consistent plot that he immediately adapted for the screen. As Greene modestly admitted in the preface he wrote afterwards: "The film in fact, is better than the story because it is in this case the finished state of the story." The book and the movie plots are very similar, although there are a few significant variances: for instance, the novel is narrated by the Major and ends differently (on the latter, more below).*** WARNING: CONTAINS SPOILERS ***The movie starts as a historical account of post-war Vienna. The opening speech portrays chaos in Europe. The plot revolves around black market, some relatively harmless (clothes, watches, IDs, etc.), some deadly: penicillin, which is historically accurate. Life is random like a roll of dice... which Anna symbolically plays in Harry's apartment. Throughout the film, we see different parts of Vienna, once a splendour of culture and history, partly destroyed as many major cities were. Depiction is realistic, we are lost like Holly is: many dialogues are in German without subtitles. Some scenes are tragic, notably the one in the children's hospital.Rapidly, the movie evolves into a thriller. Was Harry victim of an accident or a murder? Who was the third man? This mystery remains unsolved, although it could be Harry himself. Then the porter is also murdered and Holly closely escapes assassination. There are three chases (Holly and Anna, Holly, Harry).The comical elements are continuously present, except at the end. Holly is a small-time writer of cheap novels, getting drunk, attracting trouble and failing with women. The excellent score adds a sarcastic tone to the whole story (although it is sometimes too present and partly spoils scenes that would have been better off silent; also this reduces the impact of music when needed).The combination of these styles is easy but efficient. One example: when the military are tracking Harry<U+0085> a balloon-seller barges in! Another: Holly is brutally driven by a taxi to an unknown destination and thinks he will be killed (thriller). But he is actually dropped at a conference<U+0085> that is a disaster (comedy). However two killers show up so he has to run (thriller)<U+0085> and gets bitten by a parrot (comedy).Above all these elements, the motif of good versus evil is dominant. We see a shattered world that has lost its moral compass. Some cynically take advantage, some stick to their values: Harry and Holly, once friends, are antagonists.But is it so simple? Holly is on the good side, yet because of his blunders the porter and the Sergeant get killed. The "righteous" Major blackmails Anna: information or deportation by the Soviets. Anna loves the criminal Harry regardless. She says: "He is part of me." In this chaotic environment, references are blurred: the porter points up to designate hell and down for paradise; Anna tells the Major "You have everything upside down"; she sometimes calls Holly "Harry"; a key scene occurs in the Ferris wheel where the world turns around; the sewer with its foul smell ends up in the romantic blue Danube, as the Sergeant highlights.Additionally, the main villain is seducing. At first mysterious (he only progressively appears after an hour), he turns out to be extremely intelligent. His speech in the wheel is at the same time ignominious and rhetorically impressive. It is not easy to answer the question: why do we stay virtuous? Revealingly, the "honest" Holly remains silent at that moment. Orson Welles' performance is so outstanding, we think he appears on screen longer than an actual cumulated five minutes. On top of being a great director, he was a great actor.Visually, the historical and moral instability is expressed by frequent darkness, shadows and inclined shots, where we constantly feel buildings and characters are going to fall (even though these shots are somewhat too systematic). Material distress breeds ethical crisis.Eventually, the movie rightfully ends in the sewer. Aesthetically stunning, this sequence is symbolic in different ways. The underground is where criminals escape the law by crossing borders: it represents the evil, underlying part of this confused society. When everybody but Anna goes down there, they want to extirpate evil from its roots. Also, when Harry is looking for a way out, voices emerge from dark tunnels that look like funerary steles: it is as if he guiltily heard the people he murdered talking to him. Last, the sewer feels anthropomorphic: complex, dark, liquid, noisy, with different levels and small tubes. Hence figuratively characters dive inside their subconscious to be confronted to their evil part: Holly faces Harry for the last time. Their gazes are similarly intense. Harry nods to Holly, a sign of agreement and/or understanding.This famous climatic sequence is followed by one of the greatest closing shots in cinema history. After the funeral, Holly waits for Anna. The image is deep, in the axis of the road. Leaves are falling. Music plays softly. Anna is a small figure that progressively grows bigger. Slowly, she just walks past Holly without a look and moves out of the frame. He is left alone. (It constitutes an important difference with the novel, which ends happily: Holly and Anna walk together holding arms. But Carol Reed thankfully imposed his ending.)It is a dazzling shot, slow and melancholic, crowning an uneven yet compelling movie. Anna despises Holly for his law-abiding betrayal. It is one of the dramas about life: we sometimes prefer charismatic rascals to honest fools, and love is blind.
Even today in Vienna, one can take the "Third Man Tour" (Der Dritte Man) except, of course, that Orson Welles wouldn't go into the Viennese sewers and those scenes were done in England. There were actual sewer scenes with a double. Never mind, it is still a magnificent black and white film 99% filmed in Vienna. Directed by Carol Reed, it stars Joseph Cotten, Orson Welles, and Alida Valli.Western novelist Holly Martins (Cotten) comes to Vienna at the behest of his old friend Harry Lime, but when he arrives, he learns that Lime is dead after being hit by a car. He investigates and finds the circumstances very strange indeed, especially when learning there was a third man that helped carry Harry's body to the sidewalk, a man who has since disappeared.He then meets Harry's girlfriend (Alida Valli). And he also meets a police officer in the British section of Vienna, Inspector Calloway (Trevor Howard), who tells him that Harry was a murderer and a racketeer, and it's better that he's dead. Holly is shocked and demands proof.One of the most atmospheric films ever made, with its zither music, cinematography, and Vienna at nighttime. Then there's some brilliant dialogue, particularly the "cuckoo clock" speech made by Orson Welles.The cinematography is particularly striking: odd angles, back lighting, and shadows on empty streets. And who can forget the man hidden in the doorway, when the light from an apartment goes on and shows his face - certainly one of the great appearances of a star in a film.One feels Lime's presence throughout the film, though he only has five minutes of screen time.Though none of these actors were the first choice to play their roles, they are all excellent.There was a Third Man TV series in 1959 that ran for six years and starred Michael Rennie as Lime. In the series, Lime is a hero. He's no hero in the movie, but it is a powerful story and film, never forgotten once seen.


                
This is a rare film that is flawless in every respect.  It combines great acting and memorable characters with a fascinating story, taking place in an interesting setting and adding a creative musical score.  "The Third Man" is remembered for many things - for Orson Welles' wonderful performance in his appearances as Harry Lime, for its wonderfully appropriate musical score, and for its nicely conceived plot surprises.  Adding to these is Joseph Cotten's fine portrayal of Holly Martins, which holds the rest of it together - it is his character who initiates most of the action, and also through whom we view everything and everyone else.The story starts, after a nicely done prologue, with Martins arriving in Vienna, and finding out that his friend Harry is not only dead but is accused of running a particularly destructive black market racket.  Martins sets out at once to prove his friend's innocence, getting into an immediate scuffle with the police, and it seems at first to set up a conventional plot about clearing the name of a friend - but the actual story that follows is much deeper and much better.  It is just right that Martins is an innocent who writes cheap novels for a living, and he gets a pretty memorable lesson in fiction vs. reality.  There are some great scenes (the Ferris-wheel confrontation being as good a scene as there is in classic cinema) leading up to a memorable climactic sequence, and a good supporting cast, with Alida Valli as Anna being very good in complementing Lime and Martins.  The setting in crumbling post-war Vienna and the distinctive zither score go very nicely with the story.This is a fine, flawless classic, and while obviously belonging to an earlier era, it deserves a look from anyone who appreciates good movies.


                
"I never knew the Old Vienna, before the war, with its Strauss Music," opens Carol Reed's The Third Man, and we catch a glimpse of the New Vienna, with its Black Market and its Shady Deals. Joseph Cotten plays cheap novelette author Holly Martins, just arrived in Vienna to meet with long-time friend Harry Lime, who offered him a job. He instead meets with the mysterious facts surrounding the death of Lime, learned bit-by-bit from Lime's friends, a woman named Anna Schmidt, who has problems of her own (played excellently by Valli), and two British officers, Calloway and Paine. Learning, that there is more to death of Lime than there seems to be, Martins begins his investigation for the truth. This film was shot with some of the greatest, most ahead-of-its-time cinematography ever, and it creates mystery and deceit. It is complimented by the excellent use of shadows. The soundtrack is essentially one long song, which plays throughout the film, changing and stopping as the emotion calls for. It is a zither composition by Anton Karas made for the film. This is all topped off by an engrossing storyline, and a great performance by Joseph Cotten, as the ordinary man mixed up in this web of mystery.


                
The Third Man is an enthralling mystery thriller of the film-noir variety that is set in the beleaguered, post-war Vienna. When pulp novelist Holly Martins discovers his old friend Harry Lime has been murdered, he sets out on an investigation that will lead to one surprise after another amidst the shadowy and corrupt city. This movie has been praised by many due to its superb acting, mesmerizing musical score and the atmospheric use of its black-and-white cinematography.This film, at its time, was groundbreaking for its use of innovative camera angles and shadows that were originally criticized by some critics. Orson Welles also helped write the screenplay, which was nothing short of exceptional, packed with witty, fast-paced dialogue and always keeping the audience guessing when a piece of truth might be revealed. The fact that The Third Man was not even nominated for an Academy Award for Best Story and Screenplay is a classic example of a film that was simply not adequately appreciated at its time. There were so many amazingly unforgettable moments in this film. One in particular was the ending sewer sequence, which was one of the most cleverly crafted chase scenes I have ever witnessed on the big screen. The formidable musical score and shadowy presence kept me in a kind of suspense where I genuinely believed there was a chance Welles' Lime could get away. A moment like Lime's hands extending through the sewer gate didn't need to make the final cut - but it is ingenious little details like that, ones which manage to convey so much in its quietude, that cement it's superiority in film history. This film really exemplified how to create a good mystery film. Director Carol Reed's use of Dutch angle shots were executed to perfection, particularly with emphasizing Cottons' Martin's increasing alienation as the movie progresses. The atmospheric cinematography breathes life into an already engrossing story line, with memorable performances all tied into a web of classic mystery. And while Welle's screen time was limited, his ultra-creative presence is surely felt throughout. A fan of the cinema is a fan of The Third Man.
Opportunistic racketeering thrives in a damaged and impoverished Allied- occupied Vienna, which is divided into four sectors each controlled by one of the occupying forces: American, British, French, and Soviet. These powers share the duties of law enforcement in the city. American pulp Western writer Holly Martins (Joseph Cotten) comes to the city seeking his childhood friend, Harry Lime (Orson Welles), who has offered him a job. Upon arrival he discovers that Lime was killed just hours earlier by a speeding truck while crossing the street. Martins attends Lime's funeral, where he meets two British Army Police: Sergeant Paine (Bernard Lee), a fan of Martins' pulp novels; and his superior, Major Calloway (Trevor Howard), who says Lime was a criminal and suggests Martins leave town.An official of the British occupying forces subsequently approaches Martins, requesting that he give a lecture and offering to pay for his lodging. Viewing this as an opportunity to clear his friend's name, Martins decides to remain in Vienna. He receives an invitation to meet from Lime's friend, "Baron" Kurtz (Ernst Deutsch), who tells Martins that he, along with another friend, Popescu (Siegfried Breuer), carried Lime to the side of the street after the accident. Before dying, according to Kurtz, Lime asked Kurtz and Popescu to take care of Martins and Anna Schmidt (Alida Valli), Lime's actress girlfriend.
A great deal has been said about "The Third Man" by contributors to this forum. Having seen the restored copy that was shown at the Film Forum, recently, I could not resist watching this masterpiece once more when it was shown by TCM, the other night.This movie owes a debt of gratitude to Graham Greene, a writer who had the most developed sense of intrigue among his contemporaries and one of the best writers of the last century. It also helped that a great director, Carol Reed, brought it to the screen. Mr. Reed was a director who had an eye for detail, as he demonstrates here, as well as in the rest of the body of work he left for us to enjoy. The screen play is faithful to the original novel. If to all of the other elements we add the fabulous cinematography of Robert Krasker, the result has to be the masterpiece we see today. Never before has a city taken center stage in the development of the story that is presented here. Mr. Krasker's wonderful night vision of this city enhances the story as we are taken along for a fantastic trip of the post war Vienna of 1949.The casting of this film is amazing. Never had so many excellent actors been thrown together in a film, as it is the case as with this picture. Joseph Cotten, Alida Valli, Trevor Howard, Orson Welles, Bernard Lee, Ernst Deutsch, Paul Horbiger, Erich Ponto and Wilfred Hyde White are splendid in their roles. It is hard to imagine these characters played by other actors.Orson Welles has perhaps the best part, even though his time before the camera is short. This must have been one of the best roles in which Welles appeared. Of course, there are so many others, but his Harry Lime is an original and could have fitted perfectly in one of his own films.The music by Anton Karas is still haunting, with the exception of a few times at the beginning of a couple of scenes, when it startles the viewer and actually doesn't add anything to what we are about to see.This film will live forever.


                
Post-war Vienna. A dangerous city, full of intrigue, crime & sudden death. Notorious American racketeer Harry Lime starts to cross a street. There is an accident and he is killed instantly. Or is he? His body is carried to the sidewalk by two friends. Or does another man assist them? If so, who is THE THIRD MAN and what does he know about Lime's suspicious death?Such is the puzzle at the beginning of what many consider to be the greatest film ever made. Its glories are so obvious that it is almost futile to pick out any for observation: the marvelous sewer chase, the balloon man, the little boy with the ball, the giant wheel, the cuckoo clock speech & the long closing walk across the cemetery. All of these linger in the mind, becoming permanent residents of our cinematic subconscious.The entire cast is excellent: Joseph Cotton as Lime's American friend trying to piece together what has happened; Trevor Howard as the stalwart British Major of Police; gorgeous Valli as Harry's faithful lover; Bernard Lee as the tragic Police Sergeant; Wilfrid Hyde-White as a dithering English cultural attaché. And then there's Orson Welles...The character of Harry Lime, alive or dead, on-screen or not, is one of cinema's most fascinating villains. Charming & deadly as any cobra, he attracts & repels at the same moment. It is interesting to note that BBC Radio resurrected the character for the series 'The Lives of Harry Lime' very shortly after the film's release. Harry was not allowed to stay in his grave for long...Three more items of note: (1) The cinematography is first-rate, making Vienna by night look almost lunar. (2) Orson Welles' first appearance on screen is a real dandy. (3) Above & around & through everything is the famous zither music of Anton Karas, which becomes like a Greek Chorus, commenting on the action. Its complete silence during the sewer chase only underscores the starkness of the sequence.
Carol Reed's The Third Man is set in post-war Vienna- a hypnotic city, which is in consideration of the mountains of rubble and general sorrow of the are- and stars Joseph Cotten as Holly, a writer of hokey B-Western novels who's come to visit an old chum named Harry Lime.  He finds out Lime is dead, but that there is more to his old friend than he knew since before the war, along with Lime's girl Anna (a sympathetic character?).  Then when the revelation is shown of Lime's face on a darkened street, the film reaches an elegance rarely seen today in pictures.  Orson Welles, who plays Harry Lime, has in fact a role much like a cameo, having a speech with Cotten on a Ferris Wheel.  Even before his "cuckoo clock" finale, we get the sense this is one of these classic scenes of all time, leading up to an unforgettable chase in a sewer.  Along with precise, Oscar Winning cinematography, and an ever-entrancing musical score, The Third Man is one of the essentials for movie buffs.  A++
Carol Reed's "The Third Man" strikes all the right cords, establishing  itself on so many different levels that it almost becomes untouchable.  It has an underlying tone of darkness that not only thrills but chills.  It grabs the viewer from the start and never lets go.  It opens with Anton Karas' startling zither music and quickly propels  the viewer into a world of evil and lies. The tale is familiar to any  film lovers: A pulp Western writer named Holly Martin (Joseph Cotten)  is invited to post-war Vienna by an old friend of his, Harry Lime  (Orson Welles). The city has been divided into American, British,  French and Russian zones. The city exists as a shattered remnant of the  past - haunting and horrifying, dark and mysterious.   Upon his arrival, Holly discovers to his horror that his old college  pal is dead - hit by a car in the middle of a street. But for Holly,  the circumstances don't add up - everyone involved in the accident was  related in some way or another to Harry. So Holly searches for clues,  much to the chagrin of the British officer Calloway (Trevor Howard),  whose name is misused as Callohan by Holly many times throughout the  film. ("It's 'Calloway,' Mr. Martin, I'm not Irish.")  Holly Martin does begin to stumble upon some vital clues as to the real  story behind Lime's death - and finds out more than he bargained for.  Lime's old girlfriend is a stage actress. ("Always comedy.") She  accompanies Holly throughout the film, and we expect an underlying  romance to blossom, but yet in the end it does not - one of the many  surprises of the film.  I suppose it would be a sin for me to give away how Harry Lime  reappears, or even give away the fact that he does, for that matter  (though by now I am sure you realize Orson Welles is in this movie and  therefore turns out to be alive). But for those who have seen the film,  we all remember that terrific scene where the cat meows, and suddenly  he appears, an evil smirk on his face like a child who has gotten away  with the cookie from the jar. And then the ferris wheel scene, and the  chase through the sewers that no doubt helped win the film an Oscar for  cinematography. These are all some of the most memorable of film  scenes.  The director of "The Third Man," Carol Reed, stumbled upon the film's  musician, Anton Karas, one night in a trashy bar in Vienna. It is no  wonder that out of all his candidates he chose Karas - the film's tune  is literally the most perfect example of matching harmony between a  film and its music I have ever seen (although "JAWS" is up there with  it). To go into the music is pointless - it must simply be heard in  synchronism with the film for you to understand where I am coming from.  When I think of film noir, "D.O.A." (1949) and "The Third Man" (1949)  are the first two films that come to mind. Both accomplish what they  set out to do, but "The Third Man" exceeds even farther than the former  - it is haunting and almost poetically vibrant in the way it displays  its story and the outcome of its characters. It is a film that will be  around for years and years. "Citizen Kane" is often thought of as the  greatest American motion picture of all time. But if I had to choose  between the two, I would most likely choose "The Third Man." It's just  my opinion, of course, and many may not agree, but as far as I see,  "The Third Man" beats "Citizen Kane" - for me - on more levels than  one.   Welles' "Citizen Kane" (1941) was an artistic film that rarely used  close-ups. It would almost stand back from the scenes and let the  viewer focus on what he or she wanted to focus on. "The Third Man" has  many close-ups. I do not take this as a director trying to give the  audience what he wants them to see, but rather a director in touch with  his feelings and ideas. Director Carol Reed knows just how to evoke  characters' feelings from scenes and close-up shots. The camera tilts  at awkward angles more often than not. The more and more paranoid and  afraid our hero becomes the more and more intense the close-ups and  angles. There is some haunting material in "The Third Man," some  material the most novice of filmgoers might not expect. And the music  and direction only makes it all the more terrifying and haunting. This  is a film that you must witness to believe.  5/5.
"The Third Man" is a flawless film of intrigue and suspense, a summit of perfection within the genre<U+0085> It is one of the most literate thrillers ever made<U+0085> It is superb1y acted by an ensemble working in an understated, effortless style<U+0085> Its cinematography includes some of the best black-and-white work ever done<U+0085> Its score of haunting zither music is still remembered, instantly familiar to anyone who ever saw the film, and now thorough1y identified with most people's impressions of Vienna<U+0085> Finally, the direction by Carol Reed is exemplary<U+0085> Rarely has a motion picture represented the collaboration of so many exceptional talents... "The Third Man" may be the greatest film made in Britain since World War II<U+0085> The night city terrain of "The Third Man" is unique: occupied postwar Vienna, baroque, bombed-out, decadent, patrolled by Jeeps containing representatives of the four occupying powers, an American, an Englishman, a Frenchman, and a Russian<U+0085>Corrupt, world-weary people hang about its fringes: the overly suave Rumanian, Popescu; the frayed violinist, Baron Kurtz; the atheistic collector of Catholic antiquities, Dr. Winkel; Crabbit, the tired head of the Anglo Cultural Center; and Anna Schmidt, the Czechoslovakian girl friend of Harry Lime, an obscure actress with forged papers<U+0085> Moving among them are three extraordinary principals, Holly Martins, a typical Greene creation; a hack American writer; a used- up second-rater; Colonel Calloway, a Scotland Yard type, chief of British Military Police; and Harry Lime (WeIles), the corrupt two-bit racketeer, a fully immoral, totally unreachable villain<U+0085> These characters wander through rain-slick night streets, in and out of shabby cafés, over the rubble of bombed-out buildings, even into a terrain vague dominated by a huge Ferris wheel<U+0085>The Vienna of "The Third Man" is a vast city that seems empty<U+0085> Its streets are always damp, and water rushes through a system of sweet-smelling sewers underneath<U+0085> It is a world of slinking cats and biting parrots, of people taking advantage of each other without pity<U+0085> "The Third Man" meets the test of complexity<U+0085> The characters interact, their stories conflict: A man who is supposed to be dead turns up alive, there is a question of whether two men or a "third man" carried off Lime's "body," there are conspiracies, deceits, and double crosses<U+0085> Reed owes debts to Fritz Long for some of his ideas: the geometrical shots, the montage of evidence, Welles' whistling, etc., but Reed has his own original visual style, particularly his use of a slightly tilted camera to produce so-called "Chinese angles," employed to project danger, foreboding, a twisted universe<U+0085> He is also capable of providing suspense in the tradition of Hitchcock<U+0085> "The Third Man" is unique in the genre for its realism<U+0085> Despite the complexities of plot, the characters are understandable, dimensional, emotionally genuine<U+0097>a tribute to the fine ensemble playing and special, low-keyed acting style that is the cinematic equivalent of Graham Greene's writing<U+0085>Carol Reed was knighted for his excellence as a British filmmaker, and for a body of work that is notable for its good taste<U+0085> It is this taste, of course, that works so well in "The Third Man," but which has destroyed some of his other films, such as "Our Man in Havana," which require a certain amount of excess to make them work<U+0085>
The Third Man is directed by Carol Reed and written by Graham Greene. It stars Joseph Cotton, Alida Valli, Trevor Howard and Orson Welles. Music is by Anton Karas and cinematography by Robert Krasker.When writer Holly Martins (Cotton) travels to Vienna to hook up with his childhood friend Harry Lime (Welles), he is distressed to find that Harry has been killed in a road accident. After attending the funeral, Holly comes to believe that Harry's death was no accident and begins to try and clear his friend's name. But nothing is as it first seems.....It's well over 60 years since it was released and Carol Reed's film noir thriller continues to feel fresh and hold up under the closest of critical scrutiny. A haunting tale as it is anyway, the black market racketeers and penicillin tampering bastards leaving an unsavoury taste in the mouth, but the film is still further boosted by the director's ability to craft unnerving atmosphere by way of style and clinically paced passages of play. Performances are superlative across the board, with the film producing equal amounts of iconography and mischievous myth-making. It stuns with the narrative structure unfolding amongst a post war ravaged Vienna that dovetails with the fractured nature of the human characters.A maze of moist cobbled streets host chases involving man and long shadows, there's a fairground scene that is now steeped in folklore, which in turn is a witness to the banality of evil, and of course those cavernous sewers, home to such sullen tones. Reed brings the canted angles, with moral decay the order of the day and a side order of confusion to finally fill your noir hungry bellies. Krasker deals in expressionistic chiaroscuro as Karas plucks away at his Zither to land in your ears for eternity. A murder mystery, a pained romance and a suspense laden film noir, The Third Man is enduring in its qualities. Cuckoo clock and cat, shadowed doorway and the lone sombre walk of a female, it's still today entertaining the film purist masses and still being pored over by film makers home and abroad. The Third Man, it's a masterpiece by jove. 10/10


                
The Third Man refers to another witness to a crime that no one seems to know anything about. The crime of course is the hit and run murder of Harry Lime played by Orson Welles. But is Welles dead.One of the things I like about The Third Man is that it makes a nominal hero out of one of the biggest bunglers ever put on screen. Let's just say that if Holly Martins played by Joseph Cotten were bumping into furniture on top of everything else, he'd be Inspector Clouseau.Holly arrives in occupied Vienna in the late Forties at the invitation of an old college classmate Harry Lime. Literally upon arriving in Vienna, Martins learns that his friend Lime was the victim of a hit and run accident and the funeral is going on at that moment. He goes to the funeral and is smitten by Lime's girlfriend, Alida Valli.Martins is a writer of western stories and it's bad when a writer starts believing he's one of his own heroes. Maybe Jessica Fletcher is capable of it, but not Holly Martins. Martins decides to start his own investigation into Lime's death much to the consternation of the British occupying force which doing its own inquiry. Trevor Howard plays Major Callaway of the British Army in charge of the investigation.Martins turns out to be right that there is something more afoot than a simple traffic accident. But he's so terribly wrong about everything and everyone else it is frightening. I really can't say more at this point.Someone reading the plot description I've given might think The Third Man is some kind of comedy, but it is not. It is in fact one of the most finely crafted dramas ever put on the screen. The location photography in Vienna is fabulous and contributes so much to the authenticity of the story and its characters. Joseph Cotten gives one of his best performances as the bull-in-the-china-shop amateur detective.As for Orson Welles, it's a virtual tie in my opinion with Compulsion for the distinction of his finest performer as an actor without working for director Orson Welles. Harry Lime turns out to be the harbinger of a cynical age we were entering.And if nothing else grabs you about The Third Man, that theme on the zither will stay with you forever. Definitely one of the ten best known movie scores ever.
Much like the entrance of Laura in the film LAURA, Harry Lime's entrance into the dark world of post-war Vienna is one of the most unforgettable of all times and effectively erased any memory that Joseph Cotten, the main hero (and alter-ego of Graham Greene) was even in THE THIRD MAN. Photographed under an opening window in a deserted Vienna street, Lime comes into focus as a fleeting face with a smug expression and suddenly we remember Orson Welles was included in the credits. It's a very powerful moment -- one which has us, the viewer, shift our consciousness into wanting to see more of him, wanting to get to know him even if he is a shady, corrupted character. It's the One Moment in the film when it seems that time (in a country that makes clocks, something that Lime makes a joking reference to later on) stops dead in its tracks.THE THIRD MAN is the one film-noir that doesn't have a treacherous femme fatale and the usual suspects but shady people and a growing sense of doom and despair. That in essence is the very nature of film-noir, where it began before demanding the appearance of a sexy blonde with evil intentions. A political theme and espionage reigns throughout without it ever being as much as hinted at, and betrayal is at every corner, something that Hitchcock would have loved had he directed this film. There is a distant echo of CASABLANCA reflected in the threesome at the center of this story with Anna being the reserved woman in the middle but this is not a lush romance. If anything, there is a strong anti-romantic sentiment here, not only because Anna has been irrevocably separated from Lime but she also will not be the one whom Cotten's Martins gets at the end. And in that sense, that pessimism is what film-noir is about.
I initially felt a fool for not having seen "The Third Man" earlier. However, in retrospect, having now read most of Graham Greene's major works, and having received some keen insight into the back-story of producer Alexander Korda through Kati Marton's book "The Great Escape", I feel I was able to enjoy "The Third Man" even more for the staggering masterpiece that it is.As a European/American co-production bankrolled by two legendary hands-on producers, David O. Selznick and Alexander Korda, "The Third Man" was masterfully crafted by director Carol Reed from a screenplay by British novelist Graham Greene. The film served as a pinnacle of the film noir movement and is a prime example of master filmmakers working with an iconic writer and utilizing an amazing cast and crew to create a masterwork representing professionals across the field operating at the top of their game.Fans of Greene's novels need not be disappointed as the screenplay crackles with all that signature cynicism and sharp witted dialogue. Carol Reed's crooked camera angles, moody use of shadowing and external locations (Vienna, partially bombed out, wet and Gothic, never looked more looming and haunting) and crisp editing are the perfect visual realizations of Greene's provocative wordplay and often saturnine view of the world. Reed's brief opening montage and voice-over introducing us to the black market in Vienna is also shockingly modern, as it is that energetic quick-cut editing that has influenced directors like Scorsese to film entire motion pictures in just such a style. Also making the film decidedly timeless is the zither music score of Anton Karas, a bizarre accompaniment to the dark story that serves as a brilliant contradiction to what is being seen on screen.The story of "The Third Man" slides along like smooth gin down the back of one's throat as characters, plot and mood meander and brood along cobblestone streets and slither down dark alleys in an intoxicated state. Heavy drinking hack writer Holly Martins (Joseph Cotten, doing an excellent Americanized riff on Graham Greene himself) arrives in post WWII occupied Vienna to meet up with his old pal Harry Lime (Orson Welles) only to find that Lime is reportedly dead, the police (headed by a perfectly cold Trevor Howard) don't seem to care, and Lime's charming broken-hearted mistress (Alida Valli, perfect as another Greene archetype) has been left behind. Of course, Martins can't leave well enough alone as conspiracy, murder, unrequited romance, and political intrigue ensue. Welles benefits greatly from being talked about for most of the film and appearing mostly in shadows spare for two scenes: the famous ferris wheel speech, and a climatic chase beneath the streets of Vienna through Gothic sewers. His top hap, dark suit, and crooked smile are the stuff of film legend. The side characters, however, are what make "The Third Man" such a rich, rewarding experience. We're treated to small glimpses into the mindsets of varying people ranging from a British officer obsessed with American Western dime-store novels (of which Martins claims his fame) to an Austrian landlady eternally wrapped in a quilt going on and on in her foreign tongue as international police constantly raid her building and harass her tenants. The brilliance is that one needs no subtitles to understand her frustration. These added layers of character and thoughtful detail, hallmarks of Greene, set "The Third Man" in a class above the rest of film noir from the late 1940's era.Make no mistake, "The Third Man" is arguably one of the most finely crafted films ever made. One's preference towards noir and Greene's world-view will shape how much one actually enjoys the film. For the sheer fact it has held up so well over the decades and has clearly influenced so many great films that came after it, its repeated rankings as one of the greatest motion pictures ever made can not be denied. With a good stiff drink in hand, and Graham Greene's collection dog-eared on my bookshelf, "The Third Man" is undoubtedly now one of my favorite films. Reed's closing shot of a tree-lined street along a cemetery and Joseph Cotten leaning against a car smoking a cigarette while Alida Valli walks right past him with that zither music score playing is one that has left an indelible mark on my memory and enriched my love of film as art.
Filmed as though the camera had one tripod leg shorter than the others, along with zithers, seductive shadows, echoing sewers, ferris wheels, cuckoo clocks and a magician's touch, this film is more of an experience than a movie. Impossible to remake, it also captures Vienna at a critical time just after WW2 when it was still occupied by the Allied powers.Even after 55 years, "The Third Man" has a compelling story, superb performances and enough style for ten films.And that story by Graham Greene stands up even when compared with all the brilliant mystery films over the intervening decades as well as literate crime series on TV such as "Lewis", "Wallander" and "Vera" etc. Holly Martins (Joseph Cotton), a rather nerdy, and slightly annoying writer of paperback westerns, arrives in post-war Vienna to discover that his good friend Harry Lime (Orson Welles) has supposedly been killed in an accident. He encounters suspicious British policemen (Trevor Howard and Bernard Lee), and also Harry's enigmatic and beautiful girlfriend Anna (Alida Valli). Eventually Holly learns things about Harry that trouble him deeply. It all leads to a confrontation in the cavernous sewers under Vienna. The film also features one of the most unexpected endings ever. I won't spoil it in case one of the five people who haven't seen the film happens to read this.Suffice to say that the original script had a more conventional ending and it was actually David O Selznick who came up with the one used in the film. It was always assumed that it was director Carol Reed's, but Charles Drazin in his fascinating book "In Search of the Third Man" pretty well pins it down to Selznick, who attempted to interfere with the whole production. Although ostensibly a British film, Selznick had money in it with Alexander Korda - before the inevitable falling-out. There is so much to observe and enjoy including Orson Welles famous monologue, and the stunning Alida Valli. She was so beautiful, "head-swivelingly beautiful" as Martin Scorsese once said. Even the shapeless raincoat she wears for most of the film only makes those luminous features even more striking. She had already made a couple of Hollywood movies including Hitchcock's "The Paradine Case", another film where her mystique is caught if a little chillingly, and she wasn't even a Hitchcock blonde.Carol Reed went on to make other movies including "The Man Between", which tried to recapture the spirit of "The Third Man", this time set in Berlin. It even foreshadowed "The Spy Who Came in from the Cold", but it didn't have that self-contained, indefinable magic of "The Third Man". Maybe its only one true masterpiece per customer, although Reed's batting average was always strong.Whatever the case, "The Third Man" has lost none of its lustre and more than lives up to its reputation. I'd have to say it's a desert island disc for me.


                
This film has been noted as one of the best films ever in the history of the American cinema!!! While this website ranks it 48th best movie out of the top 250, and AFI (American Film Institue) has ranked it as high as the 14th best picture out of the top 100 American films ever made, something even more significant looms on the horizon!! Many intellectual spawns of the American film academy have ranked this film in the top five films ever produced!! One prominent critic from Boston ranked "Third Man" the number one movie of all time!! So!!! What justifies such critically acclaimed praise anyway? Start with the fact that the intellectual complexities to the plot in "Third Man" are intensely riveting!! The esoteric demeanor with which this film carries, has a deliberately convoluted line of logic!! The derivative responses from so many of the characters in this film spark a necessary ambiguity with regards to the prevailing circumstances for whom the third man must relinquish his mystique to!! The conversations pertinent to any kind of plausible resolution to the core issues in this movie were always philosophical!! Joseph Cotten and Orson Welles are a highly classic and highly talented duo of actors (As demonstrated in "Citizen Kane") who immediately necessitate a lofty aura of academic concepts. This detailed and contemplative cerebral quandary invites the movie audience to a very noteworthy ideological rumination of the story line in this film. Whether it be "Citizen Kane", "The Third Man", or any other film, the indisputable mark of the majority of intelligent actors ( Including Orson Welles and Joseph Cotten) is one where they convey the understanding of a situation, and instantly establish whether this situation is really complicated or very simple!! This is about the seventh time I have seen this movie "The Third Man" and, I believe, that finally!! I have a grass roots recognition of what this movie is about!! The visceral components to this film induce a correlation to an adamant political passion, as well as, yes, what else? love!! The trials and tribulations of espionage became a form of mutual vindication, thus establishing a kindred spirit for emotional devotion!! Set in Vienna, this film was very identifiable to me, as I have been to Vienna, and I recognize a lot of aspects of splendor to this city. All of it ignited an auspicious recognition; the Gosser Beer signs, the Sacher Cafe', the Mozart concertos with the players wearing wigs, ( I saw a production of this nature while in Vienna!!), and, of course, the cobblestone streets where a cross section of dubious walks of life perennially congregate!! Vienna is a city which is proverbially known to be a hotbed of political malcontents!! Just by virtue of the copious number of summits and dignitary gatherings it has hosted suggests that Vienna is a city which vicariously straddles the political fence!! With the intransigent aftermath of WWII, and the world almost ready to go to war again over the conquest of Berlin in 1948, central Europe had become totally dissected!! By 1949, when "The Third Man" was made, the overall infrastructure, which was ruined in Vienna, from confrontational combat during WWII, was ubiquitous!! The city was divided in four sections, belonging to four nations, the American, the British, the Russian, and the French. The center of the city was international, and for Joseph Cotten's character, Vienna presented itself as a mecca for diplomatic intrigue!! I loved this movie!! Based on the screenplay by Graham Greene, this film erupts with talent. Carol Reed ( Known for "Oliver" and a remake of "Mutiny on the Bounty") does a remarkable job as director with his efforts in the making of "The Third Man"!! The acting in "The Third Man" was utterly superb, basically second to none !! Orson Welles and Joseph Cotten are an unbeatable combination, and Alida Valli, who plays Anna, is flawlessly disconcerting with this role!! The speech Orson Welles made was one which he wrote... the gist of it being (I am paraphrasing)" War, terror and bloodshed are adversities which brought on greats such as Michaelangelo, Leonardo DaVinci, and the Renaissance, Switzerland has had 500 years of peace and democracy, and all you have gotten out of them is the cuckoo clock". I thought this little doggerel of Welles' was very impressive!! Orson Welles is a lone rebel cynic who raised the bar on directing and acting excellence, not only in Hollywood, but also, in New York and London Theatre!! Orson Welles has the same birthday as I do, I guess this day was earmarked for brilliant byproducts of unprecedented genius!! (My personal vanity in this case is totally in kidding of course!!) The Hawaiin music in this film served as an aside for anachronistic flippancy with this picture!! The cinematography and lighting in this film were spectacular!! Accomplished actors, directors and producers prefer a movie to be filmed in black and white, as it exudes the absence of distraction!! The film "Third Man" is a must see for virtually every movie aficionado on the face of the earth!! I agree with the discerning movie critics, THIS IS ONE OF THE BEST MOVIES EVER MADE!!


                
I am not going to rehash what has been said in other comments other than that Orson Welles and Joseph Cotten were at their best. Rather, an aside or two about the film. At the time Welles was trying to make his own films and took the Harry Lime role only for the money. Anton Karras, the zither player, was found in a dingy, cellar cafe in Vienna. Becoming well known for the background music and then his "Third Man Theme" record which was a tremendous hit worldwide, he was talked into opening a nightclub in London. Even though the nightclub was successful, Karas yearned for his former life and packed it in, going back underground to the cellar cafe in Vienna to play his zither. In one scene in the film Cotten has finished a talk on American writers. He runs up the hotel stairs pursued by two assassins and enters an empty hotel room. He exits a window, but not before being bitten on a finger by a parrot. I suspect that this "nip" was not in the script, but it resulted in the only amusing scene in the entire film. When asked by military policeman Trevor Howard why his finger was bandaged, Cotten replies "A parrot bit me", invoking an exasperated reply from Howard. I believe this to be the only funny scene in the film and it was over very quickly. Interestingly there was no novel or play that the film was based on. Graham Green was asked to do a screenplay for a film idea, which he did. Who knows? If this was done more often as opposed to films based on books or plays we might have a better variety of films for our viewing these days.


                
... and perhaps the best noir of all time.I am reviewing the criterion collection version of this classic film - which is available via Netflix. I strongly recommend avoiding other versions - the transfers do not do this beautiful film and its unique soundtrack justice.Carol Reed's the Third Man follows desperate pulp writer Holly Martins (Joseph Cotten) through the streets of post-war Vienna as he attempts to discern the truth about the death of his boyhood friend and would-be benefactor Harry Lime (Orson Welles). Lime was killed by a truck driven by his own driver on the very day that Martins arrived in Vienna to begin work with Lime on a prosperous business venture. The main witnesses were two shady Austrians and a mysterious third man who nobody seems able to identify.As Martins digs deeper, he begins to understand the deep corruption of his new-found home through an adversarial acquaintance with a British military policeman (Trevor Howard) and slowly falls for Harry's similarly mysterious former lover, Anna Schmidt (Valli).Cotten makes a rather unsympathetic character (Martins is a classic noir loser) sympathetic. In a role that is barely a cameo, Welles creates an unforgettable persona. Valli is remarkable. And Howard and the rest of the supporting cast are great. Despite the excellent cast, however, what makes The Third Man the great film that it is the combination of absolutely perfect noir cinematography, an entirely believable and compelling story set in exactly the right location, and tight, powerful, directing. And the unusual zither-dominated soundtrack helps to make the film unique even among noirs.Like many of Kurosawa's best efforts, every scene of The Third Man is wonderfully framed and painted in stark contrasts, making the camera as much of a performer as any member of the cast. It's BAFTA award (best British film), Cannes Palm d'Or(Grand Prize), and Oscar (cinematography) are minor achievements in comparison to the film's lasting impact on its genre and on cinematography in general.


                
The Third Man is one of that smattering of pictures that have become the epitome, not just a movie that would continue to inspire countless other films but a paradigm that would embed itself deep within the id of a massive amount of viewers, counting people who've never even seen it. The first time you do, your encounter is sprinkled with little jolts of recognition, lines and scenes and moments whose resonance have already made their way to you intermediately.Although both Greene and director Carol Reed were British, the perspective of this pinball machine of a movie feels very American, a detail that's only partially clarified by the presence of Cotten and Welles. Post-war Vienna characterizes Europe's remains. It's thick, for sure, with actual remains, though the diversely twisting and regal structural design of its more practical edifices looks devastated by being rendered worthlessness. Similarly, most of the Europeans we see are remarkably played by an ensemble of Austrian and German character actors, who correspond superbly with the mixed doubts and disdain of the inexperienced American, Holly Martins, who lumbers through the alleys, down the holes, up the ladders, seemingly a toy of fate, but one who appears to usually break even. The American Martins is upfront, yet surrounded by Europeans, and their paths oscillate between confrontation and tiptoeing, like minor cultural traits represent an inherent bylaw.Welles is, sure enough, the mind-body dualism of the story. His character is mentioned in each scene, in addition to the title, and has the most hands-down unforgettable lines in the script. Moreover, his interactions with Cotten, a recurrent performer in his directorial work, take on Welles's distinguishing metrical hallmark: mood intersecting and colliding with figure of speech, lines treading on lines in a persistent roundabout of broken tides.Reed, a director far too obscure in the US, made outstanding films both preceding and following this one. Reed was amply accommodating to offer a noteworthy argument against the auteur theory. The Third Man is constant with his superlative form, wheedling a taut drama with penetratingly illustrated characters, in a locale so defined it may too be regarded among the cast.The Third Man is such a hysterically visual event that it's easy to overlook what a petite, intuitive film it basically is. Think about how Anton Karas, without whose score the picture wouldn't be remotely the same, was discovered on location, playing in a restaurant. That kind of fortuitous find, during production, of a deep-seated constituent of a movie would've been tough if not unimaginable in Hollywood even then. The Third Man is indeed a virtuoso progression of make-or-break gambles, a sort of contrarian recipe of contrasting essentials that somehow come together as if they had been fated to. It's an extraordinary item, an accident, a well-lubricated mechanism, a historic cache, an innovative sensation. There has never been another movie entirely like it.


                
I have seen the Third Man more times than I care to remember, both on small and large screen and it still appears fresh - it is really hard to see how the film could have been very much better made. The casting is perfect, even the hype surrounding Wells, and the way he is kept in the background for half the movie, and the cinematography is amongst the best you will see. And look out for the strong supporting roles (Trevor Howard's cynical army officer through to Wilfred Hyde White's slightly dotty cultural liaison officer). In conjunction with the fortuitous use of Anton Karas' zither score, this is a movie you will want to come back to time and time again. Enjoy.PS there is a very good BBC documentary on the making of the film - well worth catching if you can!


                
A young American novelist, Holly Martins (Joseph Cotton), arrives in Vienna looking for his friend Harry Lime (Orson Welles). Once in the city, however, he learns that Harry Lime has passed away. Shocked, Holly Martins starts asking questions, a lot of them. He is told a number of different stories that eventually lead him to believe that Harry Lime was killed.Determined to find out who is responsible for Harry Lime's murder, the American embarks on a treacherous journey amidst the unfriendly streets of Vienna. Soon, he is entangled in a web of deceit and dangerous machinations. Along the way, the American also encounters the beautiful Anna Schmidt (Alida Valli), a Czech national with forged Austrian papers, who agrees to help him.Written by the legendary Graham Greene, Carol Reed's The Third Man is a terrific hybrid of a film where noir, neo-realism and Hollywood bravado are mixed to perfection. Set in post-war Vienna, the film is very much a dark caricature of sorts where the finesse, elegance and tradition of Old Europe are seen through the eyes of a naive but ambitious American looking for his missing friend.Contrary to what many critics have claimed, the actual story is rather complicated. A giant mystery surrounding Oscar Welles' character, Harry Lime, is slowly peeled off, piece by piece. As a result, The Third Man quickly evolves into a guessing game where every little detail is worth analyzing. As expected for a noir-film, there is also a dangerous femme fatale who becomes a prominent player as soon as the main protagonist reaches Austrian soil.In addition to strong dark overtones, The Third Man also boasts a great deal of nihilism. Betrayal and impossible love for example are depicted by Carol Reed with a sense of realism that feels uncannily contemporary. Not surprisingly, The Third Man works incredibly well not only as a non-stop adventure film, but also as a realistic depiction of a world struggling to recuperate after an enormous tragedy.Furthermore, even though The Third Man is a British film, its view on Old Europe is distinctively American. The clash of cultural ideologies, as witnessed through the interactions between Alida Valli and Joseph Cotton, is particularly impressive. There are entire scenes where Carol Reed focuses on the American whose alarming naivety produces some of the most hilarious yet, disturbing sequences that compliment the mystery.Finally, Anton Karas' soundtrack is beautiful. The mellow sounds produced by his zitner grant The Third Man with an entirely new flavor, one that blends with the dark vistas from Vienna's sewers exceptionally well. Not surprisingly, the atmosphere The Third Man sustains is often cited as its greatest strength.


                
"The Third Man", released in 1949, has been voted #1 in the British Film Institute's Top 100 movies. Why this and not any of David Lean's war Best Picture Oscar-winners? How about a 'typically' British film, set in Britain, with British actors and all that stuff? Well, if you still have any doubt, just watch it again, and I sincerely challenge you to find another one as iconic, or to use a less hackneyed word, as immediately recognizable in every single cinematic department. First, there's the setting: post-war Vienna occupied by four different victorious countries: Britain, USA, France and Russia, Vienna as a not-so but no-less exotic place whose shadowy walls and haunting streets are transcended by Robert Krasker's Oscar-winning cinematography and Carol Reed's masterful direction. "The Third Man" is constantly punctuated with some incongruous shots, oblique views, spiral staircases and dizzying perspectives like a self- reflexive invitation to take one hell of a chess-game like story really into perspective. A chess-game indeed, everything is either linear or manage to capture a shadow and surround it with blinding lights and hostile dark borders. The cinematography creates both a feeling of claustrophobia and isolation in an oppressive world, illustrating the condition of the lead character: Holly Martins (Joseph Cotten), Martins came to Vienna after having invited by his closest friend Harry Lime, a mysterious black market dealer, finding himself alone surrounded by a gallery of characters, a strange concierge, a sneaky baron, a crooked Romanian gangster, so many secondary characters, and so colorfully black-and-white while the film plays with lights and shadows as to recreate the black market ambiance inherited from World War II, with its menacing and paranoid atmosphere.Then, there's the story that combines through a very subtle and cleverly written script, two investigations around the accidental death of Harry Lime, run over by emphasize the 'his'- his truck driver, declared death by his own doctor, and carried by his two close friends <U+0085> and a mysterious, unidentified third man. Major Calloway, Chief of British Police (Trevor Howard) investigating on Harry's smuggling activities was about to close the case when Holly, finding the circumstances of Harry's death too 'convenient', tried to solve the mystery of the third man. What a charismatic dead man this Harry Lime, outshining all the other characters, even his best friend, Holly, supposedly the lead of the film, lives in his shadow. There's also a beautiful woman named Anna Schmidt (Alida Valli) who's less an excuse for a romantic subplot than a reason for Holly to stay in Vienna, to learn more about his friend, his death, and maybe a way to get off his shadow. Beyond the one-sided love triangle, there's the feeling of an incredible aura that makes the worst criminal more admired than an ordinary writer who's got nothing else to be proud of, but not to be ashamed either. There's an interesting character study, marked by the sign of cynicism, which leads me to probably the most important aspect of the film: the music.Like "High Noon", "Jaws" or "Midnight Express" "The Third Man" is defined by its music, with such an incredible intimacy that it's impossible to imagine it without the iconic zither sound played by Anton Karas. Whatever I mentioned before would have brought a totally different feeling without the music. While it could have used a sort of dramatic grandiose film-noir score to emphasize the moral dilemma of a man pushed to betray his best friend, the tone of "The Third Man" conveys the cynical aspect of the whole situation. A fake death, where anyone could have felt something fishy, a man who's dead but so obstinately present in his girlfriend's heart and friend's mind, a man who killed many children and innocent people via his penicillin smuggling, but is still referred as "poor Harry" while Holly is mocked for his name and his weakness, he who tries to act according to his principles. The music highlights the irony of a world that lost all its boundaries, where even the dead can come back to life. In an apotheosis, Harry Lime, played by a wonderful Orson Welles, makes his entrance after more than thirty minutes with an unforgettable smile that almost flirts with the viewers. This brief shot remains one of the most iconic and black-and-white cinema defining moments.Harry's smile is a sarcastic take on Holly's view on world; the playfulness of the music underlines the idea of a man so detached he plays with innocent lives for money. The long discussion in the Ferris wheel confirms that he's less charismatic than confident in his villainous level of cynicism, symbolized by the famous "cuckoo clock" line. The music is omnipresent, always thrilling and tricking, before preparing us for a great finale. If Harry doesn't care if he killed some 'invisible dots from the Ferris wheel's altitude', it's only when Holly sees the victims of Harry's penicillin smuggling in the hospital that he fully realizes his friend's evilness and decides to help the Police. At this point, the movie takes a dramatic turn for an unforgettable climax set in the underground sewers of Vienna, the cat-and-mouse chase with Harry as the target is sublimated by the extraordinary use of lights and shadows, a captivating sequence ending with a powerful conclusion when Harry make a last friendly nod to Holly, accepting his fate, while we hear the music again.The last scene, despite its dramatic undertones, is subtly ironic since it ends exactly like it all started and while Anna is walking in Holly's direction in a beautiful shot where the road crosses to the horizon, we wonder, what would happen to Holly and Anna <U+0085> but somewhat, we're already transported by the melody of Anton Karas, then all these considerations don't really matter. As would say Harry Lime: "let's not get too melodramatic".
