I don't mind a slow movie. That is, as long as the story calls for it. But in the case of The Third Man, the tempo is nothing but dull.I imagine that the big reveal of Harry Lime, played by Orson Welles, still being alive might have been shocking when the movie was released in 1949. Kind of like Kevin Spacey being the killer in Seven, receiving no credit on posters or in the title sequence in order to preserve the mystery. Today, one would be hard pressed to find someone who doesn't know that Spacey's in Seven. This brings me back to The Third Man. Before seeing the movie I knew absolutely nothing about it, except it being voted one of the best British films ever, and that Orson Welles plays a character called Harry Lime (his face is on the cover for chrissake!), a fact which has been hard to avoid as it's regularly on lists of great performances. Consequently, I spent most of the film waiting for him to appear. No great mystery left, in other words.The acting is symptomatic of its time, so I can't really complain about it not being naturalistic. It's just something you have to accept when watching movies from this time period. Although I have to say I love the scene in the ferris wheel. Welles does a great job there.Although some people might love it, I'm just really annoyed that the movie refuses to decide which genre it's in. Is it a comedy? Is it a thriller? There are instances where combined genres work beautifully, but The Third Man is not one of those cases. The problem with The Third Man's genre schizophrenia is that the comedy parts aren't that funny, and the thriller parts aren't very thrilling, resulting in a bland mess.The thriller part is messed up even more by the ever annoying zither soundtrack. I can think of only one other case where the soundtrack almost singlehandedly messes up a movie, and that's Serpico. In the case of Serpico the director Sidney Lumet boasted that there was only about 10 minutes or so of music (I can't remember the exact number, but he says it in the special features on the DVD) in the entire 2+ hour film. All I could think about when watching it was that it was 10 minutes we could have done without that awful Mikis Theodorakis crap.Back to The Third Man, Anton Karas' plinky plunky zither bonanza plays almost nonstop throughout the entire picture. It sways between being vomit inducingly melodramatic and something out of a zany Tom & Jerry cartoon comedy, effectively removing any tension that might have been left in the movie.The behind the scenes documentary on the DVD was far more interesting and engaging than the movie itself, and is the only reason for me not chucking the movie into the waste basket.
Hapless Holly Martins (who apparently has never figured out anything in his entire life... let's call him slow-witted) is brought to post-WW2 Vienna to meet college buddy Harry Lime, and seemingly, to be used by people. But Lime has died... and the new situation becomes complicated. Sadly within 5 minutes, it's utterly obvious that Lime has not died, and the film finds uninteresting ways to dawdle for more than an hour until a "big twist" confirms it. I've never made it through 'The Third Man' without falling asleep. I've warmed up to outwardly dull, cerebral movies a lot. But to me, The Third Man is only the former... dull! It needs to offer more to consider over its running time. I don't know what developments are supposed to be engaging in this, because I can't find anything in it I'd describe as a 'development.' The concerns of a dope never become my own. Observing as a rube is misused quickly becomes irritating. I just don't care if Martins wins the gal, solves the crime, or finds Harry Lime (Welles). And the prospect of identifying with either Martins (a dope) or Lime (a degenerate) is not mined for much potential. In one scene Holly fails yet again as a lousy evening speaker; Martins is just stupid in the scene. Carol Reed doesn't know that there are wise ways to film someone being dumb (See the same scene in The 39 Steps). Eventually, waaaay into the movie we get to the movie's signature, provocative speech about the output of two nations, but it's way too late.'Third Man' fans will insist that the cinematography (a couple of tilted visuals?) is excellent, but frankly, both Welles, and Reed made movies with more compelling visuals prior to 1949. The score, now a hoary piece of film lore, is a tonal disaster, always undermining scenes with the wrong tone, and frequently at a volume too loud for a given moment. I acknowledge the movie is very influential (The Good German, Welles entire career after Ambersons) and even influenced some movies I enjoy very much (the Trial, Zentropa). But to find excellence in this is to willfully deny what your unengaged mind is telling you. Skip this and view Reed's Odd Man Out.
Long, boring melodrama that's what I'd call a "bone-ified" classic, not a bona fide classic as Maltin would have us believe. It's old-fashioned at best with annoying music done solely on a zither, which turns possibly intense scenes into a circus-like atmosphere. The over acting doesn't help and the story line is muddled and confusing. Even the so-called good cinematography looks obvious but does offer a few eye-catching shots of black and white contrasts. The premise is slightly intriguing but predictable in the wake of similar plots since.


                
It's a noir classic, yes, but could anyone HEAR it? The audio is AWFUL! AWFUL! Again, the DIALOUGE IS BARELY HEARABLE. Maybe they cleaned it up for DVD, I don't know, I saw it on VHS. If you're in non-English country and saw it subtitled, you are far better off. It seems the Brits really didn't know how to do audio back then.I am not a "real" film buff, I just know what I like, and this was a disappointment since I did have high expectations. And while this film was set in Vienna, the music soundtrack has flavors of traditional Greek music. It's fine music, but a noir film set in Vienna doesn't play well with that. AT ALL. And unfortunately, it seriously detracted from my immersion into the film. Instead, it kind of killed the feel of the film for me. But I could barely hear what anyone was saying, anyway, so there you go.This film doesn't deserve to kicking around the top of any "great" movie list. There are a lot of good noir films that easily deserve to be placed far above this one. Yet, this is the one considered the classic.


                
There's absolutely nothing unique about this movie. It's interesting but quickly becomes annoying and boring. I'm shocked by the "Masterpiece," and "flawless," comments and the high ratings.The music is terrible, and redundant. We hear the theme song over and over again throughout the movie. The setting is also redundant and much better movies have been made before and after this in the same area. The bad-boy faking his own death has been done hundreds of times before this. The woman loves bad-boy and ignores the loving friend....geez...where do I start? The dialog is stilted and the acting likewise. Like, no one EVER filmed a movie with unique angles? How about Fritz Lang, Billy Wilder, Orson Welles and so many others. What better movies are out there? How about "Double Indemnity," "Ministry of Fear," "Sunset Boulevard," "M","Citizen Kane," "The Cabinet of Dr Caligari.....well you get the picture.This is just a plain thriller that gets less thrilling with every wail of zither music, every smirk of the stupid female, and every whine of the wonderful Joseph Cotton. On yeah, and Orson Welles mumbles, but has the best scenes. The wonderful Trevor Howard is there for comedy relief and realistic lines.
This is the type of movie that should be interesting, but it just isn't.  It was really a chore to sit through the entire film.  The only reason I didn't turn it off is that it was on the AFI Top 100 of all time.  The music is especially bad.  It seems like it would fit better in a Hawaiian beach movie than a film set in post-war Vienna.


                
I really do wonder if the people that rate and comment on this movie have ever seen any noir movie or anything else other than Arnold Schwarzenegger productions. How can one even compare Welles' own "A Touch Of Evil", a masterpiece in the true sense of the word, with this pile of bad writing, bad filming, bad acting, bad ideas, bad directing; in other words... pile of crap! Are you the people that highly under-rate Tarkovski's "Stalker" for example so that is has 8.0 avg, which is less than this unspeakable blasphemy of a movie. This doesn't even make justice for normal films-noir, again overrated, like "Double Indemnity" or "The Maltese Falcon". At least TMF has some nice characters. Here nobody inspires anything. It seems that all the people in this movie are idiots. Example: Our hero , Holly Martins, has the idea that Harry Lime is alive because, when our hero was as drunk as Bush in a summer day, he thought he'd seen his supposed dead friend in the city at night. Who in God's name would believe him. Seems the police does... Did those scriptwriters not know that also intelligent human beings, not only Marilyn Monroe fans would watch this movie. Carol Reed is a bad director. This movie actually started to hurt after about an hour. Manos The Hands Of Fate is better. Also, I understand that Orson Welles need the money, but this not a commercial film, this is not even a film.Period.
The Third Man has a good premise, though a dull mess of a film as it's poorly written and executed.Joseph Cotten is terrible as the lead and Alida Valli unmemorable. Orson Welles joins the party far too late, to make any significant impact. Even though he is good, I could of very well turned the film off by then as I'm sure many have. The ending is rather absurd, you care so much about catching the guy, but you don't check if there is a back entrance. Obviously purposely obliviously written, so there is a chase segment in the sewer.
