Author Joseph Cotten (Holly) is invited to Vienna by his friend Orson Welles (Harry Lime). There is a major problem with this set-up from the outset as it is revealed that Welles has just been killed. Cotton attends the burial but sticks around in Vienna as there seems to be a great deal of suspicion surrounding the death of his buddy.The film has an interesting setting and idea for a story but I'm afraid that it just drags - it's drawn-out and never gets moving. Cotten is dreary in the lead role but Welles is the best thing in the film and delivers his amusing famous quote comparing Italy with Switzerland. The scene on the Ferris wheel is a standout scene as the audience experiences the only real moment of tension as the carriage door is opened at the top of the ride. Uh-oh – is anybody going over the edge?A mention must be made of the music – it's all zithery throughout. To further clarify, it sounds like a mixture between Greek music and French café accordion music. And it provides moments of over-exaggerated melodrama that just ends up comical. It is also just basically out-of-place belonging more in an art film or 1960s camp comedy horror.The story is not bad and the film could have been so much more interesting – we are given about 30 minutes of plot stretched out to nearly 2 hours. Definitely not the classic that everyone blindly labels it as – it is vastly over-rated right up to the final chase scene in the sewers – a plot device that was done a year before in the better film "He Walked By Night" (1948) which provided far more tension and a better sewer chase.


                
I read many wonders about this film, considering the very positive reviews it gets. It even is considered one of the greatest films ever. Judging by the general descriptions regarding this motion picture, it was even said to be a great story of suspense.I was expecting a noir film comparable to 'The Window' (1949), which is one of my favorite films. It turned out to be disappointing, nothing of what I expected.It isn't until the last 10 minutes that something begins to happen at all, but that's just so little, especially comparing to the rest of it where nothing special happens. It's just way too slow-paced, boring and dull, made me yawn of boredom. Suspense? Zero suspense!It was one of those films that left me indifferent. It's very far from being one of the best ever, being clearly far more praised than it really deserves. Not even the fact that it takes place in Vienna can save it. While Vienna is a beautiful place, the movie doesn't show that much of Vienna. On the other hand, the film has both English and German language.'The Fallen Idol' (which is from the same director) was better than this and had more suspense than this (even if still very little).


                
Very disappointing. This film is highly over-rated. The story is set in the war-torn Austrian city of Vienna, just after the Second World War, and is told from the point of view of an American pulp western author, Holly Martins, who is searching for a college friend, Harry Lime, who had offered him the opportunity to work with him in Vienna.At the beginning of the film, Martins discovers that his old friend Harry Lime, whom he had not seen since before the war, has been killed in an accident under mysterious circumstances just prior to Martins' arrival in Vienna. The deeper he delves into Harry's death, the more Martins finds that there was more to Lime than he knew and that Harry has been accused of being a black market racketeer, trafficking in adulterated penicillin.The only interesting angle to the film is the way in which Martins sort of becomes the heroic advocate of justice that he writes about- only this time the setting is post-war Vienna (which is fairly wild and untamed) not the wild west- a rather intriguing parallel, but not enough to save the film, which suffers from a generally lack-luster plot.


                
I thought I had seen all of the famous old films in my lifetime, but somehow I missed The Third Man. Today I watched it, with complete disgust due to that horrible (and stupid) Spanish guitar throughout the film. The music, if you can call it that was horrible. The guitar sounded out of tune half the time and it never went with the scene that it was supposed to enhance. Sometimes, the guitar player sounded like he was free forming the music and often lost his way. Yes, I know a very famous song came from this soundtrack but even THAT didn't go along with any scene or the plot in general. The entire soundtrack should have been in an Italian Comedy film where some stud is trying to impress a beautiful woman on the beach.


                
I expected much more from this film, as usually they claim it to be a classic movie, one of the best in history of cinema etc. But in my opinion it isn't. It has too many shortcomings. First of all -- the music is totally inappropriate for such a thriller, it is mocking and amusing, which does not fit with the whole story at all. It makes it all look like a light-hearted comedy, not to be taken seriously. The dialogues are presented in a mechanical, artificial way: normal people do not respond so quickly to surprising and unknown information. The plot fixes too much attention to the girl, rather than to the complex and confused story. The good things are the cinematography and the atmosphere of postwar Vienna, where the action takes place, but even they should have been given more attention.


                
To address some of the criticism point by point made in my title there, yes this film is boring: its pace is exaggeratedly slow throughout all of its playtime and at times downright ridiculous, like the chase at the end for example, it just never ends.The points that need to be made could often have been made with either more luster, or quicker, or just been better altogether - much of the film if not all of it is just basically narrative, to the point I would ask what the difference would be between watching the actual film here, or just reading the script. It just carries out a totally linear story and it's basically just dialogue and the film fails at making itself interesting to the audience. Sure this may've been original or what not at the time, but as a film on its own there's really very little strength to it, I mean the whole point and idea of the film (won't be disclosed here) is a fairly ordinary story overall and the twist may be interesting but to have all this completely underwhelming, boring old film attached to it is far too bad a deal for such a quick fix at the end.It's also annoying, sonically: loud voices throughout, the debilitating omnipresence of that Hawaii-ish guitar theme...it's just often very loud and an annoyance. Then the fact it tries hard to be stylistic with tilted odd camera angles, or unsubtle transitions like the camera zooming in on that flower pot and into the street...Overall one could get the impression there's far too little going on, the film settles for telling some story it picked to tell and there's more talking than anything, is recurrently very slow... and what goes on just isn't interesting or important enough to ever get the right momentum going.


                
Okay, let's get a reality check of how movies are rated here. Just a few movies rated higher than "The Third Man" ranked according to IMDb's most votes, are:First: Shawshank Redemption..... Eighth: The Good, the Bad and the Ugly......29th: Once Upon a Time in the West...... Thirty Eighty: Mad MaxThe Third Man and most every other movie ever made including those that scooped multiple Academy Awards are rated less than these. Regardless, I still find the "Third Man" a rather boring movie. Flaws?? One obvious....The choice of MUSIC! How could anyone in their right mind try to fit this constantly into a post war so-called thriller? Then the screenplay which gets so damned bogged down with the whining of the wonderful Joseph Cotton over his pal and his lust for the equally whining female (who whines over the supposedly dead Welles character). The night scenes have no people in the area except for the stars. The only excitement is provided by Orson Welles, but you have to suffer through almost two-thirds of the movie before he shows up, then all hell breaks loose. Sorry, but that doesn't redeem the whining music and whining actors that come before.
