The motion picture concerns on an American writer of pulp Western named Holy Martin(Joseph Cotten), he arrives in a post-war devastating Vienna to see his old friend Harry Lime(Orson Welles), but he discovers he has been killed. In the funeral knows a gorgeous scene actress(haunting Alida Valli). Manipulative Harry is a known delinquent drug-dealer, smuggling adulterated penicillin in black-market and master-criminal at large in a Vienna of nightmare divided in four zones, the city is plenty of ruins, trash,devastation,rubbish and debris. Lime is allegedly dead , but is finally pursued throughout the sewers by authorities(Trevor Howard, Bernard Lee, Geoffrey Keen).Based on Grahame novel's , this classic movie noir thriller is an excellent story lavishly produced by the great American producer David O Selznick and Hungarian producer Alexander Korda. This is a deeply satisfying and intelligent picture for not be missed, using a considerable talent in acting as main cast as secondaries actors formed mostly by foreigners players of various countries and utilizing the cream of British experts in writing and technical departments. With a plethora of anthological images and dialogs such as the scenes about conversation in the fairs between Harry Lime and Martin and the underground-sewers pursuits. Magnificent Orson Welles and Joseph Cotten, great friends in real life; Welles reportedly intervened in direction principally on his scenes, though in an interview he explained that Carol Reed directed totally this outstanding movie.Extraordinary Anton Karas'musical score , though insistent and sometimes irritant zither which hooked itself into the people of the world.Robert Krasker's gorgeous cinematography , reflecting splendidly the shapes, lights, shadows with sophisticated, elegant use of camera angles and deservedly winning an Oscar and nomination for film-making and edition. The film is perfectly directed by Carol Reed in his second adaptation about Grahame Greene novel, the first was 'The fallen idol(1948)' and later 'Our man in Havana(1959)'.


                
I can't help believing THE THIRD MAN is a film highly regarded because of its technical achievements rather than by its story . The plot itself is rather simplistic : American writer Holly Martins gets a message from his friend Harry Lime offering him a job in Vienna and when he arrives in the city he discovers Harry is dead . There's a mystery involved in how Harry died but because everyone is so familiar with the plot twists ( This film was made nearly 20 years before I was born ) there's no real surprises as to the story The film ( Can we describe it as " film noir " ? ) succeeds because of its breath taking technical achievements . from the opening shot we're shown a montage of shots of post war Vienna , some real life film footage , some specifically shot for the movie with a voice over that is breath takingly conversational . When ever a film opens with a voice over it's always done by some dour American but here it's said by some cheerful English chappie . This alone sticks out in the mind and clearly states that it's a !!!!! British !!!! film . I don't mean a " British made film " financed with American money , I mean a film that was made by a British studio . Of course Carol Reed has an eye for an American market hence his casting of Orson Welles as Harry Lime and it's Welles casting that helps make THE THIRD MAN the screen legend that it is . He has very few lines but Welles speech about the cuckoo clock was ad libbed by the actor and is one of the most memorable lines in cinema . But for me the stand out aspect of the movie is the Oscar winning cinematography by Robert Krasker , it's impossible to think of this movie without thinking of shadows against walls There are a couple of flaws though . Considering Austria is in such a bad state after losing the war a couple of years previously I couldn't help noticing that scotch is freely available ! I know the black market is booming ( That's part of the plot ) but even so th way people reach for a bottle and pour themselves a stiff drink seems very unlikely , I mean how many people do you know that drink that amount of booze ? and we're in a period of time where strong liqueur is very easy to acquire . Can I just repeat that because the over familiarity of the story the plot holds no surprises ? Perhaps I' , the first person to point this out by saying I don't like the score . Anton Karras plays the zither and after a few scenes I found myself being irritated by it


                
I'm among those who were disappointed upon first seeing `the greatest British film of the 20th Century' (I don't think it's THAT; and anyway, what's with the `of the 20th century' clause?  It's not as if there are any serious contenders from the previous century) - and I was still a trifle disappointed upon seeing it a second time, in a cinema.  Not that I disliked it on either occasion.Part of the problem is that I knew too much about the story.  I'm sure you will enjoy your first viewing of `The Third Man' at least twice as much if you know as little as possible about it beforehand.  There are people out there who think that if a film is fifty years old it's okay to give away all the surprises, as if we know them all at birth anyway.  And then there are those who think that if a film is any good to begin with it can stand having its secrets revealed.  Well, yes: people will still take DIMINISHED pleasure in `The Third Man', as I did, if they know what's going to happen.  They will also still get some pleasure out of it if forced to watch it from uncomfortable seats.  That's no argument in favour of uncomfortable seats. Anyway: you should be VERY careful what you allow yourself to read about this film before you see it.  Look over all the comments here with fitful, darting eyes.  That applies to my comments, too.  Anyone who hasn't seen the movie should stop reading now.  Please take this warning seriously.I'm not too fond of the ending - that pursuit through the sewers.  (Although the VERY end, the coda, that long shot of the tree-lined street, was just perfect - as good a closing shot as I have ever seen.)  This is the kind of ending you get when no-one can think of an ending.  Maybe it would work better if Harry Lime were a sympathetic character; but despite what so many people say, he's NOT a sympathetic character, and he isn't meant to be; or if he IS meant to be, then Graham Greene and Carol Reed and Orson Welles have misunderstood their own creation.  Obviously, Lime is meant to have some charm.  He's meant to have whatever it takes to win over Anna and Holly.  But he's not there to win US over, not even in the slightest degree. `The Third Man' is the story of someone who is close friends with a man who, as WE recognise, is a monster.  We're shown that he's a monster before we even meet him and sense that he's up to no good long before that. However laden with charm Welles's performance may be it comes too late to fool us.  In any event, Harry Lime is clearly the kind of charmer who works on one victim at a time, and he never gets a spare moment to cast his spell over the audience.  I think, though, that everyone assumed that this MUST be the story of a likeable rogue, including perhaps the writer, which is why the film's climax never really ignites.That's my only complaint about the film itself.  In fact I agree with all the other favourable remarks people have made, about the story, characters, presentation and music - I only wish I had been allowed to watch the film in the correct frame of mind.


                
Currently this movie is rated #2 all-time for Film Noir by IMDb voters. I found on DVD, the recently restored version, at my public library. The restoration is quite good, but the sound balance is off at times, with zither background music annoyingly loud at times. Other than that, it is about perfect for an older film.While the story is good, it in fact is rather simple. The story is not what makes it a treasured classic. The two things that do are the characters, particularly Orson Welles as the mysterious Harry Lime playing off the naive Holly Martins played by Joseph Cotton. Plus, the superb black and white film noir cinematography set among some of the bombed-over ruins of post-war Vienna. Even though Welles was merely an actor here, "Citizen Kane" movie-making is visible all through "The Third Man." The remaining comments contain SPOILERS so anyone who has not yet seen the movie should read no further. Pulp fiction writer Martins is invited to Vienna by his old friend Lime, with a promise of work. But Martins shows up just in time for Lime's funeral. In disbelief Martins tries to find witnesses and one describes "a third man" at the scene, one not included in police reports. In fact the third man we find out half-way through the film was Lime, and he took this opportunity to fake his own death and go into hiding because the police wanted him for crimes, namely watering down penicillin and getting rich while adults and children suffered. A cat-n-mouse game is played where Martins agrees to do what is right and help capture his old friend, until Lime is hunted down in the sewers below the city. Lime does not escape, he dies with his fingers reaching up through a street-level grate. Martins has fallen in love with Anna, Lime's old flame, but she walks right past him as the film ends.
But once he does, a wonderful film takes place. About half of this movie takes place setting up the characters and story to come, but boy does the other half make up for what was, in my opinion, a fairly lackluster opening.


                
Brilliant b/w cinematography. No wonder it won the Oscar for 1951 and several other industry awards. There is still a place for b/w if it can reach the standards set by this film. Orson Welles proves he is a very good actor as well as his other contributions to the film industry. Trevor Howard's portrayal of the cool determined British officer is superb. Joseph Cotten underplays the difficult role of the western thriller writer caught in a situation way out of his depth. The mysterious Valli leaves us somewhat frustrated by her refusal to escape the clutches of the Russian authorities for the sake of a man who thinks nothing of making money from the misery of helpless children and adults with his contaminated penicillin. It begs the eternal question: "Why do beautiful women fall for evil men?


                
'The Third Man' has every right to be described as the greatest British film ever made. It perfectly captures a country ravaged by war nd struggling to get to grips with defeat where the black market is rife. Director Carol Reed makes the black ands white images harsh and almost sharp to capture this feeling of despair. It is impossible to see that this film could ever have worked in colour. The cast is faultless with Orson Welles perfect as the mysterious Harry Lime. The character who may not been be seen for much of the picture but his is presence is strangely felt in every scene. Each piece of Harry's life in Austria is slowly unwrapped by his best friend Holly Martins played by Joseph Cotton. A pulp fiction writer who is invited to Vienna with a promise of work but only to discover that Lime as died. Suspected foul play Martins is torn between loyalty between is friend and the harsh realty that his friend is a crook and he has fallen in love with Harry's girl, Anna (alida Valli). The plot may seem a little dated but it still gives a new audience the opportunity to sit back and watch a well crafted film without graphic violence. In fact the most disturbing images are left instead o the audience's own imagination. A true classic movie.


                
Being in Vienna, you must of course see "The Third Man" if you have the chance, especially when it's shown with the original soundtrack. I did so.
There aren't many pictures in film history having that splendid photo, in the sewers as well as out of them. But the charm of it is in the way people are behaving, like a glimpse from a lost paradise, although the plot is frightful.It is a beautiful story about friendship between men, one good and one evil, and of passionate love for a woman, which only grows into despair. The background is the bombed Vienna, which make things very special, like destiny looking over your shoulder. The film is probably more sensational now, then it was in 1949.


                
I have seen THE THIRD MAN many, many times because it is a powerful and incredibly entertaining Post WW II Film Noir. Everything about it is perfect: shot on location in war-torn Vienna; intriguing characters played by a superb cast headed by Orson Welles and Joseph Cotton; spellbinding black & white cinematography with ominous dark shadows, eerie deserted streets and unsettling camera angles. The police chase through the Vienna sewers is a fantastic and iconic Film Noir masterpiece.How come then, I shed a tear every time I see this movie? Answer: ... because the ZITHER SOUNDTRACK COMPLETELY RUINS THIS MOVIE! Every time the music appears I wince and turn the sound on my TV down. The music destroys whatever is going on in the movie be it dialogue or plot development. The jingly-jangly sound of the zither truly undermines the greatness of this film.I have nothing against Anton Karas, the composer and musician of the zither music in the movie. He's a fine musician I am sure, but to have his zither as the one and only musical instrument in this movie was a bad decision. Carol Reed is a celebrated movie director and he did an exceptional job with this movie. Why he agreed to the zither music as the only music for this movie is beyond me. Who made this final decision on this mistake?Possible solution: It would be awesome if this movie could be re-scored with a completely new soundtrack, something more appropriate for a world-class Noir thriller such as this. With today's advancements in movie digital re-mastering (and working from an original print) it would be fairly easy to remove the zither music and replace it with something better. Actually, this movie would do well without a musical score, period! Let's put it this way ... no soundtrack would be better than the zither mess we have now.


                
The music is played on a zither or zither harp, not a guitar. That instrument is of Austrian origin and playing reflects the folklore at that point in time. Long story short: I liked it!


                
The Third Man is a fine movie, with great acting and a genuinely interesting storyline. An American heads to Austria searching for his old friend, but upon arrival, discovers that his friend is dead. As the film progresses, our American begins to have doubts that the friend is dead after all, as a series of outrageously suspicious characters try and put him off the scent. Along the way, he falls for his friend's ex, who helps him in his search for the truth. Was his friend murdered? If so, why were three men seen taking the body away, when only two can be accounted for? These are his questions. Late in the film, this third man is revealed: Orson Welles. His friend is not dead after all. Major Calloway, a brilliantly portrayed English army officer, informs the Americano of Welles' chicanery and crime. Will he help catch him? Going against the wishes of the girl he loves, he agrees. The film builds to a scintillating conclusion in a sewer of all places, Welles trying desperately to evade capture. The movie is very entertaining, although the music grates a little. The way it's filmed is very slick, whilst Calloway's flippant remarks and easy-going mannerisms are a particular treat. Go and see this now.
Wonderful photo and scenary and brilliantly acting by Welles...but the music?!! Starting off fine with a nice Hawaii-tune...then the melody is played again...and again...and again...etc Vienna after the war and during the big chase that hawaii-tune is played over and over again! No more suspense after that.The film was great, but could have been even better without that stupid music. A version with a new composed score would be perfect.Overall 4 out of 5.


                
An excellent, depressing look at Vienna soon, too soon, after World War II, "The Third Man" was shot largely in that city and starred Joseph Cotten, Orson Welles, and some other major actors who don't really matter. This movie makes Orson Welles look better than any other movie I've seen him in, especially in his first shot in the movie.The plot is that the occupation of Vienna by the major powers (Great Britain, US, France, and Soviet Union) leads to a black market. Our naive hero, Holly Martins (played by Cotten), comes to Vienna to see an old chum, only to find that his chum (Harry Lime) was killed in a traffic accident. Holly is just in time for the burial. Lime, it turns out, was selling fake penicillin, placing him on the most-wanted list of most of the police and MPs in town.Director Carol Reed does an excellent job, and Orson Welles is very good as Lime. The city of Vienna has a starring roll as well, which it plays with admirable degradation.* Martins finds out that Lime was involved in the black market in a way that resulted in many deaths, especially among children. There are puzzling aspects about Lime's death (who was the third man at the accident scene, for example), and Martins, who should have left well enough alone and gone home, is involved in the investigation into Lime's chicanery and death and becomes involved with Lime's distraught surviving girlfriend. It's an excellent film that has recently been released in Hi Def on Blu-Ray DVD, which brings all the glory of its black and white shades of gray back from the blotchy blacks of VHS and standard definition. Reed achieved an admirable number of great shots in the film, and using black and white was genius. Vienna has never looked so glamorously demolished."The Third Man" has a great ending that book ends the beginning, leaving us no better off than we were. No, we're worse off. Sometimes we don't need to know what we wanted to know. Superb closing scene.*If you liked "The Third Man," I recommend reading Hotel New Hampshire by John Irving, which has much of its action taking place in the same town at the same time and which is excellent. The novel is free at your public library. Also listen to Marelene Dietrich sing "Falling in Love Again" from "The Blue Angel." Although performed in the late Twenties, the refrain "I can't help it" sums up the theme of "The Third Man," and Dietrich vocalizes the dreary lostness of post-war Vienna. Look for Marlene on YouTube.
There's a reason that the only Academy Award won by "The Third Man" went to Robert Krasker for cinematography. Of all the film noir I've seen, this night-shrouded mystery is the most visually superb. Forget the crisp dialogue or the magnetizing performance of supporting actor Orson Welles -- the picture quality of Sir Carol Reed's masterpiece is its paramount attribute.Taking place in Vienna post WWII, "The Third Man" follows pulp novelist Holly Martins (Joseph Cotten) on a trip to meet his friend Harry Lime (Orson Welles) in Vienna, only Holly soon learns that Harry has died in an accident. Looking for answers, Holly discovers that there's more to it than he realized and that Harry might not have been the person he thought he was. Trevor Howard and Alida Valli co-star as Maj. Calloway, who leads the investigation into the truth of Lime's death and Anna, Harry's former lover whom Holly falls for.Darkness pervades nearly every scene as Holly inches closer to the truth. Coupled with Reed's keen eye for dramatic camera angles, the film maintains suspense throughout, often times leading us to believe danger lurks at every turn when nothing all that visually exciting is taking place on screen (until the infamous final sewer sequence, where the film makes its biggest visual statement.)For 1949, Reed and Krasker capture an indescribable beauty in the shadows of their film, one easily comparable to today's movies despite light years of technological advancements. Without color, film noir has to make a visual statement with vividness of light and it's really just tremendous how successful Krasker is at making that statement.Orson Welles is the perfect actor in the film's most mysterious role. His Cheshire cat smile and his drastically altered world view make him fit flawlessly into the film's dark universe. His presence sort of wakes you up in a film whose actors are talented but lack a clear signature, one that draws you to them characters. He brings a much needed thrill to the movie.When it comes to shots that stand out in your memory, "The Third Man" is loaded with them. Plain and simple, it's why this film is remembered and remembered fondly 60 years later.


                
Considering the films that were out at the time, this one in particular runs at a faster pace.The audience is thrust into the mind of the main character, making his own discoveries relevant to anyone watching the film, as answers to questions merely raise more questions that need to be answered. The overall feel of the piece is that something is not quite right. As the story unfolds, the audience, and the main character are slowly given the pieces to a puzzle that ends with everyone knowing exactly what is going on.It is a film-noir mystery, professionally done, with exceptional performances from legends of cinema.Still worth watching, even today. Way ahead of its time when it came out, making it an entertaining spectacle, and a joy to behold.


                
Many superlatives have already been said, and deservedly so, about this excellent film. A suspenseful mystery, well-acted by all major characters. Welles especially, as the mysterious Harry Lime, personifies evil even more effectively (if that's possible) than characters such as Anthony Hopkins (Silence of the Lambs) or Andy Robinson (Dirty Harry). Who can forget Lime's words spoken from the top of Vienna's ferris wheel about being paid for stopping those "dots below" (people) from moving or his Italy & Renaissance v  Switzerland & cuckoo clock comparison. Simply, a "must see" film.


                
I was always told that this is one of those classics that everybody is supposed to see, and from watching it, I understand why.  It is a well made piece of work with beautiful photography, and some pretty darn good acting. To be honest, the movie got a little slow for until Orson Welles showed up, but I would get caught up in the more technical aspects of the film, and my interest was hooked again.  Story wise it was good, but it just didn't grab me.  I think that Welles' Lime is what stuck with me the most.  In fact, the scene I remember best is when the light gets flicked on, and you see Welles in the alley for the first time.  See it because it's a classic piece of film making.


                
I just finished watching the "Criterion Collection" DVD of The Third Man, which is a glorious remastered print containing a multitude of extras. This was the first time I had ever seen the Third Man and I can honestly say that I have many conflicting feelings about it.  For its cinematic accomplishments, I have to give it an 8/10. Its beautifully haunting scenes of post-war Vienna still remain clear in my mind. It truly does not seem like a film from 1949 in this aspect.  However, it is considered to be the greatest "suspense thriller" of its kind, and it is this aspect that I highly disagree with.  I never felt a sense of suspense or impending danger throughout the movie, and as far as suspense is concerned, it is no match for any of the great Hitchcock gems, or say the Manchurian Candidate.  If you are expecting a suspensful thriller, I doubt you will find it here. In my humble opinion, a major reason for the lack of suspense, is the use of the ever present sounds of that damned zither. While it is an interesting choice of instruments to use, I don't feel that it is appropriate or effective. I found it to be hugely annoying and if there was a way to mute it I would have. It did not supplement the mood or action of the story in any way and constantly seemed to be out of place. A major disappointment here. Thank God they chose to leave it out during the final sewer chase, as it would have destroyed this wonderful scene. There are movies that I give 8-10/10 that I absolutely loved and fully enjoyed, and then there are others that I have to give high marks because they are great films, but I did not wholly enjoy. This is the case with The Third Man.  Cinematically, it is perfect.  However, I don't feel that the whole package was so.  I would welcome any or all comments regarding this movie and would love to hear others feelings regarding the zither!!!


                
The Third Man starts and ends with a funeral, and unfolds through the rubble and gloom of hivernal post-war Vienna, where the military police of the occupying powers have a full time job keeping tabs on shifty characters and black marketeers. Scripted by Grahame Greene, the film starts notably wordy. Concentration is required as the plot twists and turns, cleverly casting the viewer as the slightly desperate but determined Holly Martins as he tries to make sense of what has happened to his friend, Harry Lime. We are craftily led to a number of moral dilemmas as we weigh the value of friendship against the unseen impact of the racketeers.On the way we meet a whole string of shady, cynical and world-weary characters, each struggling to maintain a precarious existence amongst penury and shortage. The slow pace picks up noticeably with the justly celebrated appearance of Orson Welles as Lime, all heavy overcoat and louche charm.As one might expect from a Grahame Greene story, the subject matter is deadly serious yet laced with mordant humour and penetrating observation. The photography and lighting is pure, unalloyed pleasure, the Viennese Gothic architecture a crenellated marvel of contrasting greys and deep blacks, and shadows receding with to the sound of running footsteps on the wet cobblestones. And the zither music; yes, you will like that.The film mostly belongs to Welles and Cotton in the lead roles, though Trevor Howard presents a marvellous study of restrained distaste as Calloway, and Bernard Lee (the future 'M' in the James Bond series) gives an excellent comic turn as his straightforward sergeant. The beautiful but remote Alida Valli is good too as the haunted girlfriend of Lime.Expect to be rewarded in direct proportion to length of your attention span, and to remember the ending shot for a very long time.


                
Had I gone into the film cold, I would have thought it came from Hitchcock, employing elements from that director's bag of cinematic tricks. You've got the spiral staircase motif initially seen way back in 1929's "Blackmail" and later given more profound treatment in 1958's "Vertigo". There's also the amusement park background that provided suspense in the latter part of "Strangers On A Train". But the thing that really appealed to me was the insertion of a key Hitchcockian element suggested by the movie's title. The 'third man' upon reflection seems to be one of the all time great maguffins of cinema history. In all actuality, there never really was a 'third man', unless one considers Harry Lime to be that character. For that though, he would have had to be at his own 'death' as the unknown individual who helped two other men remove a hit and run victim from the middle of a road.Which upon reflection, makes the core premise of the story very confusing. Not that Harry Lime wouldn't have wanted to fake his own death, but why didn't anyone who attended his funeral realize that it wasn't Harry in the coffin? The real victim wasn't in a very good position to hide his identity, so how did the appearance of Harry Lime's burial come to be accepted as fact? And why was that body so easily identifiable upon exhumation as the medical orderly Joseph Harbin who worked for Harry in the illicit penicillin trade? If you really think about these issues, most of the story seems to unravel regarding the main plot.Yet the story works on an entirely different level once you get beyond that particular point. Harry Lime winds up alive halfway through the picture, and spends the rest of his time trying to stay a step ahead of his friend Holly Martins (Joseph Cotten), who's intent on solving the mystery behind Harry's 'death'. What makes the film so intriguing is the deft camera work and the battered post-war setting of Vienna, Austria. The picture simply wouldn't work in color, it's the stark black and white cinematography that contributes to the harrowing cat and mouse game between Harry, Martins and the authorities.You really have to study Orson Welles' performance in the picture to see just what a great actor he was. He doesn't have a lot of screen time here, but everything he does is memorable, right from that first haunting appearance under the street lamp. His conversation with Martins on the ferris wheel is perfectly nuanced and laced with palpable threat; it's just a perfect scene. You have to go well beyond the subtlety of his outward demeanor to realize what a true low life his character actually is.
I recently saw this film for the first time and was well entertained. I was particularly intrigued by the soundtrack, though. Very different. Does anyone know what music was used? I am a tango dancer and found the strains of the violin very reminiscent of some of the music we dance to. I know there is a main theme that is repeated quite frequently throughout the movie. Unfortunately, I don't recognize it and was hoping someone else might. It would be wonderful if someone knew the the performers as well as the composition. I wonder if this information would be available in the jumbo, super sized version of membership. I'm not able to spring for it now and so would appreciate any further information. Seems I've filled the 10 line requirement.TIA-----Peter


                
It is indeed the brief appearance of Orson Welles that stands out from this Carol Reed film, famed also for its zither theme and those shots in the depths of the sewers.  Joseph Cotten plays <U+0091>Holly' Martins, a writer trying to locate his old friend Harry Lime in a corrupt Vienna.  But Harry has been killed, or so Martins is told <U+0085>Notable for an excellent supporting role from that wonderful character player, Trevor Howard, and for appearances from the likes of Wilfred Hyde-White (in a role merged from two intended for UK film regulars Radford and Wayne), Bernard Lee, and Alida Valli as Lime's girlfriend; it is the moment when Welles steps from the shadowed doorway that lingers in the memory; his speech about the Swiss and cuckoo-clocks (his own moment of inspiration, not Graham Greene's).Greene's screenplay is sparse and clever.  I love the way that when cornered and forced to address a cultural gathering, Martins claims a leading pulp fiction author of westerns as his key influence (while he has never heard of James Joyce).  The famous ending is also of note, that long, long walk past the eyes that do not see.


                
Considered a classic as it rightly should.  Definitely one of the finest suspense thrillers of all time.  The plot is twisting and complex (if occasionally hard to follow); the acting ranges from OK (Cotten and Valli) to superb (Howard and Welles).  The worst thing about the movie is the VERY annoying zither music.  Supposedly it's supposed to compliment the mood of the film. Well, it didn't!  It made me want to cover my ears!  Halfway through the film I wish there had been a way to shut the music off and keep the dialogue on!  The best thing about this is the direction.  Director Reed constantly keeps the viewer off balance by shooting numerous scenes at a tilted angle establishing a sense of paronia and uneasiness.  Very rarely is something shoot at the correct angle.  Also, the set design is stunning. The movie is set in Vienna, but was shot in London.  You'd never know it. It looks and FEELS like Vienna.  The sets are huge and crumbling (result of WWII) and increase the feeling of dread.  Also excellent use of night and shadow.  Some of these sequences wouldn't be out of place in a horror film. Hard movie to describe...it has the be viewed.  If you get the chance to see it, do so.  You won't be disappointed.


                
Apparently Kim Philby, the notorious spy, was a close friend of the director, Carol Reed (a male, despite the name)and Philby's real first name was "Harry". And of course Grahame Green wrote the script ... hence "Lime".The viewing of The Third Man is essential. It is quite stunning in all respects and there is just one serious fault: the devotion of the female protagonist for Welles' anti-hero is inexplicable. There should have been hints of a more pure Harry Lime, perhaps suggestions of heroism in the war, perhaps his criminal adventurism had at one time been a virtue. Her love for Harry is never justified.


                
A writer travels to post war Vienna to meet an old friend but finds out he's too late.Starring Joseph Cotten, Orson Welles and Alida Valli.Written by Graham Greene. Directed by Carol Reed.It's about time I watched another old movie so I couldn't resist this when I saw it on the TV listings.I like it. It's a good twisty story that kept my interest all the way. The acting is good and the whole thing is pretty artistic and stylish. It's pretty dated but once I got into it it didn't really matter. It's was probably well ahead of it's time considering it came out in 1949 and I was pleasantly surprised that it didn't contain any melodramatic romantic mush. It was all about the story. The mystery.I'm sure I would have loved this if I had been around at the time and watching it for the first time I was transported back in time and I felt like I was there. Oh and I love the background music, pretty quirky stuff.Enjoyed.7.5/10


                
