In a bombed-out Vienna just after WWII, novelist Holly Martins (Joseph Cotten) arrives from America to renew a friendship with his childhood buddy, Harry Lime (Orson Welles). Much to the dismay of Holly, a freak auto accident has recently killed his friend, according to those who knew Harry.But in searching for details of Lime's death, Holly gets contradictory stories that don't add up. One of the persons who knew Lime is an attractive woman named Anna Schmidt (Alida Valli) whose continued presence in the story invites suspicion. The film's plot has Holly searching for the truth about his friend, while trying to stave off a city detective, Major Calloway (Trevor Howard) who tries to persuade Holly to leave Vienna.The film's story is okay. But what makes "The Third Man" really interesting is the B&W cinematography, by Robert Krasker. Unlike most films, camera movement here is restricted, so as to draw attention to each frame's geometry. Typically in this film, a frame is tilted at an angle so that both vertical and horizontal points of reference are off-kilter. Frame images thus become a series of diagonal straight lines and curves. Further, very high-contrast lighting, especially in outdoor scenes at night, creates a bizarre, almost nightmarish look and feel, and are suggestive of German Expressionism.All of which results in a visual disorientation for viewers that parallels Holly's disorientation both in the streets of Vienna and in his understanding of the circumstances surrounding Lime's absence. In most outdoor scenes there's a conspicuous lack of crowds, a lack of hubbub one would expect in a bustling city. Instead, only a few secondary characters appear in night scenes. This sparseness in characters on the streets conveys the impression that hidden eyes are watching Holly, ready to pounce at any moment from out of dark shadows."Everybody ought to (be) careful in a city like this", says one character to Holly, as an implied threat. Soon, a man who wants to give Holly some valuable information is murdered.The script's dialogue is quite impressive, with some interesting lines and points of view. Some of the dialogue is in German, which enhances authenticity.The film's acting and editing are very, very good. Adding a slightly romantic, and at times melancholy, tone to this dark film is the music of the "zither", an instrument similar to a guitar, but sounding quite different.My one complaint about this film is that it's hard to keep tabs on some of the background characters. Trying to connect names with faces can be difficult, resulting in some confusion."The Third Man" tells an interestingly bleak story, set in a bleak, desolate urban environment, rendered truly mesmerizing by the creatively surreal B&W cinematography.


                
Although I am as old as this movie, produced in 1949, I have not aged nearly as well. This film, directed brilliantly by Carol Reed ("Odd Man Out", "The Fallen Idol") and written by Graham Greene, who created a long list of memorable cinematic scripts, ingeniously captures the prevailing atmosphere of disruption and chaos that Vienna, a once highly civilized city, experienced during the years that followed World War II. The upheaval is physical, social, economic, political, moral, spiritual. You name it. Vanquished Vienna, conquered by the Allies, was crippled by turmoil in every imaginable way, and we viewers are given the opportunity to experience it up close, right here.I spent a number of months in Europe after I graduated from college in 1971. Although the war had been over for more than 25 years by then, I was struck by a very pronounced attitude of cynicism on the part of many Europeans regarding uniquely American ideals and principles, which were widely considered to be naive. To me, this film accurately captures this cultural and moral conflict, which lasted for decades and may even survive to this day. "You and your American principles," they would often scoff at me with mocking derision. In many ways, the character of Holly Martins (Joseph Cotten), an American who crashes into post-World War II Europe, is a victim of a serious cultural divide. Unlike the Europeans, Martins always has the option of fleeing from the chaos and returning to the United States. For that alone, he may be resented by the local Viennese.What does Anna (Alida Valli) know about the illegal activities of her lover, Harry Lime (Orson Welles), which includes the sale of diluted penicillin to Vienna's hospitals? For children with meningitis, watered down penicillin was not only useless, but it created an immunity from full strength penicillin so that these afflicted children could never receive effective treatment. Corrupted penicillin is a glaring symbol of a totally corrupted Vienna. Harry surely understands the consequences of his business, but what about Anna? Even after the truth about Harry's conduct is clearly revealed to her, she still sticks by him to the bitter end. Love conquers all? Stand by your man, regardless of he misery that he is causing to his innocent victims? Seriously? While I don't blame her for rejecting the romantic overtures of Martins, who is somewhat of a schnook, what's with her anyway? She reminds me of the Europeans who never once caught a whiff of the burning flesh from the overworked crematoria of the concentration camps that blackened the air all around them. She is deeply in love with Harry, so just shut up about children with meningitis. OK, Anna, whatever you say, sweetheart. Perhaps those silly 18th century costume comedies in which you appear will provide the escape from reality that you so desperately seek. At least you manage to crack a weak, forced smile on stage, which is the only smile that we will ever see from you.From beginning to end, the unusual camera angles, the dark, somber, haunting sidewalks of Vienna, and the conquered city's eerie, drenched cobblestone streets contribute to the overall foreboding atmosphere of the film, which was remarkably photographed by Australian Robert Krasker ("Odd Man Out","Brief Encounter"). Unforgettable images and characters appear before us, emphasizing an overall mood of mayhem and unpredictability from every direction. We witness, for example, Anna's landlady, draped in a bedspread for warmth and deeply distressed by the sudden invasion of her house by "officials" representing not one foreign nation but four of them. Then we observe one of those ludicrous, bureaucratic "cultural re-education conferences" offered to the Viennese by the allied victors, presumably to rehabilitate them after seven years of Nazi domination. And from where on earth did the balloon seller come as he pathetically peddles his merry merchandise on the dark, abandoned streets of Vienna, which are not only completely void of children at the time but of all people?And what of the inquisitive, confused character of Holly Martins, played with the usual, smooth agility of Joseph Cotten? As the writer of mass marketed western novels that even the young British sergeant happens to read, why is he broke, and what kind of job would Lime have offered him in an unfamiliar, German-speaking Vienna that is gripped by post World War II disorder, unemployment, and foreign occupation? Construction work, perhaps?While some reviewers disliked the zither music of Anton Karas, I think that the unique sound contributes to the general atmosphere of nervous tension and uneasiness that saturates the air of a normally orderly metropolis that is abruptly plunged into total disarray. Would you prefer Strauss waltzes instead? They wouldn't be nearly as effective in conveying the overwhelming atmosphere of chaos, even insanity, that plagues Vienna on so many levels at the time.Finally, we are brought to the hidden network of grand Vienna's underground sewers. What could be a more fitting symbol of the underlying foulness that lurks beneath the thin, shallow surface of what we call "civilization"? This subterranean labyrinth provides the perfect setting for the ending of an extraordinary film that very effectively portrays a world that has succumbed to a state of disorder, misery, and even madness. In the end, the sewer awaits. Bal-loon?


                
Story - pretty good.Cinematographry - amazing! If you want to enjoy the camera-work, please see this on the Criterion DVD. That's not a plug for the company. It's just that no one else has ever offered a cleaner version of this film. After suffering for years with lousy VHS transfers of this gem, it was nice to see it given justice.To me, the visuals here make this DVD worth owning because the story is okay, but nothing super. To an average first-time viewer, the first hour of this film can drag. I found that to be the case on my first viewing, but the more I watch this, the better the story seems to have gotten for some reason. Despite his billing, Orson Welles has a small role in here. He doesn't even appear until after 65 of the film's 104 minutes have elapsed. Meanwhile, Joseph Cotten dominates the story, along with Alida Valli, sort of a poor man's Ingrid Bergman. Those two are okay but the story picks up dramatically after Wells finally appears. In addition to the fabulous cinematography, an unique feature of this movie is the music, which is very strange for a film noir. It's lighthearted music from a zither, almost circus-like in its sound and melody....but I liked it. It helps make this movie different.The visuals involve a lot of nighttime photography, lots of shadows and cobblestone streets. The tilted camera angles and the closeups - all traits of Wells the director, are here to enjoy


                
I love this film for many reasons. First and foremost, it is an exceptional story told by a consummate storyteller, Graham Greene (writer of "The Fallen Idol" and "The End of the Affair").Add to that a superb cast with Joseph Cotten, Orson Welles, Trevor Howard and others, and you have the perfect canvas for the story to unfold. Then add to that a perfect setting such as you have in post-war Vienna. I can't think of another movie, other than San Francisco in "Vertigo", where perhaps a city figures so prominently into the fabric of a film.The cinematography is the other stand out quality of the film. So much of the dark mood and somberness and suspense is captured by the angular and tense camera work.My only complaint is the zither music. While many love it and think it sets just the right mood, I find it very distracting and annoying. This fact causes it to detract from the movie rather than adding anything to it. Perhaps if it was toned down some, or used less frequently it would have a been a better addition to the film. I understand that it is a classic instrument to Austria, but to me the tone of it was all wrong for the film. Maybe back in the period this was filmed it was more understood. But I just found it completely strange and out of place. Perhaps this was another piece of the "unexpected" they were trying to add to the film, like the unexpected twists and turns. But again, to me, it was just a distraction.


                
The turmoil of post-war Vienna provides the backdrop for the story of "The Third Man" and some exquisite expressionistic cinematography is used to convey the sense of menace and pessimism which prevailed in the city at that time. The plot centres on two men and the way in which their longstanding friendship gradually unravels and finally comes to a fatal conclusion.Holly Martins (Joseph Cotten) is an American author who travels to Vienna to take up the offer of a job working with his old friend Harry Lime (Orson Welles). Soon after his arrival he learns that Lime has been killed in an accident and after attending his funeral, intends to return home as soon as possible. He changes his mind, however, when he is invited to speak to the members of a local book club. After a few people provide Martins with information about Lime's accident, he becomes intrigued by some apparent contradictions in their stories and seeks out Lime's girlfriend Anna (Alida Valli). A British military policeman, Major Calloway (Trevor Howard) encourages Martins to leave Vienna and provides him with convincing evidence of the odious nature of the racket in which Lime was involved. Shortly after this, Martins discovers that Lime is actually still alive and meets with him at a local amusement park. Lime invites Martins to join his racket but Martins refuses and later goes on to assist Calloway in capturing his old friend. As a result of this act of betrayal, Anna puts a permanent end to their friendship."The Third Man" is an extremely stylish movie in which the sombre, claustrophobic atmosphere of its location is evoked perfectly by use of top class cinematography and a theme tune which fits its purpose far more effectively than any orchestral score could possibly have done. Add to this the great "I never knew the old Vienna" narration, Harry Lime's famous cuckoo clock speech and the drama of Martins' tale of optimism, disillusion, betrayal and loss and you end up with a real classic which continues to have an enduring appeal.
After the final fade-out of this movie, I just, automatically, let out the word "Wow." I've seen a lot of movies and have never seen one quite like "The Third Man." It is the most stylish movie I've ever seen.Every scene is so exquisitely crafted that I was just in awe. I had to keep repeating scenes and repeating scenes. At one point, Trevor Howard is leaning against a cross-shaped tombstone. Howard is wearing a black leather trench coat, a fedora, a thin mustache, and a facial expression cooler than a gin and tonic.Howard is asked, "Can you tell me, uh, who's uh..." And Howard says, "Fella called Lime." And the zither score jumps in.It's a moment that in any other movie would just be a throw away, but in this movie it is so intensely well played, so cool, so stylish, I had to keep repeating it and repeating it to savor its brilliance.Okay, there is a plot here. Harry Lime (Orson Welles) has been doing naughty things in Vienna after World War Two, when the city is divided between American, French, British, and Russian powers.His friend Holly Martins (Joseph Cotton) shows up to work with Lime, and gets tangled up in shady doings, mysterious characters, and international intrigue, including British officer Calloway (Trevor Howard) and Lime's moll Anna (Alida Valli), who is Czech, but trying to pass as Austrian, to avoid being handed over to the Russians.But the plot and characters are secondary here. "The Third Man" is really all about style, and its style is awesome, untouchable.Yes, it does get a bit precious -- the lights, the shadows, in each scene are as carefully crafted as if each scene were a painting. And yet it still has power. "The Third Man" has the wide-open and yet claustrophobic, urban and yet utterly remote and isolated look of a nightmare. There are shots that, in and of themselves, just make your hair stand on end, make you want to scream.And yet there are moments of laugh out loud comic relief.And then there is the zither score. If you know nothing else about "The Third Man," you probably know about that score.The zither mocks scenes and audience. The music at a burial is jaunty; it's a dance tune. That brilliant creepiness, with the weirdness of an aural clown with a painted on smile -- but the clown is strangling a puppy -- just underlines the movie's themes of criminality, treachery, and betrayal.There are scenes here that no one who loves movies should miss. You have to see the very first appearance of the man in the shadows -- that man with the cat on his feet. The cuckoo clock speech on the ferris wheel. It is beyond brilliant, and genuinely deep and profound, if horrifying.I have long thought that the classic scene in "Lawrence of Arabia" where Omar Sharif takes forever to enter the shot is the best ever scene of a character entering a shot from a great distance, but in "The Third Man" there is a scene where Valli is far from the camera, and walks toward it, slowly, through an avenue of trees, as leaves fall on her -- stunning.Film students will tell you all about the impact of German expressionism and Dutch angles ... but I can mostly just say how much this film knocked my socks off.Why not give it a ten ... I wish that some of the characters had been more fully realized. Joseph Cotton never stopped being a cypher; I wished he had had a bit more substance.This is not the case with Harry Lime. His screen time is limited, and yet it is one of the most devastating depictions of human evil I've ever seen.Wow. You have to see this movie.


                
First up. This is not an American movie. Second up. Welles has a minor part in it. Having said that it's brilliant. The zither music is unusual yet compelling. The zither player gets a higher billing than the director and producer. I found the characters to be quite repulsive. The hero is gormless and gauche. Although, by the end he has matured somewhat. The heroine is mad. How could anybody love a man (Welles) who's put dozens of children in hospital? She's awful. Cinematography is exceptional. Tilted shots and the use of shadow and reflection is truly staggeringly well done. Not a single shot was overdone. Perhaps that's what made this film so amazing. The awful characters and the beautiful filming. A few subtle touches rounded off this classic. For example, the four-nations soldiers escorting the heroine, with the French soldier making sure "Mademoiselle has her lipstick", Brilliant.
In the post Second World War, the unemployed pulp fiction writer Holly Martins (Joseph Cotten) arrives in Vienna to meet with his old friend from school, Harry Lime (Orson Welles), who has offered him a job. On the arrival, he learns that Harry has just died hit by a truck in front of his building and he goes to his funeral. Holly Martins sees a beautiful woman, Anna Schmidt (Alida Valli), and a friend of Harry and sooner he learns that Anna was Harry's lover. Maj. Calloway (Trevor Howard), who is commanding the investigation, offers the ticket to Holly return home, but while waiting for the trip, he talks to two friends of Harry that tell that they had been the firsts to help his friend. However, the porter of Harry's building tells that there was a mysterious third man that helped Harry and Holly Martins becomes intrigued with the inconsistency and decides to investigate further. Sooner he discloses that Harry Lime was the leader of a gang that robbed penicillin from the military hospital to adulterate and resell it, and has caused the death and anomalies in many children. He continues to investigate and he has a great surprise when he finds who the third man is."The 3rd Man" is an unforgettable masterpiece of mystery and thriller by Carol Reed. The fascinating story has no flaws, with witty dialogs; the acting is perfect and the cinematography is wonderful with the perfect use of black and white and shadows to show the environment and corruption in Vienna in the post WWII. The manhunt in the end in the sewage system of the city is one of the most impressive that I have ever seen. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil): "O Terceiro Homem" ("The Third Man")


                
I've watched quite a few old noir/crime films by now, but The Third Man is the first one that really lives up to the genre's breathless descriptions given by its fans. It's sleek and sexy, well-shot, and lives in a morass of amorality. It's also tremendously fun to watch.The key that makes The Third Man work where so many other "classic" crime films fail is pacing. It starts out slowly enough to draw the viewer into the uncertain world of post-war Vienna, and then slowly increases the pace of the twists and turns, while never being hard to follow. Its protagonist, a befuddled Western author, is a lot more sympathetic than your average private dick, which makes his descent into the underworld genuinely affecting. And of course, there's Orson Welles as the title role, which is pretty hard to beat.Moreover, The Third Man doesn't disappoint on the idea front. It plays around with the ideas of truth, metafiction, and morality without ever coming to a definite conclusion. The rather sloppy climax is the only thing that keeps this from being a 10 out of 10, but even so it's thoroughly recommended, even for people who don't usually like old movies.


                
I recently saw this on the fantastic Criterion Collection DVD and like countless other was greatly impressed. I'm not sure I can add anything new but I must say that the the feeling of post war Vienna was captured so perfectly and that the cinematography of said setting was a star of the film as much as Cotten or Welles. What I like a lot is that there is no neat or even very poetic ending. Events transpire in a naturalistic fashion full of all the frustrations, disappointments, and unfulfilled expectations that make up life for so many people as they often fruitlessly struggle for some sort of contentment. My only quibble is that the soundtrack is somewhat overrated but that is only my individual opinion. Still a true classic, the film, and our first look at Lime, 9/10.


                
This evening I have finally watched a film that I have always wanted to see- The Third Man. To me it lived up to my expectations. The first thing I loved about this film was the composition of shadow/light and the actors. They dared to show things not in their most pretty way, but in their most desperate form. It allows us to really feel the tension of "the pre-coldwar" in Vienna. I think Joseph Cotton is such a natural actor; he never forces his lines or attempts to overact. All of his lines are said with clarity and conviction of character. He is as likable an actor as Jimmy Stewart. By far however,  my  favorite part of the film is the ferris wheel ride. Orson Welles could provide such a menacing presence. Here the subtlety of his acting (as in The Stranger) added to the tension.  Was he going to throw his friend out of the ride? His eyes revealed his character so delicately. The subtle glances and narrowed eyes conveyed his potential for evil. It is amazing to me too, with cameras having been so bulky, that they were able to shoot the subterranian world of the sewer. Film also tended to be slow back then as well, and the use of light there is amazing. I agree with AFI, this is one of our treasures.


                
I'm not sure why I'm rating this only 9 stars, but it truly was an amazing film. It definitely changed my perspective about black and white films and I'm definitely going to watch many more. The acting was amazing and I absolutely loved the scenery. Such good film. I'm honestly speechless.


                
Superb British thriller, a heady mix of post-war suspense, intrigue and danger, mixing stellar Hollywood acting talent (Cotten and of course, Welles) with journeyman but no less important British support, personified by Trevor Howard and a little European inscrutable glamour in Allida Valli, all corralled masterfully into place by Carol Reed.I'm a great fan of Graham Greene's writing and his imprint is all over this far from straightforward thriller. Present and correct are questions of loyalty, duty and the thin line between right and wrong in the pursuit of self-preservation. Cotten is the unsuspecting innocent abroad, seeking out old friend Harry Lime in war-torn Vienna, itself riven by differing occupation forces, making it a highly unsafe place from one area to the next. This edginess is reinforced in many ways by director Reed, for instance, there is a lot of dialogue spoken in the native Austrian, unenlightened by subtitles, throwing the viewer, like Cotten himself, off-guard and raising suspicions and confusion in equal doses. Then there's the bravura camera-work, the camera at many points tilted off-centre, at others mixing up extreme close-ups with high-angle viewpoints, with a fair degree of murky chiaroscuro also thrown in for good measure, emphasising further the out-of-kilter situation in which Cotten's Holly finds himself.There's also Greene's superb dialogue, embellished, if we're to believe the old charlatan Welles, with caustic additional dialogue of his own invention, particularly the "cuckoo clock" speech denigrating Switzerland so deftly that its tourist board must still be looking for a suitable riposte to this day. The dramatic set-pieces too, like Lime's belated first appearance out of the shadows, the conversation on the Big Wheel and of course the breathtaking chase finale played out in the Vienna sewers where cornered rat Lime finally runs out of bolt-holes, are all spot on, but the sub-plots too are equally gripping, not least the fate of Valli as Harry's girl with that wonderfully enigmatic conclusion as she breezes unblinking straight past the waiting and hoping Cotten at Harry's second and final funeral.Throw in Anton Karas' justly famous soundtrack and really you have a film to stand with the very best ever to grace a picture-house.


                
It's hard to compare an '40's thriller to the modern movies of the same  genre of this present day. The movies are very different in style and  todays audience demands more action, pace and sex. Yet "The Third Man"  seems like one of those movies that are timeless, due to its well  written mystery story, a good cast and a nice overall visual style.  The movie has most often been praised for its visual style. A true  accomplishment from director Carol Reed, who has never really broken  through though. He directed many more great- but lesser known movies  throughout his career, that do deserve some more recognition. Perhaps  it's due to the fact that he mostly stayed in England and didn't  decided on going for a big Hollywood career, like many great British  directors from the same era did, that he isn't that well known and his  movies didn't received the appreciation they deserved.   But to me the foremost reason this movie being timeless is its great  story. It's a real typical mystery/thriller story, that has a couple of  twists and turns to it. It's unlike for instance the film-noir movies  from the same era, that were somewhat more or less being the 'normal'  mystery/thriller movies of those days. You could perhaps say that "The  Third Man" is in that regard already being a more modern movie.   The movie often puts its emphasis on its style and then mostly its  cinematography. I don't think I have ever seen so many Dutch tilts in  one movie but it really works out well for the movie its atmosphere,  that tries to be a bit of an uneasy one, for its main character to feel  himself alienated in the for him unknown big town, filled with many  different nationalities and languages that he doesn't speak or  understand at all.  The Vienna after the second world war serves as a great backdrop for  this movie its story. After WW II the town got divided into different  sectors, all ruled by different nations. It was before the cold war, so  here we have British, Americans, Russians and French authorities all  cooperating in the international zone to solve the movie its mystery.  It at times has a surreal and odd feeling to it but even at the time of  the production of this movie was still being a fact.  The movie also really has some great acting in it. The movie does at  times seems a bit dodgy with its accents, I mean it's obvious that some  of the cast members weren't some native German speakers. Joseph Cotten  plays a good main character but to me it was really Orson Welles who  played the greatest role. He was such a fine actor, in basically every  movie he ever appeared in. His acting-style in a way seemed to be  decades ahead of its time. Perhaps a bit too much for its town, or  otherwise he would had most likely been nominated more often for any  awards for it.  A great mystery movie, with an early thriller atmosphere.  9/10


                
In this story, a successful writer of Western fiction, Holly Martins, arrives in post-World War II Vienna at the behest of an old friend, Harry Lime, with the promise of a job, only to find that Harry is officially dead <U+0096> killed in a car accident <U+0096> but, as a result of his enquires into the accident, Holly eventually finds Harry alive and is forced to kill him, when he discovers that Harry is a criminal of the worst type: trading on the misery of the defenceless. Of such stuff is tragedy made...The screenwriter, Graham Greene, and the director, Carol Reed, present the tragedy with a complex sequence of events <U+0096> the Plot -- that gradually lead to the triumph of Good over Evil, with a stark contrast between the two friends: Harry Lime representing Evil <U+0096> or perhaps, in biblical terms, a lost soul -- and Holly Martins who epitomizes all that is Good <U+0096> or nearly Good -- in humanity. As the story unfolds, and Holly is drawn ever closer to the truth about Harry, Aristotle's dictum that tragedy must be "serious, complete and possessing magnitude" is shown against the brooding, bombed-out city of Vienna <U+0096> the Aristotelian Spectacle.Action is the sine qua non for the presentation of any story and, from almost the first few frames, it is largely Holly's actions and reactions that carry the story to its denouement. Holly is curious: as a concerned friend, he pesters authority and others about the different versions of Harry's accident until he finally discovers that Harry is indeed alive.But Holly's puzzled happiness is dampened with the revelation <U+0096> the Recognition and Reversal that Aristotle emphasizes as being necessary for effective tragedy -- that Harry's duplicity has come at a cost: another man had been buried in Harry's grave, one that Harry himself had murdered.For Holly, the moral dilemma is clear: the police, in the form of Major Calloway of British Army Intelligence, press Holly to help them entrap Harry, but Holly balks, unhappy to betray an old friend <U+0096> or, at least, one whom he thinks is still a friend. Holly needs proof...To his dismay once again, he finds it in two different places. First, his meeting with Harry at the giant Ferris wheel demonstrates Harry's disregard for Anna <U+0096> a former girl friend -- as simply a means to an end, like all the ant-like people Harry dismissively indicates far below the wheel; Holly hangs on to the cabin window, distrust and uncertainty fully evident on his face. And second, in a hospital ward, Major Calloway shows Holly the suffering of the innocent victims of Harry's trade in illicit penicillin; and the camera again searches Holly's face as the realization sinks in.Such revelations tip the scales of justice for Holly: now he reverses his position and agrees to set up a trap and betray his friend. Dimly, he rationalizes his decision as being in Anna's best interests -- and his also, hoping to be a replacement for Harry in Anna's affections, an exquisite example of another reversal.In the end, nobody wins and thus the tragedy is complete. In a parody of the Western genre, Holly chases Harry through the Vienna sewers until he guns him down, thus losing his old friend. Later at the real funeral <U+0096> an ironic representation of Harry's bogus funeral <U+0096> once again he passes Anna who is walking away, now twice saddened <U+0096> Aristotelian Suffering, now doubled -- so Holly stops to wait for her, hoping as only a man can hope. Alas, she walks by, and Holly perhaps realizes that she has discovered in him the mirror image of Harry: a flawed character no better and, from her perspective, a bitter confirmation <U+0096> if not revelation -- about all men.
I watched this film for the first time and was captivated by the plot. The acting is superb, as is the war torn setting and abysmal realities of post-war Vienna. Also, the zither music lured me into this uncomfortable place that at times seemed to mock what was happening on the screen.As a whole, this film was ahead of its time with its use of black comedy, music and the unknown motives of the characters that always kept me curious.Orsen Welles' first appearance was a shock to the senses. What a great film!


                
Rarely has background music made such a transcendent impact on a film-going experience, but such is the case of Anton Karas's haunting zither in Carol Reed's 1949 dark thriller, a genuine classic of post-WWII deception and desperation. The sparkling, sylphlike strumming makes an ironic, dramatically effective counterpoint to the foreboding atmosphere of a bombed-out Vienna barely recovering from the war. There are many ironies embedded In the story, no surprise given that the screenplay is penned by novelist Graham Greene, whose best work reflects the pervasive moral ambiguities surrounding modern man and the moral ambivalence that complicates otherwise comfortable lives.The intricate story focuses on Holly Martins, a semi-renowned pulp fiction writer of westerns, who comes to Vienna at the request of his old friend Harry Lime. Unexpectedly, Lime turns out to be dead, and Martins begins to discover that his friend was not what he claimed to be but an immoral racketeer dealing with tainted penicillin on the black market. The rest of the story depends on plot twists too rich to divulge here, but suffice it to say that things are not what they appear. Problems for Martins are compounded by the political divisions of the city (Vienna was in four quadrants like Berlin); the limited disclosures of Major Calloway, a likable British policeman on the Lime case and the allure of Lime's beautiful, mysterious lover Anna.Graham masters the treacherous turns of the script with his trademark humanism and spirited wit, and Reed brings a cinematic style that recalls not coincidentally Orson Welles's masterpiece, "Citizen Kane". Both films involve the precarious nature of male friendships and feature two of the same leading actors, Joseph Cotten and Welles himself. Working to represent the perspective of the curious viewer, Cotten is terrific in his career-best role as Martins. Welles shows up late and elliptically in the film as the central figure in the plot, but he makes every moment count, especially the suspenseful chase scene through the Vienna sewer system at the end. Eschewing the romantic yearning he displayed three years earlier in David Lean's "Brief Encounter", Trevor Howard plays Calloway sardonically but with a palpable sense of humanity. As Anna, Alida Valli provides a Dietrich-like sultriness that works, even though her thick accent gets in the way of some of Graham's deft dialogue.Another nod to Welles can be found in Robert Krasker's expressionistic cinematography full of deep shadows and off-kilter angles. It's masterful mood-setting work. The lengthy, melancholic last shot summarizes the story perfectly. Celebrating the film's fiftieth anniversary, the 1999 Criterion Collection DVD package provides a crisp print of the black-and-white film, equally impressive audio, an alternate opening which includes more of Holly's first-person narration, a couple of related radio shows with Cotten and Welles. This is a genuine film noir classic well worth your time.


                
Writer Holly Martins (Joseph Cotten) arrives in post-WWII Vienna to visit old friend Harry Lime (Orson Welles). He finds Lime was killed in an accident and begins to investigate. Welles doesn't appear much in the film, and not until over an hour in. But his work in this is terrific. Cotten also does a great job; one of his best. Alida Valli is quite good in her best-known performance. Robert Krasker's cinematography is beautiful. It's a visually stunning film. Anton Karas' zither score is memorable and stays with you long after the movie is over. Carol Reed's direction is brilliant. For years rumors persisted Welles must have ghost-directed some of it. This isn't true, of course, but Welles did contribute dialogue. Particularly the "cuckoo clock" speech, which is possibly the highlight of this amazing film. Classic lines, scenes, performances. It's a fantastic work everybody should see.


                
When you watch a so-called classic film for the first time after years of it being 'out there', sometimes you can't really justify why the film became a classic in the first place. Some movies simply become 'of their time' and don't transcend the period all that well. CASABLANCA is a movie that has been regarded by some commentators as the greatest Hollywood film, but compared to films like SINGIN IN THE RAIN and STAR WARS, it has more relevance to the period in which it was shot (1942).Carol Reed's THE THIRD MAN, according to the DVD sleeve notes on the UK release 2-disc set, has been acclaimed as the 'greatest British film of all time'. I would regard it as a great British film up there with the likes of GET CARTER, THE FULL MONTY and LAWRENCE OF ARABIA, a contrasting film set on natural locations and scripted by one of the all-time great novelists (Graham Greene). Although my cynicism regarding it's acclaim on the sleeve was evident, I can justify at least some of that by how influential this film could have been on films that followed. One can't help wondering whether director Andrew Davis was influenced and inspired by this film when he conceived the FUGITIVE remake, since the sewer sequence in that film is very reminiscent of the climactic chase in this film.THE THIRD MAN is an early example of good structured storytelling, with sufficient teasing of the audience as Martins (Joseph Cotten) arrives in Vienna to seek out his friend Harry Lime. It is probably one of those films Alfred Hitchcock would have done alongside his other British offerings prior to his Hollywood success, but that does not take anything away from director Reed's skill with the camera and character. Bernard Lee provides an interesting supporting performance which seems to be a trailer to his iconic performances as M in the Bond films from 1962-79, another series that may well have been influenced by THE THIRD MAN in tone and style.The music score is another strength and factor in this film's power. I suppose a lot of people cannot think of Orson Welles in parody form without that classic theme reverberating in their heads. The late comedian Kenny Everett did such a homage to Welles during his 80's ITV show in England, as non-PC a comedian as you could get back then.Ultimately though, it is the cohesive whole of all elements that help make THE THIRD MAN one of the true all-time entertainments. Worthy of it's place in cinematic and DVD history.
Classic Film Noir at it's very best, a great story, great actors and a great mystery. That's all you really need, right? Ya, but this film has way more then that as well, the cinematography is amazing compared to now, let alone 1949, for then it is ground breaking and like nothing ever seen. I've heard complaints about the over bearing music but personally I loved it, it just seemed to add so much to every scene when that very distinctive music would start up again. I'm surprised certain elements of this movie hadn't been ruined for me before viewing, with all the recommendations I have read and heard and for nothing to have been given away is something I am truly grateful for. The Third Man feels like a film years before it's time and not just in a few ways but in every way. Plus who will forget that scene, ya you know which one.


                
First of all it's nice to see Orson Wells as something other than a bloated whale. He has a very small part in the movie but is fantastic as the morally bereft Harry Lime. Joseph Cotton has always been a favorite of mine and his naive optimism as the hack writer Holly Martins is perfect. The movie looks like a world class photography exhibit. There are so many brilliant moments with the cinematography that it's sometimes hard to notice anything else. The story is, of course, superb and I think this film lives up to it's "A Classic among Classics" stature. The final scene is shot with such artistic perfection that I had to keep rewinding the movie to see it over and over again. The score is amazing. A mandolin plays its strings throughout the movie and becomes the "fourth" man of the film. I want the soundtrack for my collection.


                
Carol Reed's `The Third Man' is a wonderful noir thriller from 1949 that tells the story of Holly Martins (Joseph Cotton) who arrives in Vienna to work for his old friend Harry Lime, but when he arrives at his apartment, finds out that he just died.  He is about to head back to America when he is wrapped up in intrigue around his late friend, and discovers that everything that he knows about his friend isn't quite what it seemed. 
Not only does `The Third Man' feature two of my favorite classic film guys, Joseph Cotton and Orson Welles, but its story (by Graham Greene) is flawless and the cinematography/photography is first-rate.  The night scenes are so incredibly lit and the use of shadows so brilliantly executed, that even upon repeat viewings, they are breathtaking.  Additionally, I rarely comment on the score of a film, particularly in a review that is largely a brief summary, but the score by Anton Karas is absolutely phenomenal.There really isn't a whole lot that I can criticize about this film, because it is so well done.  I highly recommend it to anyone who has not seen it yet.--Shelly


                
Dig that Zither music!  The musical score makes this movie. 
The Third Man isn't as great as all the hype it gets, but it is an entertaining film.  Alida Valli is a standout as Anna and Joseph Cotton is very good as Holly Martins. *****************Mild Spoilers Ahead*********************************The opening scene at the funeral near the beginning of The Third Man has something hauntingly memorable about it.  There's also clever use of a cat involved in an eerie scene that reveals Harry Lime.  The ferris wheel scene is absorbing.  And of course there is the desperation of the ruthless and clever Harry Lime (Orson Wells) when he is chased in the sewer. And don't forget the ending with Anna (Alida Valli) walking along the road a second time just like an earlier scene.  This film has many fine moments and it is well crafted.  Carol Reed, the director, had a nice touch.  I don't think the cinematography deserved a best Oscar, though.  The film wasn't lit up enough in some scenes.  Dark lighting is ok and realistic, but you can go so far that you miss much of the action.Then of course there is the zither music.  It's wonderful.I rate this film a 9 out of 10.  Very watchable, but I'm not sure it's a classic.
Greene's strange, uneasy Catholicism (he was never quite sure whether he was Catholic, or atheist, or a sensualist cum socialist cum Catholic-fellow-traveller) is vividly evident in this movie.  Without his rather pessimistic brand of Catholicism he could never have seen the shabby huckster Harry Lime as an almost-hero or the equally shabby faithless hack Holly [Rollo] Martins as an almost-angel-avenger.  Harry believes in God, "in mercy and all that" while Holly is an agnostic alcoholic indifferentist; in the end it is Lime who gives Martins permission to kill him.This is a profoundly religious movie, and could only have been made, as it was made, on the bleak dark edge between faith and atheism.


                
