It came highly recommended and I must say I was sceptical ... another example of the US routing the Nazi scourge singlehandedly, according to a Hollywood script, I feared. Generally, I don't watch war films but recently watched another and this was touted as its modern equivalent and a companion episode, if you like.So I thought, OK, no, this really happened, it's a legitimate telling of a genuine story and I'll give it a go and see if it's better than the usual WWII dross that is served up by too many Hollywood (or Pinewood) scriptwriters.And what a fabulous, realistic production it is. Apart from the oafish portrayal of the cockney soldier dressed up as a German (no-one really speaks like that! It was cringe-worthy), it started out nicely: the first three episodes were great, until I got to the inevitable Brit-bashing in episode four (Sigh, when will we all learn? I mean, really, what else did I expect from an American-funded and produced series, even with British actors and BBC input?).I know a little bit about this as I have a much-loved uncle (since passed away), a member of the British 1st Airborne who was very badly wounded at Arnhem after six days of house-to-house fighting with the SS and one of the few who survived the encounter - a real paratrooper, not a celluloid one, and a genuine tough-as-teak gentle giant of a war hero who won a real medal for his trouble, hated war, and rarely spoke about it.So the portrayal of the idiotic British tank commander and the subsequent retreat (it didn't happen, incidentally) really rankles, and besmirches the treasured memory of people like my uncle Tom who, like the rest of my family, never had a bad word for Americans. I am sure there are many families in Britain and elsewhere in the English-speaking world who feel the same way.I should point out that being an Australian, I am no great lover of the English, either, but loving to hate them is different to actually hating them and is more like a national sport for us ... and it's very different to this kind of thing, which often comes across as taking every opportunity to stereotype and denigrate them.Perhaps producers of these kinds of shows, if they care, and I suspect they probably don't, might take a moment to reflect on what I've written here and realise that there is an economic cost to it as well: word gets around, and when you ostracise a large proportion of your potential English-speaking primary audience, you are sending a lot of dough down the toilet.In this changing world, too, it's probably good for Americans to realise that the Brits are among the few real friends they have. So you've lost me, once again, with this nonsense and I won't be wasting any more time and money watching the rest of the episodes, which is sad considering the quality of the production - and it's a view shared by plenty of others I know.Over-sensitive? No, just sick and tired of it. Next time I'll stick to a different movie genre that I know is pure entertainment, not slickly produced jingoistic nonsense with some basis in reality that is wrongly dressed up as fact.
Very professionally made, but an untrue image of what WW II was all about. It idealizes war and the Americans are the heroes once again. Lose the nationalism and it's a nice series, also for the rest of the world! This is not only my idea, but also jack Wouters's, one of Holland's best actors, who played a small part ("Dutch farmer") in Band of Brothers.


                
I was very disappointed with Band of Brothers, having been persuaded by some of my friends in the industry who worked on it, that it was special. On their recommendation I bought the HBO HD DVD, 2010 version which is very badly authored, and takes about 10 minutes to load, with umpteen language versions all demanding that you pledge not to do various things.Anyway, having got through that boring process, the next thing is some commentaries from USA veterans. Then into the main programme. This is slow and boring, never describing or showing the characters well enough. Few exciting moments, just the old old story of World War 2 with American overtones. Poorly written.This show may have been popular when it was first released, but time has taken its toll!
I picked this TV series only for its poster and its catchy title. Then I was amazed to see Tom Hanks and Steven Spielberg serving as executive producer for the show because saving private Ryan is one of my favorite movie. I watched the whole series in one sitting spellbound and amazed. WWII has always interested me as a history student and I never miss a chance to watch any movie or TV series centered on WWII. After watching band of brothers bravery of easy company made me cry. Especially the seventh episode ' the breaking point' focusing on Carwood Lipton's importance. Donnie Wahlberg nailed the character, in my opinion playing Lipton's character is Donnie best work till date. Not only Donnie but every actor who played a role in this show was awesome.
If you call yourself a movie geek but haven't seen this one, I suggest you do it now.
A master piece indeed.


                
