In the recreation of historical facts personal memory should always be reconsidered with the greatest care. Every decent historian knows that. Especially in the traumatic surroundings of the battlefield the own experience is often strongly blurred. That's why history books don't read like adventure stories. War isn't "real" so it can be reconstructed. War takes place. That's a big difference.It seems that what Spielberg and Hanks wanted to do is to give history its share of adventure at all costs. By intending this they accomplished a glossy pro-war-movie for the kids to enjoy. When you read the comments on this platform there is much talk about "reality". I wonder that so many veterans seem to meet in the IMDb. Maybe they do. Maybe it's just a bunch of schoolboys who like to discuss if the used weapons sounded right. Needless to say that this kind of attitude is disgusting, even when cultivated by little boys looking for attention. It's even more disgusting how "BOB" delivers for this very kind of audience. The action-like but naive (and wrongly) reconstructed fighting tableaux, the strong use of over-sentimental music which tells the viewer exactly how to feel, the urge to portray the soldiers as "ordinary man" fighting for a better world. All this elements reveal that BOB is the propaganda of our time. Most likely appreciated by the modern "ordinary men" fighting for "peace" in Iraq, right know. So if your out for revenge, blood & guts on a very sentimental journey which doesn't force you to think about people killing themselves this is the right thing for you. If you have 780 Minutes of spare time. For those interested in some unsentimental (and therefore more profound) memories: read "Something about a soldier" by Charles Willeford. P.S.: Most of the German language spoken in this series is laughably wrong. But as long as the MG's are rattling the right way that doesn't seem to matter much.


                
When reading the User Comments on Band of Brothers it is very hard to find a bad word said about it. I saw the Box set on sale but wanted to hear other people's opinions about it first and when I read the user comments I thought ' How can I go wrong'?Well I bought it and was very impressed by the first episode. What was even more impressing was much I hated David Schwimmer as Captain Herbert Sobel I thought there was no way in a million years could I be convinced to hate somebody who plays the lovable Ross in Friends but how wrong was I and how amazing it was to see him in a role so completely different and so good. But after the first episode I think it went downhill. Parts were good and others just dragged on and there was no finishing to it. What I didn't like was I was told how much you care for these guys throughout the whole ten parts series but I couldn't find a way to let them in and sympathies for them. There are some great actors here but have obvious scripts and seems like a ten hour Saving Private Ryan which it is. I wasn't taken into these men's lives and didn't believe the horror's of war which happened amongst them all.There are some nice bittersweet moments and it is stunning to look at and has a powerful music score and great set of actors but is very disappointing as far as story and direction goes. Not even the likes of Spielberg can save this, but I am probably missing something as everybody else seems to have fallen in love with Band of Brothers but I think what went wrong was that I heard so much good about it I was expecting to much. I wasn't impressed by Saving Private Ryan but I thought I would have loved BOB but it didn't do anything for me at all.One last thing, Band of Brothers Normandy invasion of Normandy from the sky is nearly just as good as the beach scene in Private Ryan and is well worth a look at.


                
I have had hard time to understand why this series has been so successful. Is it plot? Can't be, because there isn't one, warfilms usually don't have one. Most of scenes are so boring because they're all the same which we have seen thousands of times before, especially first in episode, which have all the clichés you can imagine. There is too much characters and they have been written so thin that it is very hard to care what happens to them. BoB also suffers lack drama between characters, mostly, again because of thin characters. That's quite strange, because they have 10 episodes time to develop the characters So what is good in BoB? Well it looks good, that's all. It reminds me the exploitation movies, because it's biggest value seem to be to "show it all" ("most realistic war series ever"), action is in leading role, and actors don't have anything to act, what a waste of talent. Unfortunately it seems that most of the people think that the most important value of war film is "realism", with real uniforms, tanks & weapons.BoB is kind of pseudo-document of war. Good looking, empty war illustration.


                
If Americans knew what their spoils of war cost Russians that won the war while taking 80% of the offense from Nazis this would never be a top seller. Keep in mind that what ever Americans lost after going the war due to the fact that Germany cancelled the contract of buying weapons Americans dedicated no more then 10% or less of manpower and supplies to join the war. All so that the spoils can be realized by the US. Real nations that should be celebrated are 1. Russians, 2. British. 3rd French. 4th Jewish and this is all. Episod 9 and 10 just shows pillaging while the real war was about survival. I thought better of the Tom Hanks. Lastly the war with Japan was a complete disgrace of humanity. But the men of war are true heroes. The movie showed one small but very important message: People at war, no matter of their origin, are brothers and heroes and I thank you for that same as I thank my grandfather from Ural and every man that fought the war living through every day for the moment they come back home at peace. My salute to all of you


                
