If BAND OF BROTHERS was made to show the gut wrenching cruelty of war it certainly succeeds . My god what a thoroughly depressing series full of scenes that will make your jaw drop . A young German not a day over 15 looks an American officer in the eye just before he is shot dead . Another German soldier falls wounded under the path of a tank and is crushed to death and German POWs are routinely shot dead . We also see soldiers on both sides with their limbs blown off and soldiers being killed by friendly fire and the whole bleak atmosphere of this series feels like we've been transported to the era of Vietnam or even to the first world war where slaughter felt like slaughter instead of a moral crusade . That's right we look upon the second world war as a crusade against Nazism as if that lessens the carnage and sacrifice people experienced in those days as if that made their deaths and injuries less painful or traumatic in some way As superb as BOB is on a technical and amoral level I couldn't award the series more than seven out of ten . This is down to to the fact that once again we're seeing a somewhat Americancentric view of history and there's a massive irony that this is an Anglo-American co-production between the BBC and HBO . I've lost count of the times I've read on this site that " Hey the guy playing Winters is English , and so are most of the cast , they're accents are perfect " so why is it we once again see Uncle Sam racing single handed to save the world from Nazism ? The opening episode features a cockney geezer and some gunners in the background ( The implication being that the Brits sat on their asses while the Americans parachuted into Normandy ) , an idiotic tank commander in episode four ( That's the episode where the Americans jeer Monty ) and a dead British officer in the final episode . To be fair episode four features an end caption pointing out that during operation marketgarden the British airborne division had 80% casualties but anyone watching BOB without any primary knowledge of the second world war will believe that the second world war was mainly a conflict between America and Nazi Germany with no one else doing much . Even the series tagline of " The world depended on them " churns up feelings that this series in some ways is little different from an Errol Flynn / John Wayne actioner and this series is far too good for that comparison I'm not trying to sound anti-American . I often receive messages from Americans on the subject of conflicts and most of them show themselves to be open minded and intelligent . I'm not criticising America but I am criticising the original source by Stephen Ambrose who has made serious factual mistakes . One notorious instance is that after the show was broadcast the family of Albert Blithe came forward to point out that he didn't die from wounds in 1947 but made a full recovery and was still in the army 20 years later when he died from natural causes . Another error is that Hitler's Berchtesgarden was captured by the 101st airborne division when in fact it was captured by the American 7th infantry regiment . If Ambrose can make fundamental mistakes like this then what other historical errors feature in BOB ? In short BOB is a graphic testimony to the vile ugliness of war . It's certainly a good series but one can't help thinking it's rather poor history . Perhaps IMDb voters who have praised this as the definitive feature of the second world war may like to read up on more history books like Max Hastings flawed but compelling Armageddon or Corneilus Ryan's trilogy of THE LONGEST DAY , A BRIDGE TOO FAR and THE LAST BATTLE for a wider picture of what was happening in Europe 1944-45


                
Like Saving Private Ryan Band of Brothers is primarily aimed at an US market feeding and feeding on US idea's about the war. The US cast is lifelike but all others are stereotypes. Band of Brothers has a more realistic outlook but this doesn't make it more true."You should see this." A friend of mine told me, knowing my interest in warfare and in particular World War II. So I did. I think Band of Brothers is a mixed bag. The episodes range from the great to the indifferent. The attack on the German battery is really great stuff. Some episodes are just plain boring, with long stretches that almost nothing seems to happen, except for the main characters just babbling along. Some are just plain unbelievable:the Ardennes episode has a moment that the main character has an 'almost' love scene. Okay, so there is this really beautiful young single Belgian woman located in Bastogne surrounded by lot's and lot's of young American soldiers and she has a romantic moment with a soldier that just came in from the front? Nice also that she is able to talk English in an area that is French mostly. A bit contrived to say the least. Some episodes are just plain wrong. There is this scene during the Market Garden episode that an English armored column moves up. Some of the US Airborne warn them that there is tiger-tank hiding behind a building in a haystack. The English tank commander says something like, "I can't see it" and orders his tank forward. The tiger then moves up and whacks the tank. This is the totality of the English role in this episode. I blushed with shame at this scene. This was just a plain lie. First thing: there were no tigers in the area the us airborne operated. The tigers where collected in separate units that where usually at the disposal of a corps. Invariably this was an armored corps. The only unit in Holland that could have possessed them was the II SS panzer-corps which operated between Arnhem and Nijmegen. However this corps had been badly mauled during it's retreat from France. It was therefore ordered to refit and hand over it's assets to other armored unit's including it's remaining tiger tanks. We can of course assume the movie maker took some liberty to make the scene more interesting and in reality it was another kind of tank. But even then I think you might really think twice to display such a inept move on the part of the English. It might be that an US Airborne told this story, but I doubt that it was true the way it was told. Some disliked the English, so in their idea this dumb move could well have been done by them. Then, after telling and retelling the story, what could have been, had happened because it makes such a nice story to tell. In addition much of the US airborne where convinced that if they had been dropped at Arnhem, then there would have been a greater change of success. I think this to be a valid point. (the us where more aggressive, more experienced as compared this particular UK airborne unit and more willing to take risks(like dropping nearer to the Arnhem bridge)). The idea that the English were not up to scratch was fueled by this idea and so the idea that English made mistakes(and the US did not). Contrastingly, there is an proved incident of an English tank unit which supported the US airborne in counter attacks with great success during Market Garden(I think the tank-crew got an American award for this). Why was the rumor chosen and the fact not mentioned? Band of brothers is at it's best when the focus is on the US cast. The same sort of realism as in Saving Private Ryan is also displayed here with drab clothing, more realistic equipment and realistic outlook(people get dirty when lying in the mud). Yet like in Saving Private Ryan this is realism up to a point. The Germans are more historically equipped, but still have the same role as they had in any of the other movies. Displaying the same frontal attacks, bunching tanks and armored units in strange formations, dying like flies. What others there are in the movie are still stereotypes. Band of Brothers is therefore nice to look at with some great moments, but balanced by boring, unbelievable and shameful bits.


                
......I am somewhat 'Private Ryaned'-out, what w/ the overkill of shaky-cam and washed-out cinematography running rampant thruout Hollywood since '98, so bear w/ me on that. This series has all the attributes you wanna see in a good WWII production: real-life stories, believable characters, good production values, nothing outta place. All of this I liked, saw and admired.What isn't so great-well you have a guy from 'Friends' in there, and then you have "New Kid on Block Donny" as a lead. Both are good, certainly-but it did take me outta the narrative a couple times. Other actors while gritty and etc are interchangeable, it was hard to keep track of who was doing what to who ala 'Black Hawk Down' in spots. This of course is how it works in real life, but if you are watching a movie, it doesn't make it easier.I thought the episodes were bogging down towards the end too, 'Battle of the Bulge' certainly a high point along the way.Nothing really to say otherwise bad about this production, I recc. it to anyone who wants to get a realistic look-see at what our grandparents did and faced 60 years ago.***1/2 outta ****.


                
Comparing this to Saving Private Ryan or any number of great war movies, I was struck by the way they chose to handle fear in the characters.It seems like there is only anxiety, which comes and goes, as a reaction to contact with the enemy. Even though they are coming up against German paratroopers and SS units (both notoriously competent and well motivated), the treatment of the Germans is like "dose rascally krauts, HAHA".The Germans are portrayed as mostly hapless and the BoB as almost omnipotent, even though casualties are taken regularly. In better war movies or even suspense movies, the sense of corrosive long term fear is portrayed more dramatically. The smooth, unlined faces and "Laid Back" attitudes project an atmosphere of drudgery albeit bloody drudgery.Just look at the makeup on the characters in "Ryan" compared to these. In BoB they look constantly fresh and mostly clean---the main exception being the camouflage face paint they wore in early episodes.It is one of the most profound rules of drama:The good guy can only be a good or brave as the bad guy is truly evil or frightening. The enemy in this movie is distant and not scary. The ones we see up close are dealt with quickly or if they are goofy enough to surrender they are mowed down."Stupid Krauts, what clowns" With only a couple of exceptions the Americans seem to out-think and out-fight all the Germans they come across. It builds an atmosphere of Inevitabilty that lessens suspense rather than building it.No portrayal of great heroism comes from bashing clowns around.


                
This is the only recent TV series that I've watched apart from ROME (2005) and, though similarly proficient and pain-staking, it doesn't really say anything that couldn't be just as effectively presented in a standard feature film; actually, the series was inspired by the success of SAVING PRIVATE RYAN (1998) - and, in fact, the star and director of that award-winning epic (Tom Hanks and Steven Spielberg respectively) serve as Executive Producers here, and Hanks even directed one of the episodes himself (albeit amounting to possibly the least interesting of all!).Based on the real-life WWII exploits of the so-called Easy Company - with most episodes introduced by the reminiscences of surviving members a' la REDS (1981) - the rambling script has several of the soldiers take turns narrating their participation in key events during the war (D-Day, Arnhem, Bastogne, VE-Day , etc.) in the style of THE THIN RED LINE (1998): this means that the film basically alternates between a celebration of camaraderie and a gruesome display of carnage, while at the same time showcasing an adequate young cast. While the depiction of the front-line is certainly among the most harrowing and realistic ever put on film, the narrative is hampered by having so many anonymous characters that one has trouble distinguishing them from one another.Quality varies from one episode to the other but I found the latter stages to be the best, with the sections devoted to the Battle of the Bulge, the discovery of concentration camps in Germany and the needless extended stay in Europe after the capitulation of the Nazis emerging as the most compelling - and moving.


                
The show set out what it meant to do I believe which is show what one particular actual company had to endure during WW2. It showed all the things they went through. The waiting times, the bad officers, the grunts perspective as well as good men rising through the ranks. What I thought it best illustrated is how pointless and miserable it was to be a grunt. You just do whatever you are told and try not to die even when half the time your mission is completely pointless. The one area that didn't land to me was the attachment to the characters. I really only ever liked the two men who worked together at the end after the war, the red head officer and the dude who was in office space. Other than that the characters were too in and out due to injury, death, or just non-focus on the character to truly make me care for them. I cared for them because it was a true story but not because what was on the screen. The last few episodes had emotional moments that did land when they liberated a concentration camp and when the actual men talked about the men who passed in the war and didn't get to have after war lives. They told what some of the men did or were doing after the war and just trying to get through life and then some of them talked about their friends they lost. Seeing some of these men break down or get close legitimately made me cry and feel bad for not loving the show. I almost just wanted to watch a documentary of them telling their stories telling the good, the bad, and the ugly of the war rather than watch this show but I'm sure that would be way too hard for them. True heroes.
The delivery and quality is top notch. The camera handling is giving the feeling that we're standing there. The color and costumes and places all check out.My only problem is, that as far as I'm concerned...war is a much more precise and bloody affair, where certain scenarios have obvious written ll over them. The way these regiments were ordered was a multi-level defensive system, which cannot be broken in one major offense, it usually took days in cities. Weapons are also alright, apart from some sounds and the kickback. At many occasions the German troops show lack of the will to fight, and approx. 15 German troops don't carry on escaping when a .30cal is starting to shoot at them from 120 meters., it is a sudden death scenario where they turn back to try to take that mg out. This problem often occurs in the series, that axis troops always seem unprepared and eager to flee, however it was in the end-stage of WW2, this isn't how it was done. In any other aspect this series checks out fine. Oh I almost forgot...snipers were much more often on the battlefield of France and they were not lying on the fire escape, they were put to much more concealed positions.


                
Just finished with this mini series and every time watching any episode, I had this feeling of going through 'Saving Private Ryan' over and over again. Yes, its just feels like an overstretched version of that movie, no wonder its produced by Tom Hanks himself. Don't get me wrong, I am not questioning patriotism or the heroic deeds of American soldiers in WWII. Of course without their contribution, WWII couldn't have been won by allies, but I am just trying to balance the scales here, because I think most of American viewers have given it 10/10 just to honor their heroes, which I truly admire, but while reviewing TV series/movie , one need to focus on different elements of storytelling and not review the original history itself. Hence this following review, without any further ado.1. Acting - 10/10.Acting of lead actors is throughout excellent, even the ones who come in for cameo, they maintain the tempo.2. Screenplay - 5/10I guess even after watching 10 episodes, if you can't remember the names of lead characters and can't tell who's who, there is definitely some problem with the script. Since every episode centers on one specific WWII mission, there is no main character/hero to root for. Anyways, as directors have taken few cinematic liberties, I think they would have taken another one too, to give some more time for character development. ( may be by increasing the number of episodes)3. Direction - 5/10Since there are only 10 episodes to cramp all those WWII missions, it definitely has worsening effect on direction as well. most of the times, viewer is lost as what exactly is going on the screen. Also, viewer need to be aware of at least little bit history of WWII.4. Dialogues - 9/10Dialogues are quite good and contemporary to those times. Nothing melodramatic as well.5. Sound - 7/10Opening Credit sequence soundtrack is quite memorable one, but apart from that, you can only hear the sound of bullets and shells flying everywhere. Hardly any background music , but I guess that works in favor of this series.Overall verdict - 7/10. definitely watchable but not great.


                
Sure, I saw them all. But if u would be honest, it could all be compressed to a Saving Private Ryan movie. And that would be great. But the series got some much soap in it and so much single minded all class hero I am an American syndroms wrapped around it that it makes me wanna puke. And I am not even a communist. Or a Nazi. Or a Jew. Or a Terrorist. Whatever. I am just an European kid with some kinda notion about what culture could be. Or what a great movie could be about. And yes I am greatfull that the Americans freed my country (Netherlands). So u cannot catch me on that. But the boredom overwon..Great Job Steven! What's next? Jurassic Parc 4?


                
"Band of Brothers" in a word is awesome. I couldn't wait to see each episode. Co-Executive Produced by Tom Hanks and Steven Spielberg, it has the realism, look and feel of Spielberg's "Saving Private Ryan" (1998) but with more insight into the characters. Hanks even directed one episode himself."Band of Brothers" in a word is awesome. I couldn't wait to see each episode. Co-Executive Produced by Tom Hanks and Steven Spielberg, it has the realism, look and feel of Spielberg's "Saving Private Ryan" (1998) but with more insight into the characters. Hanks even directed one episode himself.

