Band of Brothers is considered by many the best series already done, including in the IMDb has a note of 9,5, for who likes of Saving private Ryan will probably like this series, since it has Tom Hanks and Steve Spielberg involved, the battle is very good, with a production of great quality, great direction, and great performances, the series also gets emotional, in my view has slow episodes and I found some characters very poorly used, but Band of Brothers is great, with 10 great episodes, It's too much to watch, the soundtrack of the series is great, with a beautiful opening, and a satisfactory and very well closed end. Note 88


                
In a case of over-hype, I was disappointed on first viewing of this extremely well loved 10 part, 10 hour mini-series. I had been told too many times how incredible it was, and so minor faults became glaring problems and disappointments. Returning to it over 10 years later the positives seem much stronger. By following a platoon from basic training to the end of WW II the series allows for a truly epic sweep. And the characters, while occasionally falling into cliché are generally extremely well acted, and evolve in believable, complex and sometimes terrifically unpredictable ways. The series is at its best when it feels the most real, putting the audience into the horrors of battle in ways that don't glorify war, death and destruction, even if saluting the bravery and humanity of this small group of men. This is war as brutal, nasty, sudden and arbitrary. Who lives and who dies sometimes has as much to do with dumb luck as bravery or skill. Fear and exhaustion are constant companions. For every good leader who takes care of his men there's a weak one who gets people killed. The device of having the real members of the actual company, now very old, start each episode sharing their memories is a great choice, reminding us that this is no fictional story, but the true tale of very young men doing the best they could in nightmarish circumstances that would humble anyone. When the show first aired some critics were bothered by the fact that it was hard to tell the men apart, and I must admit I had that problem too. But this time around it was far easier. Whether it's just familiarity, or (as I suspect) the advantages of a far bigger, better TV, and high-definition images, suddenly there was much more visual ease in knowing who was who, which made the episodes not only easier to follow, but far more emotional. Not every episode is as strong. Some are truly devastating or deeply enthralling. Others can feel a bit less urgent, a bit unfocused. But even the least are interesting, and have powerful moments. As the two men at the center of it all Damien Lewis and Ron Livingston give excellent, fleshed out performances. But if they seem more focused than some of the other characters that probably has to do with total screen time, and the fact we keep returning to them, then any defects on the part of the others. Overall this is a stirring, human, emotional history lesson and a fitting tribute to those who gave everything they had in 'the good war'.


                
In just about all aspects, Band of Brothers is a tremendousachievement. The series, based on actual events, follows theWorld War Two exploits of the men of Easy Company, 506thRegiment, 101st Airborne Division, from their initial training in theUnited States to the famous D-Day invasion of Europe through thehardships of the Battle of the Bulge all the way to the capture ofHitler's Eagle's Nest and the end of the war. The two first episodes("Currahee" and "Day of Days") were the best. The air attacksequence in episode two is on par with the opening D-Daysequence of "Saving Private Ryan." Episode seven ("The BreakingPoint") also stands out in the series. One of the advantages of theten episode format is that, unlike a single movie, the viewer canbetter see how the battles and hardships wore on these men,something the actors did a great job of portraying. Damien Lewis,Ron Livingston, and Donnie Wahlberg stand out among the solid,albeit relatively anonymous, group of actors. Lewis in particulardoes an outstanding turn as Major Richard Winters, the series'moral and dramatic center. Matthew Settle also does a good jobas Captain Speirs, a prime example that not every Americanfighting man was an angel.In general, the series has the hallmarks of a Spielberg project,particularly in its superior technical craftsmanship. Some aspectsof the series feel emotionally forced. Certain parts of episodes(such as Sergeant "Bull" Randleman's adventures behind enemylines in episode four, "Replacements") almost descend intomovie-of-the-week melodrama. Also, the series' music seems tobe meant to seek (some might say demand) a constant state ofreverence for what is going on. Nevertheless, this is an excellentseries. I would not compare Band of Brothers to war films likePlatoon or Apocalypse Now; It is closer to the 1960s TV series"Combat!" in terms of its structure and quality, which is very high.Band of Brothers is definitely one of the better works to appear ontelevision or in theaters in the last few years.Note: For a perfect continuation of the theme, rent "The Best Yearsof Our Lives," a great film about GI's coming back home.


                
This ten-part television World War II miniseries based on the book of the same title written by historian and biographer Stephen Ambrose parallels the paradigm of valor with the brutality and revulsion of battle, studying what is both ennobling and dehumanizing about that war. Naturally, the executive producers were Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks after their incredibly powerful collaboration on Saving Private Ryan, one of the greatest films ever made, certainly one of the very best on war, which also gave birth to the look and feel of each episode, in spite of the distinguishing approaches of the different directors.The narrative centers on the experiences of Easy Company, the parachute Infantry regiment assigned essentially to face unrelenting fire by landing in Normandy. The sequence in Saving Private Ryan where the battalion arrives on the beach at Normandy on D-Day is one of the most relentlessly intense, extraordinarily nuanced battle sequences ever filmed, and indeed here, we are not treated to a recycled version, but a wholly different perspective of the relative experience. Nevertheless, no matter how shell-shocked they feel upon the survival of their brutal arrival, by the final episode of the saga, their experience has gone so far beyond that single comparative blip on the radar of the impacts that have molded them by the end. We begin at Easy's basic training, Operation Market Garden, the Battle of Bastogne and on to the end of the war in all.One can perhaps understand the criticism that few of the characters attract prominent attention against the background of the war, or that indeed it is all background and no foreground, that when you watch more than one episode and still aren't entirely certain who the main characters are, something is wrong. It is a conventionally adherent criticism made by certain critics at the time of its first air. If it is a fundamentally uncertain series of experiences with the same names and faces, those experiences propel that relentless incertitude, and that is the intention of the show. In Saving Private Ryan, the narrative structure is essentially the same on a different scale.Moreover, each episode focuses on a different character. We will inevitably, according to its structure as a miniseries, become deeply involved with a single character's subjective forbearance and he will then die or fade into the surroundings of the succeeding character's subjective ordeal. The central character can be argued to be Major Winters, played by the studious Damian Lewis, who is lead for most of the episodes. Ron Livingston plays Captain Nixon, Winters' close pal and often his ironic counsel through the series, and yet we don't truly zero in on him until quite late in the show, when we realize how internalized his true self is. Captain Speirs, played by Matthew Settle, leads the Company into the field in the latter half of the series, but is the matter of rumors amongst the soldiers starting in just the third episode.Nonetheless, in each episode, we see Donnie Wahlberg, truly a charming and expressive actor, as Second Lieutenant Lipton, Scott Grimes as Technical Sergeant Malarkey and Peter Youngblood Hills as Staff Sergeant Shifty Powers. One episode focuses on Wahlberg and the indispensable power Lipton holds with reference to Easy Company's morale.I could argue my favorites to be the infectious presence of Rick Gomez as charismatically laid-back Technician Fourth Grade Luz and the criminally underused Shane Taylor as sensitive soul Technician Fifth Grade Doc Roe. Then there is Michael Cudlitz as the ultimate husky cool guy Sergeant Bull Randleman. Both Cudlitz and Taylor were the subjects of their own episodes. The first featured Randleman's escape from a German-occupied village in the Netherlands, and the latter Roe's story as a medic during the Siege of Bastogne.There's the vivid Neal McDonough as First Lieutenant Buck, witty Brit Dexter Fletcher putting on a near-seamless East Coast dialect as Staff Sergeant Pee Wee, ad infinitum. Some of them are not credited in the opening sequence, and yet they play vital roles at certain times.Slowly, the characters all take on full-bodied resonance. In one episode, its director, David Frankel, has the visual asset of shooting the grimy troops as near-silhouettes in stark white snow. It's altruistic moments like these that raises this, one of many great recent HBO original achievements, above the omnipresence of its material to take on the solemnity of a synthesized chronicle of past events as aesthetic relativism.


                
This was really enjoyable learning about what happened in WW2. The emotions and feelings were greatly portrayed in the show.


                
Usually, a war drama means that there are events happening during a war, with war in the background, with some battle scenes (e.g. preparation to a major attack/combat) or without any. But here, in Band of Brothers, we see a lot of acts of war, fights, explosions, casualties, battle equipment destruction, etc. i.e. the real horror, where everything changes, where young men with hopes and dreams have to cope with totally different things both mentally and physically.A series like this should be based on real events, of course, as otherwise it would resemble a comic book; luckily, its solid production team headed by Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks have understood and accomplished this, for one by adding documentary segments with real E Company members. But the cream of the series are realistic (and apparently costly) battle scenes, and even cast - nobody was "starring" there, we saw teams with characters more or less present on screen, but each and everyone had their significance in the bigger picture. Here, it was my 2nd opportunity (after Homeland) to realize the gift of Damian Lewis, and to recognize in small roles many talented British actors famous by now (e.g. Tom Hardy, Simon Pegg, James McAvoy). As I have recently taken on, the versatility and diversity of a US series or film are ensured by foreign actors, often from UK.It is not easy to create a catchy work about the events happening in former times, with lots of turmoil, and a few female characters. In substance, the movie team succeeded, and the result is a fine headstone if the battle films history.


                
From the first episode , I admired the effort exerted by the executive producers , great locations and landscape deliver the maximum of realism . - David Frankel and the other Directors use distinctive camera filter and colors define the TV show as finger print determine humans , combat scenes was so pleasurable but somehow i felt the insufficiency of suspense and the correlation between episodes . - script fetch a lot of feelings , fine mix of emotions , but the diversity of the leading actors was a double edged weapon , i realized the lack of depth in their characters which leave no way to the psychological analysis of them . - Acting was satisfying but could be much better ,i was delighted with the soundtrack and i felt the musical gratification to the max . 8/10


                
I was a little hesitant to watch this miniseries because i'm not too fond of war movies, but this one was amazing! The acting was amazing, as well as the quality of picture. It was made to look like it was back in the 40's. It's not in black and white, but it has that older look. The actors, mostly British, are absolutely amazing. You really feel like you are there with them participating in the battles, feeling the pain of losing a comrade, and the fear of the battle. It starts with the basic training in Toccoa,Ga, and continues through Normandy, The battle of the Bulge, and Operation Market Garden, among others, as well as the liberation of a concentration camp. If you liked Saving Private Ryan, or even if you didn't, you will definitely love this miniseries!! Once again, Tom Hanks and Steven Spielberg created a masterpiece!


                
I get very confused when I see WWII stuff from Spielberg.Some of the time I think I'm watchin' Republican Spielberg who is pro American, pro soldier, pro military, pro heroes. (But I know he's not the director.) Then I think I'm watchin' Democrat Spielberg who clearly infers the horrors of war, the politics of the military, the ineptness of the military and of war.This did both and I was turned off by Republican Spielberg.This is an easy one as WWII was a justifiable war. Good vs. Evil. And the soldiers that participated get the kudos.But I am also torn by the obvious aspects of soldiering. To me, soldiers are brainwashed into fighting. They are indoctrinated in the hero aspects, the glory aspects. Thus, they fight the same and have the same "drive" to keep fighting even though it's a crap shoot if you die or not. In the end, are they heroes? I guess but were driven to blindly run into the fire by design and not so much inner resolve.That is what I got out of this epic. When they tried to sell me that these men were special and pure heroes, I didn't buy it. They were programmed. What it also did sell me was that war is Hell, and outdated concept and nothing that anyone should go through. I don't know if these men were true heroes or just puppets, but I know I would be catatonic for decades from the mental scars.(And excessive use of hand-held camera, which is the bane of my cinema viewing existence.)
I saw this mini series whilst living in Thailand. At the time of it's showing I was working long hours so my wife recorded each episode for me and I watched them when I got home, often at 2 am. After the first few episodes it became the thing that kept me going as my working day got longer and longer. I can honestly say that the series is excellent. The way that the film stock and camera work changes from quiet character building moments to full on action is superb. All of the actors play there roles exceeding well (although I couldn't help asking myself what Ross from friends was doing there at regular intervals). I enjoyed it so much that I went out and bought the book. After reading the book I can say that they did a good job. A few parts are Hollywooded  up, the concentration camp section as an example, but overall, very well done. I enjoyed the way that the first few episodes gave a broader look at the situation and then the middle episodes concentrated on certain characters and then back to the larger picture for the end. The episode which concentrates on the medic stands out from the rest as the action content is lower but the suspense and character work are brilliant. All in all, if you haven't seen this and you are at all interested in true life stories (about the WWII or anything) you can do a lot worse than seeing this series. I know it's 10 hours long but if you take some time and just watch a couple of episodes a day(no surfing at the same time or chatting with your mates) the time just flies by and you'll be restless all the next day pining for your next fix.


                
This was a great series. It was important. It opened the eyes of a viewing nation to the realities of men at war. It captured a time and a book (Band of Brothers) with unflinching grit. Dick Winters is finally recognized as the great leader that he was and likely still is. I give it a 8 out of 10, mainly because the series loses force after the first few episodes. Each subsequent episode is less climactic than the previous. Perhaps this is a function of the material. But it can't be ignored.Nevertheless, I've gone out and purchased all the Ambrose books I haven't read yet.


                
The Band Of Brothers..!I Cant Even Watch Every Episode..with at end Tears Fall From My Eye...Actauly It Was Produced By Stven And Tom So i Thought It Would Be Awesome But Not As True Story I HAve Come To Know That Later. As They Lived Life Like This IN Army ...Extra Ordinary Production Actauly This Is Not even Called Production This Is Bigger Than This. Fiction This IS Real Life Story About BAND OF BROTHERS So It Ain't Called Production Of For Just Entertainment ..This IS The Life They Have Lived..In Real And These Call The Real Legends..They Have Seen Death,Hell Abd Been To That Otherside And Survived Worst Through All'of'em Lives..Initiay The Were Just Troopers As Normal As Everyone Just Trained..But It's What They Have Been Through Makes Them More Stronger,In War They Lost Their More Valuable Person Even They Know They Are Not The Real Brothers But In War When Single Warrior Die They Feel Blood Brothers...They Have Been On The Edge Of The Line Where No One Can Even Live No One Even Dare To Live There.if There Was Not Srgnt.Dick Existed..He Bieleved In Them...he Understand Even They Were Not Able To Speak In Some Critical Situation...But Sergant's Eyes Says To everything Them.I Won't Say Much...For this..All i Can Say This They Have lived Life Legendary,Who Knows That They Have Done Legendary Work Like This,Seen Death And Life..And Worst Thing is Too See Die Someone Who Saved Your Life Maybe Some of Them Twice..Life Can't Be That Hard.What They Have Done Is Not Only Just Priceless...To Do Such Job Like This With Will It Just Can't Be An Ordinary Man.Salute To The Real Heros..!


                
Every part felt like it's own movie and had a lot of detail that was coherent with World War II. You can easily see the emotions between the soldiers. The battles have an incredible action and detail. The wounds looked very real and was accompanied with good acting. The dialog was well written and fit into war perfectly. The battles scenes were incredible, they showed death and fighting just like a real war would be. The battles show flared emotions with dialog and action.Even though the series was good I still had some problems with it. I felt there were skips in the battle that could have been cut out. Also some other were choppy and missing some detail or action. Overall I would want to see more of it, but I can call it excellent due to some minor flaws


                
This series tells the story of Easy Company, of the US paratroopers that landed in Normandy, and tells it in such a raw, realistic fashion that you'll be hooked after just one episode. The men of Easy company are just your average soldiers, but the series will change how you define an average soldier. Easy company is confronted with countless obstacles on their long road to victory, and that is where i think they truly become a 'band of brothers'. The hardships of war and the raw emotional bonds that are form from them are things that will be remembered by all those involved, and this series puts much emphasis on that. A specific struggle focused on in episode "XXX" is that of the WW2 medic. Easy companies doc spends more time scrounging for supplies around the ranks than he does putting them to work. He is constantly out of morphine, bandages, and every other necessity of a medic, which makes his job ten times harder than it should be.


                
This series is the best war movie/series I've ever seen. It shows both the glorious moments as well as the not so glorious moments on both sides of the war - Just like Stephen Ambrose's book. The only reason why I couldn't give the full score is that there is a bit too much action and tempo in the series making it a bit hard to comprehend the first time you see it. There is a lot of scenes, the viewer ought to digest a bit longer to feel the full horror of war.The special effects a near to perfect, but it annoys me that passing rifle and machinegun (MG42/MG34) shots makes a buzzing instead of the "crack'ing" sound they actually makes caused by the the super sonic speed of the bullets (Most of the time they had that right in "Saving Private Ryan).


                
I understand this series is technically flawless, the history, the cinematography, the accuracy, the realism, it really is amazing what they achieved with this, but even with all of that, I can't find myself to finish the series, I just get bored. I like how they don't glorify "America" as other war movies, they also did terrible things in war, inhuman things, though they still do over-glorify war as a whole a little bit. yes the fallen heroes, lots of sad stories that actually happened, lots of pain and whatever it's all good and true and I respect everyone that participated as soldiers in the war, the ones that didn't commit any inhuman acts, but I still fail to be entertained by the story as a story.If you take away the true facts, stick to story alone, though well structured and sometimes meaningful, it is not that entertaining.Don't get me wrong I still think is one of the best series out there, but certainly not the best, not even close, best historically accurate series perhaps, best documentary even, but series, no.


                
Episode 1:This was a pretty good intro I must say. The actors were all good and the introduction was great. We got to know at least a little about the guy's we'd be seeing in this series. What really amazed me though, was the performance of David <U+0091>the FRIEND' Schwimmer. I'd have never thought he could play an a..hole so convincingly.
7 out of 10
Episode 2:This episode was somehow a bit <U+0091>shallow' I felt. I know that is not the good word, but that was how I felt about this episode. Although this episode kind of focused around Winters, I could not really feel with him as I wished I could have. I was not drawn into his side of the story enough. This was basically an all shooting, non emotional episode from my point of view.
7 out of 10
Episode 3:This episode was good, I must say. There were a lot of war scenes and this was until then, the most brutal episode. It really showed the brutality of war. The thing I liked best about this episode, was that it focused really on the bad side of the war, the injuries, the brutality and the sadness, which was impersonated by Private Blithe. Plus, you really felt for private Blithe.
8 out of 10
Episode 4:David Schwimmer returns (however not too noticeable) in this episode. I felt that this episode was the best one I'd seen until then. I liked the mixture between war brutality, the liberation parties and the brutality by the Dutch people, shaving the heads of the <U+0091>moffenhoeren' (kraut-whores). A really good depiction of war as it was, as well for the soldiers as for the common and the uncommon people. Plus the war scenes were really thrilling.
8 out of 10
Episode 5:Worst of the <U+0091>pack' until now, which does not mean that it was bad, but rather that it could have been so much better. This episode had great potential, but too little was made of Winters' war visions in the train and of his battle recollections. Tom Hanks really did not pick a great episode to direct, but at least it was not his fault this episode was not up to the other episodes standard.
7 out of 10
Episode 6:This episode was filled with a lot of grim humour (which I (as a viewer) could laugh at) and the horrors of war. But the thing that made this episode somehow special was, that it was devoted almost entirely to medical personnel. I've never seen that before, so I thought it was quite original.
8 out of 10
Episode 7:This episode focuses on one vital point of war and one thing that is caused by war and has brought down many soldiers even after the external war was over. The importance of a good leader, is vital to successful warfare. This episode really shows, that if you do not much of a leader, you will not fight well. The other thing is mental <U+0091>breakdown' as in the role of Compton. Seeing ones friends and fellow fighters being torn up, ripped to pieces and so on really destroys some people (whether it is during or after the war). It is the internal war that never ends.
8 out of 10
Episode 8:This episode focuses on war as a game, namely getting prisoners of was <U+0091>just for fun'. I know it is pretty stupid to do such things, but it is the truth. It also shows us the view of another character in war: the <U+0091>returned soldier'. Letting Webster come back after 4 months does not only show, how the bonds have strengthened between the <U+0091>active' soldiers during that time, but also what happened to them on the emotional level. Good episode.
8 out of 10
Episode 9:First I thought this would be a very cynical episode about what war is good for, but instead it turned out to be an episode about the real reasons for fighting World War 2. It showed the horror that the Germans caused and the good that all allied soldiers brought to Europe. This is the beginning of a great end for mankind and especially all the soldiers who fought on the winning side in World War 2.
8 out of 10
Episode 10:This really is the best episode of them all. It brings peace back into the world, but not without accidents and sad moments, that are so stupid only life could have written them. The best thing about this episode is, that we are told what became of most of the men that were depicted in this film and that the recent interview scenes had the names of the men attached to them. I had been guessing for weeks who was who and if I was ever going to be told. I was told. The interviews at the end are great.9 out of 10Final conclusion:This is really a good series. It is not so patriotic as some films are, you know with a heroes death at the end or a real happy ending. This series shows a big happy ending and lots of (a bit) smaller bad endings. Luck, bad luck, madness, horror, grief, sadness, astonishment, hate, patriotism and so on and so on. Imagine almost any emotion and you'll probably see it here. It was very realistic indeed. 
A thing that struck me, were the bits of interviews we saw (almost) every episode. You know, when I see those people, I see a lot of wise, brave and modest people. The best remark was (cited freely): I was no hero, but I fought with heroes'
78 out of 100


                
When I first heard of this series and heard that Tom Hanks was involved, I thought this series would turn out to be another Saving Private Ryan. I was totally wrong. The series is so well put together that I actually had a problem finding a stopping point each night. The cast of characters, mostly unknowns except for Damian Lewis, Donnie Wahlberg, and David Schwimmer, brought a good mix of familiar talent along with the new. The new talent also seemed to make the story more believable. You get to follow a group of paratroopers from Easy company from basic training to the last days of the war. The story is so well written that you actually feel like a part of their group and when someone dies, you miss their character. Each chapter of the story has footage of the real men the characters are playing talking about the events that happened at the time of the war. In my opinion, this was an extreme bonus because it set the mood for each mini-part and reminded you that you were not just watching a Hollywood fictional story. The only downer to the story was the chapter about the field medic. I felt that, even though the field medics surely must have gone through a lot and seen so much death, this part of the story was overkill. The bottom line for the series is that it is the best war series that I will probably ever see in my lifetime, the acting and storyline are superb and if you have not seen this series, I would strongly recommend it. Take caution letting small children watch this film as there are some pretty graphic scenes of wounded soldiers.
This was good because it showed what the army had to go through. It showed how the airborne had to jump out of the planes. A lot of them did not end up where they were supposed to land so a lot of them were in mixed up groups. They had lost most of the officers when they landed so people had to step up and be the commanding officers. Some bad things were when they were in the trenches a lot of people got injured and they could not get evacuated. Most of the hospitals were overflowing with people. If you like movies with a lot of action then you would like this movie. If you like accurate movies then this is for you.
This powerful and unforgettable miniseries presented by Academy Award winning director Steven Spielberg and highly celebrated character actor Tom Hanks, is undoubtedly the most celebrated and highly commemorative TV series that tells the remarkable story of a platoon of American paratroopers who travel through Normandy to battle against the Nazis, it is an astounding account of determination and sacrifice, and it is most probably the most realistic contribution to the historical events of WW2, since Saving Private Ryan, the power and danger anticipates the viewer by each passing scene, and the heart throbbing sequences that you watch are disturbing and endlessly watchable. Out of all the war films that have been successfully made, Band of Brothers endures a headlong recreation of dehumanisation and courage.


                
I've heard lots of good things about this mini series, but I must admit it did not live up to the hallowed expectations I've had from the hype generated and a Dreamworks production.If you're looking for gung-ho action Saving Private Ryan style, you will be sorely disappointed, like I was. Nevertheless, stellar character development was what made this series so refreshing, compared to a typical 120 minute war movie.I rated this 8/10 for first class acting and casting, and for the realism. Not for the action.


                
From producers Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks (also directing an episode), this ten-part (an hour an episode) mini-series, based on the book by Stephen Ambrose, looked like the same quality as Saving Private Ryan. It basically tells the story of the "E" Easy Company, 506th Regiment of the 101st Airborne Division as they go through World War II. Throughout the series they parachute behind enemy lines, fight through rain and snow, in towns and trenches, shelter from bombs and bullets, and suffer many losses and failures, but all make it through to the end of the war. Starring Scott Grimes as TSgt. Donald Malarkey, Golden Globe nominated Damian Lewis as Maj. Richard D. Winters, Golden Globe nominated Ron Livingston as Capt. Lewis Nixon, Shane Taylor as Cpl. Eugene Roe, Saw II's Donnie Wahlberg as C. Carwood Lipton, The Beach's Peter Youngblood Hills as SSgt. Darrel 'Shifty' Powers, Touching the Void's Nicholas Aaron as Pvt. Robert 'Popeye' Wynn, Ned Kelly's Philip Barantini as Sgt. Wayne 'Skinny' Sisk, Michael Cudlitz as Sgt. Denver 'Bull' Randleman, Rick Gomez as Sgt. George Luz; Lock, Stock and Two Barrels' Dexter Fletcher as SSgt. John Martin, Star Trek: First Contact's Neal McDonough as 1st Lt. Lynn 'Buck' Compton, Dale Dye as Col. Robert Sink, Friends' David Schwimmer as Herbert M. Sobel, Simon Pegg as 1st Sgt. William Evans and Tom Hanks as British officer. It won the Emmys for Outstanding Casting for a Miniseries, Movie or a Special, Outstanding Directing for a Miniseries, Movie or a Dramatic Special, Outstanding Miniseries, Outstanding Single Camera Picture Editing for a Miniseries, Movie or a Special (for "Day of Days"), Outstanding Single Camera Sound Mixing for a Miniseries or a Movie, (for "Carentan") and Outstanding Sound Editing for a Miniseries, Movie or a Special (for "Day of Days"), and it was nominated for Outstanding Art Direction for a Miniseries, Movie or a Special (for "The Breaking Point"), Outstanding Cinematography for a Miniseries or a Movie (for "The Patrol"), Outstanding Hairstyling for a Miniseries, Movie or a Special (for "Crossroads"), Outstanding Main Title Design, Outstanding Makeup for a Miniseries, Movie or a Special (Non-Prosthetic) (for "Why We Fight"), Outstanding Makeup for a Miniseries, Movie or a Special (Prosthetic) (for "Carentan"), Outstanding Single Camera Picture Editing for a Miniseries, Movie or a Special (for "Replacements"), Outstanding Single Camera Sound Mixing for a Miniseries or a Movie (for "The Breaking Point"), Outstanding Single Camera Sound Mixing for a Miniseries or a Movie (for "Day of Days"), Outstanding Special Visual Effects for a Miniseries, Movie or a Special (for "Day of Days"), Outstanding Special Visual Effects for a Miniseries, Movie or a Special (for "Replacements"), Outstanding Stunt Coordination (for "Carentan") and Outstanding Writing for a Miniseries, Movie or a Dramatic Special, and it won Golden Globe Best Mini-Series or Motion Picture Made for Television. It was number 50 on The 50 Greatest TV Dramas. Very good!
Well, I was hoping for much more from Spielberg, well - not from Hanks! Tom is anyway just an actor, OK main role in Private Ryan, but he should act. They rushed to show all the aspects of war, RUSHED, not paying attention to what makes the atmosphere, like Spielberg did in Saving Private Ryan. It is far too week representation of relationships between soldiers, it's fake! You get seconds of good scenes in every episode, but it's just not enough. Simply, it is good for less demanding audience, or for someone blinded by the budget they've spent on filming it. Sceenes are rushed, frames not connected, it's like camera and director did't have good connection. Acting is very good, indeed! But, as I said, atmosphere, directing... that's lacking. Not recommended, except for killing time.


                
Band Of Brothers4 Out Of 5Band Of Brothers is a character driven mini-series that is at best, precisely and probably an almost documentary but with a taste of theatrical that might easily leaves the viewers' pallet shook. First and foremost the credit does and should go to the research team that offers an unforgettable experience to the viewers of the field work on an ongoing battle; you are more exhausted than the characters. Despite of having such a wider range and scale the makers wisely makes a choice on narrowing down the priorities to the theme of "nature" where each part of it (there are 10 chapters), plays and projects a vital side of it. The adaptation of Ambrose's novel is smart, exquisite and brimming with writhing emotions where the rest of the work is left up to execution which is undeniably excellent; the quality surpasses one's usual feature. The series is also emotionally fueled where the manipulated audience finds itself on the melted side of the aisle with a cathartic energy that pumps up the heartbeat. If the camera work is beautiful with some appealing live locations then it also has some brutal and inedible sequences where the art designers have done a tremendous work. It is rich on technical aspects like metaphorical cinematography, stunning and cringe-worthy visuals, sharp sound effects, behemoth production designs, accurate costume designs and again the choreography of each battle sequences; all blends in and rains on the audience leaving them breathless. The cast too have invested all their chips in which pays well, especially Lewis and Levingston. The chemistry among the characters, makers' non-biased world and the awareness of each and every details are the high points of this mini-series. Band Of Brothers is a brief anthology of the horrendous symphony that nature is along with the repercussions that it ought not but inevitably breeds.


                
I'm not always the biggest fan of war films. Not that I dislike them, I just can never get all that emotionally invested in them. My favorite is The Thin Red Line, and it's not exactly like other war films. This definitely benefits from having a very extended running time, and it really does help to have this extra time with the soldiers. Their development is pretty magnificent, and individual chapters' focus on different character is mostly well drawn-out. The performance are fantastic as well, with Damien Lewis really providing the heart of it. The ending is pretty heart-breaking and immensely emotional, no matter how much you're into it.


                
