I decided to watch this movie based on the great reviews it received. Unfortunate for me, it was a complete waste of time. I came into the movie knowing it was long, but was told it was worth it. That statement caused me to waste 3 hours of my life. Anyway, on to the reasons why it was a waste. The movie itself had a decent storyline. The problem with this movie, however, was that it is the longest, drawn out movie known to mankind. This movie could have been played out in literally 20 minutes based on what all happened in the movie. Instead, viewers get to wait 30 minutes while it shows Clint Eastwood crawl 20 feet through the sand not saying a word. Against my better judgment, I continue watching, waiting for something spectacular to happen in the end. As the end approaches, viewers get to wait through yet another drawn out scene, of 3 men standing in a triangle pointing guns at each other. After, 10 minutes of watching that, I lost interest of who was going to die anyway. It literally switches cameras more times than I can count. Then, the finale comes. That is when I comprehend just how much time had been lost in this movie. I am writing this review as a friendly favor to warn you of this lame excuse of a movie, because no one was there to warn me.


                
Serfio Leone was never my cup of tea - his spaghetti westerns are schematic, prolonged, protruded, childish, silly and slow. This horror of a movie lasts for unbearable 3 hours and makes it painful and slow. Nobody saves the film - even Clint Eastwood seems to be utterly bored, Wlach is at best bemused, and even the superb soundtrack by Enio Morricone does not help deliver this devastating bomb of terribly long and slow close-ups, unnecessary silly dialogs, inconclusive battle scenes, meddled plot and gray, dry, grainy tempo. This gray, sandy, grainy landscape illustrates the film's misery best of all - it is not captivating, nor does it manage to hold attention for a speck of time. It just rags along ploddingly and leaves no place for any serious delivery or dynamics. Do not watch this meddle, waste of time merely


                
I really couldn't understand most of the reviews here that place this film as a great western or even the best ever for some fans. In my opinion this is just a watchable and good western, but not much more than that.I think the only possible explanation would be that IMDb reviewers consider "spaghetti" westerns a sub-genre within the western genre. If that is so, "The Good, The Bad and the Ugly" would probably stand among the best (if not the best)in the "spaghetti" westerns ranking. But the point is that in my opinion there are no sub-genres within the western genre. So I analyze this film just for what it is: a western film.In such terms, this film has its moments, fine open-wide outdoor locations, good action gunfights (though hardly believable) and an acceptable plot. Good acting too mainly in Eli Wallach's Tuco.But what really demerits this movie is its incredibly unnecessary overrun; there's no way the story can stand almost 3 hours in duration and so the development is definitely slow. Overruning has always been a characteristic of director Sergio Leone; he sort of engages madly with some sequences and he goes on and on and on at it (the final duel here is an example with all those unnecessary close shots in the men's faces and eyes). Another clear sample of what I'm saying was the incredibly long -and even boring- opening sequence of "Once Upon a Time in the West", where Leone takes more than 10 minutes in the opening sequence where three gunmen are waiting for Charles Bronson at a train station.Come on guys, let's face it. "Spaghetti" westerns are "B" movies and even if at the very start they could have seemed sort of original and somehow enjoyable, once you take an honest critical look at them they're not great films but just good a few of them but no more than that. Sorry again.


                
"The Good, The Bad, and the Ugly" is the perfect example of hype backlash, where people say this is one of the greatest films ever. I watched it and it was honestly "this is what all the buzz was?" Honestly, I have never been disappointed in a film, and part of the reason why I look down on the Western genre.This film in particular is rife with horrible acting, especially from Clint Eastwood, and the directing is honestly shaky at best. The movie's main flaw is how extremely predictable and formulaic the film is. Sergio Leone is held too high in regard, though he made the same film over and over again, with bringing nothing new to the table.If anyone suggests watching this film, I'd strongly suggest skipping it. The only saving grace in this movie is the score - that's it.
This mess of a yawner is dated, boring, interminable. Even the gratuitous violence is cheesy. Now we know why the Italian trend to make westerns did not last. And thank goodness for that.Incidentally, I read the hate-filled, prejudiced, pretentious drivel posted by somebody from the Russian Federation, I think, with much amusement. Lord knows I am no friend of Hollywood, but I found this ... person' Cold War-like rant even more laughable than the film we're reviewing. He/she/whatever sounds like a leftover from the 70s, all Indian beads, bell-bottom pants, Ban-the-Bomb signs, psychedelic-print rayon shirts, anti-American braying.Like the film in question: terribly dated.


                
Alas. Allow me to surmise a bit of history: having created two of the greatest westerns ever with "A Fistful of Dollars" and "For A Few Dollars More", some unscrupulous soul was able to convince Sergio Leone that he was a creator of great cinema, instead of a creator of great westerns; this movie was the result. Gone are the brilliantly set-up action sequences, replaced with senseless and dull confrontations, with size, not even quantity, trying to make up for the lost quality. Gone are the witty and interesting characters and the deep character development, replaced with annoying, inconsistent, and flat caricatures. As to just what Leone was trying to say with this movie, for clearly he felt it had a message, it is either horribly unclear or completely and pathetically trite. In his quest to make a movie with meaning, Leone cast aside what had made this movie's "predecessors" so wonderful, and found that not only did he lose the bird in his hand, but he couldn't catch the ones in the bush and fell in a pile of excrement in trying.


                
This movie is obviously for immature and uneducated males. I could only watch about 20 minutes of it before becoming thoroughly disgusted. I suppose the creators of this film were aiming for that audience, since the dialogue is sparse and what there is of it is very juvenile. I've not seen many things with Eastwood that varied from this however. If you are into gratuitous violence and bloodshed, then this film certainly has that. There were so many non-continuities and unbelievable twists in the short portion of the film I watched that the entire film must contain a record number. I noted that there were more than two hours left of this thing when I switched to something more enjoyable.


                
Is this film supposed to be a comedy ? (eg with Eli Wallach from the New York classical school of over acting). If so, it is in poor taste with the butchery of the civil war prominent. The civil war was not fought on the sand dunes of Spain. Moreover, able-bodied young men in civilian dress would not be able to freely prance around in the civil war 'theatre'. Clint is burnt to a cinder in the sun and yet within a few days has a baby soft complexion. Eli is beaten to a pulp and yet somehow manages to keep all his teeth and his engaging smile. A overlong, overrated lot of nonsense. Clint only made three good westerns: Josey Wales, Pale Rider , High Plains Drifter. The only Leone western worthy of a repeat viewing is For a Few dollars More due to Lee Van Clef , a better script and better music.My advice, stick to John Wayne, Randolph Scott and Audie Murphy.


                
Long, boring... there's really not much happening, no moral, no conclusion. The good is not really good... the ugly is out for himself and the bad... at least has some spine and does what he's paid for. Nothing happens. It might have been good for those watching it thirty years ago, but I've watched it now, for the first time, and it simply left me crying after the wasted time.Why is Clint Eastwood's character good? He betrays Tuco, he kills everyone right and left... he lies. Oh, yes, he gave his coat to the dying soldier... let me wipe a tear. His character should be called the pretty since that's all he was in the movie. Even the ending scene, when the three were supposed to shoot for the rock with the name of the grave on it... he tampered with Tuco's gun... fair, right? No moral, no conclusion. Most of all I'm baffled by the reviews and the rating this movie has on here.


                
This film borders on the absurd, from the Civil War Scenes supposedly showing The Battle of Bull Run-filmed in a locale resembling the American Southwest-instead of Virginia-in the east, to the pathetic acting of Clint Eastwood-this film as a serious western is very sad. I know it enjoys a high rating, perhaps I missed something. As a possible camp like dark comedy it is easier to watch. The only person who could act in this film-is Eli Wallach, who hams up his role quite well. I will give Lee Van Cleef some credit as well-he makes a great "Angel Eyes". Clint is Clint, what else can be said. Somehow this guy was able to build a career on very little. To be sure, he has done some works that I have been able to enjoy-however, this is not one of them. If you wish to see a violent movie, with terrible sets and horrible screenplay-then go for this one. I am sure that if you really sit back and digest this movie-you will see as a comedy it has potential.


                
In the likes of Ford and Zinnemann´s masterpieces, Sergio Leoni´s film "The Good, the bad and the ugly" looks like a parody. It is mostly based upon violence and unjustified killings. The film tells the story of three men, who´s greed leads them to an eventual, highly predictable conclusion. During this time we get to witness children getting killed, ridiculous comments and a very overrated score, by the terribly over-estimated Ennio Marriconne.Instead of showing something of historical relevance or moral justification Leoni made a highly overrated film, that can not be compared with "The Searchers", "High Noon" and other great westerns. A talentless movie which becomes no more than a rather mediocre, entertaining film.


                
This film is mindless even blind as to the evil done at the expense of the war between the states.It rates very low as to intelligence even possessing a lack of credibility.When I had the opportunity to first view this film in the fall of 1969 there was very little to say about this film that meant anything because the film was junk,however there was one area of the film that even to friends I expressed admiration,and that was the musical score.I thought then that what I had heard till that point in time was the best movie soundtrack I had ever heard.Though time has passed it still rates as a great soundtrack.I can recall looking for the soundtrack and indeed it was the purchase of the soundtrack that I felt the film was worth however some of the film is unmistakable in its relation to the soundtrack and had I not seen the film I may not of ever been able to know this soundtrack the way I did and even do to this very day.I think the soundtrack is excellent and maybe worth its purchase without having to view this film,that is really all this means and perhaps should mean, a great soundtrack accompanying a depraved and gross film.


                
No one will ever read this unless I put 1 star... In reality it gets about 6.5 (6 is average in my book)The best part of this movie is it has a cynicism black gallows humor that would be completely absent from a similar Hollywood production. A good example of breaking a Hollywood taboo is seen when Tuco and Eastwood are prisoners of the Union troops and Tuco is beat up while an orchestra plays--apparently a normal routine. This really goes a little too far for comfort....and is not funny. You would never see this in a Hollywood production--In fact the whole movie is cynical wry humor or gallows humor and that is what made these movies popular--and what made Eastwood a star. His sneer is classic....It is also very Latin to sneer so Italy made Eastwood.It is too long.. Movies are 2 hours or less for a reason. The average viewer simply doesn't have the patience to sit longer.I should take off a star for that but ... the music in significance of the film in Eastwoods career...I let it stay.RECOMMEND


                
Apart from good acting this movie has nothing. A long extremely boring movie. This movie is in top 10 only because of the love it received when it came. But if you haven't watched it and considering watching it now, just a frank advice: don't bother watching it!


                
