A sprawling Western epic that follows the adventures of three gunfighters looking for $200,000 in stolen gold, Sergio Leone's `The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly' is a masterpiece, one that continues to get better and better with each viewing.  In a way, it's a morality play, weighing the consequences of good and evil, but it does so in a realistic manner.  Sometimes, crime does pay, at least in the short term, and sometimes good does go unrewarded. This film probably signaled the death knell of the traditional John Wayne `White Hat/Black Hat' Western.The three main characters make the film.  Lee Van Cleef (`The Bad') is evil personified.  Totally ruthless, he'll do whatever it takes to get what he wants.  Clint Eastwood (`The Good') is the Man With No Name, not really `good' in a traditional sense . . . but he has a certain sense of honor and tries to do the right thing.  (Watch the scene when he gives a dying Confederate soldier a puff of his cigar - powerful, and it sums up everything that the Man With No Name is all about, without saying a single word.)  Eli Wallach (`The Ugly') is Tuco, and he's easily the most complex - if not the best - character in the film.  All impulse and rage, Tuco spins wildly throughout the movie, stealing, lying, pretending to be Clint Eastwood's best friend in one scene, trying to kill him in another - Tuco truly represents `the ugly' side of people.The movie is long, but there's not a wasted scene in the film.  Each one slowly lets the film unfold with a certain style and grace, revealing more about each character and what's going on.  The pacing is incredible, as is the direction - Sergio Leone manages to build a lot of uncomfortable tension in the film, keeping the film from ever getting predictable.  Any typical Western cliché that you can possibly think of is either given a unique twist or utterly destroyed by Leone's masterful storytelling.  Of special mention is Ennio Morricone's score, which is absolutely perfect.  Two scenes - one in a Union prison camp, one in the climatic gunfight in the cemetery at the end of the film - are amazing on their own, but they become absolutely astonishing with combined with Morricone's powerful score. This movie is absolutely brilliant.  If you haven't seen it yet, I strongly urge to do so.  Immediately.  (And then, go watch `Unforgiven' . . . in a way, I think that `Unforgiven' is the sequel to `The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly - it's the story of what eventually happened to the Man With No Name.) `The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly' is easily one of the best Westerns ever made.  A++


                
The Good, the Bad and the Ugly (1966) is an epic classic Sergio Leone's masterpiece film and a great conclusion to "the Man with No Name" Trilogy. This is my number 1 favorite Spaghetti Western about the Civil War and three gunslingers on a search for a lost gold. I love this film to death. It is my personal favorite western movie of all time. Clint Eastwood, Eli Wallach and Lee Van Cleef are the best of the film in their roles. It has a great showdown in the cemetery on the end of the film, the way how it is edited. The cuts with people's faces and close up shots. I love this film to death and it is my number one favorite western in the trilogy. If I had to put then into a 'favorite ranking' list? 1. The Good, The Bad and The Ugly, 2. A Fistful of Dollars and For a Few Dollars More. Those are all three best masterpieces ! They are my favorite Clint Eastwood western movies in the series and they are really my favorite westerns that I am still watching today. I love the music score by Ennio Morricone that did wrote different and new theme music score for this film. The Action sequences are awesome and the bullets are flying, the guns in this film are plenty. The scene action are also good which this film makes such an entertainment from begging till end. It is the third entry in to The Dollars trilogy or better known the Man with No Name, it is the final installment of The Dollars Trilogy. This film is a classic that made Clint Eastwood in to a big star that he is today. An epic Western that follows the adventures of three gunfighters looking for $200,000 in stolen gold, Sergio Leone's 'The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly' is one of his best masterpiece, one that continues to get better and better with each viewing. A bounty hunting scam joins two men in an uneasy alliance against a third in a race to find a fortune in gold buried in a remote cemetery. The inimitable "Man With No Name" teams with two gunslingers (Lee Van Cleef and Eli Wallach) to pursue a fortune in stolen gold. But teamwork doesn't come naturally to the outlaws, and they soon discover that their greatest challenge is to stay alive in a country ravaged by war. Forging and Vibrant and yet detached style of action never before seen and not matched since, The Good, the Bad and the Ugly shatters the western mold in true Eastwood Style! The film is known for Leone's use of long shots and close-up cinematography, as well as his distinctive utilization of violence, tension, and stylistic gunfights.The plot revolves around three gunslingers competing to find fortune in a buried cache of Confederate gold amidst the violent chaos of the American Civil War (specifically the New Mexico Campaign in 1862), while participating in many battles and duels along the way. The film was the third collaboration between Leone and Clint Eastwood, and the second with Lee Van Cleef. Still the race and the three gunslingers were just fantastic who will get the first the gold. The final scene on the cemetery is one of the best action scenes ever. The iconic Mexican standoff, with Tuco, Angel-Eyes in the middle, and Blondie is the best scene in the film. The trio all separately are traveling trough American Civil War who doesn't want any part of the war to do.Clint Eastwood as "Blondie" (a.k.a. the Man with No Name): a subdued, bounty hunter did a really wonderful job as the good person, he showed that he is honest a good kind gunslinger. I think Clint Eastwood as Blondie did made memorable character and one of his the best acting performance on screen I have ever saw. Lee Van Cleef as Angel Eyes: The Bad, a ruthless, unfeeling, and sociopathic mercenary who always finishes a job he is paid for. Did a terrific job as the villain in this film, gosh this movie is awesome! He convinced me of his acting skills that he is a professional actor. Eli Wallach as Tuco "The Rat" The Ugly, a comical, oafish was amazing in his role, Sergio Leone choose him for this film with natural talent as the main cast. Those trio actors did a wonderful job as a different gunslingers on searching for a gold. The film also has humor and it is also brilliant in the both terms, the scene on cemetery where Tuco arrives first and is looking for a tombstone was brilliant. It turned out the gold was buried in a unmarked grave, that was hard to find. I was laughing when Blondie throws a shovel to Tuco for digging up the grave and the Angles Eyes comes and throws another shovel for Blondie, where both of them have to dig now the grave the scene was funny. They are a lot of moments in this film. 10/10 my number1 favorite in the trilogy, I love this film to death.
I wasn't sure if I was going to comment on this film because everything has already been said by the hundreds of other people who have posted their thoughts, but I decided that I should really put my two cents in since this is my favorite movie.This film, in my opinion, is not only the greatest spaghetti western of all time. It is the greatest movie of all time. Period. Regardless of genre. I could probably watch it every day, and be perfectly happy doing so.The music is perfection. The way the music drives this movie is absolutely amazing. The musical genius of Morricone and the incredible direction of Sergio Leone is a combination that will probably never be equaled. The theme song will forever be etched in your brain. In fact, it probably already is, even if you haven't seen the movie! The scene where Tuco runs through the graveyard with the song "Ecstacy of Gold" is pure poetry. And the showdown at the end with that great music- just incredible.The story is riveting. There is not a single dull moment. The movie is long, but Leone's direction is so good that you will love the fact that you can enjoy this movie for three hours.Lee Van Cleef is my favorite spaghetti western actor, and he is incredible as "Angel Eyes." It is the part he was born to play. Eli Wallach is perfect as Tuco. He really shines in this movie. Some people say he steals the show, and I can see why they think so. Eastwood is excellent as "Blondie," although I don't think Eastwood has as strong of a presence as Van Cleef (I know many will disagree, and that's OK because all three actors are superb in this film so why split hairs?).This movie is hypnotic. It's operatic. It's sad. It's funny. It's gritty. It's violent. It's art. It's action. It's pure entertainment. The film is just so incredible on so many different levels that EVERYONE should see it, regardless of what kinds of movies they are into. And it's so cool that the greatest flick ever just happens to be a spaghetti western. If you haven't seen this movie, stop what you are doing, and go get it now!!


                
The Good, the Bad and the Ugly or the Good, the Better and the Best, as I prefer calling it, is a bizarrely sublime and a uniquely aesthetic masterpiece. The actors in title roles have given such extraordinarily superb performances, that it would be impertinent and disparaging to merely regard their swell work as acting. In fact their brilliant portrayals have immortalized Blondie, Sentenza/ Angel Eyes and the enigmatic Tuco. Lee Van Cleef is fiendishly unforgiving as the merciless Angel Eyes. Clint Eastwood is rugged yet suave, cocky yet adorable as laconic cigar-smoker Blondie, a role that laid the foundations of his illustrious career. But it is Eli Wallach, who steals the show with his captivating portrayal of Tuco, a portrayal that is as entrancing as it is enlightening. Wallach is amusing, capricious, nonchalant, uncanny and yet tenacious as Tuco, perturbed by his insecurities and dampened by his solitude. It is the tacit amicability between Blondie and Tuco and their mutual hostility towards the evil Angel Eyes owing to the vestiges of virtue present in them, redolent of their moribund morality, which gives the story, the impetus and the characters, a screen presence that is not only awe inspiring but also unparalleled.Sergio Leone's magnificent and ingenious direction in synergy with Ennio Morricone's surreal music, Tonino Delli Colli's breathtaking cinematography and Joe D'Augustine's punctilious editing makes the movie, a treat to watch and ineffably unforgettable. Initially aimed to be a tongue-in-cheek satire on run-of-the-mill westerns, The Good, the Bad and the Ugly, continues to stand the test of time in its endeavor to attain apotheosis (if it hasn't attained it yet). It will always be remembered as European cinema's greatest lagniappe, not only to the Western genre, but to the world of cinema.It's a must watch for any movie lover. 10/10


                
After many years of barely watching any movies, I treated myself to several classics recently. And this was the best.That I so enjoyed this movie so much came as a shock to me. I literally never before have been able to even sit through a western, which (in my admittedly limited experience) was schlock action starring John Wayne as the taciturn all-American good guy being tough and beating up the outlaws. Watching GBU, I was enthralled for the entire three hours. Twice. And if I had time, I would have watched it a third time. The setting is typically western: a dry, dusty panorama in which men barely co-exist with each other; few wasted words; and lots of action, horses, and gunfighting in a wild west barely governed by incipient institutions of law & order <U+0096> all shrouded within a morality play of good vs. bad. But what I liked so much is exactly what I hate about John Wayne westerns <U+0096> the seriousness and honesty with which moral context is considered. In Hollywood, good vs. bad is as thoughtlessly superscripted as the protagonists' white and black hats. In GBU every remnant of moralizing has been ruthlessly cut.Good, Bad, and Ugly are personified in the form of three characters: Bad ("Sentenza") is the easiest to understand. He is *very* bad, perhaps not so different from other villains, but much more sharply developed; murderous, sadistic, traitorous, and remorseless. Good ("Blondie") and Ugly ("Tuco") are more puzzling, but their labels are the key to the movie. Both Blondie and Tuco are outlaws and killers with only the barest hint of morality, but they're not evil in the same way that Sentenza is. Tuco is demonstrative, emotional, loud, wild, and unpredictable; but driven by survival rather than satanic urges. Blondie is cool, calm, rational and controlled <U+0096> in many ways similar to Sentenza <U+0096> but whereas Sentenza tortures, maims, kills, and lies for the hell of it, even apparently enjoys it, Blondie simply goes about his business coolly, and shows several poignant hints of empathy, decency, and a sense of justice.GBU takes place during the Civil War and strips away the high-level political struggle of history books, leaving us with the soldier's vantage point of brutality, pointless death, and some individual decency. The politics are indecipherable from this vantage point. GBU hits this point home when our protagonists wind up in a prison camp because the oncoming gray cavalry uniforms turn out to be dust-covered blue. Later, they encounter an army fighting over a worthless bridge, suffering countless pointless deaths and casualties. Because Leone has so rigorously excised traditional off-the-shelf morality, the few instances of humanity are remarkably poignant. One such instance is when Blondie shares his coat and cigar with a dying soldier; another is when prisoners are forced <U+0096> by Sentenza's orders <U+0096> to play music to cover up the screams of the tortured. Sentenza apparently enjoyed the irony of beautiful sounds used for such ends; the musicians are, of course, pained by it.That was one of many extraordinarily striking scenes. The honesty of the moral context was what I liked best about the film, but I liked everything else too. Indeed the same primal, ruthless honesty that characterizes the character development pervades the film. The music is unlike anything I'd ever heard <U+0096> it's an audible version of the arid west and the tensions and lawlessness that characterize the film. Underlying the entire score is one instantly memorable theme starting off with what sounds like a screaming hyena. The story took place in New Mexico, and even though it was filmed in Spain, it really does look like New Mexico; and just as in life in the American west, the wide, breathtaking panorama tends to subordinates dialog. Indeed, it is several minutes into the film before even one word is spoken.The plot was extremely clever <U+0096> and never predictable. High level suspense is maintained for the full three hours. It was hard to imagine how it could unfold <U+0096> three uncompromising outlaws in search of one buried treasure; cooperation was not in their nature, but nothing was ever done out of character. Any Western cliché that you can think of is either given a unique twist or destroyed by masterful storytelling. For example there is an utterly irreverent scene in which Tuco meets his brother, a sincere Priest, and turns platitudes upside down. The brother begins with the standard rebuke of the criminal's behavior, but Tuco punches back and says, "Where we come from there were only two ways out. You lacked the courage to do what I've done." The movie is also irreverently funny: For example, Twice Tuco gained the upper hand on Blondie and said:"There are two kinds of spurs(?), my friend. Those that come in by the door, and (crosses himself) those that come in by the window.""There are two kinds of people in the world, my friend. Those who have a rope around their neck and those who have the job of cutting." Later Blondie gained the advantage of Tuco and observed: "You see in this world there's two kinds of people my friend - those with loaded guns, and those who dig. You dig." In addition to all these specific attributes, a unique and strikingly cool style infuses the entire film: long scenes of tense silences <U+0096> never for an instant boring; and telling, startling close-ups and transitions. Most noteworthy was the film's climax. As the protagonists stand there with their fingers on their holsters, waiting for the first person to go for their gun(s), the transitions start out slowly, and speed up as the tension increases. As I write this, I wish I had my own copy of the film, just so I could see this scene again.Not just a great western, but easily one of the best movies of *any* kind ever made.


                
This is without a doubt my all-time favorite western.The beginning of the film is so memorable, with the young, rough good-looks of Eastwood being labeled "The Good", the absolutely evil look of Lee Van Cleef being labeled "The Bad", and a dirty, unkempt, desperado Eli Wallach with booze and food flying being labeled "The Ugly".  The ending fight scene with its 3-way showdown is one of the most memorable pieces of film I have ever watched.Leone did a great job with the camera direction in this movie and the acting is impressive.  Eastwood, Van Cleef, and Wallach are absolutely fantastic.The only thing that might scare some viewers off is the length of the film. It is long, but you just don't seem to notice it when you are watching the film - you are just too damn busy watching the best classic western of all time.Do yourself a favor and rent this movie if you haven't seen it.  If there was ever a perfect western, this is it.
The whole picture is superb, but the closing twenty minutes or so are simply breathtaking. From when the dust clears after the bridge blows, the movie develops a momentum that doesn't let up until the very last shot.The dying soldier; Tuco being blasted from the horse and crashing into the gravestone; Tuco running round and round the graveyard (how was that shot?); the way the three protagonists come together; the shootout; Tuco and Blondie playing out their last confrontation; and then a final wail,the guitars come in one more time and Clint just rides hell for leather out across the desert.It's cliché to say "they don't make 'em like they used to" but not only don't "they", "they" wouldn't have a clue how to make a movie like this any more.
I'll keep this brief: This is simply one of the most entertaining and best looking westerns ever. Director Sergio Leone's unique use of the camera - long, uninterrupted shots in wide angle alternating with extreme close-ups - and Ennio Morricone's unique, wildly inventive soundtrack are blended to perfection. The career-making performances by Eli Wallach (hilarious), Lee Van Cleef (chilling) and Clint Eastwood (cool) are nothing short of iconic, and the film's finale is so good it will send shivers of cinematic joy down your spine. It's a movie of epic proportions; it's funny and violent, but underneath it all there is a strong anti-war message. It's a cinematic masterpiece and one of the most influential movies of all time. Oh, and it's also tons of fun, and you should see it on the biggest screen possible. 10 stars out of 10.Favorite films: IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-Known Masterpieces: imdb.com/list/ls070242495/


                
This film probably had the largest impact on my life. It set the tone for everything I then got interested in. American Civil War. Film Music. Clint Eastwood. Real Westerns. This is the best of the Dollars Trilogy and by far one of the best Westerns of all time. It has drama, comedy, cracking dialogue, some of the most brutal battle scenes - especially around the bridge - that I'd seen up to then, music to die for and set pieces that just ooze atmosphere and tension. I have never forgotten the end shoot-out. This was unique; 3 people?! You can't do that. But Leone did, and he did it brilliantly - all cameras and music. I have now seen this film too many times to count but I'll be back for another blast of buono, brutto, cattivo, someday. My son owes his name to this film. Yep, that there is Clinton.


                
...and though those last several words could also be attributed to Leone's "Once Upon a Time" films (West and America) as well as the other pieces in his trilogy of films with Clint Eastwood- Fistful of Dollars and For a Few More Dollars- arguably this is the most ambitious and spellbinding one of the bunch, and one that has inspired (i.e. Quentin Tarantino, Sam Raimi, Robert Rodriguez) and will most likely continue to inspire filmmakers and fans into the 21st century. There's something in The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly that's nearly (or perhaps is) mythical in it's craft, certain scenes come off as being more than relevant and exquisite for that scene/sequence- it transcends into aspects of humanity.For example, in the first part of the film (this is after the extraordinary introductions to Tuco, played by Eli Wallach, Sentenza or 'Angel Eyes', played by Lee Van Cleef, and as Blondie by a 35/36 year old Clint), Joe gets Tuco out of a hanging, which is something of a regular practice for them, but Joe decides to leave his 'buddy' out in the desert to walk the rest of the way back into town. A little later, the situation gets reversed, as Tuco has a horse and water and Joe doesn't, and they both go to cross the desert. Leone decides to not follow Tuco coming back to town as much as he follows in earnest Tuco and Joe going across that desert, as Joe starts to burn and dry up, going towards a story that will soon unfold. There is something to these scenes that I can barely describe, that they're executed in the mind-set of a Western, but in the abstract Leone lets the audience know this is a story that is bold and bigger than life.What makes much of the Good, the Bad, and the Ugly such a huge success is the trust Leone had in his own style he spun into his own after the first two westerns, his trust in his collaborators, and in his leading players as well. I, for one, had to mistakenly figure out that it is near depressing to watch this film on a regular VCR tape due to the pan & scan process. There is such a clear, distinct visual scope that Leone and camera director Tonino Delli Colli achieve that it's practically a must to get the DVD (preferably the extended version, which was Leone's original cut more or less). The editing, too, is unique in many sequences (the climax is the most noted and memorable). The score, with usual collaborator Ennio Morricone, is one of the landmark movie scores, and themes, of not just in the western genre but in all movie history. And the three main players who take on the screen have their own chops to show off: Eastwood, technically, was playing a Joe that took place before Fistful of Dollars, yet by this film had it down to a T (it's still my favorite performance from him, despite having few words and reactions); Cleef's cold, cunning Angel Eyes steals the scenes he's in; ditto for Wallach, who gets under the skin of his co-patriots as much as he sometimes does under the viewer's. If anyone really stays in the mind, at least for me, it's Wallach - especially as he gets the most 'character', and one of the very best scenes is between Tuco and his religious brother. Without that scene, the movie actually wouldn't work quite as well, surprisingly enough. Overall, The Good, the Bad and Ugly, is an entirely satisfying western, at least one of my five favorites ever made, and it's an endearing bravo to all who were involved.
On a partial first viewing, I didn't like "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly." I thought it was a slow, tedious story about a bunch of unpleasant jerk characters involved in a bog-standard conflict over money. It all seemed very macho and self-consciously cool, and it had obviously inspired all the overrated macho directors I don't like in my own generation - Tarantino, for example, and Robert Rodriguez. In short, I was unimpressed.Years later, I gave the film a second shot, watching it all the way through this time. I loved it. What had changed? For one thing, I took more notice of the technical side of the film. I paid attention to Leone's famous use of close-ups, his selection of memorable character actors, and his wonderful scene-setting. I admired the detailed sets and the sweeping landscapes, the props and the costumes and all those weird, wonderful faces that Leone clearly loved to photograph.I also got hooked by some of the quieter moments that I had skipped over in my first viewing. One of the most effective scenes involves Eli Wallach's character, Tuco, quarreling with his brother when they meet after they've been apart for years. Their argument is great, emotionally charged stuff, made all the more effective by the suggestion that they really do love and care about each other. It's the kind of sensitive, human scene you never get to see in a Tarantino or Rodriguez movie.Before I get too fuzzy-wuzzy, I should also like to point out that, on my second viewing, I LOVED all the action, too. Every gunfight is great, in its own way, and they're all a bit different. The greatest of them all is, of course, the final confrontation between the trio, which is accompanied by some of the most rousing music I've ever heard in a film. And hey, there's even a huge Civil War battle to provide a change of pace from all the small-scale action.Ultimately, "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly" is probably just a potboiler of a film, without too much to say about, for example, the human condition. But what a potboiler! It doesn't have to try to be cool - it simply IS cool. In fact, it probably defined heroic coolness for an entire generation. Eli Wallach's performance, Leone's direction and Morricone's music alone are enough to elevate it to classic status - and the fact that everything else in the movie is great, too, helps elevate it to the level of perhaps the greatest action film ever made.And to think, I missed all that the first time through...


                
Gosh, The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly, I finally saw this film! Who hasn't heard of it? First off, may I say that Clint Eastwood... what a hottie in his day! :D Sorry, had to get that off my chest. Sergio Leone from what I understood was a huge western film fanatic and in the 60's pretty much most folks had moved onto other genre's. I mean, I would agree that most western's are pretty much the same and stereotypical.Sergio however took a story and added some elements to it such as comedy, drama, and war. The story flows so well and just compliments all of it's characters. By far my favorite character was The Good, played by Clint. He is a bounty hunter who captures The Ugly numerous times just to free him before every hanging and splits the winnings with him. When they learn of a coffin in the desert that has $200,000, they go for it. Of course we have the Bad who is a ruthless killer who also wants in on the doe.The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly is a terrific film and I thank all the IMDb users for their useful comments and that pushed me to finally rent this western classic. Let's give it up for Sergio! 10/10


                
Ok- first, as mentioned in another review, the geographic/historical errors in this film are GLARING. You've got men carrying revolvers that look like old style cap-and-ball pistols, but they're loading them with metallic cartridges- historically about five years early. Eastwood carries a rifle that hasn't been invented yet, Tuco assembles a "superpistol" out of a Colt, a Remington, and a Smith and Wesson- impossible. And there was nothing of merit taking place between the North and South during the Civil War in the Southwest. Now, that aside, I must say that this is the Greatest western ever. I first saw this film when I was about ten. I'd never sat through an entire Western befor, even though my Dad watched them constantly. Since then, I've been through film school, watched hundreds of Westerns, learned to appreciate them- but NOTHING matches up to this. The Searchers, Stagecoach, Gunfight at the O.K. Corral, The Gunfighter, High Noon, Shane- all great films, but saddled with the standard American Western morality- the good guy never takes liberties with the eastern schoolmarm, the bad guy wears a black hat, etc. Coming from Italy, TG,TB &TU isn't bound by these conventions. Blondie's the "good guy"- but he's also a bounty hunter. He makes a living in a highly immoral way, but is obviously the "good"- not because we're told, but from small acts- giving the dying soldier a cigar, making sure the Captain knows to hold on till he hears the bridge blow, the genuine regret he feel for having to let Shorty die. And while Angel Eyes may be the Bad, we at least know he has prinicpals- when he's hired for a job, he always sees the job through. And Tuco may be more immoral than the other two, but he's so savvy and his role so humorous that one can't bring oneself to look upon him disfavorably. In other words, historical inaccuracies aside, TG, TB, & TU maybe one of the most accurate portrayals of the West ever put on film- there are no clear-cut lines of conduct, no black and white, or even grey, but just a swirled palette of various facets of the human condition.
Sergio Leone always wanted every picture he made to be, in every way, bigger than the one which preceded it. With the Good, the Bad and the Ugly he continued his upward trajectory and rounded off his dollars trilogy in style.This picture was Leone's most stylised and grandiose to date, and brought all the themes and styles he had been developing in his earliest films to perfection. Among the most notable was his characterisation, particularly his all-important introductions of characters. Look at the introductory scenes of the three leads. We first see Tuco bursting out of a window, obviously interrupted in the middle of a meal, and straight away we get his freeze-frame and the title "the ugly" <U+0096> this is a simple character, and needs no further introduction. Angeleyes appears out of the distance, but grows towards us until his face fills the screen. We see him commit two despicable acts of murder and treachery before we get his freeze-frame and title "the bad", telling us he is pure evil. Finally, in Blondie's first appearance he steps into the frame from behind the camera, as if he had always been there. He rescues Tuco, but only for his own profit. It's not until we have seen him betray and abandon Tuco that we get his freeze-frame and title "the good" <U+0096> obviously a fairly ironic label given the way he has just acted.Leone's trademark long drawn out face-offs <U+0096> exaggerated versions of the shootouts of John Ford westerns and the sword duels of Kurosawa's samurai films <U+0096> are also brought to a peak here. Not only are they now taken to absurd heights of stylisation, they are also spread out and adapted to cover the whole picture, until the point where even two men sitting opposite each other eating a meal and glancing suspiciously at one another is treated like another stand off. In fact, the entire film can be considered one long series of duels.We also see more of the importance Leone attaches to church and family. The Dollars trilogy could be thought to lack emotion, taking place as it does in a world where there are no morals and everyone is out for gold. However the Good, the Bad and the Ugly contains several moments of poignancy, perhaps the most prominent of which is when Tuco confronts his estranged priest brother.Religious iconography and references crops up time and again. Leone loved biblical epics almost as much as he loved westerns, and there is something of the feel of those pictures here in the overwhelming landscapes and eerie, choral music. On top of this the central trio can be read as an allegory for God, the Devil and humanity. This arguably presents rather a cynical view of the Catholic faith <U+0096> given the treacherous and chequered nature of the "good" <U+0096> but it could be argued to be a typically Italian one. In a country in which the church is so omnipresent and universally accepted, it's sometimes said that God is cursed as much as loved. Having said that, this was clearly never intended as the central theme <U+0096> Leone wasn't trying to make some grand statement here <U+0096> it's simply part of the mix of ideas going on in this picture.This brings me onto the war theme. Anti-war sentiments are not directly addressed in this picture, but the way the civil war is woven into the plot makes a powerful statement. For the first half hour we don't see that the war is going on. The central characters aren't concerned with the it <U+0096> they are only interested in hunting down the gold. However the war encroaches on the plot more and more often, until it moves from background to foreground and takes over the entire picture, culminating in a colossal battle scene. And of course the fact that the film ends in a huge military graveyard is also very significant.I've spent so long talking about the themes and ideas going on in this film I've nearly run out of space to talk about all the genius that has gone into making it so enjoyable. The dialogue is superb, often funny and plenty of it quotable. Technically Leone has perfected his art <U+0096> he composes a shot like John Ford, edits like Eisenstein, paces like Kurosawa, but all with a degree of his own originality. There is brilliant acting <U+0096> Eli Wallach steals it as Tuco, probably his best ever performance. It's funny how Lee Van Cleef was cast as a villain here. Van Cleef's early career mostly involved playing mean-looking gang members, but as Leone discovered when casting him as the hero in For a Few Dollars More, while his face said "bad guy" his voice and manner could be warm and likable. The good guy Van Cleef obviously proved more popular, as in the dozen or so other spaghetti westerns he made for other directors he was invariably cast as the hero.Just time for a final word on the recent (2003) restored edition. While it's great that several lost scenes have been added, I have to say that very few of them were entirely necessary. The only one of the added scenes I really like is the one in which Angeleyes visits the field hospital <U+0096> it keeps his story arc going, and also shows an act of compassion from the "bad" when he lets the soldier keep the bottle. However the new dubbing for these scenes, strange as it may seem considering today's technology, is mixed absolutely atrociously. On top of this, Clint Eastwood and Eli Wallach are now so elderly, they actually sound less convincing than the guy impersonating the late Lee Van Cleef. As a result the restored segments stick out like sore thumbs, and break up the flow of what is in every other way a perfect motion picture.


                
Rather than a review of a 30 year old movie, here is my recollection of a 30 year old movie. When was the first time you saw this movie? I remember the first time I saw this movie. Back in the '70s, one night there was 2 things on TV to choose from, this movie or a baseball game.  How do I remember a baseball game, it was the night Hank Aaron was going after Babe Ruth's homerun record. Baseball or a movie. Tuned into the the baseball game, flipped to the movie -a western, cool. 'Uh, what is this no one is talking it makes no sense'. After what seemed like an eternity somebody finally spoke, Lee van Cleef. The rest is Movie History. Since then I have seen this movie well over 25 times. Numerous lines that have been etched into my memory. Forget whatever minor flaws this movie has. Put yourself in the movie. Sergio Leon, John Ford these are the people that defined "The Western". On a scale of 1-10, The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly is nothing less than a 10. Plop the tape into the VCR, sit back and experience a classic.


                
One of the original Leone "Italian Westerns" that quickened the pulse of a young Quentin Tarantino.Sometimes I think I am living in a time warp. I watched all the Leone films in theatres in real time and was mesmerized, gob-smacked, and exhilarated. Now in the far future (2016) I watch QT do his knock-offs, and the young audiences (who have never seen the originals) think his are the originals, and everything else the knockoffs.(Reminds me of the Old King Cole nursery rhyme -- "pulled out a plum and said What a Good Boy Am I" -- another reference lost on those living the age of portable devices.) For those who actually care about the history of film: * Leone invented a brand new genre called the Italian western. His first, Fistful of Dollars, recycled a Japanese story (Yojimbo), recycled an American ex-pat whose Hollywood career was officially over (Eastwood) and introduced one of the greatest music composers of the modern film era, Ennio Morricone.* next came For a Few Dollars More, an original story, which locked into film history Leone's trademark use of closeups and sound editing, and brought out of mothballs Lee Van Cleef, one of the greatest "faces" in the history of the western. ("Angel Eyes" in this one.) * with two international hits under his belt, Leone aimed for the stars and created this movie which marks his legacy. While simultaneously continuing the tradition he started, and using the two stars from his second film, he gave Eli Wallach (an A-list star from the 1950s) the role of his career. Wait there is more. He set the story against the backdrop of the Civil War and manged to make the transitions seamless and brutally compelling. it is simultaneously a violent film and an anti-war film at the same time! (The only film of Leone's that may compete with this one is Once Upon a Time in America, also reviewed by this writer on the IMDb).By modern standards the film is overlong and, had it been produced in America (as was indeed the case with Upon a Time in America), the "suits" would have butchered it down to 100 minutes. Luckily for the rest of us, this was an international release, cut-proof, and survives very nicely to the present day in its original form.QT was a young lad when these films appeared but the impact is clear. He used Morricone's music in Kill Bill (his best film in my view) and in my view The Hateful Eight tries to emulate the power of Leone but falls somewhat short.For you youngsters out there, I recommend these films as some of the most entertaining efforts ever set to film, period. Imitated but not duplicated.Astonishing, mind-blowing, unforgettable.


                
Filmed in Spain by Italian filmmaker, this is the best Western ever made. With Hollywood actors but fittingly, not made in Hollywood, it was despised by the mainstream at the time, but also recognized for its genius and is the most famous part of the most famous Western trilogy. Building on a rich Italian storytelling and film making tradition, with unforgettable score, this movie has justly taken the place it now holds. If you have not seen it yet, do it. Equally subversive and authentic, this is just one master piece nobody should miss.


                
I must admit that I had some doubts prior to seeing this movie, considering its length and some people's comments that it is slow as molasses. Well, they were mostly right about that. GB & U is indeed a movie that does not always move very fast, and it does take a little getting used to. Yet if you manage to look past the slowness, this is easily one of the best movies ever made.This is one of those movies where nearly everything comes together in exactly the right way. First of all, there is a wonderful cast of characters. Clint Eastwood is at his best as the 'Good' (even though he's not strictly a good guy but more a bad guy with an honor code), Lee van Cleef is so truly evil that you'll long for his downfall with a passion, and Eli Wallach steals the show as the 'Ugly', turning him into a character that you'll root for even though he's quite clearly the least trustworthy character you'll ever meet.These wonderful characters engage in a quite complex plot full of twists and turns, as they are constantly trying to outwit and outshoot each other. There's quite a lot going on and in spite of the fact that the tone of the movie is actually fairly light (there is some truly good humor), it's actually a fairly good exploration of human nature and the lengths to which people will go to achieve their goals.And then, there's the music of course. Ennio Morricone has always composed some very distinct and recognizable tunes, which unfortunately were not always that great by themselves. The music here, however, is absolutely one of the most memorable scores ever.Of course, the cinematography is wonderful as well. The production values here seem to be a lot higher than in some previous Leone movies, and GB & U contains plenty of memorable shootouts that will truly keep you on the edge of your seat. At the same time, the gunmen here seem not nearly as invincible as in some other Leone movies, which greatly adds to the suspense.As I said before, nearly everything comes together in this movie. Sure, it might be a bit slow, but it's got a great story of good versus evil, told in an impressive and truly epic way, with memorable characters and shootouts everywhere. Highly recommended


                
This movie has style - in a very elemental way - so to speak. You get an idea of the deadly, dreary desert, the deadlier bounty hunters and the deadliest of 'em all - Clint Eastwood - the man with no name! The story is a simple one to follow and is brilliantly executed by Sergio Leone using just the right landscapes along with some pretty good sets too (like the one featuring the Civil War sequence). Some of the scenes were meant to be symbolic (especially the Civil War scenes) and they did their job well.Eli Wallach is simply superb with his "Blondieeee!!!" screams and curses. Lee Van Cleef seems as deadly as the great Eastwood himself as "The Bad" guy.Cinematography - not as continuous as one would like - but manages to convey the tension in the dueling scenes very effectively.Also, the music - Ennio Morricone at his best! He has dished out some very innovative and brilliant stuff for all the three "great" westerns and this along with "For a Few Dollars More" seems to be his best.Finally, the style! Sergio Leone can certainly teach a thing or two to Quentin Tarantino or The Wachowski Brothers - in fact Tarantino acknowledges Leone's great style. And then the epitome of style himself - Clint Eastwood - with a half-burnt cigar in his lips, unshaven face, tilted hat, ragged jeans, a worn out poncho and the sharpest scowl ever which can rub out any "Neo-with-million-dollar-goggles" off the face of the Earth.Not genre-defining, surely - it was invented by Hollywood. But somebody from Europe really showed the world how to make westerns.


                
There's not a lot to say about this one that hasn't been said. You have to enjoy the sweeping, desolate Spanish vistas. And, as it has been pointed out as a plot hole, it is an interesting technique that what ever is out of the frame, is unnoticed by the characters, such as Angel Eyes making it all the way to the Stanton grave without being noticed approaching (on horseback) over open land. I found it distracting the way many characters spoke in Spanish or Italian and were dubbed into English. I have always disliked dubbed movies and preferred subtitles, but this one was odd, with some characters speaking English, and some not. It must have made for interesting rehearsals and filming. I would have to agree with others that Eli Wallach largely stole the show. And does anyone know if Lee Van Cleef really was short part of his right middle finger, or did they splice in someone else's hand for that shootout scene?


                
The beautiful cinematography , the excellent music and great camera work make this a stylish masterpiece. With a volatile mix of myth and realism The Good The Bad And The Ugly is the best of the spaghetti westerns and the greatest western ever made.This is Clint Eastwood's 2nd best movie (the best is UNFORGIVEN) Elli Wallach was excellent as Tuco, he is the real star of the movie, he had the best lines . Lee Van Cleef plays the bad guy to perfection.Sergio Leone is at his very best here.And Ennio Morricone's music is outstanding like always. The man with no name will always be the best. Buy it and experience the spectacle and greatness of a western like no other.


                
... but i still want to jostle in with more than half of a thousand other reviews just to type: this is undoubtedly THE best Western movie ever and easily one of the best masterpieces of all time. Even the most noble adjectives preserved particularly for art praising found in Merriam- Webster are too mundane to captivate its greatness. Please watch this classic before you die.R.I.P Leone and thank you for blessing your fellow humans such a great gift.P.S: Eli Wallach + Lee Van Cleef + Clint Eastwood = the most bad-ass narrow- eyes gang in Hollywood.


                
Sergio Leone's 1966 Western The Good, the Bad and the Ugly unfolds under this hostile, violent and hate filled umbrella of Civil War America; a fitting backdrop of ongoing warfare and hostilities to which two American men and a Mexican bandit strive to find a large box full of valuable coins buried out in the big country somewhere behind Confederate Army lines. In using a plot item as routine as said example and applying it to a relatively routine singular strand arc for the film's narrative to take, Leone essentially breathes so much life into a set up and plot plan that about half way through you forget the basic bare bones of the movie and find yourself going with it, utterly immersed in the tale the director's laying out in front of you. So much has been written and said about the film, like other such examples at the top of each genre, that further comment and analysis may seem futile. The Good, the Bad and the Ugly may very well be the pinnacle to the western as Psycho might be to horror or Apocalypse Now to the war, for instance. If it isn't, or either of the said examples aren't, then there will still be a large cluster of individuals that would sternly argue otherwise.The film begins with a loud and confrontational title sequence, a brash and expansive manner in which to announce your film has arrived; the sort that sees a flashing of character faces and arrays of different colour, a sequence in which even the little animated horse gets the full force of a cannonball that's been fired off. It sets the tone for a no holds barred ride of guns; gunslingers and no nonsense people with no nonsense attitudes as observations of greed and that of both a mid and post-war crumbling society plays out. The film features some of the best direction I've ever seen; Leone's ability to shift gears and change the film's tact from one thing to another, as loyalties shift and events take a turn for the different is near-flawless. His ability to essentially construct a number of small, minute set-pieces amidst this wide-open and dusty, hostile setting is immaculate; but the change of tact he applies later on towards the end of the film in capturing a Civil War battle between the North and South is just as impressive; portraying a larger fight sequence as the inevitable showdown between the film's three main players draws nearer and that sense their showdown will be of a similarly epic proportion, despite it being just another gunfight and despite the fact all of those thus far have been between grossly outmatched participants.Leone is all for spectacle and action to propel the plot, but his ability to capture the little things; the terrain and just the sounds that it omits is wonderful. The introduction of Angel Eyes, aka The Bad (van Cleef), for instance sees a young boy flee into his house on first sight of him as he arrives; Angel Eyes' boots stomping on a stone floor whilst he approaches an elderly man sitting at a table as a dog barks outside, all of it a routine use of composition and SFX, but the drawn out editing process; the fact a kid ran for his life at first sight of him and the semiotical driven noise of a barking dog which suggests a rabid animal or ominousness build the scene and character without anyone ever explaining or saying anything.They call him The Bad because he shoots without mercy and takes without conscience, leaving a family in tatters and on another occasion beats a girl to a near pulp until she gives him what info he's looking for. The name Angel Eyes is wholly ironic. This makes Clint Eastwood's 'Good' (aka Blondie) and Wallach's 'Ugly' (aka Tuco) perhaps look more favourable than they actually are when it's revealed they're mostly in it together against this blackly dressed; father/husband murdering; woman slapping figure of evil. Tuco and Blondie's relationship is a strange one, a mutual appreciation of one another and the death they leave in their wake. Tuco would no sooner shoot Blondie, than hang him, than act like they're best friends. No longer is 'The Good' of a western limited to wearing the sheriff's badge and/or cleaning up towns of drunks and no-good varmints; as here, 'The Good' would much rather come across as upstanding; fleece a local sheriff of $2,000 and then make off with the cash against the guy he was initially in tow with.Tuco's raging attitudes are captured in a single shot that encompasses a sketching of Christ on the cross as he swigs alcohol whilst wearing an eye-patch, the film at a point where Tuco seems to be doing good in aiding an old friend but perhaps with a traitorous eye still on the prize as the patch acts as a visual distinction of the two sides of his face doubling up as his sinful and righteous attitudes, whereas he gives the Holy Trinity throughout. But THE scene that encapsulates his character is in a store early on during which, betrayed and foaming at the mouth for revenge, he fondles some handguns in front of an elderly clerk before angrily discarding them. He then fondles some more and asks for bullets, drawing you into the scene in an utterly effective manner and its threat element within as we wonder what he has in store for the clerk above all else. There's a solid hour of character involvement and some set-piece exchanges which work wonderfully well; and a later juxtaposition between diegetic musical content with an interrogation brought a smirk to my face when I realised whom it was that felt so inspired to pay homage to such a sequence. The film is engrossing, rich in detail on so many levels and an absolute outright winner of a piece.


                
