I have been a Clint Eastwood fan for years. But I have NEVER watched his Westerns. That's kind of idiotic isn't it?? Well suddenly I'm having an Eastwood movement and sinking myself into Westerns for the first time in my life and it only made sense that I start with what some critics and fans call "The Greatest Western ever made." In some respects I agree with that because it embodies everything that the Western is...even if you have never seen a Western you know the way they are supposed to go and The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly encompasses every aspect of the stereotypical Western. Also a film like this has to be judged by it's release time as well and for 1966, this film's violent and gritty story would have made heads explode and Eastwood's trademark Man with No Name made Eastwood the gosh darned coolest, slickest man in history. The story explodes into an epic 3 + hour (extended cut) film about three man of completely different personalities, backgrounds, and goals trying to find a hidden treasure by a Civil War soldier and stay alive while basically beating the living daylights out of each other. The film is gritty, bleak, and the three main characters are so watchable that each one could carry their own film.Clint Eastwood...how can you possibly say that name and then try to critique the man's acting. If you looked up the definition of masculine in the dictionary...there his picture would be...probably from this film. Eastwood's raspy voice, his "doesn't take any crap" attitude, and completely violent personality (in his characters of course) makes him the best gun fighter in ANY Western. He is the perfect leading man especially for a Western and he had to be THE GOOD in The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly. Eastwood is Eastwood and that is the highest compliment you can give. Lee Van Cleef embodies THE BAD, I mean the man has being a villain down to a science and although he doesn't share a whole lot of screen time with the stars he has his own brand of justice that makes him the perfect villain. In a lot of ways he is the polar opposite of Eastwood. He still has the raspy voice, and the cool demeanor and he has this killer instinct that makes him petrifying to see on screen. But all in all he doesn't get the majority of the story and there is a lot of back story to his character left unexplored. I would have loved to see a sequel or another story where he plays Angel Eyes because it would have great to see him back on screen in this role. And finally I save the best for last. I have found a new absolute favorite screen character in Tuco played by veteran actor Eli Wallach. Tuco is THE UGLY in every way shape and form. His drunken, sarcastic, and annoying personality makes him the real stand out performance in this film. In fact he seems to get the majority of the lines and the screen time as we watch his journey to try and get rich. And on top of that the tumultuous relationship between his off again, on again partner Eastwood's "Blondie" as named by Tuco. The two of them start as partners until Eastwood turns on him and leaves him which only makes Tuco seek revenge in a horrible way, one of the great scenes where Tuco forces Eastwood across the desert nearly killing him in the process. But you know that can only mean Eastwood will get the last word and he does. Tuco is amazing. He's hilarious, he's bumbling, but he has fantastic good luck when it comes to getting away and on top of it all despite his humorous character he's not easy to kill or a push over. He's blood thirsty, crafty and skilled as a gun man and a villain. The whole film must be watched for Wallach's Tuco alone.This is my first taste but not my last of Eastwood Westerns and Sergio Leone who apparently is the be all and end all of Action western directors. I have the first two installments of the Man With No Name trilogy fired up in the VCR and ready to go. The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly in many ways is not outstanding and yet it has this mysterious quality that just sucks you in and makes it an absolute classic. From the dusty streets of the Western town amidst the brooding Civil War and the front, this film encompasses everything. And you can't mention the film without pointing out that haunting Western theme which almost seems like it's used comically but perhaps that's because it has been used as such in the future. You can't ever start a love for Westerns without seeing this...I have no doubt. And it will permanently go down in my books as one of my favorite Westerns. I will say it didn't need to be as long as it was and perhaps more of a climatic ending would have been nice but it's a classic and you can barely pick it apart. Made on a million bucks and probably 100 times that made back. Just see it!! 8.5/10


                
Eight of Ten Stars. I was so enamored of this movie as a teen that my Northwestern University freshman dorm wall was papered with big B&W posters of mssrs. Eastwood, Wallach and Van Cleef in the Fall of 1968. I was quite the little existentialist then; "If it feels good, DO IT!" was the mantra of my high school Senior English teacher. Well, it felt good, and bad, and ugly. I ended up dropping out of Northwestern after Kent State and, taking the soundtrack of GBU (in my head) with me to Vietnam in 1971, I proceeded to get a real-world education in the old 'ultra-violence' as an infantryman in the AMERICAL Division... WHAT you may ask does this have to do with an American Civil War movie, directed and written by an Italian Communist? (Sergio Leone's daddy may have been more of a commie than Sergio was, but the fact is that "A Fistful of Dollars" was STOLEN from Kurosawa, while "The Magnificent Seven" was PURCHASED years before. The end justifies the means? Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery?) http://www.fistful-of-leone.com/classic/articles/prof.html I found out firsthand the moral ambiguities of war. If only I had paid attention to the subtext in GBU! If only I had studied the Matthew Henry battlefield dead tintypes as Leone so obviously had! His hideous, rotting carcases of Union and Confederate soldiers, bloating in direct sunlight, would have sufficiently revulsed me from any notion that I could 'play soldier' and survive! But here I am, having just barely survived.... and I just got out of the fabulous Fox Theater here in Atlanta where the restored GBU was projected in all its Technicolor/Technirama glory at fully loaded, screaming Morricone volume.... there must have been at least a thousand people there, and hardly anyone moved. INCREDIBLE. It is said that the movie was made to the tunes Morricone made prior to production's start; i.e. Leone played the music while shooting the scenes! Hence, these epics are giant music videos - fantasias - symphonic cinema- they are huge, elegiac tone poems! And, God help me, I still love this movie.


                
"Nostalgia is a product of dissatisfaction and rage. It is a settling of grievances between the present and the past. The more powerful the nostalgia, the closer you come to violence. War is the form nostalgia takes when men are hard-pressed to say something good about their country." – Don DeLillo "God's not on our side because he hates idiots also." - BlondieItalian iconography meets Akira Kurosawa meets Hollywood Westerns, Sergio Leone's "The Good, The Bad and The Ugly" marks the point at which cinema took its first big steps (if we ignore the works of Godard) into the arena of postmodernity. From here would spawn the likes of George Lucas's "Star Wars" and later Tarantino's "Kill Bill", each generation of Leone devotees increasingly flat and weightless.Leone's own work would become increasingly suffused with postmodernism's undertow of nostalgia and regret, films like "West" and "America" less about plot than they are a film nerd's feverish dreams, all the tropes of the gangster and the western genre fetishized and mourned, a series of melancholic referrals to Ford, Hawks, Boetticher, Anthony Mann, Raoul Walsh, George Stevens and the hard boiled literature of Chandler and Hammett (the first two "dollars" movies are essentially film noirs with horses). These films aren't about the passage of time, but the passage of cinema, a child's attempt to hold on to the images of his past. No surprise that Leone's cites John Ford's "The Man Who Shot Liberty Valence" as his favourite Western, as it's Ford's most melancholic and nostalgic film.Leone's films are thus primarily concerned about living with the image of "America", and never "being" American. His films revolve around a vision of America as an all pervading presence always seen from a distance, through the image. In this regard, many of his films rely on flashbacks and memory. Think the nostalgia, longing and melancholy of Colonel Mortimer in "For a Few Dollars More", of Harmonica and Cheyenne in "West", and the protagonists of "Dynamite" and "America", all of whom reflect Leone's own nostalgic feelings towards an America which he imagined, discovered, idealised, desired and naively longed for as a child (and latter as an artist). Paradoxically, however, Leone's nostalgia doesn't owe itself to distance from or homesickness for real things and places; his is a purely artistic, and so dangerous, nostalgia. What he misses are signifiers, artistic representations, and so the constant in Leone's films is therefore not subversion (that's Altman), like many claim, but rather infatuation; in the end, myths remains myths and at most they can be restated and updated, but not overturned.French philosopher Jean Baudrillard dubbed "The Good the Bad and The Ugly" the moment when modernism died and cinema began its crawl toward postmodernism. Baudrillard uses this term in a negative sense, speaking of a cultural obsession with "lost objects", referrals and went on to predict art's progression toward a kind of "weightlessness" (eg "Kill Bill") or reliance on resurrection and pastiche. While this is true for Leone's later films, "TGTBATU" belongs more to that sweet spot in world cinema (the late 60s and early 70s) in which iconoclasts like Antonioni, Altman, Peckinpah, Kubrick, Godard etc were thriving.And so while "TGTBATU" pulls from everywhere, both stylistically (the opening credits are modelled on the James Bond franchise, a series which Leone loved) and logistically (the film had financial backers in Germany, Spain and America, the cast were from all over the world and all spoke different languages etc), it's far more than a celluloid mash-up. It retains a certain weight typical of the 60s, more akin to the violent works of Siegel and Arthur Penn or the revisionist westerns of Altman, Peckinpah and late career Huston and Ford. Of course during this period you also had other extremely important but less known directors like Monte Hellman, Sydney Pollack, Robert Benton, Abraham Polonsky, George Hill, William Wiard, Elliot Silverstein and Ralph Nelson all making different kinds of interesting westerns ("Tom Horn", "A Man Called Horse", "Soldier Blue" etc).The point is, Leone didn't "shatter the myth" of the Old West. Everyone during this period was doing that. Everyone was working against traditional concepts of heroism and justice. No, what Leone did was re-mythologise the West using the iconoclastic techniques of 60s and 70s cinema. He dirtied things up and then put these larger than life men back up on pedestals.Of course what "TGTBATU" is really known for is its wonderful "comic book" style. Bob Dylan crossed from folk to electric in 1965, and here was Leone making the same transition, serving up a rock and roll Western with electric guitars. And so we have masterful widescreen Techniscope compositions, powerful juxtapositions between wide shots and extreme close ups, Ennio Morricone's innovative score, a cast of slimy, dirty heroes (the film's sloppy sound dubbing works in its grimy favour) and a tale that is flippant, ironic and playfully told.Though thin like a comicbook, the film also has a very primordial undertow, a certain weight, with its dreamlike terrain of bombed out ghost towns and a soundtrack which mimics rattlesnakes, coyotes and horses. Its plot may simply consists of sweaty scroungers navigating a landscape perpetually covered in war, death and suffering, but there's nevertheless something very "human", existential even, about the film. Leone distills human nature down to simple elements and then injects a tone of regret such that the film seems to mourn the very "archetypal humanity" it revels in. Seems to mourn the very greed, violence and death that orbits around and within its small cast of characters. According to Leone, there's a little bit of good, bad and ugliness in everybody. Every bastard in this film earns our sympathy, even if we know they'd be the first to stab us in the backs.9.5/10 – (TGTBATU) 8.5/10 – (FAFDM), 8/10 – (DYS, OUATIA, AFOD), 7.9/10 - (OUATITW)
The Good, The Bad, The Ugly (1966)A classic? Well, not so fast. Are we really okay with brutal (if brief) mistreatment of women, fast and senseless bloodshed, and lots of bad overdubbing of dialog?Maybe.Yes, this is a cinematic movie, and if you can overlook its flaws (some) you will be wowed and dazzled by its merits (very many).Overflowing with archetypes, filmed with huge widescreen effect, brimming with familiar scenes vividly re-imagined, this is a movie that is dramatic (or ironic) in softspoken (or cynical) ways. There are gunslinging shootouts, long lonesome treks across the desert, and showdowns between tough guys. Yup. And it's all built around a story that leads scene after scene to one big moment after another. There's no question this is a movie that is great fun to watch. In fact, for its visuals, the sheer cinematography and sets and editing, this is as good as it gets, amazing stuff. The man behind that was Tonino Delli Colli, the cinematographer for some other of director Sergio Leone's legendary movies beyond this one: Once Upon a Time in the West, and Once Upon a Time in America (and well as the astonishing Life is Beautiful.) But overall, for its content, its plot, its message (if that matters), is TGTBTU a great film, a masterpiece?Well, the movie is smart. It deliberately plays off of its genre, which had worn itself thin by the 1960s, so things push over the top in a campy, awesome, excessive way. It almost feels obliged to revisit and exaggerate all the themes of American Westerns, including the Civil War, including slapping women around and killing people in a flurry of fast six-shooter magic. Even the title makes clear this is about a stripped down, pumped up version of older classics. Whatever his aura over time, Clint Eastwood is no great actor, not in my book, and here he is easily out shined by Eli Wallach, who plays a less attractive type, and by Lee Van Cleef, who plays a more attractive one. But Eastwood isn't meant to be acting, not exactly. He has aura. He's stoic and inscrutable, exaggerated make-up and all, and he shoots a mean Colt, or Smith and Wesson, something classy and throbbing. He's a great archetype, in a movie that is about archetypes. It's not a "realistic" movie, of course, not at all, and it's actually a comedy at times, overall, and it's totally fun and never laughable.Go ahead, compare it to The Wild Bunch, and then to Butch Cassidy, both coming just after this one (and no doubt influenced by it). Both of these later movies have more impressive acting, and more intense intentions (both in brutal violence and in cinematic innovation). But all three have a similar effect, playing within a genre that has always, since the 1939 Stagecoach, been beautifully trapped by its limitations (that's part of its staying power for fans). The Searchers (1956) and High Noon (1952), for starters, are working within the genre, and gnawing at it, as if its something to feed off of. That's where The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly really shines. I have trouble with aspects of it, but I really like it in a bigger sense, looking the other way as needed. I switch to first person because I think it's a personal preference, and a lot of guys I know love the movie to pieces, and a couple women I know think it's either stupid or insulting or boring (actually boring!). It's an Italian production, which explains some of the out of sync dubbing. Sergio Leone obviously has an intuitive sense of what makes a movie moving, something sorely missed in a lot of productions since. It's gritty, dirty, and it pounds "profound" hard in a male kind of "toughness prevails" way. Sorry guys, but bite that bullet. Oh, and the soundtrack? Amazing, perfect, and rising above the movie, which is great in its own way, I admit.


                
The Good, the Bad and the Ugly Hey, Blond! You know what you are? Just the greatest son-of-a-b-! Sergio Leone was a director of boundless vision and ambition, a man with no little ideas. Everything you see is big, and ambitious. In a film that runs about 180 minutes... One could argue that Leone tells the story more with pictures than in words.Thus is The Good, the Bad and the Ugly. A story of three men who are all after the same fortune of Civil War gold. In fact, the secret of its location is spread out among them (one knows the cemetery but not the grave, and the other knows the name but not the cemetery). The men involved are Clint Eastwood ( The Good), Lee Van Cleef ( the Bad) and Eli Wallach ( the Ugly). Each man knows that they will remain alive until the grave is found.....but just as it always is- it is more than likely that each of them will try to kill the others for the gold.They are also men who really never need to explain anything, their eyes and actions could simply be deemed more important than their words. ( The obsession in Van Cleef's eyes) Though, Eastwood's character. Blondie. ( The Man With No Name) says very little, Eli Wallach's: Tuco never stops.In fact, some of the best dialgue from the film is of Wallach's 'speeches' about the differences between people. 'You can be one thing or you can be another.' He compares himself to Blondie, and to his own brother, who became a priest. However...... Blondie has the last word! Though there is no shortage of ideas in the film, there is also a film within a film. Thus, a grand Civil War sequence. One of the best scenes from the film is a scene in which a Union Army Captain ( Aldo Giuffre) explains the war to the best of his ability. The commander who has the most booze to get his troops drunk before the battle is the one who wins. However, probably my favorite scene from the film was the haunting runaway wagon scene. That cemetery scene with Wallach stumbling around is also a highlight.
One of the best westerns ever made. My personal opinion is that it lacks the drama of 'once upon a time in the west', which makes 'the good' second best to me. 'the good' has more humor, action and plot twists in it, but less scenes that make me shiver (except from the final shootout, which tremendously builds suspense). This is surely a 'must'.'There are two kinds of people...'


                
This is a long movie, and it seems short; that makes it a good film. Funny and at times unbelievable, the movies strong point is its satire of the west.  It is a good story, and well acted.  The film is more of a art forum than your traditional western.  One point the director portrays in this film, is how gritty the west was, and how cruel the world is when the wicked play on their terms.  Worth seeing.


                
One of the greatest movies ever made...It's long but it's good ! The actors are awesome, the story's great but the shooting is really incredible ! The final scene is breathtaking and there's quotes everywhere ! Sergio Leone at the top ! And Eastwood too. The music by Morricone is one of the best soundtrack ever (the main theme is one of the greatest music ever made). It's a must-have film. A classic. You just have to see it. It's a thing to do when we love movies. And the note is... 9 out of 10 (not 10 because it's a little bit too long). Buy the DVD, buy the Blu-Ray, buy the VHS, laser disc, buy all ! The climax of spaghetti western. The best trilogy ever made with The Godfather and Back To The Future.


                
The Good, The Bad, and the Ugly is the most ambitious of all the "Dollar" films.  The backdrop of the Civil War aids in this epic that involves three characters, all out to find a stash of Confederate gold.  Leone piles up the images, outdoing himself each time.  Morricone's score is one of the most memorable scores ever written.  The final shootout in the dry lake bed is filled with tension that is so thick you nearly fall off of your seat anticipating the outcome.  A great film, that will only get better with age.


                
I'm no western buff. Heck, I haven't even seen a John Wayne movie through to the end. But if I can imagine a western, it should be like The Good, The Bad, And The Ugly. This movie (yes, it's a plain, down to earth, good old-fashioned MOVIE), was histerically funny at times. It was sharp and witty at other times. And it was even sad at some points. But overall, it was fun to watch, which is a lot more than could be said for most of today's "entertainment". Whether it's historically accurate, I don't know. And I don't care. It was just too much fun to worry about anything else! Hee-haw!


                
Three bad guys <U+0096> the chaser of rewards Joe (Clint Eastwood), the outlaw Tuco (Eli Wallach) and the very bad assassin Angel Eyes <U+0096> become aware of a fortune of US$ 200,000.00 in golden coins, hidden in a cemetery. Only Joe knows the name of the grave, therefore there is a great dispute between the two gunmen, but always keeping Joe alive. This is a really classic western movie. This movie has never been released on VHS in Brazil, and only now the distributor Fox do Brasil' released on DVD format. I am a great fan of Sergio Leone, and the first DVD I bought for my collection was 'Once Upon the Time in America'. 'The Good, the Bad and the Ugly' is great in all aspects: the story is very funny, the actors have great performances, and the soundtrack from Enio Morricone is unforgettable: it is certainly one of the most beautiful and known in the cinema history. This movie is really a great entertainment. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil): "Três Homens em Conflito" ("Three Men in Conflict")


                
Sergio Leone's "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly" is perhaps the finest 'spaghetti western' ever committed to film. It was the final entry in Leone's 'Dollars' trilogy, which made a star out of Clint Eastwood. Here, Eastwood ('the Good') and his partner in crime, Eli Wallach ('the Ugly'), have to work together in order to locate a fortune in buried gold while Lee Van Cleef ('the Bad') hopes to get in on the action too.This trio of American actors leads the pack on the acting front, though it is perhaps unfair to compare them to the Italian actors whose lines were dubbed. To me, the dubbing (while it is typically pretty good) is the film's biggest flaw.Leone's direction, on the other hand, is top-notch from beginning to end. His signature style, mixing extreme close-ups and wide shots, is in evidence throughout. Also worthy of note is the iconic score by Ennio Morricone.The story itself is an entertaining one. Even though the film clocks in at nearly three hours and Leone really takes his time with some scenes the film doesn't drag at all. The plot does venture into seriousness occasionally but mostly it's just an engaging yarn about three rogues pursuing a fortune in gold.The film is currently ranked at #4 in IMDb's list of the top 250 films of all time. While I wouldn't rank it that high I do think that it deserves a spot somewhere in the list. It is undoubtedly a must-see film, especially for guys.


                
It's surprising how your memory can play tricks on you. Having watched many westerns in my childhood i could have sworn that i had seen The Good , The Bad and the Ugly . Surely everyone of a certain age has? Well as it turns out i probably hadn't , or if i had i remember nothing of it. This is the final film of the Sergio Leone " "Dollars" or " man with no name" trilogy of which i have been watching recently and although this is the most famous of the three ' for me it's not quite the best . Blondie (The Good) and Tuco (The Ugly) are con artists, trying to steal as much money as possible during the Civil War. Angel Eyes (The Bad) is trying to locate a bank robber going by the name of Bill Carson, in order to collect his stolen gold. After a few scams, Blondie cheats Tuco by keeping his share and leaving him in the dust.Tuco eventually finds Blondie and drags him off into the desert, torturing him in revenge. Then they run into Bill Carson, who tells Tuco the location of a graveyard where his stolen gold is buried. As Tuco looks for water to keep Carson alive long enough to help more, Carson tells Blondie which gravestone marks the buried gold, and dies before he can say more. Angel Eyes soon figures out that they know, and all three want a 50% share of the gold, but only two of them will get it.The amazing thing about this superb trilogy is that they all were made within three years. Each movie having it's budget increased. A fistful of dollars - 200K . A few Dollars more - 600K and finally the good , The bad and the ugly 1.1m. In the latter it really shows that leone had a lot more money to spend. Lavish sets , a huge amount of personnel and no doubt an increased salary for the ever popular Clint Eastwood and Lee Van cleef but as any movie fan will tell you an increased budget does not always make a better film .I have no doubt which is my favourite of the trilogy and that is " A few dollars More" . It is the perfect western. This film is not, simply because it's trying to do too much. It's an hour too long and the plot drifts off in different directions. Sure it has all the superb hallmarks of a Sergio Leone western. It looks amazing , it has a wonderful soundtrack and it finishes with typical tense showdown but it's the bits inbetween namely the civil war scenes that distract from what should have been an amazing western. Angel eyes , the lee van Cleef's character is not engaging enough and i would have loved to have seen him return as Col. Douglas Mortimer who we saw in the previous film instead we get a character who is given third billing behind Blondie and Tuco. In fact the best character is Tuco ' who is played by Eli Wallach and he gets the vast majority of the screen time.This lacks the brutality of the previous films and maybe that is because Sergio Leone was going for that wider audience. 8 out of 10


                
The Good, the Bad, and the ugly was a joy to watch from start to finish. From its acting to its beautiful cinematography, this is a must watch for anyone who is a lover of Western film. The story itself is interesting. Three men after a bunch of gold is a very simple set up, but as the story progresses it gets deeper than that. My only issues were the voiceovers and some of the scenes that seemed to drag out, but other than that The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly is indeed one classic film. 8/10


                
Director Sergio Leone allows his big budget to dictate to him here. Filmed on a smaller scale and shorne of its irrelevant episodes, this movie most likely would have emerged as a compulsively fascinating and admirably taut western of classic simplicity. As if to compensate for all the film's irrelevancies, Leone often adopts a style of filming in extreme close-ups, but he tends to draw these scenes out too long to sustain suspense. Still, thanks to superb photography by Delli Colli, music by Morricone and an inspired performance by Eli Wallach – added to a plot that is basically interesting – it would have been difficult to go too far wrong.
This takes place during the American Civil War (but was shot in Spain). Three men (Clint Eastwood, Eli Wallach and Lee Van Cleef) form an uneasy alliance. They don't trust each other and all hate each other but they all want $200,000 hidden away in a cemetery. The first hour is introducing the three characters--the remaining two hours deal with their journey.This has been called an epic and operatic western. I agree! It's beautifully directed by Sergio Leone. He knew how to frame shots and use the wide screen perfectly. Most of the film is told by images not dialogue. Heck there's no dialogue for the first 10 minutes! There's plenty of shoot outs and action. The acting is OK. Eastwood was never a great actor but he's OK here. Wallach gets annoying but that's his character. Van Cleef is just so-so but has little screen time.There's one big problem here--the length. There is no reason for this to go on for three hours. Scenes ramble on inconclusively quite a bit. There's also a long battle scene and talk with a drunken captain that add nothing to the main storyline. The battle scene is impressively done but it's not needed. Still it's an epic and should be seen at least once. Recommended.


                
So I have seen my first classic Western finally. This is a genre I tried my best to avoid. I am more into thrillers. But this one was special.The plot is interesting in itself. 3 men are determined to get to the cash box that was buried under the ground in a certain place(trying my best not to reveal the plot here!). The excitement is in watching the many twists unfold. The characters are known as Blondie, Tuco and Angel eyes. The real names of the characters are not revealed here. We come to know a little more about Tuco in the course of the movie. It could be said that Tuco is the central character in this movie as he appears in most of the movie. The plot moves throughout America and they go in search of the cash box even to war torn areas. The story is set in the late 1800's during the civil war. So the movie also effectively works as an anti-war movie as well.The most impressive thing about this movie is the great music by the legend Ennio Morricone. This might be the best ever music I have ever heard in movies. Maybe that's an exaggeration but surely this is one of the best. The music in the scene where Tuco searches frantically for the cash box is filmed brilliantly and the music builds into a crescendo at the end of the scene. Another aspect that impressed me is the beautiful cinematography in certain scenes of the movie. The long shots showing the beauty of the place are absolutely breathtaking. The war scenes are shot well and I was surprised to hear about the budget. With this budget I was surprised to see the advanced effects and the meticulous depiction of the war.I also came to understand a few things about a part of history I didn't know - the American Civil war. The bridge destruction scene is also another one I totally loved. The closeups of the character's faces is also another feature that I liked specifically about the movie - especially when they are actors with such great screen presence such as Clint Eastwood and Eli Wallach. I have never thought of Clint Eastwood as particularly good looking or talented. But this movie proved me wrong. His performance as the calm bounty hunter with a sense of humour enhanced his image considerably in my eyes. His quiet sexiness is something I have never seen in other movies of his(Maybe I am biased because I saw only his newer movies). Lee Van Cleef is notable for his portrayal of the villain. Eli Wallach's portrayal of the crooked and funny Tuco is IMO one of the best characters in movies ever. His line "When you want to shoot, shoot, don't talk" has become one of my favourite quotes as well.Finally this movie has encouraged me to seek out more "Sphagetti Westerns" and regular classic Westerns as well. The movie is quite a classic and is highly recommended for all movie fans because it is more of an exciting adventure movie with beautiful camera-work than a Western.10/10


                
A great many people of our current iPod generation have missed out on some of the most brilliant, daring and artistic endeavours in film during the sixties and seventies. That was a period when film still held onto its artistic impulse, when the modern day blockbuster, complete with stunning visual effects, mind-bogglingly fast action sequences, and miraculously thin story lines and characterisations was still in its infancy. Over time, as some nostalgic folk of the 'then' would say, 'the world has become too fast, and kids today don't give a damn about deeper stuff'. Indeed it has; through the development of film over the decades, we see - at least a glimpse of - this seemingly reductive summarisation of the vast social and cultural changes in the world. The legendary final scene of this film, where the three principal characters face, is roughly about five minutes long, from the time they implicitly agree to this 'solution' to the first 'bang' of Eastwood's pistol. In these five minutes, Leone uses music and recurring shots of the men to create the tension, engineering a sense of finality and fatality in the situation that could quite possibly take all their lives. At that critical moment, greater importance is given to this all-encompassing tension, where the entire film's plot and the journey must culminate in a decisive end, than to the eventual outcome, which would be revealed in all eventuality. As audience, Leone wants us to participate in this tension, to completely transport ourselves into the simmering, immoral West, and feel the presence of death as the characters do, and therefore to achieve a cinematic orgasm that involves both the intellectual and visceral, in turn immortalising it. This painstaking attention to detail, the need to go beyond the bare plot and action, and the urge to create a cinematic environment that transcends, is something that we see too little of today. Indeed, we are privy to this intellectual desire from the very start. The first shot in the film, of the brusque, brutally masculine face of a minor character (who returns later) that somehow eerily seems directly born out of the harshness of the desert is wonderful example of heightened realism that epitomised films of that time. We can almost smell and feel the sweat on the man's face; we can delve into his eyes, into his soul, and through it, witness the moral degradation that Leone wants us to observe. This film could easily have been given a title, with something to the effect of earning some 'dollars', as are the other two in the trilogy, but Leone decides to punctuate it with an exposition on morality with the title he gives it. As any discerning viewer would infer, it is dichotomous to the nature of the pertinent characters. All three are 'ugly', and Leone tries of remind us with his concluding piece that morality is a vague, invariably overlapping concept that is too often oversimplified. Using the west as a setting, we realise that people are too complex, too evil to start with, and any attempt to glorify one is to shun this gruesome reality. This perfectly explains the unique collection of faces in the film, with are all polished with the desert's sweat that makes them impenetrable to scrutiny of any kind. The three adjectives that form the title function almost completely on one side of the moral boundary. And yet, no one can call the film entirely immoral or fatalistic, for we witness traces of humanity in the most absurd of circumstances. Blondie offering a cigar to a dying soldier and providing him warmth is once example of this. Understanding this moral equation, we can then justify the labels given to the three protagonists. Unlike the other two, Blondie keeps his sadistic impulses to a minimum. Also, he tellingly suggests the method of resolution to decide the recipient of the money which leads to the final confrontation scene. Most notably though, he underlines his seeming sense of fairness by taking his rightful share of the money, albeit making it impossible for Tuco to collect his. Unlike him, Angel Eyes shows no pretence of such selflessness, and is perfectly willing to brutalise Tuco (another chilling scene) to get the secret out of him. However, even he believes in simply completing his job, and would not resort to perfidy that Tuco is culpable of, making him the 'ugly' version of humanity. As we see, all three differ from one another only in degree, unlike the ironic suggestion of the title.Overall, this is a complete auteur's film, where Leone underscores memorable action sequences with great atmospheric detail and an underlying message that is so finely sewed beneath the more palpable layers that most of us tend to overlook it completely. This may not be the pinnacle of artistic cinema of 'that' time, but it reflects the sophistication a film can manifest beneath the superficial layers. Its slowly unraveling scenes and attention to detail is reminder to all of us to stop, and sometimes look at life with a keener eye, instead of being constantly pre-occupied with our daily, routine existence.


                
By a fair margin, the greatest out of the spaghetti western films, The Good, The Bad and The Ugly is a cinematic triumph that will always be remembered most of all for the legendary score and stand off scene. What surprised me most of all was that a long film with quite a slow pace to it actually appeared to move quite quickly; this is thanks to Leone's superior direction and the frequent change of locations within the film. Clint Eastwood's iconic status was firmly established in this film as a bad ass desperado with compulsory cigar attached, Blondie makes Dirty Harry appear meagre in comparison! Whilst the characterisation provided by the supporting cast was over the top to an almost comic book standard, their performances and characters were still memorable and enjoyable as they provided a stark contrast to Eastwood's quiet loner.Where a lot of westerns fall short is the plot, they tend to become a victim of style over substance but this film is an exception as it provides us with a fairly intricate plot. The way Tuco's (Wallach) murderous intentions regarding Blondie are quashed by the fact that Blondie knows the secret of the treasure, leading to Tuco fighting to keep him alive rather than kill him, is very commendable. The tie in with the American civil war is very enjoyable and provides some further tension and heightens the predicament that the main characters are in, especially considering Angle Eyes (Cleef) is a high rank in the Unionist regiment that Eastwood and Wallach have infiltrated. The tension is built up fairly well, even though it requires patience. The final stand off, for instance, takes a matter of minutes for the main characters to get in their positions with the camera ranging from extreme close ups to the characters' eyes to shots that appear to be a mile away. Whilst this sounds potentially frustrating, it induces overwhelming anticipation and once again, the music comes in to play, setting up a true piece of cinematic history.Whilst there are no award winning performances on show, the leads are very good. Eastwood played greatly on his tough guy image and manages to tell us a lot about the character despite not saying much. Eastwood illustrates fantastically, a character devoid of trust and sentiment but also a character of great honour. It is plain to see that Blondie is world weary and he knows that it's kill or be killed. Eli Wallach is very good, probably the best performance in the film. His animated performance brings his character to life as a thoroughly dislikeable loudmouth who is too stupid to avoid trouble but greedy enough not to let his desire to kill Blondie stopping him get the treasure. Lee Van Cleef is even more dislikeable because where Wallach's Tuco is untrustworthy, Cleef's Angel Eyes is brutally honest with ruthlessness to match. The interrogation scenes in the Union camp really highlight this nature and makes sure that the audience knows he means business. The best thing about these characters is that they all flawed, it's not all black and white. Even Eastwood's 'The Good' is not all that good.Laced with brilliant set pieces and memorable performances, The Good, The Bad and The Ugly is very memorable and definitely a classic. Watching Wallach hunt Eastwood with his cigar stubs proves the film had a sense of humour but that didn't take away the fact that the film depicts a life of brutality where not even women and children are safe when they stand between power hungry men and their goal. Effective story telling mixed with macabre imagery assures this films place in cinema history and possibly even the title of the best western ever made.


                
THE GOOD, THE BAD AND THE UGLY is the final and finest of director Sergio Leone's 'dollar' trilogy. The good: Joe(Clint Eastwood). The bad: Sentenza or Angel Eyes(Lee Van Cleef). The ugly: Tuco(Eli Wallach). Joe, also known as Blondie, is a shiftless gunman with a touch of honor. Angel Eyes, is a hit-man who always gets his assignment done...usually in a sadistic manner. Tuco is a Mexican bandito always looking out for his own interest...without a conscience. These three are looking for Confederate gold worth $200,000. The cache is buried in a nameless grave...but who will be the first to get his hands on it? The finale proves borderline hypnotic as Tuco pathetically runs in circles through the graveyard looking for the hidden treasure. This surely ranks with the best westerns of all time. Other cast members: Claudio Scarchilli, Benito Stefanelli, Livio Lerenzon and Aldo Giuffre. Ennio Morricone's wonderful score will echo in your mind long after the final credits roll.
Until I saw The Good, the Bad and the Ugly, I didn't know what the `big deal' was about spaghetti westerns, Sergio Leone or Clint Eastwood for that matter.  After seeing this film, the proverbial `light bulb' came up over my head, and I understand the iconic imagery attributed to the genre, the director and the actor.In terms of plot, it's quite simple <U+0096> stay alive and be the first to get the gold.  What turns probably an hour's worth of plot into three hours of film are the atmospheric touches <U+0096> the vast expanse of the `frontier', and the many, MANY extended scenes of men looking at one another over and over again.  I don't say this as a criticism of Leone, rather it is quite a compliment.  To be entertained for three hours by a western is amazing, and I was entertained in spades.  I loved seeing actors that I have long associated with different kinds of roles in this film <U+0096> I know Lee Van Cleef as a B-movie guy from the fifties, later the Kung Fu guy, and Eli Wallach has always been Don Altobello for me.  I loved a lot of the stylistic elements, such as the freeze frame with the nicknames appearing next to the character, the extreme close-ups, and the fantastic music. 
I thoroughly enjoyed this film and am really glad I finally got a chance to see it.  The Good, the Bad and the Ugly makes me want to explore the other spaghetti westerns of the era.  Its reputation was very warranted.--Shelly


                
First, if you are not a Clint Eastwood fan, then why are you still breathing? Second, if you are really a true fan, then what is a Smith & Wesson Model 29? Now that I got all that out of the way, I thoroughly enjoyed, "The Good, The Bad and The Ugly." Was this the consummate 'spaghetti western?' Hell – I don't know, and I really don't give a rat's rear. There were so many of these flicks made and they all had some sort of redeeming quality (usually lots of gun-play.) This movie is the last of the "Dollars Trilogy", directed by Sergio Leone (at least that is what "Wikipedia" is telling me). I really can't remember what the movie was about - I just know I enjoyed it. Oh I guess I should try and remember what the plot of this film actually was. Hmmmm, let me see, I think the story was about bad guys shooting at the good guys, good guys shooting at the bad guys<U+0085>BUT no one ever shot at Clint. If you did, he would chew on his cigar a little, and then blow you away. Mr. Eastwood could hit anything with his six-gun. Six-gun? What a misnomer – he never had to reload. He always shot the straightest and fastest. No one stood a chance. And that is about it. That is pretty much the plot and the story of, "The Good, The Bad and The Ugly." You know what - I actually spoiled it for every spaghetti western starring Clint. They were all very similar. They are all fun to watch and well worth a second and third look as well.
The plot is snail-paced if you consider watching it in now (2013) mostly because, many sequences have huge potential to bore the hell out of you at a time of fast-paced action-thrillers.Now the discrepancies are mentioned, the epic western movie does strike multiple chords throughout its 3 hour time-line. The amazing climax, the gun-slinging shots, the surprise action moves & of course, human nature theme are portrayed with such brilliance that you wonder how much effort went behind them. The soundtrack is one more melodious thing about it.Cast performance is fantastic & Sergio Leone's direction works wonders with the genuine locations. The story is fresh & entertains fine. A humble 7.5 out of 10 for the wonderful & most probably the best western to come out of 20th century; that 21st century stands out.BOTTOM LINE: Recommended for people who love westerns. Others may get bored.Can be watched with a typical Indian family? YESProfanity/Nudity: Mild | Sex/Foreplay: No | Violence: Strong | Gore: Mediocre | Smoking/Drugs: Very Strong | Alcohol: Mild | Porn: No


                
This film is undoubtedly powerful.It is also -- right from the beginning -- almost relentless in its dark fascination for ugliness, cruelty and violence; I spent most of the three-hour running time both metaphorically and physically tensed for the next atrocity, as the camera lingered lovingly across every scar, sweat-stain and ploughed bullet-wound. Not so much a case of pornography of violence as pornography of sadism: there is violence aplenty, both of the movie stereotype kind where every shot is an instant kill, and of brutal bloody beatings, but the real mark of this film lies in the long-drawn-out sequences of anticipation, as a man is told how he will die and then the process prolonged to attain the full pleasures of revenge. Having experienced at least three vicarious hangings and two deaths by thirst, not to mention a starvation diet and several stalkings-with-guns, with nerves jumping at every minute, I was as wrung out by the end of the picture as if it had been an explicit horror movie -- save that horror movies generally end in catharsis of some kind, the victory of good over evil, the exposure of sanity onto our darkest fears. Leone's film is not just 'morally ambiguous' but morally absent; in this world, everything is filthy, corrupt or brutalised, from the idealistic commandant dying of gangrene to the eager anticipation of the townsfolk at the hanging. It's pretty hard to watch. If asked to date this film offhand I'd have put it in the 1970s, for it shares much of the nihilism of the critical favourites of that decade.I've rated it as high as I have because it is both effective at what it does and memorable; it also has a strain of occasional mordant humour, skilfully deployed to relieve otherwise unrelenting degradation. But I've watched the film twice now and have no desire ever to see it again. (And I *cannot* help getting inappropriate flashes of Keaton's "The General" during the Civil-War-battle-at-bridge scene...)
I guess I find myself somewhat in the middle on this film, I enjoyed it to a point, but I don't get the sense that this is one of the greatest Westerns ever, and the Western is my favorite movie genre. I much prefer a good psychological Western between complex antagonists, Eastwood's own "Unforgiven" would be an example. This was more a straightforward tale of three desperadoes consumed by greed who attempt to outwit each other on the trail to an unknown grave containing two hundred thousand dollars in gold coin. Each though, earns their respective title credit in the story, even if Eastwood's Blondie might be the 'good' simply based on his classically rugged features.More on the plus side, it was really cool to hear the title theme music expressed in a handful of different ways throughout the story. The picture also captured the gritty realism of what the 1860's wild west was probably a lot like. You know, the more films I see of cowboys out in the desert days at a time with no access to soap and water, I start to wonder if they'll ever produce a picture that captures the fresh aroma of that experience. It's one thing to hear Tuco accused of smelling like a pig, but to actually get the full flavor of that would really be something. Then again, theater goers would never make it to the end of the picture - oh well for that idea.As for the film's length, I too side with those that feel it took a long time to get from Point A to Point B. I'm really wondering if it was necessary to bring in the Civil War battle for that bridge, but it did give rise to perhaps the most meaningful scene in the picture for me. Watching Blondie try to ease the soldier's death with his coat and a smoke was a masterful touch.You know, I could probably go so far as to put this film in the top twenty Westerns of all time, but it's position at #4 in the IMDb top rankings of ALL pictures is just too much of a stretch. That's probably the reason I find myself going to that page less and less, and watching movies of all types more and more.
