Sergio Leone's film follows the adventures of 3 ruthless outlaws...The 'Good' is Eastwood's unchanging and unshaven 'Stranger With No Name.' An unprincipled killer who stands only for his 45... He is quiet, inexpressive and cool, only seen once with a brief moment of humanity where his classic disinterest contrasts with the real tragedy of the American Civil War...The 'Bad' is an excellent supporting actor, a Western figure... With his long, thin opening eyes, deathly pale face and cruel voice, Lee Van Cleef is the merciless bounty hunter, ironically called 'Angel Eyes,' always ready to kill for a price...The 'Ugly' is Eli Wallach, a wild spirit with devil attitude... Tuco is charming but extremely dangerous...The pairing of Eastwood and Wallach is memorable for its black humor alternating each other's fate, motivated satisfactorily by their excessive desire for collecting the reward money... The quest: a treasure chest containing $200,000 in gold buried in a Confederate grave in Sad Hill Cemetery..."The Good, the Bad and the Ugly" had many haunting moments: Complicated bounty-hunter's con-games; the Stranger, in a frantic hurry, trying to load his empty gun before 3 killers sent by Tuco; a torturous walk across the desert in a blazing sun; the epic battle between Union and Confederate soldiers for the control of a strategic bridge where Leone's camera takes a slow ride surveying the magnitude of the Civil War carnage; and the final showdown in a huge graveyard, where each character, naturally, wants the money all to himself...The amusing scenes are provided by Tuco, sitting in bathtub with a lot of foam and one armed man enters his room saying: "I've been looking for you for 8 months... Now I find you in exactly the position that suits me..."The memorable scenes are when the Stranger finds himself in a dangerous situation at the hand of Tuco, who is just about to collect his vengeance by hanging his former partner... The stunning scenes when Leone's camera captures the touching moment in which a young man plays sweet romantic songs on his harmonica, while his eyes are streaming tears of disgrace and grief...The unforgettable scenes when the 'Stranger' leaving Tuco with a rope around his neck and the bandit begs for mercy while teetering on a wooden cross...The ultimate confrontation between the forces of good and evil when Leone spreads out long shots adjusting sound with action... Tensions mounts as the three protagonists 'shape in a triangular cinema cliché' Leone gets the audience's imagination with a geometric fight to the death, accompanied by a clear exciting music... Leone's camera captures every straight lines, every nervous energy, every tactical movement, displaying, in huge close-ups, their faces, their power of vision, the slowly progress of their fingers toward their loaded guns, their worried eyes, their sudden need to be quick, to be the fastest draw...
Sergio Leone is arguably the most visionary director of all time. They say that before he even had a written script he could picture exactly what was to be on screen and the camera's direction in leading his characters. It was Sergio's World - an alternate place in an alternate time that he was free to control. He controlled the audience and his story like no other director.To me, his best film was the one that was on many critics' ten worst films of 1984 list: "Once Upon a Time in America." I love the finished director's cut, the cut of the film Sergio Leone himself wanted and pictured in his mind while filming the movie. Unfortunately, the editor of the film cut everything into a two-hour picture and messed up the timeline for the theatrical release in 1984 - the result was a disastrous motion picture that now, with the director's cut, stands as one of the best of all time. James Woods once said that one of the critics who named it the worst film of 1984 later named it the best film of the decade."Once Upon a Time in America" was Sergio's dream project, one that took him ten years to get on the big screen and ultimately killed him by sucking the life out of him, but "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly" (1967) was undoubtably his most visual film. The extreme close-ups, the great way he lets the audience see nothing but what he wants - as far as he saw it, the audience should not wonder what is off-screen; whatever is within the frames is all there is. Compared to "Once Upon a Time" it seems a bit more corny and unrealistic - but it is a spaghetti western, and that is simply the point. It stands above the rest as the best spaghetti western of them all.Leone is best remembered for his extreme close-ups. Director Quentin Tarantino once said, among many other things about Leone, his role model, that when he started out he knew not many camera directions, so when he wanted an extreme close-up in a film he'd shout, "I want a Sergio Leone on this guy!" Quentin Tarantino has such a respect for Leone that he even suggested the title "Once Upon a Time in Mexico" to director Robert Rodriguez, the title, of course, a derivation on "Once Upon a Time in the West" and "Once Upon a Time in America," both films of Sergio Leone."The Good, the Bad and the Ugly," a.k.a. "Buono, il bruto, il cattivo, il," is the final film in the Dollars Trilogy - "A Fistful of Dollars," "For a Few Dollars More," and, of course, "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly." I have yet to see this film's predecessors, but I doubt they are much better than this film. It isn't really about anything per se - it's a showcase of art and camera techniques. It is a showcase for Sergio Leone and a great one at that. I have no real care about the themes or outcomes - I simply enjoy being controlled by a masterful director such as Leone. When there's a director who can literally push in and give the audience specifically what he wants them to see, without the audience feeling cheated, you know you have a great director, because there's a fine line between a selfish director and a visionary director. Leone has a bit of both, so indistinct that it is hard to notice. The same thing was done in Carol Reed's "The Third Man" (1949), and the same is done here. And it is pulled off without any objections from the audience.Clint Eastwood is The Good - he rides around the desert kidnapping criminals, giving them to the authorities and claiming reward money, and then freeing the criminals before they are to be hanged. He meets Tuco (Eli Wallach), a.k.a. The Ugly, and does his routine - but The Ugly fights back and, ultimately, kidnaps good ol' Clint, taking him into the desert and practically torturing him in the heat.Then The Good overhears where a stash of gold is hidden from a dying man. The Ugly wants the gold so much that he nurses The Good back to health so that they can go off on a wild goose chase and search for the treasure. But there is already another man searching for the treasure - Angel Eyes, a.k.a. The Bad (Lee Van Cleef), a man whose skills at gunfighting match those of The Good, a true marksman if ever there was such a thing.There's a terrific scene towards the end of "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly," where three men have found the gold buried in a graveyard. At exactly the same time. They each have guns pointed at each other. They could all pull their triggers and die, or kill one of the three and the two could then take the money and split it. Leone zooms in with his extreme close-ups and truly gives the audience a sense of paranoia, a sense of what it would feel like in a circumstance such as that. Sergio Leone is a great director, perhaps the most visionary of all time, and now that his films are turning up again with their intended running times, the realization strikes and sinks in.He's an even better director than we thought he was.5/5 stars -John Ulmer
I know some movie fans who consider The Good, the Bad and the Ugly the best movie ever made. While I don't even think it's the best thing Sergio Leone made, it's a solid Spaghetti Western that has all but transcended the sub-genre. There are images, such as Clint Eastwood in the poncho, and music, like the main title theme, that are known by people who have never seen the movie. I also know people who wouldn't be caught dead watching a movie made outside of the USA who love The Good, the Bad and the Ugly. I can't think of another Italian made film, let alone an Italian made Western, that has become so universally known and enjoyed.There are so many moments in The Good, the Bad and the Ugly that I enjoy. One of my favorites is that of Tuco running through the cemetery as Morricone's "The Ecstasy of Gold" plays in the background. It literally gives me goosebumps. It's one of those movie moments that I look forward to no matter how many times I've seen them. I'm also a fan of the techniques Leone used in The Good, the Bad and the Ugly. Leone's use of the widescreen shots of the landscape inter-cut with extreme close-ups of faces is brilliant. It adds a sense of intimacy to vastness of the setting that allows the viewer feel like they're part the movie and gain some insight into the characters. It's a technique that very few other filmmakers have the guts to employ.But I sincerely doubt that Leone's film would be so widely and wildly regarded if it weren't for the music of Ennio Morricone. I've already mentioned the main title theme and "The Ecstasy of Gold", but these are only two examples found in this amazing score. Can you imagine the final showdown without Morricone's music? I can't think of many instances where music and film go together to create such tension and anticipation. I've already used the word "brilliant" to describe Leone, but it's also applicable to Morricone.Finally, The Good, the Bad and the Ugly wouldn't be the same without the three lead actors. Each, at least in this movie, is brilliant (there's that word again) in his own right. Clint Eastwood is "The Good". He's "The Good" in the sense that he's not as "bad" as the other two. Lee Van Cleef is "The Bad". He's a ruthless killer who would just as soon shoot you as look at you <U+0096> as long as the price was right. And then there's Eli Wallach as "The Ugly". As good as Eastwood and Van Cleef are, Wallach is really something special. Wallach's Tuco is one of the most crazed, but complicated characters I've seen. It's a special cast for a very special movie.
The basic plot of THE GOOD, THE BAD AND THE UGLY has been done before. In fact, the film inverts the premise of TREASURE OF THE SIERRA MADRE. In TREASURE, the three men searching for the gold worked as a team. The team broke down because of external pressure (the bandits) and internal pressure (Fred C. Dobb's paranoia). In THE GOOD, THE BAD AND THE UGLY, the three men searching for the gold never team up. They are kept apart by internal pressure (the fact that one of them is a murdering sadist) and external pressure (the ebb and flow of the Civil War).In TREASURE, only one member of the team knew how to find gold. Here, the location of the gold is a secret. Two men know opposite halves of the secret. Blondie (Clint Eastwood) knows a name on a grave. Tuco Ramirez (Eli Wallach) knows the name of the cemetery. Their shared secret forces the two men into an uneasy alliance. The third seeker is Angel Eyes (Lee Van Cleef), a professional killer. He has learned about the gold from one of his victims.The opening and Ennio Morricone's unique theme music set the tone: this will be a harsh, gritty, offbeat film. Freeze-frames tell us which character will be good (Blondie), which will be bad (Angel Eyes) and which will be ugly (Tuco). The difference between the three men isn't motive, since they all want the same thing. What sets them apart from each other is what they are willing to do to get it. Angel Eyes will torture and kill anybody who gets in his way. Tuco is a bully and a loudmouth, but he only kills in self-defense. Blondie is quiet and intelligent, a planner who carefully works out every detail well in advance.THE GOOD, THE BAD AND THE UGLY is set in a harsh, unforgiving landscape. The quest for the gold takes our characters through a desert, a prison camp, a war-ravaged frontier town, a Civil War battle and, finally the cemetery where the inevitable showdown happens. The few outposts of civilization huddle against a vast, imposing wilderness. In such places, even the best man has to be a little bit bad and ugly to survive.
In New Mexico Territory circa 1862, a mysterious bounty-killer known as "Blondie" (Clint Eastwood) and a shifty Mexican bandit, Tuco Ramirez (Eli Wallach), run a con job wherein Blondie turns Tuco in for money and then rescues him, splitting the reward money. However, the two engage in numerous double-crossings against each other, until stumbling across a dying Confederate soldier (Antonio Casale) who gives each man a clue to the location of a hidden cache of gold. Tuco and Blondie re-form their alliance to find the gold, only to find that Angel Eyes (Lee Van Cleef), a ruthless hired gun, is already after the gold. The three men form a frequently-changing series of alliances to get at the gold, and they must avoid the Union and Confederate armies operating in the region."The Good, the Bad and the Ugly" is a landmark film in many respects. Its cultural influence is nigh-impossible to overstate, with its iconic musical score by Ennio Morricone, three memorably amoral protagonists, the close-ups, vast landscapes, and the title itself, all of which are instantly recognizable icons of cinema, having been referenced and replicated time and again in movies, TV shows, and even commercials. It is Sergio Leone's first truly great film, a transition from the low-budget Spaghetti Westerns ("A Fistful of Dollars", "For a Few Dollars More") to the big budget, artistic epics that Leone would make for the rest of his career ("Once Upon a Time in the West/America"). It is also a film of utmost importance to me; after watching this movie as an eleven year old, admiring its wonderfully quirky characters, style, music, and breath-taking cinematography, I realized for the first time that I wanted to devote my life to films, be it watching them, writing on them, or hopefully making them."The Good, the Bad and the Ugly" is a full-blown epic, and one with an interesting subtext. We see three completely amoral characters whose crimes - robbery, murder, and racketeering - are minor compared to the brutal carnage we see the Civil War inflicting. Taking place during the little-known Sibley Campaign in New Mexico, the film is not a documentary depiction of the war, but an allegorical one. This was the first total war, and Leone uses it as a metaphor for conflict in general, with faceless mass slaughter inflicted by rifles, machine guns, and artillery. Blondie, Tuco, and Angel Eyes' transgressions are minor compared to a brutal, Auschwitz-like concentration camp, spies being executed in the streets, towns being shelled, and vicious, stalemated trench warfare over a "flyspeck" of a bridge. Even our amoral heroes have amounts of humanity which set them apart from the machine-like slaughter around them; Blondie saves Tuco's life and comforts dying soldiers of both sides; Tuco struggles with a mixture of affection and hatred for Blondie, and his troubled relationship with his brother (Luigi Pistilli), and even Angel Eyes shows disgust at the carnage he sees.The movie is extremely episodic, the plot only secondary to the adventures of these characters. Leone's wonderful direction gives the film a fairy-tale quality, with an appearance of realism while being fanciful and at times almost surreal. The movie contains extremely memorable set pieces: the lengthy opening, with three gunmen going after Tuco; the "carriage of the spirits"; the prison camp; a shootout in a town under shellfire; an epic Civil War battle; Tuco running excitedly through the cemetery; and, of course, the unforgettable climactic "triello". Tonino Delli Colli's cinematography is simply breath-taking, with desert landscapes as impressive as David Lean's films contrasting with the most extreme close-ups imaginable. Carlo Simi's set designs, from shelled-out towns to prison camps to the cemetery, is breath-taking. And Ennio Morricone's score is, for lack of a better word, one of the most amazing ever written, the instantly recognizable theme tune and other brilliant pieces creating the movie's indescribable atmosphere.The cast creates unforgettably iconic characters. Clint Eastwood is back as the Man With No Name, here much more human in this film despite retaining his cool, detached, shifty nature. Lee Van Cleef, who had played a likable character in Leone's previous film, now plays one of the most memorably evil characters ever. Aldo Giuffre, Antonio Casas, and Luigi Pistilli are effective in supporting roles, and Leone's usual stock cast - Mario Brega, Benito Stefanelli, Al Muloch, Aldo Sambrell, and many others - create their own iconography. But it's Eli Wallach who steals the show, as the scenery chewing Tuco, a shifty, double-crossing, foul-mouthed bandit who manages to be the most likable and human of the cast despite his faults; truly, one of the most memorable film characters ever."The Good, the Bad and the Ugly" is one of the most well-known and influential movies ever made, and with good reason. In terms of style, it is an absolute triumph, being one of the most amazingly made movies ever made. Those only familiar with the movie for its cast, its score, or peripherally through its iconic stature, are missing out on one of the most breath-taking cinematic experiences ever. Thank you, Sergio Leone.9/10
Spoilers herein.This film revolves around threes of various types and pairings among those threes. The grouping of three that is of interest to me are the cinematic influences behind this film: Hollywood westerns, Italian iconic painting, Japanese starkness in representation. These Italian westerns are important. Most movies are about other movies, but this one affected much of what followed. The western vocabulary was mature and popular well before movies, and with the detective story drove the first revolution in modern mass publishing. Its simple abstractions were converted to film (then radio and TeeVee) without change: the boy scout cowboy in the usually white hat, often singing. (In fact the modern pop country music borrows from this simple vocabulary and reference to the `genuine.') But all that, including the country music bit is pretty flat, stupid and dull.Italian cinema is based on a similar set of national icons, specifically religious icons. It is a more visual, visceral painterly vocabulary. Equally simple in stereotypes, but instead there are religiously based connections that give the impression of depth. Symbology is expected, even demanded. To this add postwar notions of irony which permeated European popular art. So the good guy was still good, but in a twisted way -- the twists shifting according to the chaos he encountered.In the US, John Ford was creating soft lush panoramas that would subliminally inspire a generation of environmentally aware viewers, but something more important came rushing in from Japan: Kurosawa. His films are abstract, directly evolved from Japanese watercolor narratives. These are also lush and beautiful, but not soft -- instead dusty, gritty, sometimes cruel. This world is not placid, merely a machine to test color and honor.In the Eastwood/Leone films, these three influences were deliberately enfolded. And a whole world's visual vocabulary shifted. In the US, we have since reinvented a part of our national character to ally with these images. (America's love affair with guns is a recent phenomenon.) How powerful cinema can be!This film may be recommended by others for entertainment value or something similar. That's fine, but I think it should be seen to help you understand the default world you are handed, so that you can put it into perspective -- to see that much of it is man-made.
The Good, the Bad and the Ugly has a very basic storyline - 3 cowboys trying to collect a fortune in gold. Sergio Leone then set this story against a backdrop of the American civil war. It is visually stunning, and has enough action for 10 films, let alone 1. Okay, so its not geographically or historically correct, but seriously, if you care about those things so much that you don't like the film, then you are just plain sad. The 3 main characters are excellent; Clint Eastwood as the laid back hero, Eli Wallach as his dirty Mexican partner and Lee van Cleef as the evil gunman who kills for a living. The whole film is like a work of art, leading up to the final gunfight in a stadium like cemetery, 1 of the best scenes in film history. The Good, the Bad and the Ugly isn't one of those films that is thought provoking, but it is one of the best simply because for 3 hours it is very entertaining, and a thing of beauty.


                
Sergio Leone is an underappreciated talent.  His skill, in most cases, exceeds what he actually puts on the screen.  This is, by far, his crowning achievement and the culmination of both his work and Clint Eastwood's career.  After this, it is only pushing the plateau without success.The primary focus of this movie is not the characters, the story winds up being the least of Leone's concerns.  Instead, he is concerned about the camera and the music.  Ennio Morricone, a genius in his own right, was seriously ignored by the Academy for his compilation here--certainly one of the Top 10 ever.  He understands the crude editing of the mid-60s and exploits everything he can from the vision onscreen.  If Leone was dissatisfied with the Ennio's final product, something MUST have been wrong with him.The camera is another element that never lies.  Modern filmmakers should study this before they try emulating MTV next time.  With Leone's grandeur and a cast that understands that they aren't the real focus, how can he lose?The story, while it isn't the greatest, is better delivered than such works as The Wild Bunch.  Perhaps only High Noon understands the value of pacing and what to reveal/not reveal to the audience.  Then again, Fred Zinnemann is an entirely different director.  The character interaction here is certainly better than what Gary Cooper has to offer, not to mention the dialog includes some uncanny deliver by Eli Wallach.Overall, a classic.  This is a definer of the unconventional Western and visual literature.  4.5 out of 5 stars.  A must see.


                
As I was scrolling through IMDb 250, I saw "Il buono, il brutto, il cattivo" at #4. My initial thought "Huh, 1966 movie, not worth watching. Runtime(179 min) also convinced my mind against watching this. But another half of my mind said, "Dude, you can't afford miss an IMDb #4 movie. So, I saw the movie and till date I have watched it at least 25 times. Hats off to Sergio Leone for making such a great and legendary movie and that too in 1966 with limited resources. None of the "Spagetti Westerns" are close such brilliance, not even the other 2 in this series. Leone has extracted out a stupendous performance from "Eli Wallach". Clint Eastwood was good as usual. Shooting locations are brilliant and the supportive background score is very catchy. The movie is a bit slow in the beginning, but once it catches pace, it deeply involves the audience. Some people have argued that #4 is too high for this movie, but its not 'some' who make the IMDb list, its the majority. Speaking of Leone, I believe that he was at least 15-20 years ahead of time. He has served as inspirations for such genre in all parts of the world, be it 'Sholay' in India, 'El Desaro' in Spain, and many more. I would like to go with a 9 out of 10 for this movie and its a flick which you just can't afford to miss this


                
This is a bemusing, violent and stylish Western, it's the best Sergio Leone . The film takes part of ¨the man without name¨ trilogy united to ¨For a fistful dollars¨, and ¨ A few dollars more¨.The movie centers about the ugly (Eli Wallach) , the bad (Lee Van Cleef) and the good (Clint Eastwood) in search for a Confederate treasure buried on a cemetery whose tracks have got the three enemies and is set during American Civil War.It's too much violent but is neither tiring, nor boring, but entertaining. The film mingles noisy action , impressive battles, shootouts, violence with strong tortures, tongue in cheek, satire and a little bit of humor.The final showdown between the three contenders is breathtaking.In spite of the fact the runtime is overlong , nevertheless isn't dull . Direction by Sergio Leone is magnificent. Ennio Morricone musical score is extraordinary , the soundtrack has been imitated and copied by thousand occasions. Morricone's iconic theme music was designed in places to mimic the sound of a howling coyote . Production design by Carlo Simi and cinematography by Tonino Delli Colli is riveting . Shot in the deserts and landscapes of Spain : Burgos and Almeria , with 1,500 Spanish soldiers as extras .Eli Wallach is very well , as he steals the show , he interprets a humorous and greedy murderous thief , Lee Van Cleef plays a villain and ominous killer and Clint Eastwood makes a dirty and wry 'man without name'.This quintaessential 'Spaguetti' originated great influence of wide range in Western . It was such a good picture that had a great success. Followed by ¨ Once upon a time in West¨and ¨Duck you sucker¨.Rating: very nice, above average 8'5/10


                
One of the best depictions of war, and one of the best anti-war films. The best gunfight ever filmed. Consistently witty, often moving, brutally realistically ugly, and one of the most beautiful films ever shot, set to one of the most beautiful scores. The 'spaghetti' label on the can means that these westerns will never get the consideration and respect they deserve. If you fancy thinking a little differently about 'The Good, The Bad and The Ugly', try the following. Look past Clint Eastwood's legend-founding performance and suppose that the central character is actually Eli Wallach's Tuco, the Ugly. A gross rogue, guilty of every possible vice, Tuco is after all the character we see and hear the most, about whom we learn the most, and through whom we experience much of the action. Eli Wallach makes him comic, poignant, and plausible - certainly compared to the unrestrained darkness of Lee Van Cleef and the impossible cool of Eastwood. The film is largely Tuco's struggle to survive, and to earn a little on the side, constantly battered between Eastwood's "blond Angel" and Van Cleef's angel of death. Angels? Indeed: Tuco is ultimately human, and Tuco is all of us - grubby, corrupt, uncomfortable and slightly desperate humans, veering between the good and the bad, subject to a perplexing God and an unrelenting Devil, and just trying to muddle along.


                
A pure western.Will always be remembered for its great music and the personality of Clint Eastwood.In fact this was the film in which Clint Eastwood made his name.Both Lee Van Cleef & Eli Wallach put in sterling performances.The direction is exceptional The real merit of this movie is that it brings to light the exact situation in the USA around the period 1864-65 when the confederates were losing the war.There was confusion & chaos all around & no real authority.Hence the proliferation of a number of bandits and outlaws.The photography and direction are breathtaking and there is areal attempt to bring out the characters of those who dominated the period.Life could be extinguished at any moment & a man had to live by his wits and by his guns.Women were fair game to any outlaw.Hanging and capital punishment were routineThis was the real United States of that period and they could practice this culture in isolation,as the communication & technologies of the period were highly limited compared to today.


                
Greed.If you let it,it can overcome you.It has the power to turn your friends into enemies,and your enemies into friends.There's gold buried in a graveyard.There are three men.Two of them know what graveyard.The third knows what grave.These three men are not friends.Each one has nothing but contempt for the other two.That is,normally that would the case,but when there are riches untold involved,they are best friends willing to do anything to keep each other alive,even going so far as to declare war.....on a war.The Good,the Bad,and the Ugly is a well told story of greed and what it does to us if we let it.It is also great movie making from a time when the world wasn't in such a big hurry.It was OK to go ten minutes in a film without a single solitary word being spoken and to go from an extreme wide shot one minute to an extreme close up the next.It was non conventional for it's time,and that's what was,and still is,great about it.
This has got to be, for me the best western film ever made. Got it on VHS and now DVD, I never tire of seeing it, a timeless classic. I always enjoy hearing the famous opening title theme. (it's 10 minutes into the film before anyone says anything). the film revolves around the 3 main characters, Eastwood, Wallach, Van Cleef. I thought Eli Wallach was brilliant as his role as tuco/the ugly. and Van Cleef as the the bad, with those eyes, was the perfect baddie.The film really could be summed up as 3 gunslingers on there search for $100,000 of gold coins in a grave. Wallach knows the name of the cemetery and Eastwood knows the name of the grave. Van Cleef finds out by torturing Wallach when Eastwood and Wallach accidentally become P.o.W. The 3 men end up in the cemetery where there is a great showdown, one of the best the camera zooming into all 3 mens eyes and the music as well, classic stuff. Van Cleef ends up getting shot and Eastwood and Wallach split the gold.
The Good, The Bad and The Ugly has become a metaphor for the relentless and ruthless pursuit of wealth (the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow) and the victims and victors (mostly victims) it produces along the way. The beauty of this film is that it does not take itself too seriously, it is a precursor to movies like "Sin City" , "Natural Born Killers" and "No Country for Old Men" that have a comedic and "matter of fact" feel to the graphic violence. Plus the musical score and cinematography are excellent. Who would of thought that a "spaghetti western" would become such an honoured classic movie masterpiece? Clint Eastwood, Eli Wallach and Lee Van Cleef all play characters that are right out of a Greek tragedy who represent different aspects of society. Watch, enjoy, and don't take the movie too seriously, that's how I believe the director wanted the audience to watch it.


                
This movie is not only sheer entertainment, it has the most profound music in the number 'ecstasy of gold' by Ennio Morricone. Although there is no comparison in the quality of one musical piece with another, but I would rate 'ecstasy of gold' as the best orchestral piece ever - simply a masterpiece from Morricone, who has produced the best music for western genre films. The theme music is also superb.The mood of the film transports you to that time and world and gives a feeling of that time and places were everyone was desperate, adventurous, daring, even reckless for the most coveted thing - gold. It has been called the yellow fever - a state in which people were willing to die or commit massacres for gold.This is the theme, and although it is a sad and haunting picture of man turning into wild beast - more savage than the so called savages, the action, the plot and the acting turns it into an ecstasy. Not to be missed.


                
In the last of the so-called 'Dollars' trilogy Eastwood now plays a man called Blondie (despite clearly having brown hair) who has hooked up with Tuco, a bandit with an amusingly long list of crimes, to run a reward-and-release scam with various towns and cities across the Old West. Soon tiring of Tuco's behavior, Blondie ends their volatile partnership and heads off on his own.Angered by the double-cross, Tuco exacts a laborious revenge on Blondie, but just as the punishment reaches its zenith under a burning hot sun in a remote part of the desert a wagon carrying dead Confederate soldiers interrupts. With his last breath, the sole surviving Rebel tells Tuco of a stash of treasure buried in a cemetery, and, while Tuco is distracted, tells Blondie what grave it is buried under. Their difficult partnership is quickly restored as they trek across the West, through Civil War conflicts, towards the treasure.So far I've only covered the Good and Ugly. The Bad just so happens to be Angel Eyes (Lee Van Cleef), a ruthless mercenary who has also learned of the hidden loot and eventually crosses paths with his rivals. He has the least screen time, but is necessary as a pure villain to lessen the crude vulgarity of Tuco.It's a long film. But it's not about the destination, it's about the journey, and Sergio Leone allows himself plenty of time and space to indulge in quirky idiosyncrasies. I especially like Tuco having a bubble bath in the midst of his current location being blown to smithereens.Villains always interest me, and actors mostly choose villains over heroes as they make for better characters. Blondie may comfort dying soldiers and play with kittens, but he's just too bland. Angel Eyes, is hardcore, and a better character, but he's nothing compared to Tuco. Eli Wallach owns this film, and takes most of the screen time away from Eastwood and Van Cleef. The scene where he searches the cemetery, as the camera spins around and around and around has such a beautiful innocence to it. Even though Tuco may have killed and robbed many this scene makes him seem like an easily excitable child at heart. It's absolutely wonderful.If you've got an evening free, and just don't know how to spend 3 otherwise empty hours, The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly is a fine way to spend them.


                
A big, bravado, bold and exquisite film for its time, Sergio Leone's "The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly" remains one of the most seminal, influential, and exciting films of all time. With its superb cast, its beautiful and wide scenery, and its superior action sequences, this film is a masterpiece. A picture that embodies the perfect personification of masculinity. A true man's picture, and one that will stand tall among most movies today.The simple tale of how three gunslingers form an unlikely alliance of hate, in order to find $200,000 (that's $6 million by today's standards) worth of stolen gold, in a country that is ravaged by war, is elegantly told by the maestro of westerns, Sergio Leone. For its time, Spaghetti Westerns were not considered genuine art, but rather, entertainment instead. Sergio Leone is probably the only director who is smart enough to make his film compelling to mainstream and critical audiences alike. His direction is smart and strong, and you see how well his direction is as per the amount of manpower and creativity in handling the action sequences. The action sequences are raw, crisp, grand, explosive, and taut. Especially the Standoff at the end. Leone should probably be awarded a Nobel Prize for that scene alone. Leone is probably why westerns are popular among the youth of the '60s, hell, he probably influenced would be filmmakers at the time. I know of one who was particularly influenced by Leone's direction - Quentin Tarantino himself said that this film is the best-directed film of all time. And yes, although the film may be long, there's not a scene that goes by that you'll say boring.Clint Eastwood - The Good. The legendary Man With No Name. His character perfectly embodies with the true meaning of masculinity. As per in his previous films, he plays a mysterious gunslinger, one with a deadly aim and a strong sense of honor and pride. He is the perfect hero, and this film stands out as one of Clint's, if not his, best film ever.Lee Van Cleef - The Bad. Here, instead of the fatherly Doug Mortimer in the previous "For A Few Dollars More", we get the stone-cold assassin Angel Eyes. Van Cleef plays him chillingly to the bone. He is wicked, he is ruthless, he is cruel. He would kill anyone, be it his targets or even his own client.Eli Wallach - The Ugly. He is Tuco, a criminal on the loose. He is the most interesting character in the film, as we see the ugly side of man through him. He is two-faced, slimy, arrogant, and hate-able. But that what makes his character great. There is no substitution for Wallach, he will always be Tuco no matter what.The cinematography is absolutely beautiful. We get to see the backdrop of the glorious Wild West and the battlefields of war in all its unfaded glory. Even the cemetery scene is filmed extremely well. The music - that's another thing. The music, is masterful, so sublime, so grandiose, and so haunting. It's mesmerizing, really, to hear the great Ennio Morricone's score while looking at the actions of people, it perfectly matches the film. Not forgetting to mention the iconic and haunting theme song that's embodied itself in popular culture even until today.So, yes, this is truly cinematic brilliance. If you want to see the film in all it's glory, I reckon you readers get the extended cut DVD of the film. It's Leone's true version of this film, and it would do you some good to see his true film, not to mention the remastered picture and 5.1 sound so that you can hear the gunshots and explosions in all its fury. Make no mistake readers, this film is one of the most iconic movies ever made, and it can be proud of its status as "Greatest Western Ever Made". Now if only movies like these were made today as well...Overall rating: 10/10Delton


                
I was born after 90-s and this film make me familiar with the genre "western". I want to say, there was one of the best three hours in my life, the atmosphere of that ancient times transmitted as good as it possible. You just forget about the present and dive into west with it bewitching characters, revolvers and gold hunting. Not the first time I notice, that films of 60..70-s are much better transmit the picture for viewer, directors of that time exactly knew what to show. Tongue does not turn to call the special effects "pure" or "funny", cos they seems more real in this picture, than all modern effect together. The great soundtrack was the thing, because of which goose appears on my hands and the room fill with heroes's tension and resoluteness. So, I was very pleased, watching this film and soon will continue getting familiar with this genre and creations of great Sergio Leone.


                
Well first off, having seen so many films, I'm not sure why I waited so long to watch this but I'm glad I finally did, and you should too! It's unbelievably clear to me now where Tarantino borrowed his camera shots and editing techniques from in the likes of KIll Bill and Inglorious Basterds! (I knew about Morricone)The film was years ahead of its time, but I have two gripes with this movie that stopped me from giving it the full 10/10. 1: The dubbing- All the foreign actors acted their roles in their native tongues which were dubbed over afterwards. It was quite noticeable and threw me off a bit, I'd much rather a foreign film with subtitles than dubbing any day.2: A tad too long. I do feel the running time could have been shaved byt 20 mins.Having said all that, it's a great film! Ennio Morricone's soundtrack is outstanding and the ending is spectacular. Overall opinion: Milestone!Other films from the time I rated 9/10: Cool Hand Luke. Bicycle Thieves. The Italian Job


                
I watched this movie more than forty years ago the first time. I was a little, stupid kid, and all i liked about this movie was shots and coursing, but now, when my sons watch at this, I can understand the master piece it is. The history is fantastic, the characters are all bad asses with sense of humor, you will love them, the art direction deserved an Oscar, and the acting by the fantastic Clint Eastwood too, for not talking about the music. About 2 years ago I saw "Once upon a time in America", by Sergio Leone. And I realized that this director was a master that deserved respect, remembering this movie. You will love this movie, I tell ya, your sons too, you maybe worry about the length, but that three hours are not wasted at all. And there are two more movies of the trilogy, but you can see this one as a separated movie. I loved it, it's on my personal top 5 rank.(with "The godfather", "12 angry men","Pulp fiction" and "Goodfellas") A little spoiler over here: the final scene with Tuco running at the sementary in just the most exiting thing I've ever seen, the music helped.
It's debatable of course, since there are legions of fans of the first two films in Sergio Leone's Dollars Trology, but with each film there not only came a longer running time, but also a rise in quality - debatable of course!Here for the third and final part of the trilogy, Leone adds Eli Wallach to the established pairing of Lee Van Cleef and Clint Eastwood, and brings all his tools of the trade to the party. Plot is slight, the three principals are on a collision course to find some buried gold, with each man having varying degrees of scuzziness, so how will it pan out?Such is the genius of the narrative, it's a fascinating journey to undertake. The characterisations are ripe and considered, the various traits and peccadilloes beautifully enhanced, and with Leone being Leone, there's no shortage of cruelty and humour. He also brings his style, the close ups, long shots and some outstanding framing of characters in various situations.The story encompasses The Civil War, which pitches our leads into "The Battle of Branston Bridge", where here we get to see just how great Leone was at constructing full on battle sequences. It's exciting, thrilling and literally dynamite, whilst Aldo Giuffrè as Captain Clinton turns in some memorable support.The Euro locations pass muster as the Wild West, superbly photographed by Tonino Delli Colli, and then of course there is Ennio Morricone's musical compositions. It's a score that has become as iconic as Eastwood's Man With No Name, a part of pop culture for ever more. It mocks the characters at times, energises them at others, whilst always us the audience are aurally gripped.There's obviously some daft coincidences, this is after all pasta world, and the near three hour run time could be construed as indulgent. But here's the thing, those who love The Good, The Bad and the Ugly could quite easily stand for another hour of Leone's classic. I mean, more barbed dialogue, brutal violence and fun! Great, surely!From the sublime arcade game like opening credit sequences, to the legendary cemetery stand-off at the finale, this is a Western deserving of the high standing it is held. 9/10


                
The Good, the Bad and the Ugly is just amazing to watch. I'm watching the 2004 extended version, with all the delete scenes in it. Directed by Sergio Leone, this movie is the third film in the Dollars Trilogy following 1964's A Fistful of Dollars and 1965's For a Few Dollars More, serving as a prequel to them. Thank Goodness, the movie wasn't call 'The Two Magnificent Tramps', its working title. In the United States, United Artists considered using the original Italian translation, River of Dollars, or The Man with No Name, but decided on The Good, the Bad and the Ugly. The title, The Good, the Bad and the Ugly suite the plot so well. The plot revolves around three gunslingers, 'the Good' AKA 'Brodie' AKA 'The Man with no name (Clint Eastwood), 'The Bad' AKA 'Angel Eyes' (Lee Van Cleef) and 'The Ugly" Mexican bandit Tuco Ramirez (Eli Wallach). All three are competing to find a fortune in buried Confederate gold during the American Civil War. All the actors in this film are great. Clint Eastwood is great. I love that the producers finally explain where his character got his trademark poncho. Granted, the other two were morally worse than him, but Blondie's not exactly a nice guy, too. It's more like 'the good enough'. I love, how Clint Eastwood and Eli Wallach work with each other. Lots of chemistry there, yet a lot of backstabbing triathlon with the trio. Tuco is the only one of the trio, the audience really gets to know all about. We meet his brother and find out where he came from and why he became a bandit. The other two are more of a mysteries. The names "Blondie" and "Angel Eyes" aren't exactly threatening, but workable. Blondie's hair is sandy brown. This is due to imperfect translation from the original Italian. Mad props to Eli Wallach for doing all the dangerous stunts as he almost got killed in real life like three times during the making of this movie. Eli Wallach pretty much steals the movie with his character. Originally, Leone wanted Charles Bronson to play Angel Eyes but he was already committed to another movie, and Leone choose Lee Van Cleef as the villain, playing opposite to the character, he plays in the 'For a Few Dollars More'. I glad, Lee Van Cleef was chosen for the film. He was best as the villain. Still, it does get kinda confusing, story wise seeing how the films are supposedly connect to each other. In the theatrical trailer, Angel Eyes is referred to as The Ugly and Tuco as The Bad. This is due to a translation error; the original Italian title translates literally to "The Good, the Ugly, the Bad". Still, the Good, the Bad and the Ugly had tons of memorable lines, funny scenes, and epic action, but the movie is really long. It takes forever to get to the buried treasure part of the movie, even if you watching a way cut down version. Angel Eyes besides the opening, doesn't show up, until half way to the film. Lots of desert scenes that they add in the 2004 version was cut out for a good reason. The movie takes a lot of side steps missions like blowing a strategic bridge, bounty hunters, and money-schemes that were entertaining, but kinda distracting as the gold plot takes a backseat, most of the first act and second. The movie has a great sweeping widescreen cinematography by Director of photography Tonino Delli Colli. The Cemetery showdown is intense. I love how the movie is shot with all the dramatic extreme close ups to give the audience, a sense of tensed. The movie got tense, due to falling out between Leone and Clint Eastwood, as Eastwood got tired of all the camera shooting in different angles, sweeping long shots, and extreme close ups. Both never work together again, after this. I can see why Eastwood might had got upset. There is a bit too much artsy in the film, but it's not too bad. Many of Leone's trademarks, hugely influential to modern filmmakers. Unlike A Fistful of Dollars nor For a Few Dollars More, this film had a bigger budget and its shows. Mad props to the people had to build the bridge in the blowing up scene, it had to be filmed and build twice due to the camera being destroy in the first shot. Another to the crew building a cemetery, just for the Sad Hill shootout scene. The money was well-used. I love the Civil War theme. The theme shows how brutal the backdrop, the Civil War was during that time and how absurd it was. The dubbing on my version was really good. Love the Curse Cut Beep. Ennio Morricone composed the soundtrack. The main theme is turned into one for each protagonist: The Good's has a whistle, The Bad's an ocarina, and The Ugly's screamed. It works so well. 'Story of a soldier' is beautiful. It's eerily in a way, since it play during the torture scene. I also love the score, Ecstasy of Gold. It's haunting at the beginning, it draws you in, slowly. Then it smacks you in the face like a ton of bricks and voila! Depending on what version, you're watching this movie. It can take from 161 min to 186 min. The 186 minute is dubbed. If you find the 2002 extended, it's in English, but cut to 179 min. Then you have an old copy, like the 1984's version, its 142, but its cut as hell. In my opinion, just get the 2004 DVD. Tons of special features on the behind the scene production, documentaries, and additional footages like too badly damaged film negative. All of them are worth the price of 2004 DVD. Overall: One of the best cinematic film. Worth watching if haven't yet saw.
Three separate mercenaries drifting through the US Civil War in 1862 hear about a cache of looted Confederate gold, rumoured to be buried in a cemetery. Picking up clues, and with many criss-crossing adventures en route, they each make their way to the treasure. Can they find it, and who will emerge alive ?The Good, The Bad And The Ugly, or Il Buono, Il Brutto, Il Cattivo to give it it's proper name, is simply the finest western ever made. Many accused Leone of being a hack; he made westerns, but he made them in Spain, and he wasn't even an American. Not only was he not a hack, he made pure cinema - a genre stylist unburdened by all the boring moral constraints of so many westerns (clean-cut good guys, white supremacy, social responsibility). As a result, this film is the purest distillation of the western myth, with the most amazing cinematic treatment ever committed to film. Its style is beyond criticism and its influence cannot be underestimated; Leone's themes, his camera angles, his use of music, his intuitive widescreen style, his moves, his incredible closeups - all have been and continue to be copied by lesser men. At a time when everyone was making crappy new age films like Barefoot In The Park and Georgy Girl, Leone was going back to his cinematic childhood of Gone With The Wind to create an astonishingly mythic epic which is the greatest depiction of the American Civil War despite not being about it. The three main characters are larger than life in the best way possible; Eastwood is extraordinary as The Man With No Name here, his character gradually mellowing from the hardened bounty-hunter he was as he witnesses the horrors of the war. If you do not cry at the scene near the end where this hardest of hard men dispassionately comforts a dying boy you are truly heartless. Wallach is amazing as Tuco, giving one of the greatest physical performances I have ever seen, all darting eyes, fastidious little movements and operatic comedy; he can be scary, funny, vicious and tender, all in the same scene. Van Cleef on the other hand is the purest depiction of black-hearted evil in any film. His introduction, as he rides a black horse out of a desert sundown and commits three horrific murders is amongst the greatest screen villainy of all time. These three incredible turns are all-time career bests for three astonishingly talented and prolific actors. Also superb are Guiffrè as the doomed drunken Yankee Captain Clinton, Pistilli as Tuco's brother Pablo and Brega as Wallace, Van Cleef's burly henchman (Brega plays similar heavies in the two previous Dollar movies). The other unforgettable element to this movie is Ennio Morricone's astounding music, which I think I must say is simply the greatest score ever recorded. There is no movie I can name with better, more original or dynamic music. The music is in unique harmony with the images and emotes from the first note to the last crescendo. The music completes every scene. It is lustful, haunting, touching, humorous, ominous, grandiose, suspenseful, operatic, delicious, magnificent, riveting, quiet, melancholy and philosophical. There are too many great musical moments to mention, but perhaps the greatest of all is the L'Estasi Dell'Oro sequence as a crazed Tuco runs amongst the graves of Sad Hill accompanied by the silken soprano voice of Edda Dell'Orso. Morricone is probably the most gifted film composer who has ever lived - he is certainly the most prolific - and this is the finest of his many many great scores. In an average movie I hope for maybe five strong scenes with atmosphere and originality. In this long movie, every single scene, bar none, is a brilliant little vignette, yet each flows into the other with perfect rhythm. What else is there to say about this extraordinarily beautiful film ? It is a diamond, an absolute diamond of world cinema, made by one of the few truly original directors, and don't believe for a second anyone who tries to write it off as trashy or simplistic. It contains so many moments of pure storytelling genius it would take me forever to list them. It is a great story, an astounding assault on the senses, a hugely entertaining masterpiece and an everlasting testament to Leone's total command of cinema. Featuring exquisite photography by Tonino Delli Colli and fantastic sets by Carlo Simi, it was shot at Elios Studios in Rome, in Castilla-Leon in northern Spain and in Leone's favoured locations in Almeria. Stunningly well written by Agenore Incrocci, Furio Scarpelli, Luciano Vincenzoni and Leone. Re-mastered and re-released in 2003, with several additional scenes which didn't make it into the original US release, notably a sequence where Tuco reunites with his gang and one where Angel Eyes visits a ruined fort. Trivia - Eastwood/Blondy is the good (buono), Wallach/Tuco is the ugly (brutto) and Van Cleef/Angel Eyes is the bad (cattivo); the latter two are often transposed in much of the English-language publicity and merchandise for the movie. This is the great Sergio Leone's best film, the best film of the sixties and the best western ever made.
three gun fighters looking for $200,000 in stolen gold.
That´s about the story and those three gun fighters is: Clint Eastwood(The Good) Lee Van Cleef(The bad) Eli Wallach(the ugly)The story could have been better but it´s maybe the best in the dollar trilogy(For a few dollars more is almost as good). This is much like: "once upon a time in the west" Both are a western epics.RATING:4+ out of 5-not as the masterpiece "once upon a time in the west" still great.


                
