SPOILER ALERT, please do not read this unless you've seen the movie. Let me assure all you Hitchcock lovers that I also love Hitchcock. Some of my favorite thrillers are Psycho, Rear Window, and Family Plot. I realize you have to "suspend your disbelief" to a certain extent. But I found most of the story in North by Northwest absolutely unbelievable. Spoilers follow. I don't understand why the bad guys jumped to the conclusion that Cary Grant was the spy they were after, a spy they'd never even seen. I don't understand why Cary Grant didn't just start yelling and screaming as they abducted him in front of a big crowd of people. I don't understand why the bad guys decided to kill him, not by merely shooting him, but by bothering to force booze down his throat and putting him behind the wheel of a car, or how he was able to drive at all (rather than passing out). I don't understand why the police didn't find out whose house it was (the U.N. diplomat) and then wonder why anyone was there. I don't understand how the blonde knew which train Cary Grant would take, how she knew who he was (so she could pay someone to have him seated at her table in the club car), and why she helped him at all. I don't understand how a large crowd could witness a diplomat being stabbed by someone throwing a knife, then conclude that Cary Grant did it, or why Cary Grant (the ultimate stupidity) would pull the knife out of the diplomat's back and hold it up for everyone to see. Or why, once he was a hunted man, he did absolutely nothing to alter his physical appearance. I don't understand (skipping forward a bit to shorten my review) why the blonde sent Cary Grant to what should've been his certain death, and why, when he survived and saw her again, it didn't even bother him. I don't understand why the bad guys used such an absurdly contrived means of attempting to kill him again, having a crop duster fly at him, instead of (again) just shooting him. I don't understand why the crop duster pilot couldn't avoid flying his plane into a truck. I don't understand why the bad guys were hanging out in an open house that anyone could get into. And I don't understand how Cary Grant and the blonde (or anyone else) could possibly cling to the monuments with nothing but their bare hands and not fall to their deaths. So, with apologies to everyone who ate this up and loved it, I couldn't believe or understand any of these things.
I simply don't. Perhaps someone will explain to me how did this film get to #20 in the top 250 films list, because I can't see why. I'm not complaining that the film is dated (1959 ... nope, no problems with that) or that the film is full of plotholes (only a newspaper film critic will complain about that), but I can't see how the film is interesting. I take it that Cary Grant is playing an unrealistic character, someone who's ordinary but thrown into extraordinary situations, but still doesn't flinch when a crop-duster comes after him or when he's escorted out by strangers with guns. Fine - but where's the charm? Where's the suaveness? Where's the style? I don't feel it. In fact, it came across as VERY fake. I don't see Roger Thornhill - all I see is Cary Grant. I can't understand why the cropduster scene is so memorable - is it because it's the first time there was a movie with a man being chased by a plane in it? I take it that the Mt Rushmore scene is memorable because it's the first time it's been done and no other film has really gone to do it again, but didn't think that was outrageously original (not saying it's not a creative idea, just don't get the hype). Eva Marie Saint is pretty and plays the complicated Eve subtly well. But I don't see Hitchcock's 'master' direction - I can't see what's so unique ... or ... or incredible about it. Can somebody point the way, cause I don't think age has anything to do with this (I'm an 18 year-old movie geek).


                
"North by Northwest" is just a light-hearted,unserious move with lost of illogical scenes in the plot.An advertising man, Roger Thornhill (played by Cary Grant), is mistaken for a government agent and pursued by spies who want to kill him. Thornhill is framed for murder and forced to elude the police as well as the secret agents.During the sequence of event you see many coincidences and unreasonable actions.One of them is Grant's character being chased by a crop duster. To think of killing a man with a chopper twisting around him above! Grant and leading lady Eva Marie Saint's clambering over the faces of Mount Rushmore in an attempt to evade their enemies but somehow the enemies are bypassed(one of them falls down) the other is shot by the police which arrives at the last minute in such movies that have non-apodictic plots! Another one is Grant's meeting Eva Marie Saint in the train. Have you ever seen a secret agent who involves her emotion in the job she does at least in love-at-first-sight struck way? Well the only thing I find in the movie is a little bit a sense of humor. Nothing more! Just an average light-hearted movie of which plot wanders aimlessly! And that is not enough even to be at the bottom of top 250? You call this a thriller good gracious good heavens!


                
Hitchcock not only redefined horror and gave birth to thriller, but also managed to revamp the action genre and he did that by one of his most famous flicks, <U+0084>North by Northwest". Back in the day, some of the sequences and special effects must have been a revelation to the cinema audience, but they are now almost completely non persuasive. The basic story is something we already saw in that era, as well as the trademark confused charm acting by Cary Grant. <U+0084>North by Northwest" was a great movie in its time, but had been overran by its successors.
