Its Hitch's most briskly entertaining movie, and one of his most comic, adventure-caper type movies, largely thanks to the persona of Cary Grant. But its also one of his most suspenseful - in the fact that Grant is being recognised as someone else, and that he may be put in jail for someone else's crime.I've finally come to realise just how great North by Northwest is. The reason you should love Hitchcock is he put entertainment upfront.  Hitchcock was not interested in whether this or that would happen in real life: he was interested in what would make the most entertaining scene for the movie. North by Northwest is a peak in this regard. The dialogue and situations intentionally throw reality to the wind - the double-entendre dialogue in the love scenes is not supposed to be the way people talk!If you said to Hitchcock "as if he'd keep driving" or "as if she'd do that" - he would just laugh at you and say you've missed the point. This is 100% movieland, and once you get used to the fact, and that this is not a fault in the film, but done intentionally, you'll love it. Its expressionistic - everything happens in movie language: the people laughing at Grant in the elevator, the way he keeps driving drunk near the beginning, the way he grabs the knife and everyone stares at him after someone's been stabbed.It flirts with the idea of identity. I thought it was interesting how Grant first is dismissing, then incredulous that people should be calling him by another name; then, as the tries to find out who this guy is, he enters the hotel room of this new identity, then he puts the suit on, and finally he identifies himself as George Kaplan.A succession of fantastic, memorable scenes, a great leading man in Grant, and one of Hermann's essential Hitch scores make for a movie i can put on at any time.10/10


                
The one famous gaffe people point out in this film is when a small boy can be seen plugging his ears just before Eva Marie Saint brings her café conversation with Cary Grant to a sudden end. Another gaffe, just as egregious and apparent but not nearly as commented on, is when Cary and Eva, clutching an incriminating statute, are rock-climbing around a quartet of famous presidential heads until a bad guy suddenly appears and leaps upon him. Whereupon the surprised, backward-falling Cary has the presence of mind to hand the statute to Eva, who takes his from him whilst in mid-scream. Do me a favor and read that last sentence again. What director today would allow such a scene past the editing room?But it just doesn't matter: IMDB voters at this writing have placed the 44-year-old `North By Northwest' ahead of all but 18 movies ever made, including 14 which have nothing to do with Frodo Baggins or Darth Vader. That's pretty damn impressive. What the hell were they thinking? The only Hitchcock movie they rate higher is "Rear Window;" I can think of at least seven or eight Hitchcocks I'd rank over "North By Northwest." [None of them are "Rear Window."]The truth is this film is so popular because it is so good. Not great, but very, very good, in a way that anticipates a lot of the direction of mass entertainment to come and thus speaks to people in a way `Vertigo' or `Strangers On A Train' do not. People talk about how forward thinking "Psycho" is, and it is, but more directors took note of the just-as-clever-but-more-mainstream approach of "North By Northwest." The last four decade have been chock full of flicks serving up suspense, sex, changing locales, and plot twists that play with viewers' expectations, all the while keeping the laughs coming. It's not like "North By Northwest" invented this formula, but it perfected and distilled it into an essence that is imitated, with varying success, to this day.Cary Grant plays slick adman Roger Thornhill, who gets mistaken for a fugitive named Kaplan and finds himself on the run from a slew of bad guys, led by James Mason at his smug and oily peak as Vandamme. Martin Landau makes his first memorable appearance as Mason's nastiest henchman Leonard (1959 was good to him, as "Plan Nine From Outer Space" premiered that year as well), suspicious, ruthless, and probably gay. Not that there's anything wrong with that, but it was 1959 and that was a little daring.Daring also is Eva Marie Saint's Eve Kendall, a woman who uses sex, as Thornhill puts it, "the way some people use a flyswatter." Her repartee with Thornhill shows just how erotic two people just talking to each other can be. It also provides further evidence Hitchcock's writers didn't go out on many dates. (Kendall: "I'm a big girl." Thornhill: "Yeah, and in all the right places." And she KISSES him for it!)The film does chug slowly at the outset, building suspense but also bugging you a bit as the plot gears grind while Thornhill is being pushed through his early paces, right until his moment at the UN. About the time we find ourselves with Thornhill in the cornfield, the picture starts to pick up a serious head of steam, and never loses it all the way to the final, famous tunnel shot. Actually, I like the penultimate scene between Grant and Saint, an elegant and witty way of resolving that most tried-and-true device, the cliffhanger.As with most of Hitchcock's <U+0091>50s fare, elegance is behind much of what makes this movie so great. `North By Northwest' manifests an elegance in dress, decor, language, music, and lighting that represents the best of its era while giving the picture a timeless character all the same. Hitchcock's camera movements are very subtle yet brilliant, as during Mason's entrance and Grant's hide-and-seek game around the train. Everyone has perfect hair, lounges about in gowns and jackets, and you never think it should be otherwise.Grant isn't my favorite actor, but he's smooth enough for the central role when he's not doing that bad Foster Brooks impression behind the wheel of the car. [I docked the movie one point just for that.] His best scene may be at the auction, though he projects real fear in the cornfield. Saint is simply splendid, nailing every line as she walks a tightrope and plays her character's motives close to her décolletage. Hitchcock seemed to lose his ability to direct female actors, and not merely bask in them, with the advent of color, but Saint is one blonde bombshell that gives us a sense of brains and personality behind her mystery.There's logic gaps in this movie, and bad process shots, but it's an amazing ride all the same, more amazing because it's done with smoke and mirrors and without apologies. You ask the questions and figure out the loopholes only after you walk away, because the movie doesn't let you up much while you are watching it. Hitchcock made other, more challenging movies that attested to his rare vision as an artist, but this is maybe his purest exercise in the craft of good filmmaking. That's why `North By Northwest' has remained so high in people's estimations. Whatever the errors, it's hard not feeling good about that.
Cary Grant handles the twisted expressions of his face, his astonished look, his impulsive smile with professional self-assurance and charm while taking us right in the middle of confusion on a breathless 2000-mile cross-country chase which has its gripping showdown across the giant faces of the presidents sculptured on Mount Rushmore high above Rapid City, South Dakota<U+0085> Grant plays Roger Thornhill, a stylish publicist, mistaken for a fictitious Federal agent, plunged into a world of crime and intrigue, hunted down by villains who want to eliminate him because he seems to be on their dishonest dealings<U+0085> When questioned by bland Phillip Vandamm (James Mason), Thornhill is unable to convince him that he is a victim of a mistaken identity<U+0085> His three thugs fill him with bourbon, and place him in a stolen car expecting him to have a drunken accident<U+0085> After narrowly escaping death, no one believes his story including, obviously, his skeptical mother (Jessie Royce Landis).In an effort to discover the agent he is being confused with, and using the clues he collected, Thornhill returns to the United Nations Headquarter looking for George Kaplan<U+0085> There, somebody falls into his arms and unthinkingly, Thornhill draws the blade out of the victim's back and is photographed holding the weapon in mid-air<U+0085> And thus became a fugitive from justice, pursued by the cops and had to skip by boarding a train to Chicago<U+0085> While on the run, he is caught by a provocative platinum blonde (Eva Marie Saint), who comes out as a glamorous woman and a delightful charmer<U+0085> James Mason, a polished mastermind spy showed too well to be threatening... His menacing henchman, Martin Landau is also convincingly hurtful...In his fifth Hitchcock picture, Leo G. Carroll is suave and calm as the devoted intelligence chief<U+0085> Directed by a genius behind the camera, "North By Northwest" remains a genuinely exciting film for the dangerous world of spies and counterspies<U+0085>


                
Thrilling flick with funny moments , nice acting , spectacular outdoors and fun dialogue . The tale is ordinary Hitchcock fare that plays and preys the senses , as a hapless New York advertising executive , Roger Thornhill, (Gary Grant got $450,000 -a substantial amount for the time - plus a percentage of the gross profits ; though Yul Brynner and William Holden was suggested to play him) is mistaken for a government agent by a group of foreign spies (James Mason , Martin Landau) and is pursued across the country while he looks for a way to survive . Grant is chased by both : the patrolmen who think he's a killer and a spy ring who think he is a double agent . He is helped by a gorgeous train passenger named Eve Kendall (Eva Marie Saint , though the studio wanted Cyd Charisse or Sophia Loren for the female lead, and she wanted to do it, but contractual problems resulted in her having to turn it down for the part , but Hitchcock insisted upon Eva Marie Saint) .Enjoyable mystery movie involves a bewildered ad-man who hold numerous tricks in order to escape from his captors and being chased cross country . Entertaining suspense movie packs humor , intrigue and ordinary Hitch touches . This agreeable and often hilarious picture from master of suspense has a memorable scene after another and was the only film Alfred Hitchcock made for MGM . Alfred Hitchcock's films have become famous for a number of elements and iconography : vertiginous height , innocent men wrongfully accused , blonde bombshells , voyeurism, long non-dialogue sequences , a matter of mistaken identity etc. This film has these particularities ; furthermore contains a fun intrigue , amusing situations and keeps the action at feverish pitch . Hitch was famous for making his actors follow the script to the word, and in this movie the characters use their dialogue taken from an interesting as well as fun screenplay by Ernest Lehman . Alfred Hitchcock's movies were known for featuring famous landmarks such as Golden Gate Bridge and San Francisco convent in ¨Vertigo¨ and the Statue of Liberty in ¨Sabotage¨ . Here includes Mount Rushmore images and now-legendary scenes such as crop-dusting plane sequences and the train station scene that was shot in New York City's Grand Central Terminal .Alfred Hitchcock couldn't get permission to film inside the UN, so footage was made of the interior of the building using a hidden camera, and the rooms were later recreated on a soundstage . Very good support cast such as James Mason , Martin Landau , Josephine Hutchinson , Les Tremayne as auctioneer and Jessie Royce Landis as mummy , though she was only 7 years older than Cary Grant, who plays her son . Features two actors who would go on to head spy agencies in their own 1960s television series. Edward Platt would star as "Chief" in ¨Get Smart¨, and Leo G. Carroll would star in ¨The man from U.N.C.L.E . And of course , Alfred Hitchcock cameo , he arrives at a bus stop during the opening credits but gets there a second too late and the door is closed in his face , he misses the bus. Colorful and glimmer cinematography in Vistavision by Robert Burks , Alfred's ordinary cameraman , showing nice outdoors . Rousing score by Bernard Herrmann , he arranged his whimsical themes from Fandango music. Bernard and Hitch had a long as well as fruitful professional relationship . Rating : 8.5/10 . Essential and indispensable seeing , being perfectly directed by the master himself . Worthwhile watching , one of all-time amusement . Ranked #7 on the American Film Institute's list of the 10 greatest films in the genre "Mystery"


                
Today, when technology is getting advanced by every new day, movie scenes like the one on Mount Rushmore in "North by Northwest" looks very funny, but I must admit that this movie is great even from todays perception. One of Alfred Hitchcock's best movies has his favorite actor Cary Grant in it, blonde girl Eva Marie Saint and excellent actors like James Mason & Martin Landau. So to say long story short; I enjoyed in this movie and I'm 'only' 19 years old (this movie was made almost 50 years ago!!!). Why? Because of great scenes coming from genius Alfred Hitchcock, brilliant script that makes this movie a great thriller, with twists, good performances and some comedic parts (coming from Cary Grant and Jessie Royce Landis). So if you have opportunity, watch this movie cause it's a classic.


                
North by Northwest is a highly touted Alfred Hitchcock film.  Ranked among his classics such as Vertigo, Rear Window, and Notorious, N.b.N. is generally thought of as one of the suspense master's all-time greats.  It is an overall appealing film but is not on the same level as the aforementioned flicks.  There are terrific moments, but the film doesn't come together as well as these other Hitchcock thrillers.  The ending is not quite up to par, either. The movie deals with Roger Thornhill(Cary Grant) as a cool, witty advertising executive in Manhattan.  He is wrongly identified as an agent for the government by a crime organization.  He is setup and narrowly escapes his first brush with danger.  The police do not believe his story, and everyone, including Thornhill's own mother, thinks he is out of his mind.  From here, Grant goes on a wild ride to clear his name and find out what the hell is going on.
This ride involves planes, trains and automobiles and he meets up with Eve Kendall(Eva Marie Saint) who is very forward with him, and we can tell right away that she's up to something.  Their conversation reminded me of a conversation Frank Sinatra has with Janet Leigh in The Manchurian Candidate. Unlike the latter, which can be seen as having several different meanings and subliminal messages, Grant and Saint have chemistry in their teasing, but it stays rather one dimensional and more formulaic.Scenes like the one where Grant intentionally gets arrested at an auction to escape a couple henchmen are comical and clever.  Even now with computers and high-tech special affect the cropduster and Mt. Rushmore scenes are exhilarating, to say the least.  The cinematography is wonderful throughout the picture, and except for the 50's automobiles and attire, looks remarkably fresh and modern.
While Vertigo's ending was one of the most shocking, Rear Window's the most suspenseful, and Notorious' perfectly fitting, N.b.N.'s didn't thrill me quite the same.  Perhaps I am being overly critical because of my expectations.  The three Hitchcock movies I've compared to North by Northwest are all 10's in my book, while this one gets an 8.  I enjoyed watching it and recommend it to anyone, especially suspense/thriller or Hitchcock fans.


                
Read reviews above for the exceptionally witty commentary this film attracts.I add one sub plot and one slight to Chicago...Subplot: Cary Grant, the good actor versus the less popular but greater actor, James Mason.Read the list of Vandamm quotes to see how many times Mason's character digs at Grant's...acting! Only one instance listed below: Phillip Vandamm: Has anyone ever told you that you overplay your various roles rather severely, Mr. Kaplan? (hear Mason as Vandamm comment on Grant's "acting school"etc...!)See Mason and Grant--observe their similar wardrobe and physical resemblance in their Mt. Rushmore restaurant...Mason played Shakespeare well-- see his Brutus in Mankewicz's great 1952 Julius Caesar. Yet he sometimes got roles Grant had rejected...the most famous being Norman Maine in the great "A Star is Born". I bet Hitch sensed this and encouraged Lehmann to hype up the actor rivalry in N by NW script.This real life "competition" only enhances the on screen N by NW movie.And the "Slight to Chicago"? Here, the greatest movie crime N by NW commits! Chicago offers so many sinister possibilities and great visuals in its skyscrapers and shore line, etc, etc. But no! Only a quick train shot of Chicago in the daylight...all the stellar skyline is shot in the dark! (Took the Blues Bros and later The Untouchables to "discover' Chicago's many layers... of film possibilities.)Still---a great movie! A study in stylish dialogue, too!
Somewhat overblown suspense thriller has exciting plot twists and Cary Grant's unique screen presence to recommend it.  Well directed, tells the story of an advertising man mistaken for a decoy created by the CIA, who is hunted across the nation and ends up falling for the CIA's undercover agent -- Marie-Saint.  The "Open paranoia" scene in the cropdusting field is a great sequence.  Here Hitchcock succeeds often in not being obvious, remaining playful, and pleasing the audience a lot.I must respond to the comments I read on here by user "tedg" -- I did not find them illuminating.  On the contrary, they seem to be the products of a confused mind, and someone who has not paid much attention to what he's saying before putting it in print.  First of all, as to his complaint about the quality of the sets, they are not as he claims "junk" but actually well-made sets.  I'd like to see him, or anybody, given a lot of money create a duplication of the monument in question that would look better -- it just can't be done, because the monument itself is made of stone and took decades and millions of dollars to make.  Also, "tedg" comments on the character played by Marie-Saint (hardly my favorite actress) -- he notes that she plays a "prostitute" who is turned patriotic, but he doesn't seem to have been paying enough attention to the film to notice that in the end it is revealed that she is an undercover CIA agent, and not a prostitute at all.Users like this should definately not turn off their vcrs before the end of a movie if they're going to try to post thoughtful comments on it.


                
North By Northwest is classic Hitchcock and is a moive not to be missed. 
There are only a few minor mishaps--> I rank the movie a little lower than perhaps it deserves because the video version has some faded colors.  This may be fixed if re-released in a remastered version.  However, it may also be due to film deterioration (as color movies shot on one real of Kodak) rather than 3, fade over time).The other minor goofs are caused my the time period of the 1959 and the recent jumps is special effects technology.  The actors over blue screens are very obvious in parts.This mistakes cause this not to be a perfect movie, but it is still a classic.  There is great acting and a great story.  You should be engaged and intrigued, and always surprised and what will occur next.  It is also very non-predictable as nobody is safe at anytime, so basically anything can occur in the story.At the same time, the story flows easilly and logically from place to place. (unlike Hitchcock's earlier "Secret Agent" were locations are not fully explained, North by Northwest fully utilizes the locations and uses them to add to the story).Other little idosyncronsies further add to the story as art, airlines, the UN, Mt. Rushmore (plus the fact that 100 pines were planted on an MGM sound-lot to make it look like the surrounding "Rushmore" woods), and a reference to Shakespeare (the title) all add to the story.Originally known as "The Man in Lincoln's Nose", North By Northwest will not disappoint.However, don't miss the bus as Hitchcock makes his appearance before the appearance of Grant, whom the role was written for and whom shows valid reasons for why the James Bond producers wanting him for the James Bond role. (he did not get that role because he would only do 2 or 3 bond movies)Rating: 8Viewed: on tape


                
SPOILERS Everybody loves Hitchcock. It's strange, but irrelevant of how many times you've seen his films, you always find something new in them. Whether it's Anthony Perkins as Norman Bates, Jimmy Stewart in his wheelchair, or Cary Grant scoring on a train, Hitchcock has got some of the most famous actors of the time to confirm their legend status with his films. Hitchcock's films are also remembered for the forever spoofed or replayed scenes which we know and love. The birds on the climbing frame, the shower scene, the Mount Rushmore climb, all these and many more have been given tribute by Matt Groening's 'Simpsons' and in modern culture, you don't get many higher tributes.Written in 1959, 'North by Northwest' is one of Hitchcock's more memorable films. Remembered more for the already mentioned Rushmore scene, the film boasts some genuinely amazing performances, as well as some of Hitchcock's masterful tension. Intense and powerful, it also contains some absolutely superb lines and one of the finest train journeys of all time. It's a brilliant film, ruined ever so slightly by the final 30 seconds which feel rushed and incomplete. Still, at over two hours long, there is so much going for this film that you'll never grow tired of it.Roger O Thornhill (Cary Grant) is just a regular, financially secure advertising executive for a major film. Accidentally mistaken for a spy, Thornhill's life takes an unexpected turn when he is kidnapped and taken to see the evil Phillip Vandamm (James Mason). Plied with alcohol and thrown into a car, Thornhill finds that staying alive has become a new chief priority. Chased by Vandamm and the police at the same time, Thornhill now must uncover the truth behind the mistaken identity and discover just what it is he is meant to know.Led by the enigmatic Grant, 'North by Northwest' is a brilliant film for two key reasons. Firstly, the entire cast are on top notch form. As the unfortunate Thornhill, Grant is exquisite and lights up the screen for every second that he is on screen. At the same time, both Mason as the bad guy and Eva Marie Saint as the love interest fulfil their roles perfectly. They add humour, they add intensity, and most importantly they add intrigue to roles which are stunningly created by writer Ernest Lehman.The second reason for the film's brilliance is the simple way that you are twisted and turned and completely stunned by certain key events. Times like the legendary plane chase, the magnificent realisation of the truth behind Saint's character, all add together to produce a film which is actually rather special.In fact, aside from one or two incredibly sickening lines, the only real problem with 'North by Northwest' is that ending. Rushed and confused, it feels like Hitchcock has cut ten minutes out of the end to reduce the film's length. This is obviously not the case and it's just been written badly, but the haste with which the film just stops is a mild irritation, if purely because your so hyped up on adrenaline from the rest of the film. In a way, it's a bit like watching live sport only for someone to turn off the match with ten minutes left and tell you the final score. Sometimes a calming down period and a proper resolution are needed, and sadly in 'North by Northwest' this never appears.In possession of some of the most famous film moments in history, Hitchcock's 'North by Northwest' is a brilliant film. Well written and acted, it is a roller-coaster ride which never lets off until it's disappointing rushed conclusion. With so much intensity throughout, it feels weird that the film does climax in such a way, but ultimately for the two hours plus before hand, you can forgive the creators for their impatience. Beautiful to watch, and powerful throughout, 'North by Northwest' is justifiably one of Hitchcock's finest.
North by Northwest is a breezy espionage thriller, much lighter in tone than Hitchcock's later cold war spy movies, Topaz and Torn Curtain, and a whole lot more enjoyable as a result. Cary Grant plays Madison Avenue advertising executive Roger O. Thornhill, who is abducted by ruthless spy Phillip Vandamm (James Mason) and his cohorts, who have mistaken him for an FBI agent named George Kaplan. Unable to convince the enemy of his real identity, Roger escapes and goes on the run to look for the real Kaplan, aided by a beautiful, mysterious blonde Eve Kendall (Eva Marie Saint).The action moves along at a brisk pace, with charismatic lead Grant making for a likeable protagonist and Hitchcock delivering a couple of his most iconic scenes-the crop duster attack and the finalé on Mount Rushmore-both of which are excellent. It's not all perfection-the moment where Thornhill is framed for murder is laughable, the poor sap grabbing the knife buried in a man's back and then turning towards a news photographer who just happens to have his camera at the ready-but for a couple of hours of pure escapism, North by Northwest is a good way to go.


                
It has the signature of a cool thriller all over it, right from its cool opening credits followed by Hitchcock's cameo. Movie has good background score as always and stylish technical elements. From locations to its camera movements or Cary Grant's drunk driving sequence. Everything stands out. The best thing about the film is its screenplay. It is very exciting and full of twists. I felt surprise at every moment just like Cary Grant's character. Romantic sub-plot isn't as striking as Hitchcock's other films but everything is overshadowed by its engaging story. It is kind of thriller you can watch with ease, it keeps entertaining you. About the cast Cary Grant was quite convincing and so was James Mason. But I really loved Eva Marie Saint. I'm a big fan of her and this time also she stunned me with her fantastic performance. She was just perfect for the role. Such a bold and spellbinding woman. Overall, North by Northwest is one of the coolest thriller I have seen in recent time.


                
Recently, I had to slow down on watching the movies from my Watchlist because of my girlfriend, and finally after a long time I could get her to watch this great piece of cinema.Cary Grant's acting is worth watching the movie, the great pieces of dialogue, the charm and how natural it all looks is amazing. Still, I'd change that pair of gray socks for a pair of black socks anytime.The plot is full of surprises and it's quite hard to predict anything until much later in the movie, so be prepared for quite a few twists along the movie. It's a must watch if you are slightly interested in Hitchcock's work.


                
Aside from Psycho I haven't really been a fan of Hitchcock. I sort of enjoyed Rear Window and The 39 Steps but that was almost it.The main plot is that a man is mistaken for a government agent by foreign agents. he must run across the country to find the real agent and at the same time not get caught. he is also accused for murdering a member of the UN (of whom he mistakes for the person that kidnaps him under the impression he is a government agent).My only major complaint is that the romance dialogue is heavily dated. What may have come across as romantic then comes across as a little perverted now. Lines like "I'm a big girl now" "yes, in all the right places" does not work for a modern audience in terms of believable romance dialogue.Aside from that thing in this movie were well done. Unlike The 39 Steps I could connect to the characters (at least well enough for a 2½ hour movie). The acting was good (but nothing outstanding), the writing was good. I would recommend this to people that want to see Hitchcock at his second best.


                
Hopefully Alfred Hitchcock needs to introduction. he is one of the most influential directors of the last 100 years and has made some of the most original and daring films such as 'Psycho' and 'The Birds'. North by Northwest is a cross country caper and a well made one at that. Unlike the horror genre which he explored, this is an action film that stars Cary Grant and Eva Marie Saint as the leading roles. its about a ordinary man who is confused as a government agent and is on the run cross country to prove his innocence.First let me say Alfred Hitchcock has a knack for casting strong male actors and beautiful female actresses. they both have brilliant performances and Grant as the charming Roger Thornhill no doubt makes you fall in love with him and his cheeky character instantly.The story is a joy to watch as it always is with Hitchcock. His style of making every scene suspenseful and intense makes this film an absolute rush from the first 5 minutes to the final scene. he manages to keep you entertained throughout the film with not a dull moment. this film has been a huge influence on other films such as 'From Russia with Love' with the famous plane scene.A lot of modern film makers continue to look at and be influenced by Hitchcocks work. His legendary camera shots are used in hundreds of films such as the final scene in this where he pulls the girl up from the mountain and it cuts to him pulling her onto his bed. a risky shot but works ever so well and can be seen in modern films. if you are yet to see a Hitchcock film, this is a great starting point, if you have seen his work, this is another classic from him and quite possibly his most memorable. 9/10
North By NorthwestHitchcock's risky and briskly adventure is the apt catalyst to this complex espionage thriller. As much as simply enthralling its first half is, that follows a linear singular path collecting its plot points like a reward the film moves with ferocious pace and nail biting close calls. But the second half is the one with the real meat. Its complex and at times overstuffed characters with their own agendas and schemes does work since the man behind the camera is Hitchcock. He never lets the content go damp which often happens in such husky script. There is a sense of similarity in here to Polanski's Chinatown, starring Nicholson. And similar to it, the uncertainty is the key to its success.The makers are consistently revealing cards in order to keep the audience tangled in the whirls of these flips and turns that can be difficult to swallow. It is a mature script that always chooses over leaving the room with a cutthroat message rather than an explosion. The euphoric energy of the ping pong that the writers play of who is with whom theories, with Hitchcock's sharp execution it never wears off. Also, there is real ruggedness in here, the characters have the range to look elegant and also pull out the most sinister deed of all.Grant as the real victim proving his innocence isn't always in his A game, his performance isn't persistent in its tone. But what saves the day is both Saint's performance and her character, her alluring suave nature and guns blazing unflinchingly puts her on top of the list. Armed with a smart and meticulous adaptation, Hitchcock takes his time, he is milking out the best from each moment. North By Northwest is less Hitchcock-ish than usual, and it is certainly refreshing.


                
What if it were us against the world? What if one day we were to find that we were rogues on the run from people who are telling us that we are rogues on the run? I've imagined this scenario many times and Hitchcock nows how to tell it better than any.This is one of the first great thrillers, so many twists, so many turns that the viewer could miss the clues to vital information very easily so assure that you pay attention to both the primary things and the secondary things.There is really not much more to say about this film without revealing too much apart from Cary Grant giving another great performance as the guy on the run. There is some great, cheesy and surprisingly witty pieces of dialog in here and by the films conclusion everything is pieced together neatly.North By Northwest= 8.5/10


                
I'm feeling a certain amount of pressure to write a review worthy of what is apparently one of the greatest films of all time. Unfortunately, I'm not a cinematography graduate or anything...It's just a great old Hitchcock film, one that is still enjoyable to watch 55 years after it was made. One thing I liked in particular about the movie is how it showed a 1959 America that is sparkling and cool, functional and beautiful. Everyone was dressed up to the hilt. It's like a time machine.I was delighted by the seduction scene between Roger and Eve, especially Eve's sexy forwardness. No wonder Grant's character was bowled over. Saint's performance here was astonishing.Grant's too actually. A real old-school movie star, Grant carried the movie really well. He conveyed a suaveness, charm and sense of humour you just don't see anymore. Times have changed! The film had a fast pace and good story that made you wonder where it was leading and what was coming next. The dialogue is snappy, so you have to listen closely.The movie lacks the naturalness or realism you'd expect in a modern film (that doesn't involve superheroes or giant lizards). Every character was a character. It felt staged, as if every scene was meant to be iconic. There was a certain mannerliness and at times even a campness to it. Not a bad thing at all.Did this movie entertain me? Absolutely. It was entertaining on every level, really. Did this film move me at all? No. Did it have any depth or shed any light on the problems of this world. No.


                
Classic cases of mistaken identity as crooks capture Roger Thornhill (Cary Grant) on suspicion of being the spy George Kaplan. When he escapes and tries to piece it together the authorities don't believe him, to further add insult to injury he's framed for murder. On the run from the law and a foreign spy ring, Thornhill has to stay alive while working out what's going on. A chance encounter with Eve Kendell (Eva Marie Saint) points him in the right direction, but before too long he begins to wonder whose side she is on. Things come to a thrilling climax in front of 4 of America's greatest presidents.Undoubtedly one of Hitchcock's best films, a fast paced, commercial, spy thriller which could have been a James Bond film, before there were James Bond films. Beautiful scenery, narrative, delivery, and general mise-en-scene make this an absolute tour-de-force - even 40-50 years later. Lots of vivid colours and stunning visuals throughout with plenty of artistic signatures from the famed director added to vehicle of the film. Some tongue in cheek fun - when you watch it bear in mind that Hitchcock enjoyed pushing the boundaries of enjoyment for audiences, so you will see things that seem totally ludicrous - just suspend your disbelief and sit back, you'll enjoy the film if you don't question it.If you enjoy old-fashioned films that don't rely on CGI then this is an absolute classic to enjoy. 8 out of 10 - a perfect wrong-man caper for a lazy Sunday.
I gotta tell ya, Cary Grant was absolutely brillant in this thriller action film. It was quite enjoyable to watch an oldie like this when at that time, action was fresh and just done right! 8/10 I give it!


                
No introductions. You get directly into the subject. There is a man Mr. Thornhill. He has been misjudged as a spy. The police and a group of people are trying hard to get to him. There are a lot of things in the film. There is no dullness. New and interesting things happen every now and then. While it misses the usual charm of the Hitchcock thriller, it has some of the best and authentic chase sequences I had ever seen. This is again one of the Hitchcock films, not to be missed.PROS:The screenplay is awesome and does not have the glitches with which old films suffer when seen by today's generation. The lead actress Eva has shown mind blowing performances. The same what had been seen by Tippie Hedron in The birds. The cinematography as usual is good in this film too. The opening title sequence was kind of grabbing attention. The good thing about the film is the authentic way that they show how a common man gets involved in all the hassle. While the outline of the film matches that of The Wrong man (1956), the tone of both the films is entirely different. The wrong man was more of a depressing type where you feel sad about him, whereas here you have a cheerful tone all the time. Neither the accused nor the people related to him look tensed. While this thing gives a feel that the characters lose some kind of authenticity, but then it completely changes the tone of the film also. And during the entire viewing of the film, the audience will not be sad and emotional. This thing generates a good feeling all the time. The role of the mother of Mr. Thornhill was short but too impressive. She did not bothered much about her son's safety and took everything so casually that it generates question, whether she was the real mother or not. The ending is particularly notable. Cons:The way I see it, Cary Grant was not impressive. It was the story and the supporting cast that has saved the film. His acting was mediocre. MESSAGE: "Do not lose your calm."VERDICT: "A recommended watch."


                
Directed by Alfred Hitchcock, the master of suspense, the style of film making is composed of a few key traits that results in the movie being ranked so high.The plot is novel and there are plenty of plot twists that keep the audience constantly engaged. The film is a great mystery thriller that has inspired countless films over the years, but remains the gold-standard in classic star vehicles: imaginative, romantic, exciting, funny, and endlessly entertaining. It incorporates a number of Hitchcock trademarks, from visual striking camera work, humour, and his often used technique of keeping the hapless hero in the dark until the end of the movie.The film begins by dropping us right in the middle of confusion: Roger Thornhill (Cary Grant), a Madison Avenue business executive, is mistaken for a George Kaplan, supposedly a government agent, by Phillip Vandamm (James Mason), a spy. Thornhill insists that Vandamm has the wrong man, but Vandamm is unconvinced and decides to kill him anyway. Thornhill escapes, but ends up on the wrong side of the law. While trying to clear himself, he digs himself deeper into the hole resulting in both the police and Vandamm's thugs hot on his pursuit, resulting in a 3000-mile cross-country chase. While on the run, he bumps into Eve Kendall (Eva Mary Saint) . Thornhill is caught between feelings for Eve, risk of death from Vandamm's goons, and a U.S. government agency with a vested interest in continuing the charade. How all this is resolved in a clear and consistent manner is what makes this script and direction so great.However, writing and direction alone, as imaginative as it is here, do not make for the greatest movies. All of the actors do an excellent job in realizing the potential in the script: Cary Grant and Eva Marie Saint offer rock-solid performances. Martin Landau is a great villain as Vandamm's henchman. This is acting at its most brilliant.The dialogues are amazing, they stay in your memory for time to come.The movie is so action-packed that it is easy forget some of the holes in the plot. These are minor quibbles - the plot twists are so numerous, and lead our attention in so many directions that we don't notice Hitchcock's sleight-of-hand.To conclude,NBN is filled with sly humour and many memorable scenes including the unforgettable crop dusting scene and the finale atop Mt. Rushmore, North by Northwest is a trip always worth the ride.
Over time, it seems like Hitchcock went from a sure-fire formula for fast-paced thrillers to glossy melodramas to thrillers of a philosophically and symbolically ambitious order. North by Northwest looks like a tinker toy or a daydream after The Wrong Man and Vertigo. Hitchcock and Lehman are not especially serious about their whodunit and allow the spirit of Hitchcock's Gaumont halcyon days to breathe with new VistaVision life. With a whimsical bearing and an offhand drollness, they're spinning their welcomingly familiar wheels right from the start as they unravel a cheerfully unlikely plot. Their literal and figurative pinnacle is carried a little too far and there's the occasional hazier patch, but they do pilot us on a most picturesque, absorbing and joyous chase. Hitchcock's glossy, ironic, mistrustful thriller encapsulated the spirit of the time entirely: Cold War dubiousness, refined modernization, the entomological commotion of city life and a suggestion of alarm behind the silky suits of prosperity.Shadow of a Doubt was another, in my opinion better, thriller by Hitchcock that evoked the darkness beneath a civilized gloss. It was one of the things Hitchcock was best at doing. He could make a cymbal a signal of death and a glass of milk too, for that matter. But what makes North by Northwest charming in its own right, aside from one of the greatest film scores ever written, is its modernism. It's not a matter of tradition as a façade, but the closest thing to the life we return to when the movie's over. This is the world being lived in at the moment of the story's unraveling. And yet you can still be picked out of huge crowd and mistaken for a spy. A fancy art auction can still be a life-or-death strategy game for a microfilm of government secrets.Cary Grant gives the 39 Steps and Saboteur formula a three-dimensional quality with a persona that had aged like wine. Thinking of the dashing, black-haired dork of The Awful Truth or Gunga Din or Arsenic and Old Lace, it's so welcome to see him twenty years later managing those inimitable contortions, flabbergasted looks, nippy grins and gallantry with certified style and refinement. He may be the wrong guy, but he's still culpable for the smugness, materialism and negligence in his expository interactions. Thornhill is a lucrative ad exec, making a living by misrepresenting truth and deluding society. He shall be divested of his self-satisfied finish by progressively more noxious situations, and redress his improprieties before he can be freed from indictments of lethal ones.This, more in the first half of the movie than the second, brings out the best of his bone-dry incredulity. He's hilarious because of how petty he makes his more-than-legitimate outrage seem, like when he tells his kidnappers it's one thing to be abducted, but he had tickets for the theatre tonight that he was very much looking forward to. Even close to the end, he's justifying his endangerment of himself to see all the intrigue through to the finish because he doesn't want to shortchange the incomes of his dependent mother, ex-wife and bartender.Again though, if you need Cary to play off a female co-star, why in the world would it not be Irene Dunne? You need a distinctive, idiosyncratic charmer to add depth to Eve Kendall, because she's nothing more than another in Hitchcock's long line of passive blonde decorations. And after Doris Day drew out one of his fullest, most urgent female performances in The Man Who Knew Too Much, the safe, cursory timidity of the boundaries succumbed to by Jill St. John seems bolstered.While not as cunningly inventive as Strangers on a Train, or as shrewdly flirtatious as Notorious, this is one of Hitchcock's most pleasurable American thrillers. It just doesn't have the drum-tight, pared-down briskness of The 39 Steps or The Lady Vanishes, so it carries on too long, softening the mold holding together an assortment of scenes and actions it's obliged to make room for, such as the crop-duster sequence of course, as well as the manhunt on Mt. Rushmore, or Thornhill evading his pursuers at an auction by shocking the room with ludicrous bids. Still though, they're model set pieces, with a graciously high cinematic spirit.


                
One of the best Hitchcock films, "North By Northwest" can be interpreted on many levels. On one hand this is a suspense extravaganza, with the plot featuring more twists and turns than a roller-coaster ride, and with some of the most impressive sequences ever, particularly the airplane scene and the chase at Mount Rushmore. This is impeccably shot, and it shows. Even the love affair between the 2 protagonists takes advantage of the settings, displaying irony and cynicism.On the other hand, as a character study this is even more interesting. Roger Thornhill, your average middle-class advertising executive leading a dull life, out of a twist of fate is mistaken for a government spy, and becomes the target for the criminal group of Phillip Vandamm. The film's intense pace takes the form of a dream, a person that loses control of his life and then transforms to the person he's mistaken for. Roger Thornhill, half by accident and half by his own will transforms to spy decoy George Kaplan.The board of government spy directors, led by the Professor, represents the forces that control destiny. They control both Eve Kendall's and Thornhill's fate. And they choose to dispatch with Thornhill altogether since he doesn't fit the general scheme of things. Thornhill gets entangled in a Kafka-esquire nightmare. Kendall, the femme fatale, is a government spy herself trying to uncover Vandamm by working closely on his side and being his lover. A Freudian labyrinth.Thornhill manages to be in charge of his own destiny, to the point where he gets to play a vital role to the people around him. The government now wants to use him, Eve Kendall falls in love with him but he also jeopardizes her mission, and ditto for Vandamm, now sure that Thornhill really is Kaplan. The surprising ending also contributes to the film's dream-like feel, with a sudden switch from a near-death scene to a generic happy ending. It can be translated two ways, either an ironic take on film endings, or Thornhill's fantasy. A fantasy within a fantasy.
The greatness of North by Northwest may be measured in part by its imitators. Two of my favorite movies, both made since 1959, are "Silver Streak" and "The Sting". Both were very popular movies that borrowed heavily from it. It is easy to look back now, see the scenes with Cary Grant on the train, and say " I've seen this before". Sure, in "Silver Streak", which had Gene Wilder and Jill Clayburgh trading sexual innuendos across the dinner table ("I give great phone" was one line) just as Cary Grant and Eva Marie Saint did. Or to watch the climactic gun battle between Robert Redford and Paul Newman in "The Sting" and have the same reaction. Both of these movies, made in the 70's, were big hits, but how many people knew that Hitchcock deserved half the credit? As I watched this movie again (hadn't seen it for a long time), I was also struck by Martin Landau's understated but captivating performance. Based on his work in this film, he would have been just right for the part of Mr Spock in Star Trek, a role that Gene Rodenberry wanted him to take. Cool and emotionless playing next to James Mason, one can definitely see the Spock in him.


                
