I went into this film with the knowledge that it had been the second film in history to win the 'top five' Oscars (for Best Picture, Best actor, Best actress, Best director and best screenplay) and has been praised as "one of Jack Nicholson's finest roles" and "one of the classics of the 70's". Naturally, after hearing all this, I had high expectations for One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest. But nonetheless, I was surprised at how easily the film surpassed my expectations and easily led me to understand how it merited all that praise.Based on the novel by Ken Kesey, the story follows Randle Patrick McMurphy (Jack Nicholson), who, in an attempt to get out of spending more time in prison, pleads insanity for his crime, and is therefore sentenced to time in a mental institution. This was McMurphy's intention, as he believes the conditions in a "crazy house" will be significantly easier to contend with than another harsh stay in prison. However, he quickly finds out that surviving the institution with it's desolate patients (including Christopher Lloyd, Danny DeVito, Vincent Schiavelli and an absolutely brilliant Brad Dourif as the stuttering Billy Bibbit) and the monstrously repressive Nurse Ratchet (Louise Fletcher, in a career defining role) is considerably harder than he imagined. McMurphy plays pranks, horseplay, and is generally defiant to the rules of the institution in an attempt to raise spirits. His constant optimism and reckless defiance to the out of date rules in the institution can be very uplifting, and often quite funny as well, but much of the movie can be very depressing - the generally decrepit state of the institution is a consistently (and intentionally) bleak background to a superb story with a truly bittersweet ending.Jack Nicholson is at his best here, head and shoulders above other excellent performances such as in 'Chinatown' or 'As Good as it Gets'. McMurphy is an apparently unquenchable optimist, refusing to succumb to the defeated spirit of all the other patients. His livewire antics, inspiring the patients are generally uplifting, and when his indomitable spirit is finally broken, we really feel for him and his fellow patients. Nicholson conveys the essence of McMurphy to perfection, demonstrating his excellent understanding and interpretation of the character. When McMurphy announces that he is going to lift a huge stone fountain and hurl it through the window to escape, the other patients are so caught up in his intoxicating spirit of freedom that they honestly believe he can do it, despite the fact it would be impossible for a man much stronger than him. When McMurphy finally discovers that despite his best efforts, he cannot lift the fountain, he is so openly crushed that we can't help but feel for him. Beneath the frequent profanities and livewire antics, there are real human emotions, which come across as truly touching.What can be said about One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest which hasn't already been said? It has an excellent storyline, top notch acting, painfully bleak visuals, perfectly setting the tone for the movie, and alternates between being truly uplifting to devastatingly depressing. It features perhaps the most memorable film ending ever, next to a man on his horse riding off into the sunset, and leaves the viewer beaten down by the conflicting emotions, unaware what to think of the picture next to reveling in it's glorious entirety. It's hard to produce a final outcome any better than this.-10/10


                
Jack Nicholson is a great actor. No, not a great actor, a spectacular actor. This is a film from fairly early in his career, as well as it is for several other actors in this film, who later have had long, great careers too, including Danny DeVito, Christopher Lloyd and Brad Dourif. The film has some unforgettable moments... who could forget Louise Fletcher's icy stare, Jack Nicholson's smart-aleck remarks or Will Sampson's impressive, almost entirely silent performance? The film portrays the horrible truth about how patients were treated in mental institutions back then, and tells the story of someone who desperately wanted to break out, to rebel, to change things, for himself and for the others. I was compelled by this film, from the very first frame. I never took my eyes off it, and I will definitely be thinking about this film for a while. I thought it was great the way one of the very first frames depicted the institution as something far more similar to a prison than a hospital. Milos Forman did a great job of making that contrast very powerful to the viewer. The film is very moving and a truly beautiful cinematic experience. Every single actor gives a stellar performance, every single character is perfectly written, every single line, every single frame is absolutely perfect. I wouldn't change a thing in this film. It has a great pace, you never lose interest, but it never seems to be rushing to get through it, either. It's simply perfect. I have not read the original book, but if I ever come across it, I might check it out. I have only seen this film once, but I will definitely watch it many times in years to come. I recommend this amazing piece of great cinema to anyone who has at least a slight interest in the drama genre, or any fan of any of the actors, as they are all in their absolute prime in this film. 10/10


                
Based on the amazing novel by Ken Kesey, Randall Patrick McMurphy is an antisocial and dangerous man no different than a petty criminal, placed in a mental ward to have his behavior studied. He makes friends with lunatics and starts his own circle of admiration within the hospital, much to the dismay of Nurse Ratched, the central authority figure in the story and one of the greatest movie villains ever.The movie exists to show not only how corrupt and poorly-constructed society's approach to the "mentally unstable" is, but it creates characters that we have all met in life and shows how the McMurphy-like figure that we all wish we had fights for freedom of choice and basic human rights. In addition to the movie's great spirit, the acting is fantastic. Jack Nicholson is at his best and Danny DeVito can be seen in his very first acting role ( which he absolutely triumphs in ). And of course, there's the unforgettable Chief Bromden. The directing by Milos Forman is very well-done, as the camera-work is excellent and follows the pace of the movie perfectly in how it is used. What really impressed me was the editing, especially as far as the use of audio goes: some parts just made me go "...wow."My only complaint is that I believe the movie could've been slightly more effective if it were based more closely on the novel at certain points, but the modified point of view of the film does make a great point; anyone who has ever hated their job, been accused of something, had some person so self-righteous and convinced of their own authority and dependency on order get in your way, or attended the American public school system at any point in their life should be able to identify with this movie.


                
What a movie, what an excellent movie!!! That is what first went through my mind after seeing this masterpiece. I've seen many movies, but there aren't much movies which had such an impact on me. Nowadays almost all filmmakers believe they can only make a good movie by adding loads of special effects and lots of huge explosions ... This movie is so good, so convincing without them. The actors played their roles in such a convincing way that you would think these weren't actors at all, but real psychiatric patients.This movie may be 30 years old, but it hasn't lost any of its relevancy. OK, we don't put our mentally ill people in that kind of prisons anymore, the bars in front of the windows have gone and now we call it hospitals in stead of nut houses. But the treatment hasn't changed all that much. I once worked in such a hospital as a volunteer and still saw things like forced feeding, giving people so much medication until they no longer know who or where they are,...When the movie first came out, some people were shocked because when you watch the movie, you can't help it feeling more attached to the patients than to the doctors and nurses. This movie shows that cinema can make a difference. It can help to open people's eyes. If there is a movie that should be seen by everyone, this sure is the one. I give it a well deserved 10/10.


                
The opening shot of ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOO'S NEST is a bleak  glance at an Oregon morning.  Stirring, haunting music plays gracefully on the soundtrack and a car approaches.  Inside the car is one of film history's most remarkable characters.   "Randle McMurphy" is about to bring hope, humor, and a glimmer of reality to some disturbed people in a mental hospital. Jack Nicholson as "McMurphy", is something of a paradox.  Is this guy crazy or is he really the lazy, conniving criminal most believe him to be?  That is the magical mystery and start to a journey into mental illness and the effect this man will have on some truly messed up men.Milos Forman directs this all-time classic, which swept the Oscars deservedly, and holds up so well 25 years later.  It is a simplistic film about small people living in their own small worlds.  Manic moments are mixed with poignant acting all leading to an astounding climax.  Not before or since CUCKOO'S NEST has a collection of different characters had such an impact on me.  You could write a book report about each of the patients in the ward.  The two most important people here are, of course, Jack Nicholson and Louise Fletcher.Nicholson has his greatest moments in this picture.  One brilliant scene has him doing an imaginary play-by-play commentary of the 1963 World Series to the group, who are not allowed to watch the game on TV.  It is a poetic sequence and Nicholson goes crazy with his delivery, describing baseball with colorful anecdotes and profanity.  "McMurphy" immediately makes an impression on the crazies and shows them how they don't have to stick to the "normal routine".  He knows their names right away, he sprays them with water, he makes impossible bets with them, he introduces them to fishing, and he even gets a suffering young kid (played well by Brad Dourif) a "date".  Louise Fletcher plays one of the more reprehensible human beings in film as "Nurse Mildred Ratched".  She is a hardened woman, one who makes the daily meetings with the group a contest to see who will win.  Her stubbornness and lack of compassion for the poor guys is rather one dimensional.  That's perfect because that is exactly who she is.  Her strong will to keep things monotonous leads to a final showdown with the free spirited "McMurphy" in what is easily one of the most shocking and disturbing climaxes in recent memory.ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOO'S NEST does not try to make a statement about mental illness or how the unstable should be treated.  Rather, it is a very simple portrait of the long days and hilarious scenarios that can come about when a mixed bag of suffering people are thrown together.  Mental illness is nothing to laugh about, but the fact that Nicholson is not really crazy (at least in my opinion) allows us to be amused.  He seems to love his compadres in the hospital.  He is mislead, however, into thinking he can do as he pleases.There is no denying the power of CUCKOO'S NEST.  The two main powerhouse performances are golden, the cinematography is morbid and gritty like it should be, the "Chief" is great as Nicholson's right hand, ah, protagonist, and you care a lot about what will happen as the film moves on.  The famous, final shot ironically happens to be an exit of a major character into that bleak, Oregon morning. NOTE: I have never read the book and I find it hard to believe author Ken Kesey has never watched the filmed version.  Comparing a book to a movie is impossible.  They are 2 distinctly different artistic methods of story-telling.


                
Milos Forman's One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest is a landmark (one of the few I might add) in cinema. Pretty much everything in this film is at or close to perfection. And rightfully so, it became only the 2nd (1 in 3 films in history along with It Happened One Night and Silence of the Lambs) film to win the top five Oscars- Best Picture, Actor (Jack Nicholson), Actress (Louise Fletcher), Director (Forman), and Screenplay (Bo Goldman).The story (based on Ken Kessey's astounding, though not too similar, novel) focuses on a rowdy misfit named Randle Patrick McMurphy (Nicholson) who is put in a mental hospital with other people (some voluntarily in) who are not all there. Some of these guys include Danny DeVito (in his first role), Christopher Lloyd, Brad Dourif (in his Oscar nominated role) and the never forgettable Will Sampson who played the Chief. The film, It's actors and scenes will always be terrific achievements in cinema and is one of my favorites.


                
First thing's first, while I watched this movie, I found myself stunned. This movie so entertained the viewer, as it did fascinate, and inform. A chilling, disturbing, and revealing look into the mental institutions as seen through the eyes of a con. Jack Nicholson, Louise Fletcher, Brad Dourif, Danny DeVito, and Christopher Lloyd, round out the excellent, and very well casted cast.Jack Nicholson brilliantly plays Randall Patrick McMurphy, an ex-con, who fakes being mentally insane, to enter the institution. As he goes to the hospital, he doesn't realize, that the people, and the atmosphere there is so out there. The patients are really psycho, and creepy. Randall, must try and survive these days, before he has to go to Jail. He has to entertain himself while at the same time, find good in this place of craziness.Lousie Fletcher plays Nurse Ratched, a soft; but strong willed nurse, who will not take anything from anyone, or put up with misbehavior. She watches Randall, and notices something different about him, he's not as psycho as the others, but he is a little out there. Her job is tough indeed, having to put up with all these men, who don't listen, some go crazy and throw fits, and others just sit there and don't do anything.Randall meets many new friends in this place, Brad Dourif who plays Billy Bibbit, is a mentally unstable, but voluntarily institutionalized person. Danny DeVito plays Martini, a slow but charming and sweet man, who means know harm in what he does or say. Christopher Lloyd plays Taber, a man, who also voluntarily institutionalized himself. He also meets Chief, a big 'dumb, and deaf' Indian, who happens to like to play basketball. Randall must try and survive these days with his new friends, and the hospital, as well as an everlasting war as to which they can watch the world series on TV. Put up with Nurse Ratched, and the other patients, doctors, vistors, and nurses. Ultimately leading up to a dramatic finale, that makes you want to stand up and cheer.I think what was best about this film was the realism. I had no problem believing that this was happening. Almost like a documentary, it was striking and powerful, making the viewer not want to stop watching till the end. Some of the sequences are memorable as the basketball game, and the fishing trip. Jack Nicholson, who as always plays his character absolutely excellent, and makes the viewer want to hand him an Oscar himself.The supporting cast, Louise Fletcher, Danny DeVito, Christopher Lloyd, and Brad Dourif also give terrific performances. Danny, Christopher, and Brad's careers all were made with this superb movie. It's all sentimental, funny, dramatic, intense, chilling, disturbing, diverting, and tragic. The finale leaves the viewer stunned and sitting there thinking about what he just saw. See this film, and believe it. I think you will find, its one of the BEST ever.The second film to win all five major Oscars: Best Picture, Best Actor (Nicholson), Best Actress (Fletcher), Director, and Screenplay. And it deserved all of them.Rated R for language, violence, sexual content, and brief nudity.


                
The seventies produced some of the most interesting and worthy Hollywood movies. Before the era of blockbusters, and ever increasing dumbing down of the cinema art by the Hollywood power-brokers and greedy moneymakers, there was this short but truly amazing window of time that produced many of the timeless gems. A great portrayal of oppression, this gem should not be overlooked by anyone. Truly recommended.


                
Not many movies have won the "big five" in the academy awards. It's enough to win just best picture for a lot of movies. This movie portrays every film element to the highest degree, from the beautiful panoramic shots of the mountains outside of the mental institution to the story of ultimate redemption McMurphy and Chief find at the end.The movie is seen through the eyes of Randle McMurphy (Nicholson). He is sent to the mental institution because he would rather be considered "insane" and live in "luxury" other than being a jailbird in prison. Once he gets into the actual living area where the insane are, he looks up at this tall, native looking man they call "Chief". McMurphy's initial reaction to Chief was his little Indian dance he did to mock him, but once Chief didn't react McMurphy asked him if he played football and says to chief, "God damn, boy, you're as big as a mountain." Little by little, you could see their friendship start to unfold out throughout the movie.In One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, the title "villain" would definitely belong to Nurse Ratched. She gave threats to the patients, she was even friends with one of the patient's (Billy) mom. She also tries to toy with McMurphy's mind by trying to get him to conform with the customs of mental facility. It doesn't work out for her as planned. Including a classic scene where Nurse Ratched's threats cause little Billy to commit suicide. In rage, McMurphy has seen enough and actually chokes her out. This causes McMurphy to go through a lobotomy and become a vegetable at his stay at the clinic.I know many people probably disagree with this but, I think Chief killing McMurphy at the end was beautiful as much as it was heartbreaking. It symbolized that McMurphy, still had a chance to redeem himself and become a hero, even if it were death. It also gave Chief clearance to finally "escape" the premises and "fly from the cuckoo's nest", and how he did it at the end was classic. That's what makes this movie one of the greatest of all time, not only because of the sensational acting and the sociological significance, but because of the message and symbolism of the story.The directing by Milos Foreman was phenomenal, not only with the memorable acting by Jack Nicholson, but with the camera shots he used in certain scenes. For example, the scene before McMurphy was about to get electro-shock therapy they show a very close up angle of him to show the intensity and crowdedness he had to go through while getting the shock treatment. Nicholson also makes it pretty believable that he is actually getting shocked, by making "gurgling" noises and such.They actually go back to the "lying down" closed angle shot at the end of the movie when Nicholson passes away. I thought it was very brave of the director to keep that long shot of McMurphy's dead self, because by making it last as though it were a still shot, to me it seemed more and more believable that McMurphy was actually dead. I don't know how Nicholson just lied there stiff as a board. I know he may have won his Oscar because of his heroic and charismatic character, but how he dealt with himself in those two scenes is what tickles my fancy.The ideology of this film is, in my opinion, what makes it one of the greatest of all time. The story brings up the question of who's actually the insane; McMurphy and his patients, or Nurse Ratched and the staff? Clinically, McMurphy was not insane. Even the doctors and professors stated that, but since he didn't follow the norms and the dictatorship of Nurse Ratched, he had to stay at the sanitarium longer. I also loved the allusion of Chief, by acting deaf and dumb. He played the omniscient or "god-like" role of hearing and seeing everything, yet not saying anything himself. It almost seems as he was the narrating the story until he befriended McMurphy.I don't know if I could think of a more evil villain in a movie other than Nurse Ratched (Louise Fletcher). The evil looks she gave to her patients when they were doing something wrong was as cold-hearted as one could get. Also her audacity to tell Billy's mother about his sexual deviance is as sinister as you can get. She knew that it would hurt Billy deeply, which was a major reason he was "insane" is because of his relationship with his mother. He eventually killed himself, angering McMurphy.I never thought I would cheer out loud when a grown man was choking out a little woman, but I did here. This scene did a fantastic job of not making it taboo, but making you want her dead even more. This did change Nurse Ratched however, it made her a little nicer to the patients at the end and made her realize that if she abuses her power as a nurse, it can come back to haunt her.The meaning of this story is wonderful and helped Jack Nicholson set the bar for acting. The symbolism of Chief's and McMurphy's redemption serves as a corner stone for many many movies today. Whether it be the costumes of the patients, the crazy acting, or even the beautiful classic shot at the end of the movie where Chief runs out to freedom; This movie will never be forgotten. And it serves as a good lesson for everyone out there who feels left out can all come together and get freedom. I advise anybody who says they love movies to watch this film, because it will not only change your views, it will change your life and you can't say that about a lot of movies.
This is undeniably one of the best films ever made in the history of movie making.. In 1975, "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest" swept all four major academy awards... Best Actor (Jack Nicholson) Best Actress (Louise Fletcher) Best Direstor (Milos Foreman) and, of course, Best Picture!! Only on very rare occasion does this occur... Only a handful of films may lay claim to such an honor!! "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest" is a stunning portrayal of mental illness, and how even the most affluent nation on earth (The U.S.A.) is totally unequipped to deal with it properly!! Jack Nicholson's performance in this movie is one of the greatest performances ever by an actor... The array of all the psychologically debilitating diseases was itemized to a flawless state of depressing realism.. The emotional explanations for the dysfunctional dispositions with everyone in "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest" were so astutely broken down that it evoked a concise indication that not just any producers, directors, actors or actresses could partake in this film!! Such a depiction upholds the proverbial contention that if you are not mentally disturbed when you go into the "Booby Hatch" you will be when you get out of it!! In the case of Jack Nicholson's character, he seemed relatively non-culpable for any intense psychiatric affliction, it was a matter of slight discrepancies!! It is as if he was severely punished for not finishing his cereal at breakfast time!! The talent in this movie is incredible.. I liked the television show "Taxi" and it stands to reason why... So many of the actors who starred in "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest" were in the T.V. Show "Taxi" too!! The gripping conversation which dealt with a man who was impotent was perhaps the single most poignant part of this film!! The line I remember in particular was "Do me a favor and don't be on my side, okay"... In the "normal" world, the average person is burdened in his ability to communicate with someone else due to a conflict of interests!! In the case of a poorly funded mental health facility, this apocalyptic predicament manifests itself horrendously, and thus has an intolerable proliferation!! Authorities in the mental hospital are restricted by a serious lack of funding, so they are quick to generalize!! The overall situation which garners societal sympathy at a mental health facility is categorized as "sad" and platitudes such as "we will do all we can" are everybody's precarious form of consolation!!! Mental illness gets a generic label, and, from there, becomes something which is basically swept under the rug!! Here is where the film "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest" expounds on their abysmal dissertation concerning mental illness!!"One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest" was based on a true story!! Mr McMurphy (Jack Nicholson) was a lone rebel from start to finish with this film!! Whatever the orderlies or the nurses would say, he would disagree with!! It was always an issue that could not be looked at rationally by one patient or the other that compounded the dilemma of mental anguish... Such a plight became the culprit to a lack of thorough communication, and thus invoked an overreaction from the administration of the hospital!! You are branded mentally ill and that is all anyone has to know!! The total lack of egalitarian commiseration with administration was why McMurphy was so belligerent!! The status quo was to subject patients to grave consequences for their actions... Are the nurses and administrators wrong for doing this? Usually not!! It was the gray matter in this film that made it so intellectually riveting!! Mental health patients are often times aware of the fact that they are vilified in the same manner you would a bunch of seven year old kids for not doing their school work!! Their self respect gets relegated to a bureaucratic mandate, and all of this is subconsciously and consciously demoralizing!! If someone were to have a conversation with Charles Manson, they would realize so many depraved patterns of illogical behavior to him, however, if Charles Manson were to say that two plus two equals four, the correct answer does not get changed to five!! What is the point of this example? Mental health patients are not inaccurate in every assessment that they make, just because they are labeled mentally challenged!! What was Mr McMurphy's contention with so many issues is that he would assume a premise of mutual self respect when engaging in an argument with an orderly... This is not a case of defiance, rather an instance of a one on one debate... How quickly the administration would then resort to the cop out of "Well!!" "What do you expect!!" "This guy is mentally ill"I have never seen a film like this one!! "Woman Under The Influence" which was made around the same time was incredibly spellbinding as well... "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest" however, is something which should be put in a category all by itself!! Director, Milos Foreman articulates cerebral despondence to a state of dissonant plausibility with this film!! This becomes an avenue for political debate... Foreman's movie breaks ground on mental illness being one big cacophony of our nation's failure to communicate!! Louise Fletcher is tremendous as Nurse Ratched, her dedication to the tenets of disciplinary policy became vicariously ruthless, her devotion to this standard was extremely deep rooted!! Nurse Ratched's insolence was an aspect of infuriation that was in of itself amazingly thought provoking!! As I have previously mentioned, Jack Nicholson was excellent as McMurphy, the mental health patient who reoriented the ideology of what it means to deal with mental illness... Tremendous film, maybe the best American film ever made... Do you think that sounds strong? Watch the movie first and then tell me I am exaggerating!! REMARKABLE!! UTTERLY REMARKABLE!!


                
I cannot overrate this movie. I watched it last night so I'm writing this review with it still fresh in mind. I had high expectations knowing all the rewards that rained down on it, but the film and Jack Nicholson's performance in particular still managed to surprise me.R.P. McMurphy (Jack Nicholson) is transferred to a mental institution for evaluation after given a short sentence on a prison farm for statutory rape charges. He tries to make the most of his suspected short stay in the hospital and challenges the head nurse (Louise Fletcher) at every chance he gets.Anthony Hopkins has done a great intelligent psychopath, but no one does crazy better than Nicholson. I loved his performance in "The Shining" and am ashamed to say I have yet to see "As Good as it Gets" (one of three movies he won best actor Oscars for). He delivered an average performance in "The Departed" and isn't getting any younger, but I do hope he gives us at least one more role that comes close to the show he put on in Cuckoo's Nest. Watching his interaction with the other patients made me believe on some occasions I was seeing a comedy, but the movie quickly reminds us it can be just as depressing as it is funny.It's hard to find fault with "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest". Louise Fletcher did a great job as the leading actress and strong performances by all the supporting characters made the movie brilliant. Good screenplay, good directing and the music by Jack Nitzsche played nicely with the film.I've seen some hate about the ending, but in my opinion it couldn't have been better. McMurthy could have jump out of the window when he had the chance and I think most of us were rooting for him to do so, but what he does next shows the strong bond formed with his odd friends inside the hospital.The movie left me emotionally blank for a while and then I just felt sad. I'm not going to drop any major spoilers on this site as I know some of you still haven't seen it, but it's one of the few movies that have truly left me staring at the end credits in awe.Conclusion:It ranks as one of the best in my book alongside "The Shawshank Redemption" and "Pulp Fiction". See this movie with the highest expectations and chances are it will surpass them!250moviereviews.wordpress.com


                
It took a dozen years for One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest to make it to the big screen from Broadway. In 1962 Kirk Douglas made his one and only return to Broadway to star as Randall P. McMurphy on stage with Joan Tetzel as his nemesis, nurse Ratched. Douglas bought the screen rights, but by the time anyone was interested in doing the film version, Kirk was too old for the part.That may have been a break for the movie fans because as much as I like Kirk Douglas, I can't see anyone but Jack Nicholson doing this role as the free spirited McMurphy. McMurphy's a low level career criminal type who statutorily raped a girl as he put it '15 going on 35'. He decides to fake a crazy act while in prison to get out of the work farm he's assigned to.So Nicholson's goes to the mental hospital where he meets an odd assortment of people whom he discovers voluntarily checked themselves in there, mainly because it's easier to stay there and not take all your psychological baggage into society. That's a crucial difference that Nicholson finds out the hard way, his new friends most of them can pack up and leave anytime they want. He's sent there by the state and the state determines when he's ready to go even if it's past the allotted jail time he was sentenced to.The state in this case is Louise Fletcher as Nurse Ratched, one of the great Dickensian names ever given a movie character. Louise is the ultimate control freak and these people who've shut themselves away from life are her ultimate tools. When Nicholson comes in, he hasn't given up on life like the rest of these poor souls, he becomes a threat to Fletcher's little empire.It's hard to believe that such a smart guy like McMurphy would not have known the rules about commitment. Still it doesn't detract a bit from the overall quality of One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest.Though the topic is not a fixed one to any era, the script does leave many oblique references to the Sixties in the film. The electroshock treatment and the lobotomy operations depicted here were by 1975 no longer in use. They were pretty barbaric and the mental health profession discarded these, but not before too many lives were shattered with them. One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest swept the main Oscar categories, it won for Best Picture, Best Director for Milos Forman, Best Actor for Jack Nicholson, Best Actress for Louise Fletcher and Best Adapted Screenplay to Lawrence Hauban and Bo Goldman. Brad Dourif was nominated for Best Supporting Actor, but he lost to George Burns in The Sunshine Boys.Louise Fletcher never got the career mileage she should have for playing Nurse Ratched. It took her years, but she did get another career role in television as the ruler of Bejor, Kai Winn on Star Trek Deep Space Nine.One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest is one timeless classic, it will be popular a millenia from now.


                
Excellent drama with some comedy. All the actors are phenomenal in their interpretations, without any flaws! McMurphy (Jack Nicholson) claims insanity to not go to jail and is admitted to a psychiatric hospital. His vivacity and nonconformity spread to the ward's other patients, who are under the supervision of the oppressive and manipulative nurse Ratched (Louise Fletcher). The conflict of mentalities becomes inevitable, because the nurse does not admit even 'the middle ground' nor a small concession such as letting the patients see a baseball game. As the days pass, the conflict begins to escalate, and in the end, of course, reaches dramatic proportions.This film can be analyzed by several prisms: literally for what it is, a beautiful and dramatic story very plausible and that could very well happen in reality, demonstrating well that the abuse of power is never beneficial however well intentioned. Looking more deeply, it is also one of the best allegories on the subject 'individual vs system', demonstrating that however noble the individual is in his intentions, mind and soul, always ends up under the yoke of the tyranny of the system. And it is clear that the system (whatever it is) is always run by despots who are often unaware of it (that they are tyrants), an inevitability of any hierarchical structure. A movie for the ages to appreciate and ponder on.
The more I see older Jack Nicholson films, the more I understand why people think he is such a great actor. One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest is definitely one of those movies that would not be made the same if made today, and as far as I can tell, it is actually pretty accurate for the way mental hospitals worked at the time. The story of a sane man playing crazy and then trying to make the other patients sane while making the nurses crazy, it just has to be seen to be believed. The story is interesting and kinda heartbreaking in the end, (note to self, never fall asleep during an escape attempt, bad things will happen) and it has a great young cast that has gone on to do some great things with Danny DeVito, Christopher Lloyd and Brad Dourif all turning in terrific performances. And yeah, Nurse Ratched is just plain evil. Now excuse me while I rip a sink out of the ground and throw it through a window, I have places to go. 5 Beards Out Of 5 Check out my video review https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1chSHnt4zSg


                
Before I discuss this exceptional film, I need to point out that there is a lot of truth to this film if you are looking for what it was like in psychiatric hospitals in the 1950s and into the 60s. The hellish practices and dehumanization was definitely true of many facilities during this era. However, today, many of the horrific abuses are no longer relevant. So, while some will point to this film as proof that psychiatry in general is evil personified (such as the Scientologists), for the most part, this isn't the case today. Shock treatment is rarely done today and when it is, it's nothing like it is portrayed in the film and it actually has therapeutic value when all else fails. Lobotomies are also thankfully a thing of the past. So, while debating the pros and cons of hospitalization and medications is reasonable today, don't assume the film is in any way like psychiatric institutions today--many of which have been closed or severely reduced in size as well as the length of stay of the average patient.The film begins with a cocky sociopathic criminal, McMurphy (Jack Nicholson), being sent to a psychiatric hospital from prison. It seems McMurphy thinks that by "playing crazy" he'll have an easier time and shorter stay in a hospital instead of prison. However, over time, he comes to see that a mental hospital is a pretty sick place--particularly when it comes to the crazy staff who run the place. McMurphy responds to this system by constantly fighting it and trying to subvert their needless rules and control. Some of this is very funny (such as the fishing trip) and you can understand why he would fight the oppressive ways of the hospital. In the end, however, the system ultimately crushes him like so many others. The conclusion is certainly something you won't forget!Although Jack Nicholson was great in the film as were the rest of the ensemble cast, the star in the film was Louise Fletcher. She played the coldest and most awful nurse in the history of film. Her tough performance truly made the film. Otherwise, if she hadn't been so utterly devoid of humanity, the film just wouldn't have worked. Oddly, the film's producers had a hard time accepting her for the job--and she was the last one cast in the film.Exceptional in every way--the writing, acting and direction. The only reservation I have regards the misuse of the film by anti-psychiatry groups. However, I am glad the film was made as the abuses of the industry need to be understood and not forgotten.
This movie will always be one of my all time favorites and therefor I have to give it a maximum rating. It's one of those movies that will always stand the test of time. The whole cast are excellent actors. The constant mental battle between McMurphy (played brilliantly by Jack Nicholson) and nurse Ratched (played by Louise Fletcher) is a delight to watch. You feel so much hate for nurse Ratched. All the other actors are brilliant in their roles. You kind of want to slap them in the face and wake them up to face reality. The daily routines in the mental institute would even drive a normal person completely bonkers. I saw this movie so many times without getting bored once. This is truly one of the best movies in that genre.


                
Released in 1975, Milos Forman's staggering film of One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (adapted from Ken Kesey's equally brilliant semi-autobiographical 1962 novel) remains arguably the most relevant, accurate and powerful cinematic analysis of mental illness and corruption of power ever. It became just the second film ever to win the five major Academy Awards and was shown in Swedish cinemas for 12 years, which remains a national record in Sweden. Yet at the time the critical reception of the movie was still rather uneven (though deservedly that's improved over time), and Kesey vehemently refused to watch it as the story wasn't told from the point of view of Chief Bromden like it is in the novel.But what a film it is. After fighting for more than a decade to get the film made, producers Saul Zaentz and Michael Douglas (largely influenced by his father Kirk, who first acquired the film rights) had developed a strong affection for the story and once they had the financing they hired Czech director Milos Forman, the only director they encountered who shared their affection for Kesey's story. It isn't hard to see why, and as Forman spent the majority of his formative years and the early part of his career living under a totalitarian regime in Czechoslovakia after losing his parents in Auschwitz and Buchenwald as a child, Forman proved to be the perfect director to bring to the screen this story of silenced and very often misunderstood people existing in such circumstances who are slowly inspired to take a stand. Forman's direction is a thing of sheer mastery: tender yet honest in the sequences involving McMurphy's (Jack Nicholson) relationship with his fellow patients, raw in the sequences revolving around Nurse Ratched (Louise Fletcher), a usually calm but unknowingly corrupt and dictatorial woman who thinks she's doing what's in her patients' best interests and how she runs the ward and treats her patients, unflinching but sympathetic in its depiction of the ravages mental illnesses inflict on those who suffer from them, and all those qualities in the emotionally draining yet tremendously inspiring climax. Forman simply outdid himself here.But of course, every director is only as good (or bad) as the cast and crew they have to work with, and Forman's is flawless. Starting with the cast, he garners three of the most perfect displays of acting in cinematic history. McMurphy was the role Nicholson was born to play, and while he's a force of nature in the scenes involving McMurphy squaring off with Nurse Ratched, his more subtle scenes where he depicts the changes in him caused by the institution and his fellow patients in whom he provoked a change first are the ones that truly assure him a place among the true all-time legends (and the fact that he and Forman had a fiery relationship just makes his turn even more unbelievable). He's never been better before or since, and as brilliant as Al Pacino is in Dog Day Afternoon I'm firmly in Team McMurphy. Fletcher is every bit as good as the sadistic Nurse Ratched who tries to clip the free-spirited McMurphy's wings – it's an incredibly controlled performance, because while a lesser actress would have played her like an overbearing battleaxe, Fletcher is chilling because of her sincerity. Yet even despite how truly frightening Fletcher is she also manages to make the viewer feel a small amount of sympathy for Nurse Ratched by simultaneously playing her as a woman who's really just trying to do her job even though she's oblivious to the negative impact she's had on those in her care. Also, Brad Dourif pulls off one of the most astounding supporting turns in movie history as Billy Bibbitt, a stuttering (and thus exploited) teenager who proves to be the catalyst for Nurse Ratched's downfall at the hands of McMurphy, and William Redfield (who sadly died shortly after the movie was released) and Sydney Lassick are also superb as the schizophrenic Harding and bipolar Cheswick.Bo Goldman and Laurence Hauben's screenplay is one of the few that, I think it can be said, against which most others are measured. With great eloquence, insight, power and intelligence (and no cheese or sentimentality) they collectively crafted a screenplay that never waters down the ugly things that are mental illnesses, gives the viewer/reader a greater understanding of the effects (both negative and also positive) they have on those who suffer from them and also what causes corruption, it celebrates the rebels of the world who fight the establishment for the greater good as well as themselves, and perhaps most importantly it shows the mentally ill not as not as complete caricatures (because often such depictions of the mentally ill are, it must be said, accurate ones), but as people who can achieve anything (even if they need a little guidance).Two other enormous bright spots are Jack Nitzsche's amazing score which is somehow mesmerizing in its musical simplicity (and it surely would've scooped the movie's sixth Oscar had Jaws come out in any other year) and Haskell Wexler's beautifully evocative cinematography.Countless similar films before and since have explored rebellion against corrupt authority figures and the inner workings of the human mind what makes us all tick, but One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest will forever be the cinematic depiction of life in a "loony bin" (as McMurphy puts it) to end them all. After more than thirty years it remains an absolutely flawless, definitive, knockout masterpiece, and one of the five most deserving Best Picture Oscar winners of all. And is that the greatest climax of a Best Picture winner ever or is that the greatest climax of a Best Picture winner ever?
This was the best movie that I have ever seen. And I've seen many movies.


                
why I love One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest ?1- Which one of you nuts has got any guts?2- The Chief, he's got his hand up! Look!3- The Cold Heartless Louise Fletcher 4- The Heroic Rebel McMurphy 5- first film to take all the major awards (Best Picture, Best Director, Best Screenplay, Best Actor, and Best Actress) since It Happened One Night6- McMurphy commenting a match on TV Closed7- the voting 8- Nicholson convincing the boats guy that they are doctors 9- "Well I tried, didn't I? At least I did that," 10- great supporting cast. This is movie I wish kubrick has made this is his area : standing against Fascism
One of my all time favorite movies. Jack Nicholson has the part down perfect and the supporting cast of "nuts" seem to make it all come together perfectly. A low budget film that made millions. The film was set in the 60;s and filmed at the Montana State Hospital in Galen, Montana. The "Chief" in the movie is a good side kick of reality for Jacks character. The reality is also that of what happens to people once put into a insane asylum. Crazy or not. Many times the movie brings you to think, "what if it was me"? I watch very few movies twice. This is a picture that you can do that ! The "Ringleader" Mr. McMurphy takes charge of movie from the beginning.


                
This film showcases great performances from everyone. Take a look at every single one of the people portraying a mentally ill patient. They all did a great job. The film also showcases a wide range of emotions, it's sad, fun, and the next it could be sad and tragic. These transitions were shocking and compelling.The whole film overall deserves to be in the top 20 and deserves the 5 Oscars it won, heck it deserves more than just those 5 Oscars brad dourif also deserved an Oscar for his job as billy bibbit. Plus who doesn't wanna see Christopher Lloyd (doc brown) with dark hair and eat even shorter devito. This film is a must see for anyone who is a general fan of movies.


                
The 1970's is a decade filled with absolute classic films! The decade brought to us movies like Godfather, Star Wars, Taxi Driver, horror movies like Halloween and the Exorcist and much more. It also brought to us One Flew Over the Cuckoos Nest.For a long time, I've been wanting to watch this movie hearing all the praise its being receiving. My favorite thing about the film is the casting! Jack Nicholson, Danny de Vito, Christopher Lloyd and Brad Dourif. These are actors that I've loved from different films! I loved Jack in the Shining, De Vito in Matilda, Lloyd in Back to the Future and Dourif in Lord of the Rings and Child's Play. To see all these actors unite for this one classic film was just awesome, not to mention that Lloyd, De Vito and Dourif are about 30 years younger than I remember them! Now, the story is an extremely interesting one. Its about a man named McMurphy who admits to being insane in order to live his life at a much more friendly place, a mental institute. Here, he begins to change the lives of all the other patients and realizes that Nurse Ratching is holding each of them back. The story may certainly start off slow, but to me, seeing Nicholson act the way he did was good enough for the whole film. I really enjoyed that. The film also spends considerably amount of time with the characters McMurphy and Chief, developing their relationship but also giving plenty of screen time to Dourif's stuttering character! Now this 120 minute movie could've been shortened but really the way the film works is by giving the relationships between characters time to develop. Overall this is certainly worth a viewing.
Critic: movieman1214 Movie: One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (1975) Rating: A+ Rank: #1
**SPOILERS AHEAD**`One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest' is the only movie that I can be spellbound and in awe after watching it for the tenth time. It is included on more than fifty Top 100 lists just on this site alone, and it graces my number one slot as well. Not to mention, it currently fills the number 8 spot on this site's top 200 best films, and the number 12 spot on IMDB.Originally written by the stereotypical hippy, Ken Kesey, `One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest' has been interpreted as a symbol for the way a sixties hippy would have seen America, as a giant metaphor for an American society that crushed and did not accept the highly liberal lifestyle of the times hippy. After this explanation, all of the characters seem to have a different meaning, Nurse Ratchet would symbolize a crushing American society, all the patients would be hippies who are now considered crazy and are put into their place by traditional society, and Randle would be the rebel that does not want to give in. `One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest' also has a literal interpretation that is, at times, more widely accepted: it could have been some sort of an autobiography of the when the author worked as an orderly in the psychiatric ward of a VA hospital. This interpretation seems to make more sense, but I would not doubt if the first is just as correct given the author's background.`One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest' became an instant success among both critics and the public. Narrated by the Chief, the book proves to have noticeable differences from the movie; but this not a new thing for adaptations. The title proves to be misleading for the film. At first we naturally assume that the `One' from `One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest' is meant to be the films protagonist, Randle. Although, after that final scene when the Chief dramatically pulled the bathroom water basin out of the ground and threw it through the window, achieving to do what Randle could not, we suddenly realize that the `One' from `One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest' is not Randle but instead the Chief.The book's rights were eventually bought by one of the fans of the book, Michael Douglas. When he bought the rights to the book he had the play version in mind. Just about everyone knows that there was a play before there was the movie, but what some people don't know is that the first stage version featured the then nobody actor, Gene Wilder, as Billy Boy Bibbit. The play only ran for five to six months then shut down because of lack of interest from the actors.It is not hard to see that `One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest' the play, and `One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest' the movie hold some very close ties. After all almost the entire film takes place in or around the mental institution, with the exception of that one scene where Randle takes everyone fishing. Not to mention that another tie that the movie shares with the play is the same producer, Michael Douglas.One of my favorite aspects to this film is simply that is does not have a real antagonist. Some will put up the argument that Nurse Ratchet was the films antagonist but this is not entirely true. Nurse Ratchet is the opposing force, yes, but she does not mean to be. She is simply doing her job as she thinks best; she is not out to get Randle or any other patients on the ward, she is not purposely being the opposite force. Although she was technically the antagonist she was not meaning to be, I don't believe that it is right to give her the title of antagonist. Most people will come to the conclusion that she is the film's antagonist, given the scene where she refuses to talk about the cigarette ration with one of the patients until he sits down. She comes across as a menacing snob that could care less about the people on the ward; although Louise Fletcher plays the part of Nurse Ratchet in such a way that it comes off as if she was just doing what she thought was best for the patients.What makes this film great is the fact that every patient on the ward, although crazy, did not give in to stereotypical `crazy' roles. They were all playing a person with a different mental disorder. Most of the credit for this can be given to the director, Milos Forman, for making the actors pair up with someone with the same disorder the character was supposed to have. The characters were by far the strongest aspect of this film.The movie was filmed inside a real Mental Institution, the actors were forced to stay in character until they left the set to go home, and because so much of the film was shot inside this made a sort of ambience of isolation that put the film on a higher level. The casting of the various patients on the ward proved to be harder than it seemed. The director wanted to cast unknown people for the parts in order to get the feeling of newness when you watch the film. He went about his auditions by putting them all in the therapy format and he would play Nurse Ratchet. He would then expect the actors to improve the scenes based on the questions he was asking.Jack Nicholson won his first of three Academy Awards for his role of Randle McMurphy, but he was not the first person the director or the producers thought of when they were casting `One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest'. Amazingly, he was last on all of their lists. Before him were such people like Gene Hackman, Marlon Brando, and Burt Renolds. It was because of Jack's earlier films that they did not think the part was right for him, only when they saw him in `Five Easy Pieces' that they finally realized the man's acting ability. When they tried to cast him he was working on another film at the time, and it was either wait for him, or make it with out him. They chose to wait.When it was time to cast Nurse Ratchet, Louise Fletcher was, like Jack Nicholson, at the bottom of the list. The difference between her and Nicholson was that she was not playing the part like the producers and the director wanted it. It was not until Milos Forman realized that making Nurse Ratchet unknowingly evil would make the film more powerful, so he cast Louise Fletcher. As for casting the Chief this was the biggest of their problems. It had not occurred to them that there were very few large Indians. So they had a hard time finding someone, until a car salesman, and a friend of Michael Douglas', found this big Indian. He came into his carlot wanting to buy a car but instead was given a role in a movie.Milos Forman was the main reason why this film is such a classic. He was one of the few foreign directors that made it big in the United States. He directed two Academy Award winning films, the first being `One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest' and the second being `Amadeus'. Milos Forman originally got the job of director for being a director both Saul Zaenty and Michael Douglas respected, and for being cheap. The film was on such a low budget that they could not afford a big name director. His directing style was not a normal one. He made sure all of the actors stayed in character by filming without even saying action. He shot the entire film, with the exception of the fishing scene, in sequence. He paired the actors playing the patients on the ward up with real patients that had the same disorder their character had.`One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest' won a total of five Academy Awards and became the second out of a total of three films in Oscar history to sweep the `Big Five': Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actor, Best Actress, Best (adapted) Screenplay. The only other two films that accomplished this were `It Happened One Night' and `Silence of the Lambs'. In addition to its five Oscars it also won five Golden Globes, various English Academy Awards, and Jack Nicholson personally won five different awards for his role as Randle McMurphy.
One of the most mind blowing spell bounding and tragic movie ever made. There is no exaggeration that One flew over cuckoo nest is one of the best movie Hollywood ever produced. As Kirk Douglas read the story and wasted no time in buying it He was so exhilarated from the story that he produced a play of One flew over cuckoo nest, but it didn't get that appreciation but it was his young son who fulfilled his dream of turning this story into movie after 9years .The stage was set and the project was given to not so famous Czech native director Milos Forman. The role of semi psychotic outspoken agitating Randle P Mcmurphy was given to Jack Nicholson. Personally I think no one could perform that role so perfectly than Jack had done. He was marvelous and outstanding and very much convincing .All the cast consisted of reputed actors as Danny Devito, Brad Dourif and Christopher Lloyds (debutant) as Jack's psychotic mates Nurse Ratched is considered most coldly monstrous villains in film history. Louise Fletcher intelligently acted as a soft spoken villainous nurse Ratched .No doubt that the movie kept you stimulating throughout and it's hard to forget the impression that it makes on your minds for a long time. One of its kind and must see movie<U+0085><U+0085><U+0085><U+0085>. Won five major category Oscars including best picture, best actor, best actress, best director and best adopted screenplay. Second movie of its time to achieve this distinguished honor after "It happened one night" Silence of the lambs" is the third movie to be given this honor.


                
There is nothing that I can say or add that will testify to the greatness of this cinematic masterpiece. Many of the viewers here, considerably older and more familiar with writing critical reviews have already decked this work of art with all the glistening lace of high-brow comments it deserves. Still my concise and modestly candid opinion can nudge itself comfortably in the microcosm of viewer appreciation. I can start by saying that I saw this film two years ago and although I haven't seen it since, the theme and acting is so livid and memorable that it's as if I saw it yesterday. Ken Kessey's novel provides the essence of the story which is beautifully woven and crafted into first person through the perspective of Chief Bromden. Fans of the novel are not only delighted by the crisp, descriptive rendering of Chief's character but also of the characters of the patients of the ward of whom protagonist Randall Patrick McMurphy consists. He at once rejects the policies of the ward which are distinctly aimed at subjecting the patients to a systematic, vegetative mode of life from which there is no escaping. There were scenes in the film when tears welled from my eyes mainly when the other patients acknowledged that they were free to leave the ward at any time, but were afraid. The famous 'you should be bird-doggin' chicks and bangin' beaver' quote from McMurphy after he is stunned by patients' divulgence made me smile at its humor but sympathetic towards his situation.The ward staff are also beautifully rendered and at once realistically strict and unflinching in their tempers. The chief of staff, Nurse Ratched is the most implacable of the ward employees as she does her best to suppress the freedoms of the patients to as great an extent as possible. McMurphy rivals her, or as the book indicates, is at war in a battle field over her strictures and insinuations. The climax of their dispute seems to end when McMurphy is strangling the life out of her with his hands like vice grips delving her throat until the blood flows to her face and cheeks. At this juncture, there seemed a remote chance that McMurphy had won the battle, but here, Ken Kessey shows Nurse Ratched's despotic wield of authority. Although it seems destined, the death of McMurphy's mind through lobotomy and then his physical death at the hands of the chief conclude the film on an idyllically sad note.Randall Patrick McMurphy's fictitious existence is just a small example of the mavericks in society who have risen up against powers which threatened to be far greater than their own. They have stood at the doorstep of impossibility and shattered it through courage and forbearance.


                
