I know I'm in the minority, but my take on this film is the exact opposite of most of the other comments here. To me, McMurphy is the villain in this film. He is not the lovable scamp whose madcap antics enliven a mental institution -- as some seem to see him. He is, rather, a destructive, evil force. He is in the institution because he is faking mental illness in order to avoid prison for statutory rape. He has no compassion or sympathy for the other patients in the ward; he uses them as pawns to get what he wants. It is his reckless behavior, and not the "evil Nurse Ratched", who brings about Billy's death. In the end, when he mets his "tragic fate," my feeling was that McMurphy is getting just what he deserves. McMurphy is a selfish, manipulative, self-righteous s.o.b., more sociopath than rebel. Rather than being a symbol of freedom, he is the personification of the abuse of freedom, a coward who takes no responsibility for his actions and lives only for himself. As for Nurse Ratched, to me, she is a sadly sympathetic character: a middle-aged, underpaid, under-appreciated nurse-turned-bureaucrat, apparently trapped in job for which she has no real competency. The only thing she can do is try to keep order, something which McMurphy cannot abide. Surrounded by patients she can't help, she has built up an icy wall and an iron will to retain what little power she has. This could have been a fascinating character around which a good film could have been built; McMurphy is just a devious little creep. (Plus, as a one-note heavy-handed, sexist symbol of oppression, I find the Ratched character offensive, but give kudos to Fletcher for managing to give her what little shadings she can.)Furthermore, I find the surface story about life in a mental ward unconvincing and the underlying symbolism about freedom and oppression dishonest. And please, lets put an end to the tired crazy-people-are-saner-than-the-sane-people nonsense; it is a tired literary cliché. As for Nicholson, he chews up the scenery; sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't. Here, I'm unimpressed. I know this film has sparked fanatical devotion, but as far as I'm concerned, it a total fraud.
I just wanted to add what may be the lone dissenting voice on this board concerning this movie. Is there anyone else out there who agrees, at least in part, with the heading?  Firstly, movie is very hypocritical in its treatment of the patients by wanting us to feel compassion (fair enough) while making fun of their afflictions. There is the lead actor. Nicholson's performance is fine, if he's playing Jack Nicholson but what's all this anti-hero talk. McMurphy comes across as a completely selfish and self-eserving figure, without much humanity or compassion for others. Louis Fletcher plays Nurse Ratched in a somnambulistic state, dreary monotone and is about as threatening as Audrey Hepburn. Milos Forman's direction is uneven and reflects the hypocrisy of the entire project. This man must surely be one of the most over-rated directors of the era as well.'Cuckoo's Nest' (the title alone proves the hypocrisy point)is'nt one-tenth the movie Nashville is and mainly won all its awards strictly because audiences of the time (and still apparently now)seem to fall for its phony pandering, false emotions and blatent audience manipulation. If these comments help bring the picture down a bit from its lofty position on the top 250 list, then I have done my duty.


                
I watched this film finally, after waiting for weeks for an opportunity to watch it to present itself. I got so very excited about this movie, reading all the quotes, people's comments, and the testaments to the brilliance of it. But was it really that brilliant? Yes, it was a good movie, a classic example of the 70s style; over bright lighting, too-realistic makeup and questioning of absolutely everything to do with the establishment. Don't get me wrong, I usually love these movies. But this one fell a bit flat.*SPOILERS*I think the main problem was that I couldn't really sympathise with Jack Nicholson's character (and yes, i know, I'll be in trouble for this). It was implied in the movie that the only reason he got himself into the mental home was because he didn't want to stay in jail (the comment about 68 days where he finds out they can keep him indefinitely). So I could see no reason to excuse him for some of the "insane" things he did. His only reason seemed to be selfishness. When he did find out that it wouldn't be the "68 days" he was hoping for, he immediately backed down, and stopped being the hero and saving the ward. He just escaped. You could say this is good, as it is a realistic portrayal of a person, but there simply wasn't a single reason I could identify to sympathise with him. In the end, when he had a lobotomy, I was not moved by it at all. Yes, I think I would have been moved by Billy's death, BUT I already knew he was going to die, which is unfortunate, because I think that took most of the tragedy out of the movie. Stupid 20 to 1. Anyway, as I said, this wasn't a BAD movie, it was quite good. I just don't think it deserves the recognition it gets.
When I saw the high rating this movie is getting from viewers, I could hardly believe it and simply had to put in my two cents worth of rebuttal. I haven't seen this film since shortly after its release, nor do I wish to view it again. I agree with one comment that it's the most over-rated movie to come out of the 70's. I also concur with another reviewer that Jack Nicholson's character, McMurphy, is basically self centered and not really compassionate at all toward his fellow inmates. This guy is no hero, and let's not make a tragic victim out of him as an 'anti-hero'.The movie chronicles the ill adventures of one McMurphy (Nicholson), who fakes insanity so as to do his time for statutory rape in a mental institution, as opposed to a prison. While there, he tries to liven up the place and drum up some independence for his fellow inmates. In the process, he incurs the ill favor of the coldly calculating and hateful Nurse Ratchet, and is eventually forced to have treatments he would certainly never have envisioned for himself.I really don't have much good to say about any of it. Nicholson isn't my favorite actor at best, though I do realize he won an Oscar for this cleverly captured but rather uninspiring role. As to his character's fate, I found it difficult to sympathize with him. This McMurphy is, frankly, a jerk of the highest order. Louise Fletcher, voted Best Actress, is certainly compelling as the psychiatric patient's 'worst nightmare' nurse. I'll wager a lot of real life nurses in the mental institutions of that era, generally decent people doing a difficult job with reasonable integrity, weren't all that thrilled with the public's new picture of their profession, as personified by the controlling and monstrous Nurse Ratchet. I am personally not a psychiatric nurse, but it doesn't require much brilliance to imagine their sentiments.I suppose the film did bring to light some of the primitive and cruel treatments employed in psychiatric hospitals, such as shock treatments and lobotomies, but undoubtedly some patients were well cared for even in those days. According to this film, one would think that they were all treated with disrespect and malice. Looking back, it's easy for us to judge now, but the medical professionals then did not have the wide range of medications and so on that are available today and often coped as best they could.A depressing, degrading, and vastly over rated film. If you haven't already seen it, you're just as well not to bother. It doesn't make for an entertaining or uplifting couple of hours. The intent of this movie should have been to bring dignity and respect to the mentally ill, but its very title conveys the exact opposite message. I agree with with the reviewer who commented that we are expected to feel compassion for these patients (and should) but this film actually makes fun of them.
I was truly exited when I decided to watch this movie. Top 250? Check! Oscar winning picture? Check! One of the most famous A-list actors in it? Check!Oh boy...where do I start? I know I belong to a minority when I say this but I hated this movie.So R.P. McMurphy is a man with several assault convictions that has raped a 15 year old girl thus he's in jail.Supposedly he acted like a crazy person in prison in order to avoid it but was sent to an asylum.Basically after a while McMurphy starts to bond (only a little bit)with the other patients mainly with a "chief" who pretended to be deaf. McMurphy also stands out as the only sane person in there.McMurphy starts a feud with head nurse Mildred Ratched who tries to keep the voluntary patients in the asylum for ever.One day McMurphy and the chief decide to escape, and McMurphy calls his girlfriends to help.They come, then they all party hard and McMurphy instead of escaping falls asleep.That's right he doesn't pass out, he just falls asleep after he planned an escape which is plain stupid.Tired of seeing McMurphy causing problems the staff give him a lobotomy.In the day after,the chief succeeds to escape but first kills McMurphy so he wouldn't stay "like that" in that place. This is the story, there's nothing more to it. Now where's the brilliance of this movie? I don't get it. Five Oscars?! Louise Fletcher won an Oscar for her performance and that has to be a joke.Am I the only who realizes her screen time was like 15 minutes? The final verdict: this movie is boring,slow-paced, the story has no interest whatsoever , it doesn't deserve a single Oscar( in my opinion of course)and its definitely one of the most disappointing movies I have ever seen. 3/10
Despite the fact that the movie version of "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" has been critically acclaimed, and despite some memorable performances, especially by Nicholson, Fletcher, and Dourif, I consider this film to be in the end a failure.  It totally fails to convey the message and meaning of the novel.  I found the end of the film to be depressing, while the end of the novel is anything but.  I can understand the filmmakers not wanting to make a film heavy with voice-overs, but without the narrative voice found in the novel, the story is a hopeless and despairing one, which was surely not Kesey's intent.  I saw the film before I read the book, and after seeing the film I avoided the novel because I didn't want to be depressed again; after reading the novel I almost wished I hadn't seen the travesty of a fine novel that is the movie version of "Cuckoo's Nest."


                
Take Jack Nicholson, Brad Douriff, Danny Devito & Christopher Lloyd. All playing patients in a mental institution. And they look like they belong there.Jack looks he literally just walked off the set of The Last Detail and nothing like he did in Tommy (both of which predate this film). Devito looks about 12, he's so fresh faced. It's hard to believe this is the same Brad Douriff that will go on to be in Dune and Chris Lloyd seems to get typecast as mad or a crackpot going on to be mental in The Dream Team and a crackpot inventor in Back To The Future.You get Jack imagining the World Series, Jack escaping, stealing a bus then stealing a boat to take the guys fishing. Jack being given electro shock therapy and faking catatonia.Douriff as Billy is amazing, playing his role so fully. Little wonder he was Oscar nominated for the role that year. The party they throw in the ward with the help of Scatman Caruthers (the voice of Hong Kong Phooey, no less!) is an excellent section of the film.The films main stumbling block is in huge parts so little happens for a long time. Recognisable faces that I couldn't put a name to like The Chief (I know he was in one of the Poltergeist movies) and one of the patients is a hill person from the original version of The Hills Have Eyes. Another one of the men is the subway ghost who trains Patrick Swayze in Ghost.Jack's planned escape fails due to excessive alcohol, the aftermath of the party when the patients are lined up by the head Nurse as they all behave like naughty school children is so funny.Billy (Douriff) is discovered in bed with one of the women Nicholson had invited into the hospital and is welcomed back to the group like a conquering hero having had sex with her.His stutter had gone completely until Nurse Ratched mentions telling his mother. The blame for Billy's suicide can only placed on one person, Nurse Ratched and Nicholson's almost fatal attack on her is not without merit.We are left to assume that Nicholson has been given possibly a labotomy after attacking and almost killing the Head Nurse as he is totally unresponsive and catatonic.When The Chief kills Nicholson, it is in silence with no rage or malice. It is done as an act of release, to free Jack from the prison they have placed him into by doing the labotomy on him.The fact that he then carries out Nicholson's original escape plan is like a final act of defiance to show he was truly free all the time.A weird film but quite enjoyable.
Fletcher and Nicholson are great, the movie is not.  Way too anti- everything, distasteful, nobody to root for, too weird by half;generally uninvolving and uninteresting Nutbars Ahoy claptrap. Inshort, about what one might expect from a Ken Kesey novel aboutcrazy people.


                
If you were able to sit through Citizen Kane, and maybe even got something from it you'll enjoy One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest. Sure, Jack Nicholson gives a great performance (he usually does), and Nurse Ratchet is sicker than the patients, but that doesn't make a great movie. Just a long, pointless journey through a psycho-ward. If you're looking for something worthwhile, check out something other than this or Citizen Kane of AFI's or IMDB's top movies list.


                
so, it's me again boys. let us start at the start. The first half of the film was pretty banging, since i thought the acting was superb, but personally I thought that the whole directorial of the film was a let down. Jack Nicholas is cool though. the sideman was also a really good actor and I thought his use of movement to convey emotions was beautiful. however the film seemed very disjointed and not very well put together. so this review is over an I need to fill up these ten lines so I'm going to insert something my good mate Kieran said about the film; "personally I've never seen the movie, but deep down I know it's an absolute banger. I've got a feeling you know." personally I don't agree with the lad, but take from it what you will. I'd also like to leave a link to my good friend FreckleFacegGaming: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCeoefoNfUV8ho0iY6rmBWBw. he's a rising youtube star and I'd love it if you guys could go give him some love. :)


                
