Milos Forman based his "masterpiece" on a true masterpiece, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest by Ken Kesey, which is one of the best books I have ever read. I therefore cannot judge this film in any other way than to see how well it translated from book to screen. Judging in this way however, the result is unbelievably poor.Now, I appreciate the difficulty in adapting a book to a movie if the book is very abstract, rich in ideas, symbolism or imagery<U+0097>but One Flew Over The Cuckoo's nest is straightforward and linear and everything is very well-defined and spelled-out. It's not rocket science. The adaptation was atrocious and disappointed me immensely.I imagine Milos Forman either read this book in the dark, or read a brief summary of basic events on spark-notes, and completely ignored all themes, narrative, characterizations and symbols because he was in a hurry. He then put all basic events together in a hat, and took one at random and put it anywhere in the movie. Et voilà, he had his Cuckoo's film.There is simply too much wrong with this film that I can impossibly list all mistakes. But here are a few significant ones:1. The fishing trip was huge at the end of the book. It signified the culmination of the development of the characters. Forman put it in the first 20 minutes of the movie and completely wasted it by misplacing it.2. Louise Fletcher was not bad, but what part of "full-chested" don't they get? I'm not advocating some blown-up porn star chest here, but why cast a small-breasted actress? Couldn't they just have stuffed her bra? How difficult could it be? It may seem shallow of me to bring up such a seemingly trivial thing, but Nurse Ratched's repressed sexuality vs. McMurphy's raw sexuality was possibly the biggest theme in the book.3. What part of a loud, boisterous entry by a big, tall redheaded man with tattoos don't they get? Why make it into a small, silent entry by a slim, 5'9" dark-haired guy with no tattoos (Jack Nicholson)? McMurhpy's important introduction was ruined.4. McMurphy's first meeting with the patients showed how truly different from them he was, going around and joking and laughing and shaking everyone's hand, like a politician or a salesman. In the movie, he says hello to one person, then shyly looks around the ward. Huh?? 5. The ward was supposed to be gloomy, quiet and humorless and then gradually change with McMurphy's presence. Well, its initial state was not emphasized at all and people were laughing even before he had joined them. Lame.7. The doctor was made into a shrewd and almost manipulative man in the movie<U+0097>he was extremely timid in the book, and McMurhpy used him in the jockeying for power.8. Chief Bromden was the narrator in the book. He wasn't in the film and he should have been<U+0097>if not to stay faithful to the original work, then to explain things that Forman simply didn't bother with.Like I said, everything was very spelled out in the book. So the above weren't my 'preconceived' ideas about what I wanted it to be, but actual truths! How someone chose to ignore or butcher them is beyond me. This was a strictly review of an adaptation, and not a movie. I'm sure that if you've never read the book you'll find it very entertaining.
Misses the point on virtually everything from Kesey's masterpiece, casting decisions are awful (Jack Nicholson is completely 1 dimensional), sluggishly boring attempt at redoing a book that will never work as a good movie.This amateurishly simple movie turns One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest from an exploration on the nature of the mind & sanity into just a loudmouth guy goofing off in a hospital. v bad


                
What a sh*t piece of a movie... No characters except the lead character are believable. It seems that the story, oh pardon, there is no story,the scenes are written only considering one character and all other characters are woven around him. And when I say him, it reminds me that this movie is very disgraceful to the women. The head nurse Ratched is shown pure evil and oppressive to the patients from the starting till the end. There is no development of her character. Then, there is Cindy, who is in the movie just to be the arm candy of McMurphy. I could handle this much sh*t, but then she slept with Billy just because McMurphy said so. Writers, please write believable characters. Okay, the crazy ones' characters are unexplainable and non-relatable, but Cindy, why there is no character development of hers? The only good thing about this movie is the acting of Jack Nicolson. Even he could do a lot better.


                
well. first of all there was only three people which this film is all about, jack neckelson as Mcc-Merphy, Brad Dourif as Billy Bibbit and Will Sampson as Chief Bromden.I was amused by Mcc-Murphy and moved by Billy and finally astonished by the Indian chief.during the movie I saw the dramatic events and touched by it.near the end I was nearly crying.but THE END was beyond expectations I couldn't believe that I went all this drama and actually watched the movie and find this lame end.this movie doesn't deserve more than 4/10.


                
I gave this a four.  I couldn't go higher, for one reason.The book is SO MUCH BETTER.  The differences between the book and the film are plenty, but in every instance, the book does it better.  The story is told better.  You get a much much much much much better sense of the back-and-forth war between Ratchet and McMurphy.  The Chief didn't even go with them on the boat!  Ridiculous.  Not a bad film, but basically I filled everything that was missing in with what I knew from the novel.If you liked the story in the movie a lot, you'll love the book a hell of a lot more.


                
The book "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest" by Ken Kesey and the film produced by Milos Forman did both an excellent job in performance but the film lacked very important detail that the book had. The film lacked character development and also the point of view of Chief Bromden was lost. I have decided to analyze both the film techniques. The film ineffectively captured the characters development in the play. For example, Chief is a mysterious character that all the patients have led up to believed was deaf and dumb. Although his placement in the film did not suit the placement he had in the book much of it was ineffective. Information such as his childhood past was vital piece of information for the concept of the story. It was never talked about or sparked at in the film. Chief's problems on why he is in the ward are forgotten in the film. Another example would be McMurphy; he was looked as a very rude and crazy man in the film. The book however did capture his craziness and wild side towards Nurse Ratched but that is not the all-around persona he had in the book. McMurphy character in the movie leads you to believe that he might be crazy because you don't see as much development he's still the same guy that stepped first foot in the ward. The film ineffectively captured the point of view. The point of view difference between the book and film is that the film has made it third person rather than the original first person. The book displays a first person point of view in the eyes of Chief Bromden. The film however grasps the book in a third person point of view. This is understandable because it would be rather hard to have a narrator who is supposedly deaf and dumb be our main focus point. It is a disappointment to know that Chief's story did not get touch upon in the film but the film did a good job in cooperating different perspectives in the movie. The movie and film are both excellent creation and both have their downsides but the reader should read the book because it provides very good detail and more descriptions in its final copy.
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's NestIn the story One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest, the author writes about a man named Mc Murphy who tries to trick the system into believing is mentally ill. This man Mc Murphy believes he will be spending the rest of his sentence here, but little does he know that he is in for a rude awakening. At the beginning of the movie the author makes Mc Murphy's character seem somewhat mentally challenged. As soon as he arrives he starts yelling and screaming and his actions bring people to the conclusion that he is mentally sick. The author does a really good job of having the actors play the specific parts they are assigned to. They all play their parts with a lot of emotion bringing the audience to think that they really are sick. When Mc Murphy gets comfortable, he starts to observe and starts to chat with the other patients. The author makes it seem pretty easy to live in a mental hospital. All these patients look pretty normal, but in reality they each have their own individual sicknesses. In the movie the main conflict was with Mc Murphy and nurse Rached. In the movie the groups of patients always have to follow a daily schedule that is provided to them, but Mc Murphy does not agree with this so he decides to try to change their daily schedule. Mc Murphy tries to change the group meeting for another time so they can see the world series and the only way they can do a different activity is that the group has to vote, so Mc Murphy tries to convince them into watching the series, but all of them are scared to speak so he is the only one with his hand raised and of course majority rules. At this point the author makes Mc Murphy seem and act like a child, a child who is trying to convince the other children that it better to see a show than to be in a group talking about something boring. Well Mc Murphy tries it again the following night and this time he does convince others, but he needs one more vote so he can win and watch the World Series. It took him along time to find the final vote, but when he was about to tell nurse Ratched about the vote she said it was over and his time was up. Mc Murphy acts like a child by not giving up and throws a tantrum by acting like he is watching the World Series with his fellow patient friends. The author's purpose was to show a conflict between patient and nurse and that everything is not always okay. Once the doors close no one knows what goes on only the patients, but then again no one will believe them because they are mentally ill.In the story One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest, the author writes about a man named Mc Murphy who tries to trick the system into believing is mentally ill. This man Mc Murphy believes he will be spending the rest of his sentence here, but little does he know that he is in for a rude awakening. At the beginning of the movie the author makes Mc Murphy's character seem somewhat mentally challenged. As soon as he arrives he starts yelling and screaming and his actions bring people to the conclusion that he is mentally sick. The author does a really good job of having the actors play the specific parts they are assigned to. They all play their parts with a lot of emotion bringing the audience to think that they really are sick. When Mc Murphy gets comfortable, he starts to observe and starts to chat with the other patients. The author makes it seem pretty easy to live in a mental hospital. All these patients look pretty normal, but in reality they each have their own individual sicknesses. In the movie the main conflict was with Mc Murphy and nurse Rached. In the movie the groups of patients always have to follow a daily schedule that is provided to them, but Mc Murphy does not agree with this so he decides to try to change their daily schedule. Mc Murphy tries to change the group meeting for another time so they can see the world series and the only way they can do a different activity is that the group has to vote, so Mc Murphy tries to convince them into watching the series, but all of them are scared to speak so he is the only one with his hand raised and of course majority rules. At this point the author makes Mc Murphy seem and act like a child, a child who is trying to convince the other children that it better to see a show than to be in a group talking about something boring. Well Mc Murphy tries it again the following night and this time he does convince others, but he needs one more vote so he can win and watch the World Series. It took him along time to find the final vote, but when he was about to tell nurse Ratched about the vote she said it was over and his time was up. Mc Murphy acts like a child by not giving up and throws a tantrum by acting like he is watching the World Series with his fellow patient friends. The author's purpose was to show a conflict between patient and nurse and that everything is not always okay. Once the doors close no one knows what goes on only the patients, but then again no one will believe them because they are mentally ill.
"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" (OFOCN) was released in 1975; it is based on the novel by Ken Kesey and is directed by Milos Forman. The movie centers around R.P McMurphy (Jack Nicholson). In an attempt to escape from the work yards in the penitentiary, McMurphy fakes a mental illness, leading to him being admitted into a mental hospital. There, he befriends many of the other patients in the ward and attempts to break them out of the strict and monotonous routine set by Head Nurse Ratched (Louise Fletcher). In the book, Chief played the main role, however; in the movie, McMurphy is the main character. Like this instance, many other important events in the book were not displayed in the movie. The movie itself was good, and if I hadn't read the book, I would've gave it a better rating. All in all, I would rate "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" a 4 out of 10.


                
This movie was alright at best. While One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest has great acting and a setting that fits how it is described in the book, it is unable to properly tell the story. To begin with, it completely switches the main character from Chief to McMurphy, which won't be a big deal if you don't read the book first, but since I did the whole movie just seemed off without the narration of Chief's thoughts. With that, the entire movie's tone was way off. The movie felt like it was light-hearted with the bright lighting and laughing going on throughout almost all of it, but in the novel I felt the tone as dark and depressing with it being a very major point that the characters refused to laugh. Finally, this leads to the ending, which just felt abrupt, it was a depressing ending to an otherwise light-hearted movie with little build up, leaving almost no sympathy felt for the characters. I was disappointed by this movie, but if you watch the movie without reading the book it you may like it more.
4.5/10


                
