There are primarily three things I used to critique this film : characters/actors, pacing, emotional impact, that I feel make it a good film. I feel that these three criteria help make this a good film. You can't have a good movie without good actors, pacing, and emotional impact. In the movie I feel that Jack nicholson, the one who plays mcmurphy in the film did an amazing job portraying who mcmurphy is. One of my biggest problems with the film was the pacing. I feel there was no good sense of time in the film. I didn't feel like they were there for very long. The emotional impact of the film was amazing. I really felt for the characters All in all I feel it was a good movie. It wasn't the best movie i've ever seen, but I would recommend this film to all viewers


                
Would you go to a mental hospital to avoid a prison sentence? One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest is a story of patients in a mental hospital and how their life was changed by R.P. McMurphy. McMurphy, played by Jack Nicholson, arrived in the ward to avoid going to prison or working on a work farm and he made an impact. One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest is a memorable story that goes down in history as one of the best. Let's start with the characters. Nicholson plays R.P. McMurphy, a criminal who has history of violence and aggression. He was sent to the asylum after acting erratic on the work farms. He isn't really mentally insane, but he fakes it to avoid going to prison. He thinks he can serve his sentence in the asylum and life will be easy. In the asylum we have Billy Bibbit, a nervous stuttering man with depression and anxiety. Cheswick is a nervous man who also struggles with anxiety. The actor who portrays him did a great job in playing the part. Danny Devito, yes little Danny Devito before he really went nuts, plays Martini, a lovable character. Then there's the Chief. Chief is a 6'5" mute who everyone thinks is dumb as a rock. He turns out to be one of the most important and influential characters. McMurphy originally goes into the ward to avoid prison but he eventually helps the patients in there. He thinks some of them could survive in the real world and he ends up giving the other patients confidence and a type of therapy. Billy eventually stops stuttering for a little bit. Harding has more self control and Cheswick learns to stick up for what he believes in. An example of McMurphy's "therapy" is the fishing trip. McMurphy climbs over the fence and steals a bus with the patients from his ward. He takes them to a fishing boat and takes them fishing. McMurphy had his own agenda but he also helps the patients. He gives them an experience a normal man would have and they have fun. One of the best aspects of this movie is the accuracy to the time period. Men with mental illnesses were put in asylums like the one we see in the film. They experienced the different types of therapy. They took drugs such as anti-depressants, anti-psychotics, and anti- depressants. Any means to help them relax and make them acceptable for society. They experienced group therapy, which we see often throughout, and something I've never seen before in hydrotherapy. Unfortunately, during this time period there were a lot of problems. If people were overly aggressive or considered dangerous they would undergo electroshock therapy. Basically, doctors tie you down and put conducting gel on your temples and a rubber mouth guard in your mouth so you don't bite your tongue. Then they literally send a shock through your temples into your brain. The idea was to reset the brain and make you more relaxed and in control. The audience witness's electroshock therapy in the film and it is a little disturbing to watch. You can see the suffering on their faces. Finally there is the lobotomy, where doctors drill into the skull or go through the nose to scrape out a piece of your brain. This turns a man into a vegetable who can barely survive on their own. It is illegal today but back then it was common. Character relationships are important for a successful movie and not many compare to the relationship McMurphy had with the vile Nurse Ratched. Nurse Ratched was the head nurse in the ward. She controlled the groups and she was in charge. Her character is difficult because I couldn't ever really tell what her intentions were. Sometimes she tried hard to help the patients and other times she acted like she wanted to make them worse. A prime example is the one therapy group when Cheswick wants his cigarettes and Nurse Ratched just ignores him. Cheswick grows a backbone and stands up for himself and Ratched tries to put him back in his place and treat him like a dog. That scene really changes the movie and the major events of the movie unfold from there. McMurphy and Ratched would clash all the time. McMurphy would get under her skin and she under his. It made the movie really entertaining and a little comedic at times. Now no movie is perfect and I did have a few problems with it. Mainly it was the ending. It was a fine ending but I feel like it was a little too drastic. I don't want to give it away but it was one of those moments where you smack your forehead and go, "you idiot." When you see the movie you will know what I mean. Also what happens to one of the patients is completely unnecessary. I understand he was upset but he didn't have to do what he did. It was a little ridiculous and I can't see it really happening. Overall, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest is a great movie with excellent characters, a well written script, an interesting, and entertaining storyline. It deserves all the credit it got and will go down as a career making movie for Jack Nicholson. He did a fantastic job and deserved the Oscar he won. This is not what I would call a "background movie." Meaning, it is not something you can watch casually. You need to sit down and watch it and pay full attention. That's my advice and without a shadow of a doubt, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's nest gets the WillyT Seal of Approval and is something I can watch again and again and enjoy every time.


                
Like most people, when this film came out in the mid '70s, I thought it was great. Being still young and Liberal, I, too, looked at the rebel as the good guy and the authority figure as the bad guy....just as Hollywood has wanted us to do for a half century. Over the years, I watched a couple of more times and then stopped maybe 20 years ago.A funny thing happened when I looked at it again a few years ago as someone in their mid 50s: I looked at the two main characters in a totally different light.For the first time, now that my Left Wing rebel days are over, I didn't see Nurse Mildred Rachet (Louise Fletcher) as an evil person. On the contrary, the woman was just doing her job. I also appreciated Fletcher's performance more in here. She is outstanding, especially with her facial expressions. The only negative I could find on her was late in the film when she threatened to tell on "Billy." Jack Nicholson's character, "Randle Patrick McMurphy," was generally an obnoxious ass. He must have set the Hollywood record at that time for most usages of the Lord's name in vain. I lost count on all the GDs. But Nicholson's performance was still outstanding: that hasn't changed in my eyes. He was also the perfect actor for that role.Who could argue with either of those actors getting Academy Awards for their performances?Yes, the story was good but it was the acting in general which made this such a memorable film. Without Nicholson, Fletcher, Will Samson, William Redfield, Brad Dourif, Danny DeVito (I didn't recognize him!) and Christopher Lloyd, this film wouldn't have reached the heights it did.This is an unpleasant film in parts. Mental illness is not pretty, but it sure was a memorable film, I'll give it that. Unlike most reviewers, I don't love this film, but I respect it. It hasn't lost its power, either, nor is it dated.


                
"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" (1975), based on the novel by Ken Kesey and directed by Milos Forman earns a 8 out of 10 star rating by me, one reason being how closely the movie relates to the novel. If were to not have read the novel before watching the movie, I would have gave this movie a 10 out of 10 star rating. I feel that the movie left out important scenes that were made very important in the novel. Another reason why I would give this movie a 8 out of 10 star rating is how the characters compare in the novel and the movie. Each character seemed to be different in the movie than they were in the novel. Although I am giving thi movie a 8 out of 10 star rating, I would recommend watching this movie, preferably without reading the novel prior to the movie.


                
The most interesting thing about One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest is how easily the script could have chosen the easy road, making protagonist McMurphy (Nicholson) more conventionally heroic and antagonist Nurse Ratched (Fletcher) a fully-fledged monster. This movie, however, defies easy shortcuts.We are shown from the beginning that McMurphy is scum, a violent man with a history of aggression and sex crimes. In a normal situation he would be despicable: he is, after all, a loud-mouthed criminal trying to exploit the legal system to avoid jail. And yet, in the oppressive atmosphere of the sanitarium, he becomes the leader of a rebellion - a righteous one, we feel. McMurphy is the defiant trickster in a leaden, cruel environment... so we end up on his side.On the flipside, Nurse Ratched is not the devil, but an earnest professional trying to do her job. Even if she clearly gets a kick from exerting her authority - the scene in which she stops voting to prevent McMurphy's victory has a creepy "Stanford prison experiment" vibe - she doesn't appear to have truly evil intentions. Even her reluctance to send McMurphy away seems motivated by a refusal to give up on him. And yet Ratched is smug, obtuse, devoid of empathy... and she becomes a memorable movie villain.The two leads are perfect. Nicholson gives an infectious performance which won him a well-deserved Academy Award; Fletcher plays Ratched as an icy bureaucrat, her well-meaning cruelty scarier than dozens of foaming-at-the-mouth comic book villains.Still, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest is an ensemble piece: the rest of the cast does a superb job too (Forman has always been an actors' director), from young Danny DeVito and Cristopher Lloyd to Brad Dourif, from Sydney Lassick to Will Sampson as Chief Bromden.8.5/10 For another excellent movie Handling similar themes, watch Cool Hand Luke with Paul Newman.
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest is a 1975 drama film by Milos Forman about the inmates in a mental institution and their struggles against the nurse in charge.The film portrays the impact of the arrival of a new patient at the ward of a mental institution run with an iron fist by authoritarian Nurse Ratchet. Ratchet maintains control over all aspects of the patient's lives by whatever means necessary, intimidation, humiliation, and rigged competitions being common techniques. A rebel attempting to escape the labour of a short prison sentence, RP McMurphy finds the patients being oppressed by the authorities in the institution. Being an anti-establishment type, he continuously butts heads with Nurse Ratchet, and the struggle for the autonomy of the patients escalates.The film is shot in a clear, straightforward, and compelling manner, eschewing complicated cinematography for clarity and simplicity. This manner of filming allows the characters to be the focus of the scenes, and the actors take full advantage of this. Nicholson and Fletcher are perfect in their roles, and their scenes together make for some of the best drama in film.An excellent story whose style accentuates the strengths of the film, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest is not to be missed.


                
as usual jack nailed it as he is well known for his mental roles. think this movie is his type.it shows you how the worst places on earth can show the best of us.for me i think the Indian giant(will Sampson) played a main and an emotional role in the plot.i liked Danny Devitto and the other pricks they did well. i wont write much since the movie is ranked #15 in IMDb and won 5 Oscars. Milos Forman on the other side ,i cant even imagine how he perfected his masterpiece.i mean AMADEUS will keep him one of the great directors in the world. he has this magic when it comes to something touching the deepest points in the human being.


                
"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" is one hell of a movie. Not only does it deliver fully in terms of comedy and drama, but it also managed to win the five big categories at the Oscars back in 1976. Jack Nicholson gives the maybe finest performance from his career and that says a lot. Louise Fletcher's Nurse Ratched regularly makes all-time villain lists and this film is considered one of the greatest examples of how the movie is better than the book it is based on, namely Ken Kesey's novel. So congrats to the writing team Goldman/Hauben, of which the latter never wrote another screenplay than this one here. And to director Milos Forman who, now in his early 80s, gave us many more great films during his 50-year-long career.If you take a closer look, you will see that this movie starts the way it ends. With a camera shot outside the institution. At the beginning a car approaches, possibly the one bringing McMurphy and at the end we see Chief leaving to freedom. Everything in-between (except the boat trip) takes place behind the walls/fences of the institution. We get to see several sessions with sadist Ratched in control, which usually end up way worse for all the inmates than they started. As I mentioned earlier, there's moments when you can never be sure which direction this film is gonna take in the end, comedy or drama. That is also why the final developments are so shocking for everybody. Is it an uplifting ending? Or a depressing? I'm not sure. You have to decide for yourself. The boat trip was certainly the highlight in terms of lightness. Everybody had such a great time with the evil nurse not present. I liked how McMurphy acted as if catching the fish was something so big, such a huge event to boost the inmates' confidence.Apart from that, it is also interesting to see how the employees of the institution act. Some are sadist and like to humiliate as well, some almost treat them equally at times, like during that big party scene. Obviously, the scene when Billy is caught with the woman by Nurse Ratched is very significant too. You could argue how Ratched's own sexual frustration may play a role in the way she ruthlessly reacted and pushed her unstable patient into suicide. She is maybe an even more interesting character than McMurphy. But is she lead or supporting? I'm not sure about that with McMurphy being so much in the center of the movie. But maybe that is just due to Nicholson's great screen presence. Anyway, it's fascinating to see how Ratched hides her mean behavior behind alleged seriousness: She allows the poll, but still decides the outcome. She tells that the more insane members count as much as everybody else as they are part of the institution as well etc.And there is a water application (not sure of the exact name) that plays a major part in this movie too, as this is basically the means to freedom, at first only seemingly with McMurphy, but in the end actually with the Chief, also a very interesting character. however, the early significance of this application is also shown as his little demonstration about how McMurphy at least tried makes everybody brave enough to vote for seeing the baseball game in the face of Ratched's evil eye.Finally you could argue: Did Chief do the right thing in the end? Or, what if McMurphy had been the doctor and Ratched was one of the patients (as it should be?). Would it be better for all the other inmates as they seem to get along with him well. Is it even possible with McMurphy's anti-authority lifestyle and approach. Anyway, if you see that this film was made in the 1970s you could certainly applaud it for its liberal attitude towards sex, nudity, alcohol, authorities and possibly even euthanasia towards the end. Be warned that this movie has two very intense scenes: first the medical procedure taken on McMurphy after the first brawl and finally the pillow scene. Stay away if you maybe can't handle these. Or better look away as it would be a pity if you missed this brilliant film because of that. However, completely in contrast to that: If you have perceived asylums as something creepy (just like many others) so far, you may change your opinion after seeing this film. The inmates all seem fairly harmless compared to the one person in control of them.
The first thing to say about this movie, perhaps, is "beware of the other reviews!" (lol) Actually, as is common with reviews on this website, many of the otherwise well-written reviews of this movie found here contain factual errors that are not necessarily insignificant to understanding both the plot and theme. (In that regard, this comment pertains only to the movie, not the book.)That said, this is yet another film like COOL HAND Luke or MISTER ROBERTS that deals with the theme of a small group of men under the thumb of a petty but truly malevolent tyrant, in this case the now-notorious Nurse Ratched. Jack Nicholson is the agent provocateur classic to this genre who challenges not only the authority but the actual control the tyrant has been able to exercise up to the point of his entry into the setting, and of course that cannot be tolerated. Given that in this vehicle this kind of action is taking place in a mental hospital rather than a prison or naval vessel, it also raises the question as to what ought to be considered sanity for confinement purposes, at least in a very abstract or philosophical sense. For this is one of those movies that is not at all realistic, really, but a morality play. Thus, in spite of the look of the thing and the inclusion of electroshock "therapy" and the lobotomy, real mental illness is not realistically depicted, nor is there any reason to. That's really not the point.Probably the best reason to see this, then, is to see Jack Nicholson as one of the ultimate movie wise-guy personas of all time. One can't help but wonder what what James Cagney or even Humphrey Bogart would have had to say about this performance; I don't feel that either of those greats (or so many more, even including Paul Newman or Sean Connery) ever did anything so compelling. As the anti-authoritarian foil to the villain's oppression, he is about beyond compare. Add to that Louise Fletcher's cold-blooded, pathologically manipulative control freak (the one who really needs to be institutionalized to stop her from hurting people) and a top-notch supporting cast who later became quite famous in other vehicles including Danny DeVito (with HAIR!), Christopher Lloyd, and Scatman Crothers and this picture walks off with the Triple Crown of the Academy Awards. Worth every bit of the praise its generally given, it is must-see cinema for the true movie connoisseur.


                
A film about madness, with crazy, to where Jack Nicholson is the most normal person in the film, yes, that's possible, "Stranger in the Nest" is almost an essay on the madness, here we have the story of Randle Patrick McMurphy (Jack Nicholson), a subject "normal" that is sending the asylum, and there coexists with crazy making them rediscover the pleasures of life, and vice versa, we have a message of friendship and human freedom on the social reins, moreover, we have great performances, not just Nicholson is fantastic, but all are absurdly crazy, you watch the movie anxious, because every second someone can do crazy, crazy ones that happen several times in the film, with screams, noises, fights, all about the serene look of the head nurse Ratched (Louise Fletcher), (in which case, we are, viewers), and you witnesses this and is shocked and disturbed. The picture is gray, colorless and lifeless, pass all hospital atmosphere of the film, but could have a color to spend the shock even tone on the roadmap, it seems that the film has no script, it looks like things simply are happening in the same madness, and his pace is extremely slow, it seems that the film does not have a development, many go to sleep, others leave, and those who remain will see that it was worth it.


                
This is a very fine movie in many ways, most of which were rightly recognised on its release. It is marred, though, by a script (possibly accurately reproducing the tone of the source novel, which I've not read) which has an overly simplistic approach to its characters, in particular to its protagonist McMurphy and his nemesis Nurse Ratched. McMurphy is our typical anti-hero, held up for our approval in spite of being an unrepentant apologist for grim offences; whilst Nurse Ratched is shown no mercy (and therefore given no depth) by the authors. This could have made for a two-dimensional movie. Fortunately the actors reached way beyond the binary world they were presented with and infused their characters with, in Nicholson's case, roguish charm and, in Louise Fletcher's case, inner complexity. They are both magnificent and richly deserved every award they won for their performances.They are superbly supported by a remarkable crew of scene-stealers - Danny Devito, Sydney Lassick, Scatman Carruthers, Christopher Lloyd, William Redfield, Will Sampson - and by a quietly effective, apparently one-off performance by Lan Fendors as Ratched's assistant nurse.The polarities of the film - conformism/individualism, control/freedom - are eternally important themes in our lives. In Milos Forman the film had a director who completely understood the significance of the material, crafting a film of real power with his DOP Haskell Wexler. But to me its message is weakened by the way its women - with the exception of Ms Fendors' taciturn nurse - are polarised as either dragons or whores. I've read that before Ms Fletcher was offered the role of Nurse Ratched, a number of actresses had turned it down because of the script was so misogynistic. This demonstrates why Ms Fletcher's achievement is so great: she carefully sidestepped the dragon the script offered up, instead creating someone altogether more difficult to write off in such simple terms. It is an outstanding performance, and remains the best reason to revisit this film.


                
For me, this film is very tough to rate because the book is one of my all-time favourites. So let's be fair, Nicholson gives an excellent performance as McMurphy, his chemistry with the other actors is great and really gets you, the viewer, on his side with his likable persona. The supporting cast also gives a strong performance, providing the perfect pitch of crazy that is required and Nurse Ratched providing an instantly unlikable presence. So, if i had seen this film without reading the book i would probably be able to give it a higher mark but...well now the problem begins because, you see, the novel is perfect and the film is not wholly true to the novel. The major thing that really bothered me right from the beginning was Nicholson. Nicholson could never be McMurphy truly because he just does not have the physical presence that is required for a rugged street fighter type, it was a battle he could never win. The other problem for me was that the darker side of McMurphy wasn't shown as well as it could have been, meaning that the character could (and should) have had more depth. Chief Brompton was cast perfectly though (his character could have been given more attention though). So in summary, great film, see it...but read the book first, even if it blights the film, its worth it!


                
Writing/Dialogue/Characters Great 4
Though it takes a dramatic turn rather abruptly.Acting Superb 5
Art?location Great 4
Sound Great 4
Cinematography Good 3


                
Jack Nicholson is superb in this film. And the story is brilliant and such a sad ending


                
It's tough to really judge this movie. Is it Milos Forman's greatest directorial masterpiece or Jack Nicholson's best performance.
When the movie first came out, some people were shocked because when you watch the movie, you can't help it feeling more attached to the patients than to the doctors and nurses. This movie shows that cinema can make a difference. It can help to open people's eyes. If there is a movie that should be seen by everyone, this sure is the one. I give it a well deserved 10/10.


                
Jack Nicolson is so good!!!!! It's hilarious. The show resonates with me as I work in mental health and the characters did an amazing job.


                
In first place, I was asking to myself WTF is this movie about. But then I discovered and it blew my mind. I recommend this film,especially for Jack Nicholson's work, it was terrific. What a great movie.


                
Who knew that Nurse Ratched's last name would become a common slang word as a negative connotation for women? OK, OK, so the term "ratchet" is not derived from Nurse Ratched but it could be! Oh was she wicked. Not in an overt demonstrative manner; but in a subtle, cold, inherently evil manner. Just the stare she gave was icy and induced frowns. Louise Fletcher played that role too well, almost like she was made for it.As good as Louise was, Jack was better. He was excellent as the not-crazy crazy ward McMurphy. It was like the psychiatric hospital needed a McMurphy to come along to expose it for its destructive policies and expose the patients to real therapy. One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest was a wonderfully upsetting movie.


                
"One Who Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" directed by Milos Forman should be rated a 4 out of 5 because mostly follows the book, has very good screenplay from the actors, and the plot is almost seamless. The first criteria is the connection of the book to the movie. There were a few parts taken out, but it did not take away from the movie. The most important events from the book were portrayed in the movie; an example would be when Chief and McMurphy were sent to disturbed. The second criteria is the great screenplay of the actors. I think that Jack Nicholson and Danny DeVito did a great job playing the characters as Randle McMurphy and Martini. The actors portrayed the reason why they were in the ward very well. The last criteria was the plot. The plot of the movie was for the most part very easy to understand, and it was entertaining. I had a hard time understanding the fishing scene, and there were a few characters missing from the trip in the movie that were originally present in the book. Overall, the movie had fantastic screenplay, a flowing plot, and the movie closely follows the book; this is why I decided to rate the book a 4 out of 5 stars.


                
'Twas Prime, 'twas sad. It was all the emotions and all of the feels. Plus Jack Nicholson. therefore Prime.


                
Even as I'm making these observations, though, I can't get out of my mind the tumultuous response that "Cuckoo's Nest" received from its original audiences. Even the most obvious, necessary, and sobering scenes -- as when McMurphy tries to strangle Nurse Ratched to death -- were received, not seriously, but with sophomoric cheers and applause. Maybe that's the way to get the most out of the movie -- see it as a simple-minded anti establishment parable -- but I hope not. I think there are long stretches of a very good film to be found in the midst of Forman's ultimate failure, and I hope they don't get drowned in the applause for the bad stuff that plays to the galleries.
This here is quite a classic film. Nicholson does a great job as the nutty but ultimately sane protagonist, while every other actor/actress plays his specifically written role very well. Notably, Louise Fletcher as the lead nurse. The film does a very good job globally at not dwelling on its main concept and introducing a variety of derivative subplots that all help build the momentum up til the ending. The characters are all well developed, the scenes express their point vividly, there are surprises as it goes and not one dull moment despite the very focused plot at work.I don't do this often in my reviews, but I will give a more personalized opinion: the ending, although necessary to deliver the film's strong conclusion, is perhaps a bit too harsh, like they didn't have to go quite that way and could've found something else. It feels just a little bit *too much* I'd say.


                
From the moment R.P McMurphy is admitted into the mental institution, he's instantaneously likable. He's daring, thoughtful, witty, and affable; He's the type of guy that can become friends with anyone, and Jack Nicholson plays him Perfectly!I have 0 complaints with the acting department on this film. The patients were all great, and while they weren't really developed (with the exception of a few), they (most of them) felt like their own thing and were interesting (particularly their reasons for being in the institution), rather than just copies of each other or stereotypical crazy people. Louise Fletcher was also phenomenal at being hateable. Her character is such an evil, threatening, controlling killjoy, and it's actually frightening for a person like that to have such excessive authority over people.One thing I really loved about this film were the relationships. The relationship between the patients was immensely charming. --This is not really a flaw, but I wish there was more on-screen time between them. I can honestly watch them together for hours.-- The brotherly relationship between McMurphy and Chief is just wonderful, and, of course, the relationship between R.P and Nurse Ratched is just fantastic to watch; From their immediate annoyances with each other to their nail-biting climax. Apart from their confrontations they're also able to build their relationship just with stares.On top of that, the film was successful at playing with my emotions Masterfully! It went from Joyous and Hilarious scenes where I felt like cheering and I laughed aloud, to chilling scenes where I was just appalled. Even up to the bittersweet ending where I, unashamedly, cried both tears of sadness and joy within minutes, and my god that ending theme is so damn inspirational.There were however a couple of moments I didn't like. One minor thing was in a scene where McMurphy does something bold, AND HE DOESN'T GET INJURED AT ALL. I just thought it was stupid. Also, near the end of the movie there's something that McMurphy doesn't do that just annoys the hell out of me.Aside from that, I genuinely loved this film. It's beautiful, inspiring, and really took me on an emotional roller-coaster. It's also possibly the best anti establishment film I've seen.


                
About a year ago I finally decided to read the book. I was very excited. And for a reason - Ken Kessey is a great author and the book is simply brilliant! I was so in love with it, I decided to watch the movie, too, despite the fact that most of the movies made after books are... well, they're not that good. So, the moment came. I pressed "play" and... well, no. Jack Nicholson acted exactly like McMurphy would've but there were many scenes from the book which were missing in the movie. I have no idea why Milo<U+009A> Forman decided to cut them off but it was a kind of mistake. He could've replaced some of the other not-so-important scenes with the important ones. But besides all I said, it's a great movie which is a part of the cinema history. A pretty part of it.


                
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest is an absolutely fantastic film but I have one issue with it that is kind of hard to look past. I read the book before I watched the movie and when I do that I try really hard to keep my opinions on the two mediums separate. I understand that what works well in a book can't work for a film and vice versa. The movie is a really great adaptation. All the performances are fantastic (especially Jack Nicholson's) and it just looks really great. But, and here's my issue, the ending of the movie doesn't fit. And by ending I mean that literal last scene where Chief Bromden kills R.P. McMurphy and escapes. Now, the scene plays out exactly like it does in the book which was great to watch but it just doesn't fit with the movie. One thing they changed was the point of view. The book is told from Chief's point of view and is ultimately his story of how he grows through watching R.P. McMurphy. The movie, on the other hand, is changed to be R.P. McMurphy's story. But the ending is the same. The movie, which is about McMurphy, ends with Chief's redemption. If they just fixed the ending to fit better with McMurphy's story then the movie could be perfect.
