I just saw next week's episode and since I can't review it yet, I'll just post a review here. I really can't believe this show is still on TV. It's so slow moving and full of nothing that it's extremely difficult to watch. They have spent weeks on Nacho switching Hector's medication when we all know that neither one of them dies in this series. It's an intelligence insulting waste of time. The only good thing in the new episode, and this entire season so far, is that we finally see Jimmy's first slip and fall. As much as I want to see how this series ends, I don't think I can take 5 more years of this.


                
Terrible boring slow and should be called "Better Call 911" because it puts you in a comma. The writers need to go back and watch "Breaking Bad" and get a clue. I find myself yelling "come on already" at the TV. How has it lasted 3 seasons???? Please fix already or cancel the dud. I cannot believe anyone likes it? Are they fake reviews?


                
As an enthusiastic fan of Breaking Bad, I really tried to like this show...but after four episodes, I refuse to watch anymore. It is NOTHING like Breaking Bad, except for the fact that some of the same characters make guest appearances. In my opinion, based on the whole premise of the show, it will never have any of the intensity or suspense of Breaking Bad...this show is just plain AWFUL! For some reason, however, it seems as though everyone is afraid to admit it; face it people, the emperor has no clothes! By the way, why did this show have such a high rating before it even premiered? It says something like: "voting not allowed until after the release date", yet it started out with a rating of 9.5...that seems very suspicious to me.


                
This is a perfect example of what happens when creative types indulge in the gem & brilliance hidden deep inside their often padded and overly contrived ideas. No doubt breaking bad was amazing and this wouldn't exist without it. So why the need to make it so terribly slow and obnoxiously in love with its witty dialogue and slow moving Tarantino Esque 20 minute scenes that move the plot along by ZERO. Most of the convenient circumstances in this show are less plausible than one of those silly comic book movies of grown men in spandex fighting 70's Star Trek aliens. Hey egomaniacs making this swill, get the hell on with the plot and stop pussyfooting around in love with your cinematography and witty Easter eggs all on the shoulders of a much more superior show. The performances are the only thing that keep me even trying to give it a chance week after week. It should have been made into a 2 or 3 part series and cut out the garbage. No thank you


                
Breaking Bad. ever the best. Saul, ever charming. Nothing is Bad (in a good sense) about this spin-off though. There is no Saul in Better Call Saul and it has run 2 full seasons (2 years and still no idea if anything has changed or what direction it is headed). So dull and dragging, the characters might as well have slept through 2 years. As static as a nail on a nuclear bunker... There is not a single interesting character other than the ones that are originally from Breaking Bad. This is just trying to run on the success of something brilliant as Breaking Bad. It is very much sad and disappointing, there is no way to sugarcoat this. The best part of BB was how pacy the story was in contradiction to the how slow each scene was. There was an intriguing story-line and characters were growing and transitioning and the unpredictability made the show such a popular favorite. BCS does not have any punch at all. Better Call Saul, better not.


                
I've watched 4 episodes and failed to see anything funny or interesting about Jimmy ... I'm usually easily entertained by irreverent @#$holes .. but all I want to do is change the channel. It's like watching paint dry. No, I'm wrong. Watching paint dry is more fun.If Jimmy had gone balls to the wall Saul then maybe I would be a fan. We're 20 episodes into ... CRAP .. How is an audience supposed to hang on to boredom this long? .. Why would they have held back this long? No better way to lose viewers than to crawl into what you intend the show to be.There is zero expectation at this point that the show will improve. That's generally not the way TV shows go. Normally they start off with a bang then run out of ideas and get canceled. Well. BCS should be canceled before viewers are subject to another reason to go to sleep.


                
I was looking for a new show to watch and stumbled over this one. I had really high expectations, 9.3, this has to be a good one. This is by far the worst piece I've seen in a long time. Its so frustrating to watch, I wanted to turn it off when I watched the first episode but I thought that I have to give it some time, I mean with those scores. The following episodes was like cutting myself with a rusty knife, 5 minutes into the 4th episode I had to turn it off. I really like good series, Dexter, GoT, Californication, Fargo, True detective, The wire and so on. I even watched Breaking bad for 3-4 seasons until I just thought he was such an imbecile and couldn't bare seeing him. Please do yourself a favor and save that precious time of yours.


                
After getting through the first season, I was hoping that Vince Gilligan would have refined Saul/Jimmy into at least a marginally sympathetic, perhaps even interesting character. No such luck. Seriously, who can you root for in this series? Certainly not Jimmy, the self-pitying, stammering, shyster-from-hell who seems to be on an inexplicable self-destruct mission. I thoroughly detest Jimmy and the rest of the characters (with the single, standout exception of "Mike" the ex-cop, now working at the pay booth at the courthouse parking lot), and I fervently wish that the proverbial "bus full of lawyers" goes over a cliff with no empty seats.As I alluded to above, the sole saving grace of "Better call Saul" is the redoubtable Jonathan Banks as "Mike", whose nuanced portrayal is a multi-layered yet subtle performance that makes you want to know all about him, what his history is, and what he's going to do next. The genius of casting Banks make you wonder what how on Earth Oderkirk even got considered for the part of Saul. But I'm afraid even Banks' bravura portrayal is not enough to salvage this boring, e-n-d-l-e-s-s-l-y dragged-out story line in which Gilligan and his "writers" have painted themselves into a corner. Using a second banana comedian as a dramatic lead can turn out to be a bad gamble indeed, and Gilligan unintentionally offers Bob Odenkirk as living proof. Odenkirk's flat, whiny characterization of Saul/Jimmy reprises his obnoxious, flim-flam, used-car salesman's persona in "Breaking Bad", but he's not even marginally believable as competent attorney. Instead, Odenkirk blathers on, and on, like a ninny, informing his thoroughly unlikable character with his own humble past and lack of dramatic acting talent.You know you wouldn't let Odenkirk's character even represent your dog, yet somehow he is recruited as a partner in his brother's POSH Santa Fe law firm (overruling his brother's wishes since Jimmy isn't "a real lawyer" in his brother's eyes) simply because he had stumbled onto a nursing home scam worth millions in attorney's fees. In real life, Saul would have gotten a referral or finder's fee at best, especially since he has to beg for appointed criminal cases at the Court Clerk's Office, and his "law office" is literally in the closet in the rear of a manicuring salon.Odenkirk and Gilligan should watch Paul Newman's amazing portrayal of a down-and-out lawyer in "The Verdict" about twenty times, and see what "Better Call Saul" and the perilous job of a practicing solo lawyer is all about. I've known and worked with hundreds of attorneys, and I don't believe for even one second that either Odenkirk or his character, even in the perverse parody of "Better Call Saul," could be a real lawyer. I suffered through much of season 1 and the first two episodes of season 2 hoping for at least a scintilla of the quality of "Breaking Bad", but I'm done wasting my time on this insufferably tedious, really bad prequel. The only solution that would bring me back is to have Jimmy/Saul meet his demise by choking to death on a slice of cucumber while drinking upside-down from the manicurist's water jug, and then have the story focus on Mike's exploits.
Don't waste my time. You are not DH Lawrence. This show has gotten as boring as Season 3 of Breaking Bad. Vince, are you really out of ideas? What about bad-ass Tuco? Is the budget really so tight you can't afford a wee more cash to keep your viewers interested? If I was you I would personally fund the expense to make these episodes good if only to protect my reputation. Resting on your laurels or just a a magnesium flash of brilliance followed by a bitter after taste of dull warmth?! This is more mediocre product on AMC. The idiot fan-boys will keep watching but those guys have nothing to do anyway. Lesson one: N E V E R B O R E Y O U R A U D I E N C E ! !


                
This started off well... At least the first couple of episodes and then it hit a road block. In terms of content there is nothing. It seems to be dragging along. It's the 4h season now and Saul Goodman is nowhere to be seen. This may be an isolated series but comparison to breaking bad is going to happen. By season 4 breaking bad had reached a story which was unstoppable and a tempo that was incomparable. Compared to that BCS is boring. And more boring. There. i said it. i tried my best to like it, but it sucks and it doesn't Move. Saul Goodman is getting murdered in this series-it's going to drag on for 10 seasons. Take a page out of BB and finish it in 5 seasons making pol want more. BCS is boring. Thats that


                
I have to admit right away, this show does not deserve a 1 star rating. It isn't that bad. However, it also doesn't deserve the countless perfect scores it's been receiving. To be fair, the actors are very good, the cinematography is great, and the dialogue is usually witty and sharp. It sounds like it had everything going for it, until you actually get to the incoherent story. The writers of this show, while excelling at individual scenes, had no idea what their end-game was.The first two episodes are a self-contained story, then they introduce a stolen money plot in episode 3. A Mexican named Nacho (sigh) is involved in both stories, but after threatening Jimmy's life, he disappears anticlimactically. Then the plot disappears while the focus shifts to Mike's backstory, which is interesting but irrelevant. We finally return to the stolen money in episode 7, and it gets resolved anticlimactically. The final episodes deal with an entirely new story that gets introduced in episode 8. The very last episode ignores all the previous plots and focuses on a new character who has no connections to the rest of the season besides Jimmy.There is no beginning, middle, and end. How anyone could create such a senseless jumble of loose threads in only ten episodes, I have no idea.


                
I cannot believe this thing. How? Why? WHY?! I'm going to guess this series reflects the ultimate narcissism/head-up-butt we've become so used to because surely someone saw what a piece of doo this is but some extremely egotistical d-wad wouldn't have it, or at least I need to hang on to that hope lest I face the reality that humanity is doomed.To be fair, I skipped through a lot of episodes because I do not deserve to be tortured, but one episode in particular caught my attention: at least 3/4 of the whole episode was Mike talking to his daughter-in-law. Like, just sitting there talking to her telling her about his son. I could not believe it. Why - who would want to sit there for 45 mins watching two people talking? Who thought that was a good idea? The number one rule of writing is: "show, don't tell." Nobody associated with this crap got that memo, obviously.And the writing. OMG. It is so bad. I mean, I didn't expect this show to be as good as Breaking Bad, but couldn't they at least have gotten the writing right? Instead we get third rate and amateurish dialogue - and God, is there a lot of dialogue! More like drivel, though, that drags on forever. Right in the beginning we have this: Tuco points a gun at Jimmy's head because two other guys are accusing him of trying to dupe Tuco and his grandma. Instead of saying something like "I thought your grandma was someone else. I was trying to get someone else," Jimmy says "It was a mistake." Who the FFFF talks like that?! Nobody bloody talks like that to begin with. And with a gun pointed at your head? COME ON!!! So all in all it's a stupid show that fails and falls on its face right in the mud.IT.SUCKS.
too much bouncing around stupid subplots. Has not held my interest. not even funny!! keeps jumping no continuity. not interesting to me at all. will probably not take the time to see much more. really juvenile and does not keep my attention. just mindless subplots that distract and confuse,
Hello,How are you?Well... I suffered through the 1st season 'cause Breaking Bad was an original, compelling, dramatically ironic story but Better Call Saul is just like that other B.S. show with Aaron Paul playing upon the old fan base. Sucks worse than bad.Try Plan 9 From outer Space, you'll get better plot and acting.Thanks, dusty-33338


                
This is the worst show that ever existed. Reporting my review because you are stupid just proves I'm right.


                
15 minutes into the first episode, you see some teenagers sawing off a dead man's head. It shows the severed head. One of the boys says "I dare you to stick your wang in the throat hole".I turned it off after that. I was a fan of Breaking Bad, but this is too much. The world has evil, but in television there's a way of being subtle about it. I lost respect for AMC and Vince Gilligan after that.I think Bob Odenkirk is a great actor, and I enjoyed his wit in Breaking Bad, but I can't support this work.This should be TV-MA, not TV-14. I hope this review saves someone else some time.
Don't get me wrong Better Call Saul is not a one-starer. I am only giving this review to balance out the ratings. The series has good points like excellent acting, great character development, strange warmheartedness and other things that make this show watchable. And it started of really well too BUT it fell apart after second season. It has become unwatchably slow! The story seems to be at a standstill and there is too much repetition. Better Call Saul isn't producing anything new for the viewer. It is elongated and boring with nothing happens whatsoever, episode after episode.


                
Unwatchable! Stupid! Boring! Like someone say it already, nobody cares about Chuck.


                
Was just trying to get into Better Call Saul. Three recent reruns were all filmed in the dark. That lends such a delightful pseudo-complexity to a series. Your plot may be razor thin and the dialogue insipid, but it's amazing how challenging an episode can seem when you can't identify who's talking or what's actually happening. Just another piece of trash that's not worth watching. Goodbye!


                
