OMG. This show is slow. 2 seasons watching and nothing happened. NOTHING. Scenes that take forever to finish without being important for the plot. Wait a minute...Did i say plot? What plot? Most boring show EVER...spoiler alert...episode 1 season 3. Mike is eating peanuts waiting for someone to show up. FOREVER.
Before I write this review I want everybody reading it I understand that I was one of the biggest Breaking Bad fans just like everybody else. I thought Breaking Bad an absolute Masterpiece of Art and definitely a breakthrough in television originality.That said, what has happened with the creators of this franchise is all too typical in entertainment I'm afraid. Breaking Bad was an incredible show, and it broke new boundaries and rewrote the law on television entertainment in many ways. The problem is, that success has made the Creator's a bit pretentious. They now believe that any dribble they put together and draw out the plot with will be a success like Breaking Bad. I have to say that I had high hopes for Better Call Saul. In fact I've given it almost to the end of season 2. During this time we've had promises that we will finally see Saul Goodman break through. Promises that, in the upcoming episodes, we will finally see how Saul Goodman became Saul Goodman. That was just in season one. Now it appears we are going to end season 2 still not reaching the Crux of the plot and this entire story line. I'll tell you one thing we're definitely getting a lot of hints to multiple other story arcs before we even understand how the primary plot is to be what we all started watching the show to see.I think the reason this show is getting the scores it's getting is because too many of the Breaking Bad fans are scared that if they say honestly what they think there is a risk of the show being canceled, or something far worse, it becomes a typical piece of Television; and like I said I think that already happened.I am going to finish season 2 of the show. I truly believe however, if the plot line has not moved along further by the end of season 2, and we are still left hanging about how Saul Goodman became Saul Goodman instead of Jimmy, many of the fans will simply stop watching. So we don't need the bad reviews for that to happen. It'll just happen on its own.That said, Vince and any of the other creators or producers who have any control of the show, Please be aware that you do have a considerable number of fans out there who are very disappointed with this new franchise. I hope you fix it, but based on what we're seeing this late in the game I'm not hopeful. I am disappointed because I really did have high hopes.
Better Call Saul is a massive disappointment to me after all the hype i just cannot for the life of me see what all the fuss is about .The plot is boring slow and obviously dragged out to pad for time..one example of that is during the last show of the season when Saul is calling the bingo and a ball with the letter b before the number comes up continuously..talk about over done..really what was the point of dragging it out like that..and how anyone can possibly compare Better Call Saul with Breaking Bad i have no idea..BCS is not even in the same league as BB. Sure there are moments of good television there but they are few and far between and there is not enough of them to rescue this show from impending mediocrity..sorry..just my opinion


                
I just don't get these "great" reviews. The show, in my opinion, is mediocre and not at all what I was expecting in a Breaking Bad-related show. This show compared to Breaking Bad is apples and oranges. It's just a dark comedy and I'm not impressed. The story line with the brother who is allergic to electricity or some stupid thing, was really getting old for me, and I have since stopped watching the series. Since Bob Odenkirk is a comedian by background, I guess I should have known what was to come, but I really thought it was going to be more like Breaking Bad. This show is a disappointment for me. I know that I am an outlier here in stating these opinions, but they are just that, my opinions.


                
(Just a rhetorical question. I don't really want an answer.)Over a few days, I watched all 10 episodes of season 1. The show seemed to be popular and I wondered what I was missing.I'm still wondering. I can't think of any reason to watch the show.1) Characters are unrelatable and unsympathetic. 2) The..... pace....... drags........ so........ so....... so....... so....... slowly. ("Did we fill an hour yet?")3) The "plot twists" are ridiculously predictable unless you're about 9 years old or less. If this show surprises you...well it shouldn't.4) The writers jump multiple barracudas in each show. Things that CAN'T happen in real-life pass for normality. Yet none of the anti- reality events are used to advance whatever hint of a plot the series has.5) Lots of silly, unforced issues with minorities and women.I think the acting is pretty good. (For example, Rhea Seahorn has to convince us an attractive, intelligent, well-employed woman with little free time is willing squander it to platonically mother a pathetic, unreliable schlub. ACTING!) The actors try to save the weak writing.The filming is well done and the retro mood is usually witty and only slightly overplayed.This might have been a decent 90-minute movie where you walk in, walk out, and move on. But as a series, it was painful to watch. I was glad episode 10 showed no hint of sucking me into season 2. It was a relief to hit the delete button and free up dvr space.


                
As a huge fan of Breaking Bad, I had high hopes for this prequel, but the first 2 seasons have been worse than awful. Aside from one or two episodes that have something interesting to offer, the rest is just boring, un-eventful blah. Two or 3 episodes could have easily conveyed what these two seasons covered, and frankly, even that wasn't very interesting. I won't give season-3 a shot unless someone I trust tells me its truly up to par. I think they felt this was going to be a "gimme" for all the BB lovers, but they were sadly mistaken. Most people, I've found, think this is a very poor series that without BB wouldn't have ever made it to even DVD.


                
After watching Breaking Bad I couldn't wait to see "Better Call Saul". Oh what a let down. The first couple of episodes started real slow but I thought stay with it as it must get better. Well now I've seen all ten episodes I can confirm, it does not get better. The script/storyline is absolute rubbish. This is so far away from Breaking Bad which I'd rate 10/10, but this just about gets a 2/10. The story lines just don't go anywhere.....then the episode ends. I will not be watching series 2. If you left the room for ten minutes during an episode, don't rewind as you won't have missed anything, it's that bad. Seems like the writers were clutching at straws, very very disappointing, a real shame.


                
There's a moment early in "Marco" where Jimmy and Kim walk past the dented trash can in the HHM parking garage — a reminder of so many of Jimmy's early frustrations with his brother's law firm — and he assures her that he's at peace with what he learned about Chuck. It seems, just then, that the "Better Call Saul" creative team — most of them (like co-creator Peter Gould, who wrote and directed the finale) veterans of "Breaking Bad," a show largely defined by the patient way it moved through its arcs — will be playing a particularly long game in getting us from Jimmy McGill to Saul Goodman. Chuck's betrayal was a brutal blow, but maybe it wouldn't be the one that knocked Jimmy over the edge.Nothing happened during this episode and I don't see what will make me waiting the next season. As every time, it started good and ended in the worth and most frustrated manner.I'm not gonna watch season 2 !


                
Is it just me or does Season 4 really stink? I love the character of Saul and I watched Seasons 1 & 2 patiently to see Jimmy McGill evolve into Saul. Here I am in Season 4 and I still don't see Saul. Why?
The writers keep dragging out these lame episodes that go nowhere. Mike has become very boring. The only character I root for is Nacho.
I will finish watching this season and that's it. I am very disappointed. Saul was a great character, but he has vanished.


                
What an incredible disappointment! I did not find that there was anything but weak acting, little to no character development, the sets even felt phony to me. The unrealistic action scenes didn't have the flow of well-rehearsed sequences I have come to expect from all action TV shows and movies. The pyrotechnics were also pretty mediocre! The good thin I'd like to add is the music of Dave Porter is still most excellent but I'll download his music instead. I'll not be wasting my time on these mundane copycat efforts that "Better Call Saul" has presented and it is out of my watch list. Sorry folks but don't be throwing pizza at me, it is only my opinion and you may have more leisure time than I do.


                
After watching and wasting my time with 2 full seasons I finally gave up on the show. Why? Because it goes nowhere. It is about nothing. It is a waste of time. It is like a carrot dangling in front of the viewer's eyes: "Stay tuned, maybe something will happen." But it doesn't. Nothing happens. Nothing makes much sense. The pacing could not be any slower. The only interesting character is Mike. 2/10 for Mike and some remotely interesting scenes. Avoid. This is no Breaking Bad, far from it.


                
Soon as I saw the very first episode of Better Call Saul I was almost convinced I would be hooked. This show starts with a bang and over the next 2 further episodes just got better and better and then we hit episode 4 and things start to slow down and the plots become less intense and the scenes more drawing out. I felt the first twinges of disappointment by the end of EP 4. Now just watched episode 5 and it has got worse. A slow moving dull 40 or so minutes or how ever long it is.The title of EP 5 Alpine Shepperd Boy really had nothing to do with the IMO dull and ever slowing pace of what could be a great series. The last 10 minutes of EP were boring beyond anything I have seen in a while. It seems like the producer was more interested in giving the viewer artistic long drawn camera angels rather than any substance. The end 4 minutes left we with the feeling I wont be in a rush to see what is coming next.I really want to like this series and I hope I am wrong and it will burst into life again as it did the first few episodes. But no production can afford to start loosing its viewers interest by EP 5. They need to do much better than this. Sadly disappointed by the last 2 shows. Shame as Saul is a great character they could build so much more into.
Updated 9/27/2018I hereby officially confirm that I won't watch it no more.Updated on 9/13/2018This series kept deteriorating one episode after another. I really don't know what's the purpose of going on without reigning it in time. Wasted a lot of manpower and money to do a show so badly into season 4 is almost like a crime, man. The problem nowadays for some of the TV drama series is such a doomed formula: Fascinating at first season, less great in the 2nd, and then the spiral downward sped up and out of control. It just ruined the whole compact integrity of a TV show. Some of the shows went on over many years as " Friends" from (1994-2004), those young men and young women were growing older and older, so they had to stop. "Seinfeld" from (1989-1998), the actors and the viewers were all growing older and older, and both got so tired and needed to call a quit. But they were great shows with great quality until some of the actors needed to bail out to have some different life style and new ventures. But some of the TV drama series just like this "Better Call Saul", right after the first season, we could all see they all started to deteriorating, and the sour speed just increased one episode after another."Game of Thrones" *Some of the episodes in later Seasons already showed weakness in scripts; Boardwalk Empire (2010) *The worst sample of deterioration,Vikings (2013) *The final season sucked big time, Mr. Robot (2015) *Became weirder and weirder and out of control bad;Westworld (2016) *Weird and struggling all the time;True Detective (2014) *Even the 1st episode felt weird; Deadwood (2004) *The final season sucked so much; The Shield (2002) *Kept deteriorating; Downton Abbey (2010) *The final 2 seasons became so weak; Gomorrah (2014) *The screenplays in later stage became so messy; Justified (2010) *So great at first, then the final season just became so weak; The Sopranos (1999) *It's so great at first, then the Mafia organization became disgusting and absurd.I think the production company that financed this "Better Call Saul" should stop the ridiculous going-nowhere and this out-of-control digression TV drama the sooner the better, because it already become unwatchable.
============================================================
Updated on September 2nd, 2018Well, when this series is into the 4th season, it has become terrible and not worth watching any more. I've downgraded it from a high 9 to 3, and have decided not to chase it week after week. There's no reason to continue this series too by the production company either. Boring, aimless, random crap all over the place.----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Very good script of every episode. In recent years, screenplay writers know how to make good people turned out to be really bad, and bad ones on the surface actually are pretty good guys. In this drama, Saul actually is a very decent person with big heart, his brother, Chuck and Howard, are actually two phonies, and Chuck is one of the worst characters ever created and appeared in dramas. I've never seen a big brother hated his younger brother so much, and tried every way to ruin him. Chuck simply made me sick, such a hateful self-righteous person. All the actors in this drama showing the casting agency did a great job. I just wish Saul's luck could be gradually improved, and those phonies sitting on their high horses would fall down disgracefully.


                
The premises of this show is great because of the Breaking Bad series, but this show is drawn out boring numbing garbage. I just cant stomach the series after all the lame torturous over drama moral crap that is being shoved on you as the series continues. I loved the guy from the Breaking Bad series and the Shark mentality is superb but the in depth creative drama of Saul's life is very much a depressing not real at all mind numbing roller coaster. every time i think its going to pickup the pace and get to be a badass show it goes right back to the same old moral lame shiz..


                
This show does not properly understand how to straddle the line between fear and comedy like Breaking Bad did. In fact it doesn't feel like it was written by Vince Gilligan at all? Yes Mike and Saul are in the show and there a few cool B.B. camera angles but that's it.Please tell me I am not the only person who feels this way. Could it get better? Well I live in hope and I'll continue to PVR new episodes. One mark of a great show is whether you bother to rewind if you go a little too far when fast forwarding through commercials.B.C.S. does sadly remind me of what happened to the West Wing when the brilliant Aaron Sorkin left, only the result is something much worse.


                
Better call Mike. Another season and still questions remain. This series could give the walking dead a run for its money in stretching episodes to its limit. 
The whole season jimmy souls cell phones and mike and his German friends made a cave. I hope season 5 is better. It is a great show but it's too slow. They need to get on a level with breaking bad.
I really liked season 1 and 2. Just started to watch season 3 and it's extremely slow and too boring. Have to look at Jonathan's face for 10 minutes to see what's going to happen next. Seriously I don't recommend this spin-off series to anyone. Let's hope it's going to be better in the next episodes.


                
I'm writing this review after watching the first two episodes.I wanted to like this badly. But unfortunately, this show is simply boring. Stylistically, it's quite masterful and almost identical to Breaking Bad. Story-wise, it's totally empty. The first episode is a complete bore until Tuco from Breaking Bad makes his appearance, which is unfortunately not until (literally) the last second of the episode.Considering that short-fused, ultra-violent Tuco had just entered the storyline, I had hopes for Episode number two. I was disappointed. It was just... boring. At one point in the story - amazingly - the plot even drifts off into a kind of cheap, unfunny slapstick (with the appropriate shitty music) when Saul is negotiating with Tuco regarding the appropriate punishment for Saul's "associates." It was an attempt at dark humor that utterly and embarrassingly failed.So far, I'm 100% disappointed. I really, really hope it'll get better. (PS is it just standard fare now for filmmakers to hire review writers for the first ten reviews or so?)


                
This series was about Sauls brother chuck. NO ONE CARES. This show is so slow it's painful. One episode had 50 mins of complete time wasting slow paced drivel and then they put a minute of breaking bad related story to keep you watching. It's pathetic. 
I have never known a show to milk a premise as much as this better call Saul.
