Season 1 : 10/10 : I loved Season 1. Rated it 10/10 based on the fact that I can watch it again and again without ever feeling bored. It was extraordinary and unlike any other show. Lovable Jimmy, mysterious Kim, smug Howard and a complex Chuck. And Mike's backstory was just heart-wrenching. Human relationships weaved perfectly. There were no bad episodes in this season and all of them could easily be at least a 9/10. Funny, hopelessly romantic, heart-breaking and completely believable. The best episode was 'Alpine Shepherd Boy'.Season 2 : 7.5/10 : The first 2 episodes and the Rebecca episode were alright but the rest of this season was quite boring with some good bits within each episode. The worst episode was 'Bali Ha'i' with endless Mike scenes that go nowhere. I just found myself fast forwarding to Jimmy and Kim scenes and zoning out of all other storylines on second and third watches of this season. I loved Michael McKean though-absolutely wonderful in everything he does.Season 3 : 4/10 : This was a terrible season with many bad episodes containing large chunks of insipid half-baked plots. This season I found myself completely walking away from the Mike storyline because it was neither smart nor interesting. Hector Salamanca is a clown, the cousins are caricatures, Don Eladio is another clown - so, that makes Gus less mysterious and sadly takes away from him being notoriously smart. I longed for scenes with Jimmy and Kim. Apparently, they just share office space this season - they don't actually work together or even live together (I say apparently because there were no actual 'relationship-y' scenes - you have to conclude this from that badly put together Kim-showering-in-a-gym montage). Forget about making out or sleeping together, they do not even seem to share a meal or talk about anything properly. How does any relationship survive this kind of neglect? Would have been helpful to analyze if they at least cared to mention the length of time covered in this season - as in for how long have Jimmy and Kim been living like this? Months? Weeks? Days - what is it? 
I liked 4 episodes in total - 'Chicanery', 'Expenses', 'Slip' (except for the looonnnggg and unnecessary Nacho-Hector bit) and 'Lantern' (mostly for Michael McKean's extraordinary performance). Btw, I did not feel like watching any episodes twice this whole season.Season 4 : 0/10 (negative rating actually) : 
It is very clear this season that the show sorely misses Vince Gilligan. The writers on this are just not smart enough. I would even say that the writing is now below average to plain dumb or uninterested. Sure, they can all write a screenplay when the story and structure of it is all laid out (as any writer) but none of them seem to have smart original ideas as Vince did. And there is not a SINGLE character that is left to care about. And for the lead time they enjoy, this is all they could come up with? 
Forced montages galore. Plot (what plot!?) holes galore, not to mention endless inconsistencies that contradict what was shown in BB and even the other seasons of this very show. Also, there is a way to do 'nothing happens' and this is NOT it. I also read somewhere that none of the tricks work as shown - the camera trick, the gum trick, the super-lab construction (I actually never understood what was going on there) - it seems they got it all wrong.Jimmy- Kim: Couldn't care less if they break-up or stay together or die! I mean I love the actors (Bob and Rhea) but whatever. Don't even get me started on their childish pranks - so someone with a rubber stamp is enough to cut through all the time and bureaucratic red tape involved in getting approvals? And the whole story with Huell made no sense - why would Huell smack someone simply standing and talking to Jimmy? I slept through Jimmy's finale speech and why is Kim so surprised? She knew Jimmy went into the room to con those people into reinstating him. 
Btw, Jimmy is NOT 'Saul', not by any stretch. He is calling himself Saul just like he did in the last season, that is all. Chuck's death has not turned him into the character we saw in 'Breaking Bad'. Chuck - Flashbacks with Chuck did nothing for me. This is saying a lot because he was such a fascinating character.Gus - Gus in now the dumbest character on the show - gives cold stares or rants, nothing else. Why would he show his face to a contract worker? 
The whole Verner saga was really stupid. I mean, what is the point? One montage I would have actually liked is a super-lab construction montage that actually explains what is being done (like the meth montage in BB), not some dumb-wimpy-contract-worker-trying-to-run-away story.Howard - Poor Patrick Fabian. They have almost written him out of the show. It seems he has miraculously gotten HHM on track...LOL! How? Mike - No story after Five-O (from season 1), so there was just so much filler that I just can't be bothered to write an elaborate critique. Nacho - If Gus wants him on his side, why would he shoot him in the stomach and injure him like that? Wouldn't you want healthy and agile people on your side? Oh that whole filler story with his dad, I don't even...Lalo - Why create new characters when you already have nothing for the existing ones? Does Lalo have superpowers to execute the ceiling stunt in seconds? Which genius came up with that?To sum up, this show could have been great on its own if the creators had not given in to the temptation of becoming the 'prequel to Breaking Bad' - which it is not. They should have promoted the show as a character drama - which it is and then gradually built up viewers for it instead of trying to get all Breaking Bad viewers at once and disappointing everyone.PS: Does Vince Gilligan really believe that season 4 is the best season? Really?
I wrote the part below after three seasons. S4 is much, much better and the pace has finally quickened. There are still parts where is drags, but in general things are finally starting to happen. Still, almost finished with the 4th season and there is still not much going on.And then we get to S04E07 and everything starts to grind to a halt again A six minute intro that tell us nothing. There's another music video of dudes making a meth lab. They are copying some of the iconic music videos in Breaking Bad where thing actually happened. I was just about to bump this up to 6 or 7 stars, but I think that I'll wait.This could have been an excellent series. Instead it is like a house guest who doesn't know when it's time to go home. Three seasons in and the material could have been covered in six episodes. They are just dragging this thing out forever. Just because you have a TV series with ten episodes of 44 minutes (or whatever it is) doesn't mean you can just show someone walking for a minute. Tell a story. Tell stories. Literally, every scene is too long. How could someone write this? Stop wasting our time.If you examine this series you would have to agree that they drag almost every scene along to absurd lengths. Do they realize that you don't actually have to show someone on camera walking across a street, for example? You can just show the person taking a step in that direction and then cut. In the next cut you can show them on the other side. Basic film making. This is a problem with many series and feature films. They have no idea of how much time they need to tell their particular story. I can't count how many feature films I have seen recently that go well beyond the standard 90 minutes, and for no real reason. Netflix cranks out lots of bad movies that go two hours that could be trimmed to 45 minutes, easily. This show is one of the worst (best?) examples of feet dragging. It's excruciating to watch.Just watch the first scene in the first episode of Season 4. It clocks in at a bit over eight minutes. It tells us very, very little. Eight minutes is an eternity. Most comedy series clock in at 22 minutes for an entire episode so thus scene would have been more than a third of a show. This is only one example and I could list dozens and dozens of this same wasting of time.I wish that I knew exactly how much screen time was spent agonizing over Hector Salamanca's heart pills. Jesus, talk about extreme over-kill.


                
BCS is BORING....The show has lost it's way and like the show Lost is just making unrelated stuff out of whole cloth..BCS has hatched multiple mini-plots that are seemingly UN-related to the original plot...I'm sorry but I find a cartel shoot-out just boring and common NOT creative..
Quit Stalling Writers...develop the characters and plot!


                
Yes, like everyone else; I loved "Breaking Bad". Truly one of the (if not "the") greatest series ever made and Saul was one of my favorite characters. Naturally I was more than excited when I heard news of the "Better Call Saul" spin-off. Now we all know about horrifying spin-offs like "AfterMASH", "Baywatch Nights" or (everyone's favorite), "Joani Loves Chachi"... so as how most spin-offs go, I wasn't expecting much.Well sometimes not expecting "much" is still a little too much to expect...This series is painfully slow. It just is. Any half observant person can tell right away, they are simply stalling for time and dragging out every single scene in order to put together a "series". Every episode so far has just been a painful exercise in bringing in old characters from Breaking Bad and burning up the clock with them in hopes they'll finally do something, ANYTHING entertaining... at all. In other words:Their milking the Breaking Bad cash cow for everything it's worth.I really wanted to like this. I stuck with it for multiple episodes hoping it would go somewhere... it never did. Months have passed and I remember asking my wife "Weren't we watching "Better Call Saul" at some point? Is that show still even on?" To my surprise it is. But then lets face it, most people will watching anything these days -- no matter how slow moving, empty and painfully boring. "Better Call Saul" reminds me of watching a crappy opening band for half an hour before just wandering away to do something more interesting -- like go out to the car and clip your toenails. I just really don't care about anything going on in it anymore -- it's just too slow moving, stale and empty. Without Walter, Jesse or anything interesting happening -- who cares? I'll just skip the pseudo opening act/prequel/spin-off and fast forward to the good part:Breaking Bad: Season 1, Episode 1.


                
I mean, how this show is almost 9/10. This is a very slow paced show. And NO, it is not well cooked. I mean it have all the ingredients, but IMO it is not working. You probably know the reasons. Nothing happens. I mean, in 4 seassons only the dead of Chuck. I mean, do I care? No. I am watching the last episodes of season 4, thinking about the potential of this series, with a well structured pace. What a shame, Better call Domino's.
Excellent earlier seasons and episodes. But as the series goes on it gets darker and darker. I don't just mean in mood either, but physically dark, some episodes shot almost completely in rooms with hardly any lights. Also, the series' creators revel in totally mystifying the viewer by beginning an episode with activities and characters totally unrelated to last week's cliffhanger. I can appreciate this done occasionally for effect. But with BCS the device has become an annoying tick. Also many of the characters are totally hateful, in that regard the series taking a page from its far superior spin off, Breaking Bad. I just watched the 3rd season closer in which we're asked to sit through nearly twenty minutes of Jimmy's wack-ed-out monster of a brother tearing his house apart trying to locale a mysterious electric current. At the end of the episode Chuck deliberately knocks over a Coleman lamp, thus setting the house ablaze along with ( hopefully!) himself. And after three seasons I'm still waiting for Jimmy McGill to morph into Saul Goodman. I'm afraid I have to agree with another reviewer who said the series is slipping into stylish pretentiousness.


                
I tried, and I didn't make the mistake of expecting a show nearly like Breaking Bad, but I gave found Better Call Saul to be frustratingly disappointing. I've become so disappointed with it that I've given up following it after the first three seasons and I won't be watching the rest.There is something general I do look for in TV shows and it is something I found in Breaking Bad and that is a layered and quick moving storyline. Better Call Saul definitely lacks that. Breaking Bad or The Wire were shows that if you watched one episode then missed a couple and tried to pick up again from there, you may have trouble figuring out what you missed. Better Call Saul's narrative unfolds in such a painfully dull pace that you really don't miss all that much. An example is the start of season 3. The sequence of Mike finding the tracker on his car, fixing it, then turning it on the people who put it there takes up what seems like hours of your life. In the end, if you've seen Breaking Bad, you already know it's one of two people who would have put it there and it's not hard to guess who that is. Then there's the big reveal that's overly dramatic and not much happens in Mike's storyline after that. As for the storyline of Jimmy McGill. the dynamic between himself and his manipulative older brother, Chuck is interesting in terms of character development but again, the pacing of their storyline is so frustrating. Obviously, we know where these main characters end up in the long run. I tried to maintain interest in the supporting characters but it didn't work for me. The worst criticism anyone can say about any form of entertainment is to call it boring. The show started out with a comedic bent and that managed to maintain my interest. That humor fades dramatically in the third season and the result is a storyline that just moves too slow. I've given up. The show is back on the air after nearly a year and a half layoff and I suspect the pacing will be just as painful and I rather rewatch a show that has so much going on in an hour that it feels like I just watched an entire movie than these heavy handed scenes that are almost like watching those stock print painting Walter White noticed in a doctor's office and later in a dank motel.
Having enjoyed Breaking Bad so much and the first two seasons of Better Call Saul, I was always giving this show the benefit of the doubt when great characters like Jimmy & Kim were about, but having seen the final episode of series 4, I'm now jumping ship. It has taken us all this time to see where the story was heading and to suddenly realize that it's related to Breaking Bad at this late stage means only one thing - the story tellers got it wrong. 
I'm convinced that there are better writers out there that could mold these two great actors into a finer storytelling TV movie. Especially Kim's brilliance with her poker face expression - she simply exudes emotion where there is no expression and her use of time lag utterances has us hanging on every word. Sheer genius acting!
If the writers of this series had taken the last 90 seconds of episode 4 and built the whole two last series out of it, then they would have out done Breaking Bad for sure and would have given me hope for the future. 
Sadly I have to go now and find Kim's other movie offerings and hope that in the future she will be given the space to breath and to develop her wonderful acting skills.


                
The first three seasons were okay, but season 4 is a desaster.


                
Cannot blame the actors on this one, Saul, Mike and Gus have always been interesting characters, but the writers are dragging out the storyline like a slow moving fishing trawler, afraid they'll reach the "Breaking" point of no return. Really how many times are we going to see Saul sell phones from the back of his car. Poor Kim, trapped in a mesh mash of meaningless scripts. whats she doing, wheres she going, I don't really know?
Time to drag this one in, there's nothing on the line...


                
As a HUGE fan of BB I was very enthusiastic to start watching this. However, my enthusiasm soon disappeared. Other reviewers have said it too - it's just boring. I have no issue with a 'slow-burner' and am not a fan of all action thrillers only, but this does not have the requisites to remain interesting and be this slow. For starters (IMHO) Bob Odenkirk just doesn't have what it takes as an actor to hold a lead role. He was GREAT in BB as Saul Goodman but that doesn't mean he has the mettle to lead a show. Of course he is not helped by a laboured script that is trying to be arty? quirky? I don't know what! Whatever it thinks it is being - as far as I am concerned it fails. One of the cleverest things with BB was that everything felt completely natural - no matter how far fetched it actually was. With this series even the simplest of setups seems fake and badly handled. Sorry but this is just not for me.


                
I would like to love Better Call Saul, as I loved Breaking Bad. I do not like to compare a master piece with this new series. But it is impossible not to expect something as great as Breaking Bad. It has all the ingredients, but still missing a piece. Am I the only one that feels this series is really slow? Also, what has happened in five episodes?... I would like to love it, but the only parts that I like it are the ones that the Breaking Bad characters appears. Even if it is briefly. I am going to continue watching it, but I expect more from Saul. If things goes in that way, probably some people are going to stop watching it. I still remember words written from the producers selling BCS as "Better than Breaking Bad". Better Call Breaking Bad.
Infuriatingly slow, slow, slow! The three seasons thus far could have easily been reduced to a single 10 episode season.Season 3 Update:OK, this show pretty much sucks for wasting so much of my time. They just draw out every stupid detail to absurd extremes. It's like they don't want to tell the story, perhaps because they forgot to write one. So instead of a story we get minutes and minutes of basically dead screen time watching people walk, or look for something, or follow someone. At one point Mike was shown staking someone out and the passage of time was demonstrated by the pistachios he ate. Very clever but someone in my high school film class beat you to that stale technique. Every second dealing with Mike, or Tuco, or anything about the criminals has been a blast. Some of the other aspects haven't been so much fun to watch.Highly entertaining at times and exacerbating in others, the creators waste a lot of time on matters that really don't warrant long explanations. This series wins the award for "OK, we get it already!" for when they beat a point to death and then some, Rodney King was lucky compared to the way they pound points into our heads. I get it already, the woman attorney is working really hard to drum up business for her firm and get herself out of the doghouse. I get it already, Sal can't sleep. Why spend minutes of screen time to hammer these minor issues? Probably because they don't have to tell a story while they waste time on these boring scenes. They spent four minutes showing us that Sal needs to get back to his old ways. They could have accomplished this in 1/8 the time. And right after that we hear him singing an entire freaking song on her answering machine. How is that entertainment? I was reminded of the Breaking Bad episode in which they invested almost every minute into Walt tracking down a big in the lab—not one of their best efforts.
