I'm really struggling to watch this (Season 4) I'm the type that watches it close to release but damn, another poor episode and I'm gonna give up. Very boring


                
The only reason I have been watching this is to see Saul and Breaking Bad crossovers. Although the plot with Hector is intriguing, the development of Jimmy into Saul is literally putting me too sleep. Bob Odendkirk is an awesome actor and the cast is terrific. But lets get going with the Breaking Bad connections.


                
This reviewer is late to the party and did not catch this wonderful show until recently.Coincidentally with the recent passing of Gary Shandling, most stations are re-running old episodes of Larry Sanders and I was able to catch a few of those too.Conclusion? Gilligan and Gould, both alumni from Breaking Bad, have picked up the "human foibles" ball and taken it to the goal line.Since Shakespeare, probably earlier, one of the most touching elements of drama is not so much what the characters do, but rather what they are compelled to do by their very natures.Breaking Bad was all about this. However, as a student of TV, if I had to pick a pioneering show that developed this to the max, I would go with Larry Sanders.Sanders was not traditional episodic comedy. Instead, the bizarre relationship between Larry and Hank was developed to a degree that often was less funny and more uncomfortable. Hank was Everyman, often doing the wrong thing at the wrong time since he really could not help himself.That theme is more common today (Fargo comes to mind) but I believe that Gilligan and Gould are the undisputed masters of that art form.This is why so many reviews of the show have trouble explaining why it works.It works even when logically it should not, because it reminds us of that part of ourselves that we simply cannot manage.This show is about being human. Being alive.Getting in situations we think we can handle but we cannot.


                
This show has very little to do with Breaking Bad, but it's still a spin off. The immense success of Breaking Bad has brought a lot of goodwill and patience to this show.This is the Fly episode, which so many people complained about, except here, every episode is a Fly episode. The whole show is a Fly episode.It's not that fun to watch. Seeing Saul, Mike, Tuco and co. gives viewers patience for watching this show that they'd never have with another show. Had this very same show been done before Breaking Bad, it would not last a season.Show this show to non-Breaking Bad fans and they would struggle to enjoy it. It's not good enough as a standalone show.It's just too slow and there's too little story. It's piggybacking on the success of Breaking Bad, definitely, and I don't blame them for that. But there's just not enough meat to sustain this sandwich.Standalone (new) shows have to try so much harder to get this kind of success, but no show can survive with so little story and so few events. A season of this show has fewer events than 2 Breaking Bad episodes.I give it a 7, but I think one of those 7 stars comes directly from it being related to Breaking Bad. I'm not overrating by association. We know these characters and where they're going, so there's more to the show/story/characters than what's on the episodes.Had we not known the futures of Saul, Mike and co. we'd really be watching a show about a goofy lawyer and a parking attendant wondering where it's going and when are we getting there.


                
So I think season 1-3 are amazing. But since season 4, it just really seems to be stretched out and filled with so much mundane filler. Too much shift has been put onto Kim Wexler while Jimmy is just playing Saul Goodman without any explanation as to why other than maybe as a way to avoid guilt of his brother dying and it being his fault. But this isn't portrayed much at all, instead how about we develop Kim Wexler as wonder woman who has to save criminals as some kind of guidance counseling lawyer.
Just watched season 4 in which basically, nothing happened.I thought it would have been really interesting through this season but it was if anything even slower moving.Won't bother watching any more as it's too slow to keep me interested.


                
This review is based on the first five episodes of the first season only. I intend to continue watching the show, so - yes, I like it. But it's not for the impatient. Very different from "Breaking Bad", very slow. The story elements of these first five episodes could have easily fit in two. Often, nothing of particular importance seems to happen. Even then, I like Bob Odenkirk's acting. And there is a scene in the second episode, "Mijo", which I particularly enjoyed - Jimmy McGill (who will later become "Saul Goodman") negotiating the fate of his hapless skateboarder associates, managing to reduce crazy Tuco Salamanca's "sentence" for the twins from all kinds of horrible mutilations and death to "just" a broken leg each - a kind of more grisly Marx Brothers dialogue, totally absurd and surreal (as, in truth, the whole skateboarder storyline). I think the series is at its best in such moments, embracing absurdity - another example being the stream of cranky clients for Jimmy later on. But I can't give it a very high rating. There are good ideas, there is good dialogue. And then - nothing happens. Nothing continues to happen. A little bit happens. Good dialogue again. Again, not happening a lot. And so on. I do understand the frustrated reviewers - but also those who like it. Very much a matter of taste. To repeat: Don't expect a "Breaking Bad" version 2.0.
Now that Season 1 is finished, it's time for me to be honest. What I wanted from BCS all along was more Breaking Bad. I wanted to feel the way i felt during BB - tense, shocked/surprised, on the edge of my seat, sometimes physically sick from the suspense and horror I was watching. Damn it felt good. In just the first episode of BB, our "protagonist" has cooked a bunch of meth, murdered someone and attempted suicide. He "broke bad" in the very first episode, and from there, we the viewers witnessed one of the greatest character transformations, against the backdrop of a terrifying criminal underworld. Then there's Better Call Saul. A spin off prequel TV show based off the comic relief of one of the greatest shows in history. I doubted it would work, but I hoped that Gilligan could pull it off. And by pull it off, I mean, "make me feel like I felt watching Breaking Bad." And in a way, he has pulled it off, just not the way I wanted it. BCS is a slow burn. And I mean a SLOW burn, like boiling a kettle with the heat turned to its lowest setting. And by the end of season 1, I wouldn't say it has started to boil yet, but steam is rising. BCS has very little suspense - the most suspenseful scene in BCS is not as suspenseful as the least suspenseful scene in BB. But what BCS does really well is develop a character. Exciting, right? No. It's actually quite tedious. But, Gilligan and the gang manage to make it watchable, which is the best way to describe this season - watchable. I can't really criticize much about the show - the dialogue, the broader themes, style, music, acting, are all superb. It's just that the plot isn't captivating, because there isn't much of a plot. It's a character driven show, while BB (though definitely character driven too) was plot driven. Here's what BCS did well - it made me like Saul Goodman. It made me interested in him as a character, not just as the comic relief. When i watch BB, I'll think back to this season, and he seems more real. But if BCS wants to keep me interested, it has to do what I initially wanted it to do - make me feel like I felt during BB. And BCS does have this potential. We know Saul gets into some terrible sh&t. Recall that in his first BB episode, when Walter and Jesse kidnaps him, Saul thinks it was one of his other clients. He knows a number of connections to the criminal underworld (that he tells Walter about - he could have even more). What happens to his brother and "love interest" during is descent into Saul? Two very important people in his life that will obviously be affected by his personality change. Could make for epic BB-like television. If it does go this way, I believe I'll look back on this season in hindsight and realize how good - and necessary - it was. Because if they had jumped right into Saul being a criminal lawyer, it might have seemed desperate, jumping the gun. But now that I care about this character, now that he's not just the comic relief, this show could take off next season, and become the spin off so many were hoping it would be
Better call Saul is an intriguing and colourful look at the background of Saul. With a spin-off of breaking bad i was expecting fast paced and thrills throughout instead we get a legal department drama with a bit of family trouble. The episode with tuco looked very promising but it went down from there.It simply wasn't thrilling enough to capture my interest. However i will say the music and editing of the show was very good, and it was good to include characters like mike and tuco.Overrated but could get better with season 2.


                
Having watched the first season I can honestly say it's very interesting, and has left me curious to find out what happens afterwards. Like Breaking Bad the first season was slow, a bit boring but at times humorous and OK. The conversations between characters were tedious and I felt like it was there to drain out the important minutes of the episode. Furthermore, I felt as though the CGI was overused so much so it ruined the series. An overabundance of CGI. With Breaking Bad there was less CGI which made the viewing realistic.However, Saul Goodman (Jimmy McGill) is a very interesting and quirky character to build a series on. He's funny, witty, eccentric and interesting. Alongside him you have Mike, who is more serious and has an interesting back-story of how he left the police. Both characters are interesting to watch.On the other hand, some scenes were dull, boring etc. There are uninteresting characters like the girl Jimmy's fond of; and Chuck. Howard in my opinion is a very interesting character; as the series goes on his enmity with Jimmy grows stronger. I like Howards character very well. With Chuck I'm not so sure how I feel about him; I don't really like watching his character. He's not so interesting as Skyler or Walter JR in Breaking Bad. Finally, having seen the final episode I am looking forward to season two. Overall I doubt it will be another Breaking Bad success; but I think it will be a very good series nonetheless.Another thing I would like to point out is that I think the main reason this is being highly rated and watched by a lot of people is because of Breaking Bad's success. In my opinion if there was no Breaking Bad and this came out, I think the series wouldn't be as popular as it is right now. My main worry is that people actually love this not because of the series itself, but because it's related to Breaking Bad and was created by the same people.
I like the show. And it is made in the same style as breaking bad. The only problem is. They made it very slow. I already had this problem with breaking bad. It's a good show. But watch it a second time and your anxiously waiting for something to happen.
With this series they turned it into an art form.
50% of an episode are still or panning shots.
I just watched the first episode of season 4 and only 3 or 4 things happen in 40 minutes. The rest is all stills and panning shots.
This is such a shame. The series could be one of the best series out there if they just pick up the pass a bit. Come on... just Tell the story. Let Jimmy turn into Sall.


                
I love what it almost is. Unfortunately, it just plods and plods and plods. I tried, then I tried, again... It's just so slow and devoid of excitement that I have not been able to get past the first season. It's not a bad series and the characters are very likable, it's ........just......very........slow.


                
I am surprised that It went downhill in the last episodes, season 4, as far as the story line goes. It is just not in par with the previous seasons (episodes). Hope season 5 won't disappoint.


                
I loved Breaking Bad. Even Breaking Bad had some slow moments. But Vince Gillian NAILED the ending in season 5. Making Breaking Bad my top favorite tv show ever. I really wanted Better Call Saul to connect for me, but it didn't. It started off VERY slow. But I gave it a chance. Into season 2, ideas were good, but very lagged out. I unfortunately stopped the show, as to it got so hard to watch. It's very different from Breaking Bad, and is not Bryan Cranston for sure. Good acting overall. Some good ideas. But it's so long, which makes it so hard to watch


                
I have seen almost all the classic TV series. With all due respect to breaking bad (which is not in top 5 TV series for me, but its a good one) Better call Saul is lower calibre.The smartness of the act, complication/twists, character connection with the audience. All of this is lacking in this TV series.It is not a BAD TV series, however it is weaker than the most that I ve seen. I rate it 6.5/10I had a much bigger expectation. Thank u for ur attention, hope I will lower ur expectations, so that when u see it, it wont be too much of a disappointment.
Just watched the 3rd episode, slow burner, just like it's predecessor Breaking Bad. I'm glad that the time is being taken to get the back story right, it would have been easy to get straight into Breaking Bad territory and not fill in the blanks. If people are expecting this to be exactly the same then they will always be disappointed. We have to take this show on as a completely new identity in a familiar setting.Having watched Breaking Bad from start to finish just recently (The wife's first watch), the first series is a very different proposition to the last few series. It took time to get from A to B, quite a few people will have struggled to get to those series without the promise that what was to come after, would be very rewarding.A television programme cannot be condemned after just 3 episodes, the journey has started, I'm sure we'll know by the end of season one or two if it fulfills the it's potential.Good things come to those who wait


                
This is a great extension of the Breaking Bad continuum. Saul was a very endearing character in that series that I was pleased to see scored his own series. In saying that, the plot does not move as pacy as BB. That's not to say it's not great in its own right - just go in with expectations!


                
I had great expectations for this show as I loved the character Saul from Breaking Bad and thought Mike was interesting as well. I found myself more interested in those people than the main plot over the last 2 seasons of Breaking Bad actually, which I think was a rather over-rated show (especially the last two-three seasons where the writing was sloppy but it avoided harsh criticism mainly because it fed of the great story that had evolved over the two first seasons).Anyway, Better Call Saul starts off exactly as I hoped as mainly a comedy in the fringe of criminal activity with some action on the side. This would had been a perfect genre for this show and for Bob Odenkirk as an actor.Unfortunately this show rather quickly turns rather ambivalent in turns of what it's really supposed to be.As I said earlier it starts of as primary comedy, secondary action, which is really great!Then turns into what exactly? Is it a comedy/drama/action/tragedy combo? Really? Sorry but that is not going to work out except for the die hard BB-fans that watches this for even the slightest hope of it relating to their favourite show.Or is it a show that is made only to fill in the gigantic plot holes and question marks Breaking Bad left behind? If they need an entire show just for that, I think it says a lot of how overrated the writing of the final half of Breaking Bad was. And considering that S01E06 (Five-O), is the highest rated episode at this moment, is a clear indicator to me just how many are watching Better Call Saul to get some more closure/information into the background story of Breaking Bad, rather than watching this show for its own sake. Five-O was arguably the worst episode so far in my opinion except if you were exactly looking for as much of Breaking Bad references and background information as possible...UPDATE.After watching episode 7 through 9 I got positively surprised and the show is starting to turn into what I had hoped and even Mike are starting to make his way into the actual story. But the season finale was a disappointment. My initial diagnose after 4 episodes remains. The show must soon, very soon, establish what it really is...


                
***SPOILERS*** In short, these are great episodes, with very good acting. It sometimes takes the writers a while to get to their point, and connect things up, but generally they are very interesting. My gripe is with how badly I feel this series uses it's audience.10 episodes a year? Really? I know, I'm old, and all, but this is a serious shortage of screen time for the quality involved. Now, we've been made to wait for another half-year to get back to the story? I've purchased the complete season 3 (to go along with 1+2), but, sad to say, I'll not be watching any further. I'll miss it, but I will get over it. One question is: how do they get away with pushing their audience around this way? I rate this show a 7 for those reasons.
As the storyline moves away from Jimmy and more into Saul and as Mike and Gus and other Breaking Bad characters show up the better this show gets. It owes its very existence to Breaking Bad and instead of pretending its independent of it, the writers need to embrace BB.


                
Not a lot of action, dark and twisted. Slow and scarse dialogue. You'll be falling asleep for couple season then gets better. I like it when Saul is hustling people but when his brother enters the scene.... it's back to sadness. Nothing like Saul Goodman in Breaking Bad so it's quiet a shock at first. The journey there is what the writers wanted I guess. For me it started at a2 rating, then couple seasons it's at a 7 just because of all the characters that show up that we love.


                
The prequel / part sequel to Breaking Bad has a few great moments. However, season 2 & 3 are very slow and the central conflict between the brother's is well crafted but hard to care about. Mental illness and dysfunctional families are explored in long winded scenes that could have been wrapped up faster and focused more on the crime saga of the drug cartel. The saving grace of season 3 is the return of the magnificent villain Gus but even then it feels they could have explored the character better.


                
This is an interesting series, but how this can it be compared favorably to Breaking Bad? Just look at the most recent episode in which Mike shoots a tennis shoe loaded with cocaine to seed a truck in order for it to be intercepted by DEA or whoever at a checkpoint. In Breaking Bad, Mike would have never signed on to such a lame and unlikely scheme. This drawn-out and unbelievable scenario is a great example of how this series is not in the same league as Breaking Bad. Compared to Breaking Bad, I think Better Call Saul is a slow-paced, low-key, rambling character study of Jimmy McGill got to be Saul Goodman. I appreciate it as a sort of background study of someone who added to the tragedy of Walter White. But as a series it does not approach the sheer drama and intensity of Breaking Bad.


                
Don't get me wrong, this show is fantastic. It's darkly funny and has elements of a drama, but it's too early on to herald this as a 10 star series or on par with Breaking Bad. With three episodes in, I can't say I'm excited for next week's show, either. We're introduced to the eccentric lawyer we all know from Breaking Bad, Saul Goodman. He's down on his luck, even having trouble paying his parking fee (I enjoyed the "Fargo" homage). After attempting a scam with two degenerate skateboarders, he is introduced to a not-so-welcoming drug kingpin. The series is fun to watch especially because of director Vince Gilligan. He adds appropriate and well choreographed tracking shots, establishes mood and setting fantastically, and finally writes terrific dialog. But my problems early on are concerning. I feel there's no plot, or there isn't intended to be any. People often confuse a good movie for bad because of plot? but in this case there is no driving action. Just Saul's stories from his early days of his profession. There is the argument the story is driving until the day that Walter walks into his firm, but there's no payoff to that. We know what will happen, and the first scene of the piolt even destroys hope for the remainder of the series.I've enjoyed it so far, but again, should wait for more to accurately praise this series. 7/10


                
Like many other reviewers, I believe we are in this series because of the pedigree surrounding 'Breaking Bad.' While, some of the elements of that show are finally forming...it's taking a long time. Breaking Bad typically had a momentum that would take the series into the next year with breathless anticipation. Better Call Saul is missing that in general. While I think it would be some kind of monumental task to catch lightening in a bottle again, how about a little thunder? Let's move it along. Let's see Jimmy be Jimmy or Saul.. I even found myself missing episodes and catching up, and I don't remember ever doing that with BB.


                
